We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and retail that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally ac providers with successful business concepts that acts responsibl group of retailers and retail-related service providers with succe nature. We are a globally active corporate group of retailers an concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a glo our service providers with successful business concepts that acts r corporate group of retailers and retail-related service providers Responsibility: people and nature. We are a globally active corporate group of re business concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. retail-related service providers with successful business conce sustainability globally active corporate group of retailers and retail-related s responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally active corpo in business with successful business concepts that acts responsibly for peop retailers and retail-related service providers with successful bu We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and retail acts responsibly thatCorporate for people Responsibility and nature. Report 2011 We are a globally ac providers with successful business concepts that acts responsibl group of retailers and retail-related service providers with succe nature. We are a globally active corporate group of retailers an concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a glo service providers with successful business concepts that acts r corporate group of retailers and retail-related service providers people and nature. We are a globally active corporate group of re business concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. retail-related service providers with successful business con globally active corporate group of retailers and retail-related s responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally active corpo with successful business concepts that acts responsibly for peop retailers and retail-related service providers with successful bu We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and retail -related service providers with successful business concepts tive corporate group of retailers and retail-related service y for people and nature. We are a globally active corporate essful business concepts that acts responsibly for people and nd retail-related service providers with successful business bally active corporate group of retailers and retail-related esponsibly for people and nature. We are a globally active s with successful business concepts that acts responsibly for etailers and retail-related service providers with successful We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and epts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a ervice providers with successful business concepts that acts rate group of retailers and retail-related service providers le and nature. We are a globally active corporate group of siness concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. -related service providers with successful business concepts tive corporate group of retailers and retail-related service y for people and nature. We are a globally active corporate essful business concepts that acts responsibly for people and nd retail-related service providers with successful business bally active corporate group of retailers and retail-related esponsibly for people and nature. We are a globally active s with successful business concepts that acts responsibly for etailers and retail-related service providers with successful We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and ncepts acting responsibly for people and nature We are a ervice providers with successful business concepts that acts rate group of retailers and retail-related service providers le and nature. We are a globally active corporate group of siness concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. -related service providers with successful business concepts about this report about this report The Otto Group’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 presents an based on the Otto Group’s five CR fields of action: Employees, open and transparent account of the impact of the Group’s busiClimate and Environment, Suppliers, Assortment and Customers ness activities on people and nature. For the first time, part of the and finally, Society. A concise overview of relevant economic, enreport is also published as a magazine, effectively portraying what vironmental and societal key figures follows each report chapter, Corporate Responsibility looks like and how it is implemented in except for Society and Stakeholder Dialogue. Unless explicitly the Otto Group’s core business. Mainly intended for Group emstated otherwise, these figures are based on consolidated data ployees, the magazine aims to raise awareness of corporate refrom the eleven reporting companies. With the implementation sponsibility issues. In the report, eleven companies present their of the new CR database, modified survey methods, the inclusion sustainability performance; these include the ten companies that of Hermes and an expanded number of locations covered by the reported previously: report, the basis for consolidation of key figures has changed. Deviations are indicated in the respective chapters. • OTTO The Strategy and Management chapter initially reports on • Baur the Otto Group’s strategic direction and business development; • bonprix it then provides an overview of corporate governance principles • Frankonia implemented in different business processes. It also explains how • Heine CR is embedded in the Group’s corporate culture and how man• OTTO Office agement structures will be further developed. The Stakeholder • Schwab Dialogue chapter that follows presents a new development. Its fo• SportScheck cus is a continuous exchange that the Group fosters with its stake• UNITO holders on key environmental and social challenges. In this report, • Witt1 the Otto Group responds to its stakeholders’ demand for proactive transparency in describing the Group’s value chain. In particular, Newly included is: purchasing policies and implementation processes with respect to • Hermes 1 social and environmental standards in the supply chain are presented in detail. The Corporate Responsibility Report integrates the second of The next chapter is Employees. Specifically, the Otto Group the Otto Group’s three business segments by including Hermes. tackles key personnel issues such as workforce diversity, work-life All reporting companies have their headquarters in a Germanbalance as well as education and training. The spotlight in the speaking country and an annual turnover of more than 100 mn€. following chapter on Climate and Environment is on the Group’s The Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 follows the Resource Management and Climate Protection Strategies, includOtto Group’s Sustainability Report 2009 and covers the period ing their implementation in goods transport, at the Group’s varifrom 1 March 2009 to 28 February 2011 (financial years 2009/10 ous locations and in business travel. Ensuring socially acceptable and 2010/11). The editorial deadline for this report was 10 June 2011. working conditions in the Group companies’ sourcing markets also Following the introductory chapters Strategy and Managepresents a challenge: how can economic, environmental and social ment as well as Stakeholder Dialogue, the report’s structure is standards be implemented on-site, in line with the Otto Group’s own programmes or also through industry-wide initiatives? The chapter on Suppliers is dedicated to this question. As the intermediary between manufacturers and customers, the Otto Group 1 Subsequently, mention of the legal forms of Group enterprises is omitted and can exert multifaceted influence. The chapter on Assortment and instead, throughout the entire CR Report they are referred to as OTTO, Baur, Customers therefore not only describes how the Otto Group sets bonprix, Franconia, Heine, OTTO Office, Schwab, SportScheck, UNITO, Witt and Hermes. out to fulfil its customers’ wishes but also describes the Group’s C3 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group about this report initiatives for and offers of attractive, sustainable products. The the reporting companies. The flip-page version of this report at report’s closing chapter addresses Group companies’ progress on ottogroup.com/crreport provides readers with the possibility to their numerous social commitments in addition to running their give feedback on the report and to enter into dialogue with the core businesses; it also addresses the initiatives of the company Otto Group. owner and Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Dr Michael Otto. The next Corporate Responsibility Report is currently schedThe Executive Board Members set an important example and uled for publication in 2013. The Otto Group plans to extend its fulfil a leadership role in the implementation of the Otto Group‘s scope beyond the Retail and Service business segments to include CR Strategy. In 2010, each Otto Group Board Member sponsored Financial Services, the Group’s third business segment. a core CR topic and drove the development of solutions through their personal dedication. As a result, each Board Member introduces the respective chapter for the CR topic corresponding to their personal sponsorship. For the sake of readability, this report as a rule omits gender-based dual entries and The CR reporting of the eleven Otto Group companies includes uses the masculine form. In those cases, however, both women and men are intended. this printed report as well as supplementary report contents at ottogroup.com/cr-report. These supplementary contents on the Internet are referenced within the Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 at the bottom of each page with the symbol . The Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 was prepared in accordance with the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3. Following a detailed audit by the GRI, the report was verified and designated as application level ‘A+’, the highest application level for the applicable GRI Guidelines’ category. Furthermore, the eleven companies’ sustainability reporting provides information on the implementation of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, thus fulfilling the function of a Communication on Progress. A tabular summary of the report that deals with the GRI indicators and the Global Compact principles can be found on p. 136 and online at ottogroup.com/cr-report. This Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 was fully audited and certified by the auditing and consulting firm PwC, according to the Standard AA1000AS. This standard verifies whether sustainability management corresponds to the reporting entity as well as its CR reporting requirements and stakeholders’ interests. A certificate of the independent audit by PwC can be found on Page U5 of the report. The Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 is available in both German and English. It addresses the most important societal stakeholders of the Group’s companies, particularly the scientific community. Alongside non-governmental organizations, business partners, government, academia and media, the report also addresses employees and junior staff, customers and the interested public, and invites all to join in a constructive dialogue with otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 C4 contents contents C3 About this Report 2 Foreword by the Chairman of the Executive Board 4 Portrait of the Companies included in this Report In Focus – Employees’ CR commitment 10 Committed and Engaged – our Employees in Action 24 The Vision of the Otto Group At a Glance – CR Performance and Results 26 Selected CR Objectives 74 Climate and Environment 28 Strategy and Management 76 Climate Protection 30 Corporate Strategy 81 Biodiversity 34 Corporate Governance 82 Environmental Management 36 Risk Management 84 Resource Efficiency 39 CR Strategy 86 Facts and Figures 41 CR Management 94 Suppliers 43 Facts and Figures 96 Social Responsibility in Purchasing Markets 46 Stakeholder Dialogue 98 The Otto Group’s Social Programme 48 Stakeholder Management System 102 Alliances and Cooperations 49 Dialogue Events 104 Responsible Selection of Raw Materials 51 CR Communications 106 Facts and Figures 53 Memberships 110 Assortment and Customers 54 Employees 112 Sustainable Product Worlds 56 Human Resources Strategies 116 Product Quality and Safety 57 A Responsible Employer 118 Customer Orientation 59 Educational and Further Training 120 Data Protection 62 Diversity and Equal Opportunities 122 Facts and Figures 64 Health Management 126 Society 67 Facts and Figures 128 Societal Engagement of the Otto Group and its Reporting Companies 132 Foundations and Entrepreneurial Engagement 135 Interview with Dr Michael Otto 136 GRI-G3 Content Index/Global Compact Communication on Progress Information on further topics is available at: 141 CR Programme www.ottogroup.com/cr-report 144 Glossary Further information is available on external C5 Assurance Statement websites C7 Publisher’s Imprint otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 1 Foreword by the Chairman of the Executive Board “Responsibility bridges distances. In a globalised world this makes it a success factor for the Otto Group, which is active in 20 countries. We build trust at the interface between manufacturers and consumers through acting responsibly for people and nature.” Hans-Otto Schrader, Chairman of the Executive Board and Chief Executive Officer Otto Group (CEO) Dear Readers, following the deep crisis the global econoWe can only realise our Vision as a resIn producing this year’s report we have my has seen a clear rebound. Manufacturing ponsible company group with all our emploborne the requirements of our stakeholder and trade have recovered quickly, above all in yees on board, however. My colleagues on groups very much in mind regarding their emerging countries. In Germany too we have the Executive Board and I see it as our special demands for proactive transparency and seen a very positive economic development. duty to bring CR to life throughout the entiintegration in discussions on key CR topics. We are happy to say that the Otto Group has re Group. For this reason, each Board MemPrior to producing this report our key stakebeen able to increase its turnover clearly in ber has sponsored a core CR topic which he holders had the opportunity to express their the three segments of Multichannel Retail, will personally drive forward. In this report points of view in a dedicated workshop and Services and Financial Services. This indicates we each present a chapter representing a – as explained in this year’s new chapter ‘Stato us that we are on the right track with our CR field of action for the Otto Group. In adkeholder Dialogue’ – to influence this report. company strategy. dition to this, dear Readers, with the aid of What is more, we not only detail our CR perAs a globally active group of companies twelve portraits, interviews and spotlight formance but also transparently describe the we started at an early stage to act responreports we aim to show you how our emploconditions under which we conduct our busisibly for people and nature. Already 25 years yees bring sustainability to life in their daily ness activities, including the varied ecological ago OTTO declared environmental protection work. and social challenges these imply. as a corporate goal. As a development of this In this report we lay out, in accordance Resting on our laurels is not part of understanding of ourselves we have anchowith Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reOtto Group culture. We will continue to work red Corporate Responsibility (CR) Group-wide porting guidelines, how the Otto Group each and every day to improve our CR perforin our core business. More and more Group and eleven Group companies are engaged mance. companies are making a specific contribution in designing their businesses in an environWe wish you an informative and entertaining in a range of CR disciplines, such as reducing mentally and socially sustainable way. With read! CO2 emissions or expanding their assortthe integration of the logistics provider ments of sustainable goods. We move toHermes we have expanded our reporting On behalf of the Executive Board, gether in this way towards our goal of positito cover two segments, Multichannel Retail Yours oning the Otto Group in the area of corporate and now also Services. In future we plan to responsibility as the best multi-discipline include further Group companies in our CR player in our competitive environment. reporting. Hans-Otto Schrader otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 3 Portrait of the Otto Group The reporting companies at a glance The Otto Group is a globally to affirm its position as the world’s second-largest and Germany’s leading retail and services group largest online provider in the business-to-consumer (B2C) segment. comprising 123 main Group comThis positive business performance is being driven by all three of the panies in Europe, Asia and North America. With almost 50,000 emGroup’s business segments, detailed below. ployees, the Group increased its net turnover in financial year 2010/11 The Multichannel Retail segment generated turnover of by 12.6% to 11,404 mn€ compared to the previous year. Global e10,004 mn€ in financial year 2010/11 representing growth of 12.1%. commerce made a significant contribution to this as the key growth Ten of the eleven companies covered by this report belong to this driver in the Otto Group. E-commerce business grew by 25% and has segment, which comprises e-commerce, catalogues and overbecome the Otto Group’s most important sales channel, accounting the-counter retail. The retail segment accounted for 87.7% of the for almost 50% of all retail sales. Consequently, the Group was able Otto Group’s overall turnover in 2010/11. Otto Group Financial Services Multichannel Retail Services The segment covers the international portfolio The segment covers the Otto Group’s worldwide The segment combines the Otto Group’s logistics, of financial services. range of multichannel offerings. travel and other service providers as well as its The range of services includes commercial services Goods are marketed across three distribution sourcing companies. along the value chain of retail companies, such as channels: catalogues, e-commerce and over-theLogistics service providers and sourcing compainformation, arrears and receivables management counter retail. nies support the Otto Group’s multichannel retail services. activities as well as non-Group clients. Travel service providers offer customers travel products and services across all sales channels: travel agencies, direct marketing and internet sales. The Financial Services segment comprises the Otto Group’s The Otto Group consolidated its entire portfolio of retail services in global commercial financial service providers. This segment, which the Services segment and placed a strategic focus on the area of services is dominated by the financial services businesses of the internaand logistics through the Hermes Group companies. Besides the reporttional EOS Group, generated a turnover of 455 mn€ in financial ing company Hermes, Otto Freizeit and Touristik Group (OFT) is also part year 2010/11 and achieved the highest growth rate of all three of of the Services segment: this group bundles all travel service activities the Otto Group’s segments, with growth of 17.1%. and achieved growth of 14.9% in financial year 2010/11, generating turnover of 945 mn€. 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Portraits of the reporting companies Founded in 1925, Baur Versand was the first mail-order company for shoes Headquarters: Burgkunstadt in Germany. Today, as a multichannel provider it offers a wide assortment Employees*: 3,882 Stake: 49% of fashions, shoes and home-design ideas with a very extensive range of high-quality external Stores: 1 and own brands. Baur is positioned as a home-shopping retailer for customers from valueTerritory: DE orientated, established segments of society whose high demands for service are satisfied by Info: www.baur.de the company’s excellent customer orientation. The companies covered by our Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 include Baur Versand GmbH & Co. BFS Baur Fulfillment Solutions GmbH and Zweite Hermes TranStore Service GmbH & Co. KG. Baur now generates over 60% of its turnover via the Internet. It also operates Northern Bavaria’s largest department store, ‘Kaufwelt’ in Altenkunstadt. bonprix is a leading vendor of value fashion in Germany and Europe. Since its Headquarters: Hamburg founding in 1986, this Otto Group subsidiary has evolved into a business with Employees*: 1,258 an established international presence. Among other factors, flexibility and the Stake: 100% Stores: ability to innovate are key to bonprix’s success. Consequently, the company over 70 stores in Germany and over has been pursuing a consistent multichannel strategy since the end of the 100 stores internationally 90s; this has ensured continual growth thanks to its dynamic mix of catalogues, branded stores Consignments/parcels p. a.: 31 mn and e-commerce. Territory: DE, FR, BE, NL, LU, UK, HU, IT, CH, Under the motto ‘bonprix, it’s me!’, the company offers affordable styles for every customer AT, PL, CZ, SK, RU, UA, RO, USA, SL, type. Its extensive assortment ranges from clothing for women, men as well as for kids, underGR, LV, EE, HR, SE wear and shoes to furniture and household articles. Info: www.bonprix.de bonprix is one of Germany’s and Europe’s Top 10 mail-order companies and has one of the most frequently visited online shops. Globally, bonprix’s broad assortment reaches 25 mn customers in 23 countries – 9.5 mn of whom are in Germany alone. Besides bon prix Handelsgesellschaft mbH, this report also covers bon prix retail GmbH. Founded in 1908, today Frankonia is the European Headquarters: Rottendorf market leader in hunting equipment. The high-end asEmployees*: 613 sortment of hunting and outdoor equipment for hunStake: 100% Stores: ters and sports marksmen includes a sophisticated collection of top-quality, timeless classics in 25 stores, of which 11 are over-the-counter ladies’ and men’s clothing. Frankonia reaches its customers through 25 stores, e-commerce and stores, 12 specialist stores and 2 outlets numerous catalogues. Territory: exports to over 100 countries Info: www.frankonia.de www.jagdcenter.de otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 5 Portraits of the reporting companies Founded in 1951, Heine offers high-quality fashion and contemporary Headquarters: Karlsruhe furnishing ideas to discerning women aged between 35 and 55 – true to Employees*: 601 its philosophy of ‘Immer etwas Besonderes’ (“Always something special”). Stake: 100% Its assortment is presented through numerous main and special catalogues. Since 2002 Heine Territory: DE, CH, AT, NL, FR has also had a strong Internet presence: its online shop offers stylishly presented assortments, Info: www.heine.de extensive service options as well as an infotainment range and is being continually expanded to consolidate Heine’s brand position. The Hermes Group with its eleven group companies operates Headquarters: Hamburg globally as an integrated provider of commercial services. Hermes Employees*: 9,315 is the world’s only company to offer its customers all the services Stake: 100% Territory: along the retail value chain under one umbrella brand. Hermes’ spectrum of services ranges from DE, UK, IT, AT goods procurement, through quality control – for instance in Asia – and international transport Over 25% share of the and warehouse logistics, to integrated management of the entire process chain and delivery to European parcel market the end-customer. Sustainability has been a corporate goal of the Hermes Group since as long ago Founded: 1972 as Hermes-Paketas the 1980s. Building on this, in 2010 Hermes bundled all its environmental and climate protecSchnelldienst tion activities under the label WE DO! and set itself demanding efficiency targets. Info: www.hermesworld.com This report covers Hermes Europe including the four large Hermes companies: Hermes Logistik Gruppe Deutschland with a focus on distribution logistics; Hermes Einrichtungs Service; Hermes Transport Logistics as well as Hermes Fulfilment, which offers a comprehensive range of fulfilment services. Among OTTO’s other awards, otto.de was voted the most popular reHeadquarters: Hamburg tail website of 2010. OTTO’s share of turnover generated via the InterEmployees*: 5,197 net now accounts for over 70%. In the coming years, OTTO intends to Stake: 100% continue expanding its multi award-winning online shop otto.de into a one-stop shopping Stores: about 400 OTTO stores platform where selected brand partners and third-party retailers can offer their goods. In addition, Territory: OTTO plans to further develop its high-potential concepts from its core business – such as Lascana DE, AT, RU, NL, HU, CZ, SK and Schlafwelt – and position them around the company as part of a multi-brand strategy. Founded: 1949 The OTTO main catalogue serves as a key source of inspiration for customers and is disInfo: www.otto.com tributed twice a year. It has a total circulation of around 11 million and is usually packed with some 1,000 pages. In its catalogues, OTTO offers an extensive range of textiles, home furnishings and technology. The main OTTO catalogues are supplemented by around 60 special catalogues each year. 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Portraits of the reporting companies OTTO Office has been trading under its own name on the German Headquarters: Hamburg market since 1997. It specialises in the sale of office supplies, commuEmployees*: 304 nications technology and office furniture. With around 15,000 articles Stake: 75.1% from over 150 brand manufacturers, in this segment OTTO Office is one Territory: DE, CZ, SK, BE, FR of Germany’s three largest mail-order retailers in the business-to-business (B2B) segment; it also Info: www.otto-office.com operates in four other countries in Central and Eastern Europe. The company is known for its rapid delivery, efficient purchasing and distribution processes, as well as for affordably priced products thanks to its streamlined organisation. OTTO Office primarily covers the office requirements of small and medium-sized companies. The mail-order company expanded its activities in the business-to-consumer (B2C) segment in 2008 and opened up its assortment to private customers, who since then have been able to order products over the Internet from home.otto-office.de. Founded in 1954 by Friedrich Schwab, the Otto Group acquired a majority Headquarters: Hanau stake in Schwab Versand in 1976. Employees*: 1,299 As a full-assortment provider, it sells fashion for women and the whole Stake: 100% family, as well as technology and household products via its catalogue and online shop. Schwab’s Stores: 86 Export: Schwab assortments are online shop offers customers a wide range of advisory services, providing tips on such things as figure, offered in over 30 countries colour and fit. Its fashion label ‘sheego – unbeschreiblich weiblich’ (“sheego – indescribably feminine”) Info: www.schwab.de represents a variety of in-trend styles. Its online shop sheego.de offers customers additional styling tools such as cut advice, an outfit finder and catwalk videos, alongside traditional advice features such as figure, colour and fitting tips. In March 2010 Schwab launched its YOUMAN brand, a new fashion label targeted at self-confident male customers. SportScheck is one of Germany’s largest providers of sports items. Headquarters: Unterhaching It also specialises in equipment and clothing for virtually any kind Employees*: 1,445 of sport. Founded in 1946, this multichannel company offers its customers almost 400 different Stake: 100% Stores: brands of sports and leisure equipment from all over the world – a total of over 20,000 articles. 16 stores and two Hot Spot The quality of its customer-focused advice, repair and other services, as well as numerous acclearance stores companying sports events such as the ‘OutdoorTestival’ that cover its climbing, hiking, biking Territory: DE, CH, AT, RU, NL and canyoning assortments, create strong customer loyalty. Its assortment is available to homeInfo: www.sportscheck.com shopping customers in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, as well as in the Netherlands since November 2008 and Russia since March 2009. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 7 Portraits of the reporting companies UNITO Versand & Dienstleistungen GmbH is the largest mail-order Headquarters: Salzburg; additional business in the Alpine region (Austria, Switzerland and South Tyrol), locations: Graz, Bergheim, Linz Employees*: 423 successfully covering the relevant markets in multichannel mail order through its multi-brand Stake: 100% strategy. Since 2003 UNITO, headquartered in Salzburg, has united the brands OTTO and Territory: Universal in Austria which, besides UNITO Versand & Dienstleistungen GmbH, are covered by AT, CH, IT (South Tyrol) this report. In addition, UNITO is represented in the Austrian market through the financial serInfo: vices provider OKO. In autumn 2005, UNITO expanded its business activities into South Tyrol www.universal.at www.ottoversand.at with the OTTO brand. Since July 2010, the UNITO Group has also been active in Switzerland with www.quelle.at the brands Ackermann and Quelle, and on 1 January 2011 UNITO revitalised the Quelle brand in www.ackermann.ch www.quelle.ch the Austrian market. www.otto.it The Universal brand, with its comprehensive market strategy and focus on service and quality, is the mail-order market leader in Austria. As a mail-order company focusing on e-commerce, OTTO covers the fashion and lifestyle segment. Quelle is positioned in Austria as a durable goods mail-order company with a strategic focus on price. In Switzerland, the textile segment is covered by the brands Ackermann and Quelle. Witt has been part of the Otto Group since 1987 and operHeadquarters: Weiden in der Oberpfalz ates in Germany as well as in many other European countries, Employees*: 2,334 including France, Great Britain and Russia. Its core brand WITT WEIDEN celebrated its 100th Stake: 100% anniversary in 2007. Thanks to various forms of international cooperation it has also generStores: 85 ated an enthusiastic response in new markets such as Switzerland and Austria through its Territory: subsidiary Sieh an!. Besides AMBRIA GMBH, Creation L Handelsgesellschaft mbH and Josef DE, AT, CH, FR, UK, RU, NL, CZ, IT, UA Witt GmbH, Sieh an! is also covered by this report. Witt aims to become the leading textileInfo: www.witt-gruppe.eu specialised mail-order company for the 50-plus target group in Europe, and is consistently pursuing its course of international expansion in this respect. * Number of permanent employees (headcount not converted to full-time positions) as of the end of financial year 2010/11 including working students and employees on parental leave, excluding trainees, interns, diploma students and temporary employees. 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and retailnature. We are a globally active corporate group of retailers an people and nature. We are a globally active corporate group of r responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally active corpo that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally ac concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a gl business concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We successful business concepts that acts responsibly for people and In Focus providers with successful business concepts that acts responsibly related service providers with successful business concepts that and retail-related service providers with successful business con retailers and retail-related service providers with successful bu group of retailers and retail-related service providers with succ corporate group of retailers and retail-related service provider globally active corporate group of retailers and retail-related s We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and retailnature. We are a globally active corporate group of retailers an people and nature. We are a globally active corporate group of r responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally active corpo that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally ac concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a gl business concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We successful business concepts that aEmployees’ CR commitmentand providers with successful business concepts that acts responsibly related service providers with successful business concepts that and retail-related service providers with successful business con retailers and retail-related service providers with successful bu group of retailers and retail-related service providers with succ corporate group of retailers and retail-related service provider globally active corporate group of retailers and retail-related s We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and retailnature. We are a globally active corporate group of retailers an Committed and active Group-wide Whether it’s work-life balance, protecting the climate or data safety − our employees make vital contributions in their daily work to helping the Otto Group to fulfil its responsibility towards people and nature. André Mushack, Hermes Andreas Kalbitz, OTTO Office Hamburg Dagmar Gehm, Schwab Hanau Burgkunstadt Rottendorf Weiden Karlsruhe Unterhaching Michaela Voll, Frankonia Dr Heike Holschuh, Heine 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Julia Meyer, Otto Roland von Gehlen, Otto Group Monika Donath, bonprix Frank Mechtold, Baur Karolin Stangl, Witt Graz Christian Tews, SportScheck Andrea Pöschl, Unito otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 11 » We want to set new standards for sustainable living trends. « Dr Heike Holschuh, Heine lights off! Burgkunstadt Karlsruhe Frank Mechtold is responsible for environmental protection and energy efficiency at Baur. When it comes to the purchasing and mainsaving sorting technology at Baur. Under ronmentally friendly materials. A particular tenance of buildings and technical equiphis leadership, new lighting technology was focus of Mechtold’s work is the installation ment, Frank Mechtold is in demand. As developed in the electrics workshop for the of the natural gas-fuelled, block-type therDepartment Head of Technical Services he’s shelving system which is controlled through mal power station in Altenkunstadt, Upper responsible along with various teams for motion detectors and therefore uses less Frankonia, the construction of which begins the safety, management, maintenance, reenergy. in 2011. furbishment and planning of new construcFor Frank Mechtold and his staff, proIn discussions with colleagues, Frank tions at the Baur Group’s locations in Burgtecting the environment is also an imporMechtold raises awareness for the topics kunstadt, Weismain, Altenkunstadt and at tant consideration when choosing raw of environmental protection and energy efvarious external warehouses. In his work, it’s materials, consumables and supplies. For ficiency. He invites them to contribute ideas important to strike a balance between costs example, solvent-free flooring adhesives are for making Baur even more sustainable, and benefits as well as between technical utilised. Of great help here is Baur’s Enviwhich often also saves financial resources. possibilities and environmental concerns. To ronmental Management System. Workshop Who can say better where more can be done do this he counts on new technologies and managers check regularly on issues such as for the environment than the employees, innovations: for example, together with a which hazardous materials in the company who know the company like the back of manufacturer he introduced new energycan be replaced with non-hazardous, envitheir hand? 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group setting standards! For people and the environment, Dr Heike Holschuh provides stimuli for sustainable living trends at Heine. Offering articles that are produced sustainFollowing the financial crisis, however, standard for the carpet industry; this new ably, from raw material extraction through changes were made that put a question label is intended to ensure higher levels of to the final product, is a big challenge for mark over the responsible management of occupational safety and better environmencompanies. Through many individual projthese forests. The Latvian government had tal protection. One of Heine’s Indian carpet ects and with different project teams, Heine suspended FSC certification of its state forsuppliers was the first to apply the Goodis working on making its processes and its ests and had subsequently sold them to Weave standard. Holschuh wanted to find entire goods production chain more sustaintimber producers who originally had no inout whether this supplier really manufacable. It’s a broad topic, and Heike Holschuh terest in certification. That was simply unactured in a sustainable way, so she compiled engages gladly with it in her work as the Diceptable for the Director and her team, so a catalogue of criteria for inspecting the rector of Purchasing for Living. Through pershe joined forces with Heine’s Management company. Fortunately, the supplier passed sistence and personal commitment, she and Board, the Director of the Purchasing Office the inspection with flying colours, having inher team have already achieved a lot – for exin Latvia, furniture suppliers and Latvian troduced a control system for improving enample, Heine customers will continue to be government representatives to ensure that vironmental protection on its own initiative able to buy environmentally friendly wooden FSC certification was resumed for 2011. Simi– an unusual level of commitment in India. furniture from Latvia. These are made of timlarly, Heike Holschuh and her Living team For Holschuh, it was positive proof that it is ber from particularly responsible forestry campaigned for the sustainable production right and sensible to insist on sustainability which has been Forest Stewardship Council of carpets in South Asia. Heine took part in in the supply chain. (FSC®)-certified. developing the GoodWeave sustainability » It’s my mission to make Baur’s locations more energy efficient. « Frank Mechtold, Baur otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 13 » Attractive, modern and environmentally sound – that’s what fashion should be! « Karolin Stangl, Witt on trend! PURE WEAR at Witt: Karolin Stangl makes organic cotton attractive. As Central Buyer for women’s wear at Witt, customers, Karolin Stangl will present the Karolin Stangl specialises in bringing her latest fashion in the PURE WEAR collection otto group Fact customers in the 50+ age group fashion in the Spring/Summer 2011 catalogue over that is attractive, comfortable and casual; six pages – with a new design and a new During the 2010/11 increasingly, it’s also produced sustainlogo in the shape of a leaf, which additionfinancial year, seven ably. These are the exact criteria for prodally makes customers aware of the items’ reporting companies ucts with the PURE WEAR label, which are sustainable attributes. Karolin Stangl not sold a total of manufactured from organic cotton. For her only selected the organic cotton clothing 364 t of organic cotton range, the Central Buyer not only selects items, but also worked on designing the designs from her suppliers’ ranges but also pages. It’s important to her to communiin their ranges. realises her own ideas of what makes atcate with her customers through an aptractive pieces of clothing. To start with, pealing layout and informative texts about she either sketches her ideas by hand with PURE WEAR’s particular qualities as well as pen and paper, or she sends the PURE WEAR the advantages of organic cotton for peosupplier a photo of a similar design. For her ple and the environment. 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Weiden Unterhaching Sustainable purchasing! Outdoor fashion at SportScheck: Christian Tews adds value to the collection. Since he began working at SportScheck in standard and that can also be recycled in One thing that he finds particularly motivat2008, Christian Tews has already accoman environmentally friendly way. Christian ing is the experience of being considered an plished quite a bit: in his job as buyer for Tews is equally committed to sustainabilexample: time and again, he observes that outdoor textiles for over-the-counter retail, ity outside the company: he represents his commitment motivates other compahe’s committed to improving sustainability SportScheck in the sustainability working nies to include more sustainable products in – which reflects his personal convictions as group, an initiative in the outdoor sector. their ranges. well. The basis for it is the bluesign standard, which is widespread in outdoor sports. It covers a wide spectrum of sustainability criteria, For more information: from resource productivity, through preventwww.bluesign.com ing the pollution of air and water, to labour law and consumer protection. Christian Tews aims to offer his SportScheck customers whole collections that were manufactured under these conditions, and is working in close cooperation with bluesign representatives and selected brand manufacturers to do this. Here he often carries out an intermediary function, working to convince the manufacturers. He puts bluesign representatives in touch with the brand manufacturers, and so contributes to increasing the share of products » It’s my goal to make whose production and use do not harm peosustainable outdoor fashion the norm. « ple or the environment. Christian Tews, SportScheck One current example is his collaboration with a well-known outdoor-goods supplier. After three years of work SportScheck will present the first items of functional clothing in autumn 2011 that adhere to the bluesign otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 15 Hamburg protecting data! From exchanges via social media to mobile shopping via smartphones… faced with an increasingly networked world, there are new challenges for data protection and IT security. For Roland von Gehlen, the Otto Group’s Data Protection Officer since June 2009, it’s important to provide customers with sufficient protection for their personal data, as well as aligning the Group’s interests with legal regulations. Taking responsibility in society is a fixed Apart from their positive aspects, social component of the Otto Group’s overall stratmedia also present risks to their users’ privaegy. Where does data protection fit in? cy. What is the Otto Group doing to protect Roland von Gehlen: The trust that our cusits customers? tomers, all our employees and applicants Roland von Gehlen: To give an example, place in the security of their data counts I created a rule for Facebook’s ‘Like’ funcamongst the Otto Group’s most important tion, which allows users to express their assets. We take our responsibility very seripreference for our websites and products. ously and give this topic the highest priority. This rule states that there has to be a link to the data-protection notice in a prominent What does your work involve? place near the ‘Like’ button, where customRoland von Gehlen: Across the Group there ers can find out more about what happens are strict guidelines and requirements for all with their data when they click the button. IT systems. My job is to work out the guideThis rule creates a high degree of transparlines and to agree them with the legal team, ency with regard to data protection, and Internal Audit, the IT department as well the will in future be used by all Group compaOtto Group’s Compliance Team. I also coordinies in Germany. nate the work of the Data Protection Officers in the Group companies. It is important that we How do you ensure that data protection is have a mutual understanding of how to prointegrated in the Group’s daily work? ceed with certain areas of data protection − for Roland von Gehlen: Data protection and » Data protection is instance, I organise an annual meeting on this security are issues that affect us all. That’s a major responsibility for all of us. « topic with my colleagues from the Group comwhy we carry out regular training courses Roland von Gehlen, Otto Group panies. We also have an internal data protecwith our employees, as well as mentioning tion ‘wiki’, for which I’m responsible; this makes the topic on the intranet and in the employee the sharing of knowledge even more efficient. magazine O-Ton. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group » our contribution to climate protection: Lowemission Real estate. « André Mushack, Hermes Low Emission planning! André Mushack makes Hermes distribution centres especially environmentally friendly. Delivering goods quickly, safely and costAndré Mushack is frequently on the ated for swallows and bats, together with effectively, being an innovator in the marketroad, usually for meetings with suppliers or the German Nature and Biodiversity Conserplace, and protecting the environment at the to one of the five hubs in Haldensleben, Alvation Union (NABU). Currently, the Hermes same time: these principles have been part of tenkunstadt, Hückelhoven, Friedewald and Department Head is also working on realHermes’ corporate philosophy for more than Langenhagen. There he inspects construcising a new South Hub. Together with ECE 20 years and are André Mushack’s highest tion and brings the existing technology up (Shopping Centre Development), he intends priority. As Head of Department for Planning, to date. One example is the team’s latest to implement an even more environmentalProjects and Organisation he is responsible, milestone, generating renewable energy in ly friendly building concept. among other things, for the construction two ways at once at the North Hub in Lanand operation of Hermes’ large sorting cengenhagen: a 7,000 m² photovoltaic system tres (hubs) in Germany. In future, he will also on the roof of the warehouse delivers solar take on the maintenance of conveyor techpower to 100 4-person households in Lannology at 59 Hermes locations. “Sustainable genhagen and nearby. A wood chip-fired otto group Fact facilities have been a central pillar of the heating system and intelligent lighting also environmental mission at Hermes for many improve the environmental balance sheet. During the 2010/11 years. Our ambitious goal is to reduce CO2 “Our integrated approach in designing financial year, the eleven emissions at our sites by at least 3.5% annuour locations also includes minimising the reporting companies caused ally”, explains André Mushack. That is what impact of construction and the daily busihe works towards every day with his team of ness of logistics on flora and fauna”, André 294,043 t of absolute five – and routine is not something they enMushack emphasises. For instance, that’s CO2 emissions. counter often. why in Langenhagen nesting sites were creotto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 17 » Work-Life Balance needs to be more than just a buzzword. « Julia Meyer, Otto creating Hamburg prospects! How bonprix staff offer Indian children development opportunities. Andreas Köhncke, Senior Manager in Import School for the Deaf was founded in 1997 to and Quality, Anneke Adam from Quality give deaf children access to education. Its Development, Monika Donath from Imports, poor means are barely enough to look after Heidemarie Vette from Samples and around the pupils. When a former bonprix employ80 of their colleagues have a mutual goal: ee saw the poor conditions at the school in creating future opportunities for disadvan2001, she immediately decided to help. Initaged children in India. They’ve become tially, she collected donations from a small sponsors for deaf children in the southern circle of contacts, but these days some Indian town of Tirupur. 80 sponsors and numerous supporters Education is the key to a self-detercarry out fundraising campaigns for their mined future. But especially in emerg36 sponsored children and the School for ing countries, access to education is not the Deaf. Thanks to this help, the school a given for all children – especially if they has managed to construct a new school are handicapped in some way. The Tirupur building and even purchase a car. 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Well looked-after! Parents at their best, thanks to Julia Meyer and ‘Kinderzimmehr’ (More Space for Children) Where can I find a place in a crèche for my location. Since January 2010, an office with important component of a responsible, daughter? Where can my son spend his two desks has been available to mothers and value-driven corporate culture. summer holidays? For questions of this fathers in case their regular childcare falls kind, employees at OTTO can turn to Julia through. Equipped with a computer, printMeyer. Since 2008, this qualified teacher er and telephone – and of course a baby’s For more information: has been working as a social advisor at akchanging table – the Kinderzimmehr allows www.otto-aktiv.net tiv.net, the Otto Group’s internal service the parents to be there for their offspring provider for occupational health manageduring the working day. Meanwhile, the chilment. She organises holiday events for dren can entertain themselves in the comGroup employees’ children and agrees new fortably furnished play-area. child care arrangements with external coAccess to the Kinderzimmehr is simple otto group Fact operation partners. and unbureaucratic. A short phone-call to 2,558 employees from Through personal visits, she sees loJulia Meyer is enough to book the room and the reporting companies cal conditions for herself and ensures that collect the key from Reception. The advisor crèches and kindergartens provide the reis happy to have given parents even more were parents working quired quality. A particular highlight in aktiv. support through her initiative in combinpart-time during the 2010/11 net’s programme is the new Kinderzimmehr ing work and family. In her view, familyfinancial year. facility at the Group’s Hamburg-Bramfeld friendly structures in the company are an Today, more than 300 deaf children between the ages of 4 and 18 attend the Tirupur School for the Deaf. Many of them are orphans or only have one parent. Some of them also have personal contact to their sponsors in Germany – who in turn are very happy to have been able to support the children on their path. » Every child has a right to education. « Monika Donath, bonprix For more information: www.bonprixservice.de/bp/beratung/ qualitaet/tirupur.html otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 19 » We work every day at improving the Quality of our Products and packaging. « Andreas Kalbitz, Otto Office Quality assured! In 2007, his company’s management tasked Andreas Kalbitz with establishing the Quality Development department at OTTO Office. Today, two employees support him in improving the quality of products and their distribution. As Area Director for Quality Development, we’re improving our product packaging so that How do your efforts affect the environment? how do you ensure that every article sold customers receive their items undamaged. Andreas Kalbitz: Protecting the environcomplies with the strict OTTO Office quality ment and the climate is an important standards? What does your team’s work look like? aspect of our daily work. Amongst other Andreas Kalbitz: In principle, I believe not in Andreas Kalbitz: My team and I see ourthings, we have described articles in the finding isolated solutions but in keeping the selves as coordinators, analysts and probcatalogue even more precisely, and have bigger picture in mind. That’s the only way to lem-solvers. We’re constantly in contact added 3D animations to the online shop. continuously improve OTTO Office’s services. with our suppliers and service providers, the This not only helps our customers to order We constantly carry out function tests with Customer Centre and of course colleagues the right item first time, but also results our products, inspect them for quality and from departments such as Purchasing and in lower returns – and therefore lower CO2 packaging, and check our suppliers’ delivMarketing. For example, we forward feedemissions, energy usage and waste. We ery performance. On the other hand, we also back from our customers to our suppliers so also make sure that all our packaging uses work with a testing institute to ensure that we that products can be improved in line with natural, recyclable materials − environmencomply with legal and Group-wide regulations their needs. That’s how we ensure that the tally friendly filling material from Flo-Pak, – for example, with regard to harmful subproducts described in catalogues and on the for instance. stances and occupational safety. In addition, website meet our customers’ expectations. 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Hamburg Hanau Strengthening strengths! Sharing knowledge and improving motivation: Dagmar Gehm coaches employees at Schwab. Employees are at the centre of Dagmar She delivers training and is also available to Gehm’s field of interest. As Training and Schwab employees for coaching. Whether Human Resources Development Manager they need help with time management, preshe’s responsible for developing training sentation techniques, public speaking or cremeasures for managers and employees. ative techniques, Dagmar Gehm makes sure they have access to a broad range of training. Providing individual support and developing tailored plans for every single employee at Schwab are high priorities for her. She believes that giving staff development opportunities is a sign that they are valued, and is therefore part of the company’s corporate responsibility. And it not only benefits the workforce, but also the whole company: employees are clearly more motivated and show more readiness » Training programmes show to commit to their emthe company’s appreciation ployer. Her commitment of its employees’ value. « to individual support is Dagmar Gehm, Schwab popular with the staff, which is clear from the positive feedback given by those who take part in training courses. She also applies to herself what is taught in leadership seminars: working in a solution-orientated and focused way, and always keeping her eye on the benefit for the company as well its employees. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 21 » Children and career can no longer be a contradiction today! « Andrea Pöschl, Unito In harmony! Children AND career in balance – Andrea Pöschl leads by example at UNITO. As a mother of two, Andrea Pöschl knows exFor example, the group is currently actly what it means to combine family and working on creating a support network for a busy job. For the Head of Department in parents and children. In addition, an anAssortment and Shop Management at the nual Family Day was founded in 2010 for UNITO brand OTTO Austria, there was never the UNITO locations, on which employees’ any doubt that she wanted to be there for her children have the opportunity to get to children but also develop her career. To allow know their parents’ working environment. her to support other employees of the Austrian Through her commitment, Andrea Pöschl company in keeping the balance between prihelps her colleagues at UNITO to balance vate and work challenges, she takes part in a their private and professional interests working group within the company as a change and needs – and this improves the positive leader. Together with further colleagues she company culture, which is what she values develops new ideas and concept in this group about UNITO. to make UNITO even more family-friendly. 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Rottendorf Graz Well advised! Fast, competent and friendly: otto group Fact Michaela Voll offers Frankonia customers the best service. In addition to orders, the reporting companies record “The central focus of our work is the custoCustomers only rarely ask about Corpomer”, says Michaela Voll and adds: “As the rate Responsibility, however. What Michaela 37 million customer Japanese management consultant Minoru Voll likes best about her work at Frankonia contacts per year. This Tominaga once said so accurately, ‘Germany is the team spirit: “We all pull together − includes queries by e-mail, is a service desert’ – and it’s up to each of which is not only more fun, but also an imus to make it a little greener!” That’s what portant basis for our service to satisfy our telephone and letter. she works on every day in Frankonia’s Cuscustomers!” tomer Service department, where she has been a team member since 2007. A year and a half ago, she also took on responsibility for supporting third-party supply and now deals with customer enquiries that relate to deliveries direct from the manufacturer’s production sites to the end customer. Customer Service staff at Frankonia are available six days a week both via telephone and online, by e-mail or letter, for orders as well as enquiries. If there are complaints, Michaela Voll prefers to get on the phone directly to the customer to resolve any misunderstandings and to find the most satisfactory solution. She’s also happy to resolve questions that crop up after the purchase of goods. In her view, competent and at the same time friendly service » My daily is key in increasing customers’ trust in the Motivation? company. She therefore takes part in interSatisfied customers. « nal training courses, for example to learn Michaela Voll, Frankonia about new regulations. Most of the queries she receives are about products, their features and their quality. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 23 The Vision of the Otto Group We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and retail-related service providers with successful business concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and retailnature. We are a globally active corporate group of retailers an people and nature. We are a globally active corporate group of r responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally active corpo that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally ac concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a gl business concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We successful business concepts that acts responsibly for people and At a Glance providers with successful business concepts that acts responsibly related service providers with successful business concepts that and retail-related service providers with successful business con retailers and retail-related service providers with successful bu group of retailers and retail-related service providers with succ corporate group of retailers and retail-related service provider globally active corporate group of retailers and retail-related s We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and retailnature. We are a globally active corporate group of retailers an people and nature. We are a globally active corporate group of r responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally active corpo that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a globally ac concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We are a gl business concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature. We successful business business con CR performance and results and providers with successful business concepts that acts responsibly related service providers with successful business concepts that and retail-related service providers with successful business con retailers and retail-related service providers with successful bu group of retailers and retail-related service providers with succ corporate group of retailers and retail-related service provider globally active corporate group of retailers and retail-related s We are a globally active corporate group of retailers and retailnature. We are a globally active corporate group of retailers an selected CR objectives Otto Group’s CR objectives* In line with its new Corporate Responsibility Strategy, the Otto Group is striving to position itself as ‘best multi-discipline player’ in German-speaking markets. The Group intends to make substantial and measurable progress in all individual CR disciplines. In early 2010 for the first time the Group’s reporting companies (excluding UNITO) defined and planned measures to achieve their stated CR objectives by the end of the 2012/13 financial year. -17% CO2 emissions per year in purchasing logistics by 2020 at Hermes 10% of textiles in Cotton made in Africa quality 12% in OTTO’s own-brand assortment bonprix: Reducing the share of air-freight in self-sourced goods to 20% Heine’s wooden-article assortment to be FSC®-certified 2012/13 The first climate-neutral products and climateneutral mail-order service at Frankonia SportScheck: Raising energy efficiency at company locations by 10% 5% organic cotton in OTTO’s own brands * An overview of all CR objectives is to be found in the CR Programme on p. 141. 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group selected CR objectives Progressive expansion of Cotton made in Africa articles in Schwab’s textile assortment to 10% OTTO Office: 5% of all wooden articles to be FSC® certified by the end of the 2012 financial year 20%of cotton/modal textiles at Witt to be made of organic cotton 15% of wooden articles offered by Baur to be FSC certified -2% CO2 emissions per year from distribution logistics at Hermes, 2% of Baur’s shoe assortment to be classified as sustainable -30% by 2020 5% of textiles in Cotton made in Africa quality at bonprix “Best multi-discipline player” otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 27 123 Strategy and Management Economically Successful and Responsible The Otto Group meets global economic, environmental and social challenges based on its Vision, which places responsibility for people and nature at the heart of its economic activity. This focus is the Group’s key to long-term business success. Global challenges such as resource shortway, the Group not only assumes respon“The Otto Group consists of 123 main companies in 20 ages, climate change, the extinction of species, poverty and human rights violasibility for the welfare of its nearly 50,000 employees in 20 countries, but also for hucountries. We want to ensure tions increasingly influence markets and mane production conditions in its complex that the conduct of employees therefore also the ethical and economic supply chain. Climate and environmental conditions for global trade. However, inprotection throughout production, transin this complex organisation port and distribution processes, and the telligent action based on a responsible CR is aligned with our ethical commitment creates great opportunities conservation of natural biodiversity play an principles. Our objective for companies in this area of tension – for equally important role. example through steadily increasing sales In order to address changing market reis therefore to practice of sustainably produced products. This apquirements and challenges, the Otto Group and continuously improve plies even more so today, because along has developed a new strategic orientation corporate responsibility with politics and non-governmental orgain 2010. The Vision (see p. 31) has been reacross cultural and nizations (NGOs), consumers and financial vised and The Power of Responsibility mismarkets also demand responsibility from sion developed. This is based on the Group’s geographical boundaries”. corporations. conviction that sustainability in its core Jürgen Schulte-Laggenbeck, Regarding the mandatory objectives of business, specifically within the triad of Member of the Executive Board, the Group's CR Strategy and Group-wide economic, social and environmental pracFinance & IT Otto Group, programmes, the Otto Group has anchored tices, is crucial for the long-term economic Chief Financial Officer (CFO) sustainability in its core processes. In this success of its business models. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 29 Strategy and Management Corporate Strategy To ensure long-term success, the Otto Group relies primarily on two strategies: the continued enhancement of its existing corporate portfolio to meet market requirements and the Group’s own sustainability standards and additionally, investment in new markets. To strengthen their market position, Otto Group companies will continue to work on developing innovative concepts and on aligning their existing activities, making them future-proof. To do this it needs to invest in a variety of areas. The overall strategic objectives include strengthening the Otto Group’s financial power, generating growth and continuously improving structures, processes and business models. Periodic target reviews Employees are the driving force of the Group’s new strategic direction. The Otto Group strives for a well-balanced portfolio of companies. For this reason, increasing importance of third-party business. overall objective is to expand our homeGroup companies always pursue their tarDuring the course of this project, personnel reshopping and over-the-counter retail busigets under consideration of market condiorganisations were also carried out (see p. 57). ness as well as to strengthen the Financial tions and adjust them if necessary in order Services and Services segments. to fulfil their functions within the portfoResponsible development lio. Should a specific business activity prove of growth markets Ongoing process development and continuously unprofitable, it is restrucThe Otto Group strives for healthy growth building Group-wide competencies tured in a socially responsible manner and and is working to further open up major The Otto Group works with a variety of iniin agreement with the Works Council. growth markets in central and eastern tiatives to develop its existing structures Europe, particularly the Russian market. and processes and to adapt them in each Reorientation of logistics due to In addition, China and Brazil are gaining case to the highest internal standards as tougher market requirements increasing importance as markets of the well as the dynamics of the respective marTo increase the efficiency of its logistics profuture for the Otto Group. The Group unket. Standard processes will be improved cesses at individual locations and secure jobs dertakes all expansions in accordance with continually, with best-practice examples long-term, the Otto Group has used the project its own rigorous standards for responsible and relevant knowledge shared across the ‘market-orientated realignment’ of its warebusiness conduct, even if these far exceed Group. Examples of recent topics include housing logistics to reduce warehouse capacithe respective national legislations. In casthe areas of e-commerce, innovation manties and centralize. The overriding goal was for es where government regulations do exist agement and Corporate Responsibility. faster delivery to customers and a reduction of but are not adhered to consistently, GroupTo further increase the current tempo of unit costs to competitive levels – also given the internal guidelines take precedence. The its management decisions and their efficacy 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Strategy and Management at an operational level, the Otto Group gives its smaller companies the opportunity to independently develop their own most efficient forms of organisation and connectivity to the Group. Given the increasing volatility of global markets, this represents a major competitive advantage. Such an approach shows that the VISION, MISSION AND STRATEGIC Otto Group recognises fluctuating market OBJECTIVES OF THE OTTO GROUP conditions as a constant and has designed its structures effectively to meet this challenge. The Group was able to demonstrate the success of this strategy in the reporting Vision period with revenue and profit growth in all three core segments. In future, the Group “We are a globally active corporate group of will also be able to take advantage of its opretailers and retail-related service providers portunities as a responsible market player. with successful business concepts that acts responsibly for people and nature.” New business areas in eastern Europe, shifts in online and over-the-counter commerce To attain its goals, the Otto Group continually opens up new business areas and models and Mission thus extends its competitive environment. ‘The Power of Responsibility’ Besides its own business concepts such as OTTO, bonprix and Witt, that were multiplied Secure long-term profitability to eastern Europe, the Otto Group bought Promote innovation shares of various home-shopping retail companies such as Quelle Rusia in the growth Live our diversity regions of central ans eastern Europe during Anchor sustainability in our business activities the reporting period. Additionally, the Group further expanded its business in the multichannel retail segments of over-the-counter retail, catalogue and e-commerce business; the latter for example with its acquisition of Strategic objectives the Bestshop website. 1. Strengthen our financial resources The brands of Internet portals Discount24 and Yalook were absorbed by shopping24 2. Generate growth GmbH, where they are now used as spe3. Create added value cialised shopping platforms. In February 2010, the online, Berlin-based online shoe retailer 4. Organise business models Mirapodo was also launched. Numerous new otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 31 Strategy and Management over-the-counter retail shops were opened, while only a few faced closures. In the reporting companies, there were variations in over4,000 commitments to the-counter business for the following companies: ‘The Power of Responsibility’ SportScheck: Opening one store in Berlin in The Power of Responsibility was initiated by the Otto Group at its ExSeptember 2010, no store closures ecutive Board seminar in March 2010. There, the Board presented its bonprix: Opening a total of 16 stores in conviction that responsibility is a key element of corporate strategy. Germany and another in Italy, four store closures in 2010. The mission’s goal is on otto.de, five euros approximately 50,000 Growth across all business segments to demonstrate how were donated to the aid employees worldwide As in the previous year, in financial year Otto Group employees organisation Save the are called upon to as2010/11 the Otto Group reported growth strive for Profitability, Children. sume responsibility for across all business segments. In its core Innovation, Diversity and the Group’s four core business segment of multi-channel retail, it Sustainability at work as values and to help shape achieved an increase in sales of 12.1%, which well as in their prithe Group’s future. As a corresponds to a turnover of 10,004.0 mn€. vate lives. For every visible symbol, 4,000 For the first time, worldwide online business employee can commitments are accounted for half of the Group’s retail sales: assume his or her to be realised by this share increased in financial year 2010/11 share of responsithe end of the year from 43% to around 50% over the previous bility. and published on a dediyear. The Services segment, which includes cated, company intranet logistics and travel service providers as well Touched by the plight website for The Power as purchasing companies in the Otto Group, of people in Japan, for of Responsibility. The reported a sales increase of 14.9%. The Finanexample, an OTTO emslogan ‘Participate and cial Services segment continued to perform ployee initiated a t-shirt Show Responsibility’ positively and increased revenue by 17.1%. relief effort called ‘Help To promote this comencourages every for Japan’. Since then, mitment to responOtto Group employee Net turnover for each t-shirt sold sibility, the Group’s worldwide to take part. by business segment in mn€ 2010 455 Financial Services 945 Services The Otto Group’s Vision Group-wide mission: The Otto Group honed its profile with a The Power of Responsibility new Vision in 2010. Its self-understanding The Otto Group consists of a variety of com10,004 is that of a globally active corporate group panies that operate in the world’s major ecoMultichannel of retailers and commercial service providnomic regions. As a unifying element among Net turnover, whole Group ers with successful business concepts that all its companies, the Group has initiated a 11,404 mn€ takes responsibility for people and nature. mission in 2011 that will be understood across 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Strategy and Management borders and whose core-values will ensure the Group’s long-term cohesion. The Power of Responsibility mission combines the four core-value constellations that are seminal for the Otto Group: Profitability, Innovation, Diversity and Sustainability. Central to the Otto Group’s self-understanding is the active responsibility of each individual employee: they are each responsible for what they do, for how they do it, and for that which can be improved − whether on a small or a large scale. In this way, the involvement of nearly 50,000 people in 20 countries adds up to a powerful force: this is the true Power of Responsibility. The innovation platform myidea invites employees at OTTO to develop new ideas – and to make them public. The Otto Group Executive Board has presented its new mission at some 30 Group companies in an international roadshow. During the first six months of 2011, it process improvements to entirely new busiboth Heine and Witt have their own ideas or visited facilities in Germany and Austria as ness models. In this case, every Group eminnovation platforms available. Baur also bewell as Group subsidiaries in Russia, France ployee is responsible for questioning what gan a process for Ideas Management in 2010, and the United States, Great Britain, Japan he or she does: can it be improved? Can it while OTTO Office has established a so-called and Hong Kong. be made more economical, more desirable, Ideas Forum on its in-house intranet. simpler − or simply make more sense? In Ensuring long-term order to strengthen innovation throughout New ideas at OTTO profitability the Group, the company created the central In order to develop ideas into innovations, The Otto Group’s primary objective is to Innovation Management department at the the single company OTTO’s platform mymaintain its own long-term profitability and end of 2010. The Innovation Strategy proidea gives its employees assistance in thereby safeguard the company’s existence vides personalised consulting and support structuring, publishing and further develand ongoing success. Through their cost-confor individual Group companies with the oping their own ideas. Approximately 1,100 scious, efficient and profit-orientated work, objective of progressively expanding their employees took up the offer during the Group employees create the conditions necinnovation competency. In their innovation reporting period. From a total of 350 ideas essary for financing innovations, protecting activities, each individual company estabsubmitted, 42 (12%) have been implementjobs and supporting the company. lishes its individual focal points for itself, ed to date. OTTO also operates an Innovawithin defined and strategically relevant tions Lab for new media and distributes a Promoting innovations fields. newsletter called ‘25 Impulses plus’ which Digitalisation and global networking prointroduces the latest trends and ideas from vide the framework for a critical mass of Ideas Management at across the industry. With the programme innovations to drive the success of a globGroup subsidiaries ‘Ideas’ Corner’, OTTO also offers its employally orientated, multi-channel retail group Many companies in the Otto Group already ees an opportunity to showcase their ideas, such as the Otto Group. These innovations operate their own Ideas Management. With following the famous example of Speakers’ range from new websites, through internal heinovation and Witti.dee, employees at Corner in London’s Hyde Park. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 33 Strategy and Management A company culture based on diversity is a source of creativity and innovation. Living diversity employees with an attitude of care and Corporate Governance Succeeding in a global, fragmented marfairness; this is the foundation of the ketplace presents a major challenge for Group’s sustainably profitable business The Otto Group is well aware that in a comthe Otto Group. As a multinational, mulactivity. Impacts on the environment and pany of nearly 50,000 employees and worldticultural retail and services company it society that can be attributed to Group opwide retail activities, compliance with inhas deliberately established its mission to erations are identified by the Group at an ternational laws and regulations can cause support and maintain diversity within the early stage, transparently communicated conflicts of interest and standards that may entire Group. Diversity creates freedom for both internally and externally and mitiinvolve risks. The Group regards a high level ideas and facilitates the development of gated through Corporate Responsibility of integrity as its best protection against unconventional solutions. Specifically, the (CR) management. To ensure this approach risks of reputation – in corporate decisions Otto Group therefore supports the indiis also followed in future, the Group reguas well as in the conduct of each individual vidual differences of its workforce. For inlarly reviews the effectiveness of measures employee. Executives here have a special restance, in early 2011 the company created derived from its CR Strategy − for instance sponsibility to set a leading example. a new position for Group-wide Diversity via the implementation of status reports to In order to ensure and assess compliManagement. In future, the potential of the Executive Board – and adjusts its busiance with respective national laws and inthe existing diversity of employees within ness processes appropriately. ternational standards at all levels and to the entire Group will be utilised even betprevent tendencies towards corruption, the ter through applying a strategic approach Otto Group established a Group-wide Com(see p. 62 ). pliance Committee in 2007. It meets at regular intervals and consists of managers from Anchoring sustainability the areas of Group Security, Group Human Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11 Acting responsibly for people and nawww.ottogroup.com/en/die-otto-group/ Resources, Group Data Protection, Group ture comes from the very roots of the geschaeftsbericht.php Law, Group Corporate Responsibility and The Power of Responsibility Otto Group. As a result, the Group apwww.die-kraft-der-verantwortung.de/ Group Internal Audit. As a globally active proaches natural resources, partners and english/home.html company, the Otto Group is also exposed to 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Strategy and Management business, industry-specific and general risks. inform each employee personally about the pected cases are investigated and solved; These are monitored and controlled by a contents of the guidelines and any modificaupon confirmation of suspicions, they are Group-wide Risk Management System. tions to these. sanctioned accordingly. In addition, the development of a strucThe foundation of every business Group Gifts Guideline tured training system for employees is govrelationship: the Code of Conduct increases legal security erned by Compliance Management. New Of central significance to the Otto Group’s Introduced in February 2011, the Group Gifts employees are – depending on their area of Compliance Management is the GroupGuideline governing business gifts and othwork – trained in various compliance-relewide Code of Conduct. It also applies to the er benefits is intended to increase legal sevant topics, for instance through web-based Group’s business partners and calls for adcurity for Otto Group employees within this e-learning tools for the Anti-Corruption herence to the respective national laws and sensitive area. These regulations prevent Guideline. The Otto Group also organizes internationally recognised operating norms, personal dependencies and obligations that intensive training sessions for specific target based on the minimum standards of the Inmay occur, or that may create the impression groups such as Buyers, for example a further ternational Labour Organization (ILO) and that the integrity of Otto Group employees training series on the topic of Antitrust Law. the UN (see p. 97). and executives or external individuals may The Otto Group Executive and Supervisory have been compromised in some way. Boards are informed periodically regarding Mandatory reporting of the status of current compliance activities. corruption cases: Policies for donation Group Anti-Corruption Guideline practices and data protection, To prevent corruption, the Otto Group adInternal Control System opted the Group Anti-Corruption Guideline Other relevant policies concern donation in November 2009; in December of that practices and the particularly sensitive topic same year the Group supplemented its of data protection and data security in the Code of Conduct with a corresponding sechome-shopping business (see p. 120). For tion. All corruption cases must be reported. Risk Management, the Internal Control SysEmployees have the option of reporting extem has special significance: this ensures isting suspected cases – also anonymously that transparency and cost-effectiveness of – to an internal point or to an external Omoperational processes are improved continbudsman. Reported suspected cases are uously, that risks are reduced, losses avoided thoroughly investigated worldwide, either and assets protected. by the Otto Group department responsible, or by external audit companies comIntegrated Compliance Management missioned to conduct such investigations. With its globally applicable Compliance Where Code violations are established, the Management System, the Otto Group is curOtto Group applies appropriate sanctions, rently implementing an efficient monitoring such as labour-law measures or the immesystem for its compliance activities. In this diate termination of supplier relationships. context, the system checks whether existRight at the start of their employment, new ing policies include all relevant rules and employees are reminded of their obligation regulations regarding risk considerations and to comply with all applicable Group guidewhether the contents are well understood by Code of Conduct www.ottogroup.com/en/verantwortung/ lines. These are also available on the Groupthe employees. Preventive inspections moninachhaltigkeit/lieferanten/ wide intranet. Managers are required to tor compliance with legal requirements. Suscode-of-conduct.php otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 35 Strategy and Management The Risk Management System increases transparency within the Otto Group. Risk Management Risk Management as a GroupEconomic conditions as a financial risk wide early warning system Precarious economic conditions in the sales Within its corporate strategic planning, the The Risk Management System is part of the and purchasing markets currently carry a cerOtto Group comprehensively identifies and Group’s strategic three-year plan. In the tain degree of financial risk for the Otto Group. evaluates its growth and development outcontext of analysis, Group Controlling idenWhereas some countries have not yet fully look as well as its economic improvement optifies and evaluates investments as well as recovered from financial and economic crises portunities. The Group analyses and monitors significant risks and main opportunities and are still burdened by the impact of natuits risks with the help of the Group-wide Risk (see Annual Report 2010/11, p. 35) for each ral disasters − particularly southern Europe Management System. All Group companies company. It allows the Group to identify but also Japan and the United States − it is conduct an annual, systematic Risk Survey. risks at an early stage in order to monitor anticipated that increased economic perforSince 2011, this survey is completed with the and respond appropriately and immediatemance in Germany will have a positive effect aid of a newly developed Risk Management ly, thus minimizing possible repercussions on consumer demand for the Otto Group. platform. At least twice per year, Group comfrom risks, should they materialise. Risk However, due to intense competition in the panies also update their risk reports at SuperManagement increases the transparency of retail sector and increased data protection visory Board meetings. Significant risks are risk exposure for the Group and serves as a legislation here, the economic environment reported ad-hoc to the Board. Group-wide early-warning system. has not become easier for the Group. 36 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Strategy and Management In view of these challenges, the Risks posed by changing What is more, the increasing number of Otto Group is working to distribute risk markets and climates extreme weather events in important sourcmore broadly: it is strengthening its interAs additional risks, the Otto Group is facing ing countries such as Pakistan, Bangladesh national focus, actively managing its portchanges in its sourcing markets and from and India may have an impact on prices due folio of companies and through various climate change. Higher commodity prices to a shortage of raw materials, or may result distribution channels, is serving a variety for cotton and synthetic fibres, rising enin delivery delays and manufacturing disrupof market segments. In addition to expanergy costs and dwindling output capacities tions. At the same time, weather trends can sion abroad, it aims at continued growth in supplier countries, particularly in China, lead to demand fluctuations in the distributhrough innovation, business-concept burden the Group’s growth prospects. Also tion markets. multiplications as well as strategic partdifficult to predict are the risks associated Countermeasures are prepared both at nerships and acquisitions. Analysis of core with climate change, such as crop failures. the level of individual companies as well as risks (e.g. financial risks) is a main feature Additionally, higher energy prices affect the at Group level. Thus, among other things, an of the Otto Group’s Annual Report 2010/11. entire value chain, especially transport. These increase of order quantities has been impleincreased costs narrow the Group’s margins mented in order to realize greater economies and cannot easily be passed on to the conof scale and thereby minimize the risks of rissumer in the form of higher retail prices. ing supply prices (see p. 95). Otto Group Vision ‘... acting responsibly for people and nature’ Mission ‘The Power of Responsibility’ CR Strategy ‘best multi-discipline player’ Significant and measurable performance in all material CR fields of action Complemented by high-profile flagship projects (e.g. Product Sustainable Footprint, ECOREPUBLIC) Fields of action Climate and Assortment and Employees Suppliers Society Environment Customers Strategic objectives Diversity Climate protection Expansion of the Establishing a Social commitment Management Resource management Social Programme minimum coverage is implemented Work-life balance and efficiency Increased transparency level for the overall decentrally and on in the supply chain assortment each Group company’s Further education and own initiative training otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 37 Strategy and Management Statutory regulations and changes ucts can be seen as one of the Otto Group's the Group’s development. Managing these rein consumer behaviour risks, but can at the same time be seen as a source risks requires responsible supply-chain A range of political processes is indirectly major opportunity. organisation, allied with increased transparrelevant to the Otto Group’s business, for ency and measurability of the social, ecologiexample the implementation of Phase III of General sustainability cal and climatic impact of business activities. the EU’s Climate Protection Package in 2013. trends and risks The Otto Group’s approach to these overarchChanges in consumer behaviour also have an Beyond climate issues, ever-dwindling natuing challenges is illustrated in this report in impact on business development. Increased ral resources such as water, fossil fuels and the chapters ‘Climate and Environment’, ‘Supdemand for especially climate-friendly prodfertile soil pose additional potential risks to pliers and Assortment’ and ‘Customers’. The Otto Group's CR organisation Supervisory Board Recommendations, Executive Board Reporting Chairman of the Executive Board (Board Member for CR) Executive Board Members (CR Topic Sponsors) DIvision group group group group OTTO OTTO OTTO Objectives Human Finance, Human Retail Services Brand, Offer & Corporate Resources, IT Resources & Service & Category Responsibility Controlling Controlling E-Commerce Management & IT Group companies Reporting Consulting Consulting Company management Operational level CR Coordinators 38 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Strategy and Management CR Strategy Product Sustainable Footprint In April 2010, the Otto Group presented its current Corporate Responsibility (CR) Strategy. for Textiles and Footwear This strategy ties in with the Vision’s core comIn March 2011, a group of well-known international clothing ponent of taking responsibility for people and companies, scientific experts, representatives of NGOs and nature; furthermore, it contributes to successthe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency established the fully fulfilling The Power of Responsibility misSustainable Apparel Coalition to push the development of sion. In the wake of this new strategic direca Product Sustainable Footprint. tion, the Executive Board has so far negotiated specific CR objectives with ten Group companies and thus anchored sustainable business principles even more deeply within the organisational structures of the Group. CR objectives of the Otto Group: substantial progress in all areas With its CR Strategy, the Otto Group aims to position itself as the best multi-discipline player in its competitive environment. Rather than crowd-pleasing, single achievements in only a few areas, the Group intends to achieve substantial and measurable advances in every CR discipline. Despite invigorated competition, the Group is convinced that with this strategy it will achieve CR leadership among The Coalition’s goal is to since spring 2011. This indicates fields of action retail companies in German-speaking councreate an international index collects extensive in which the global textile tries. Its broad approach rests essentially on benchmark for quality data, ranging from the and footwear industries the commitment of the reporting companies, assessment of textiles harvest or extraction of must increasingly assume each with different goals for implementing and footwear, in terms raw materials, through responsibility and opens the CR Strategy within their respective busiof sustainability. The processing, all the way to new opportunities for the ness models. Thus, for example, the comOtto Group is among the end-consumer stage. implementation of techpanies have defined specific objectives for the Coalition’s founding In this way, the ecologinological innovations. increasing the percentage of organic cotton members of more than cal and social aspects of The goal is to reduce the in their assortments, or for improving energy 30 influential actors. production as well as the consumption of water efficiency. recycling and/or disposal and energy, chemical use The process is based on of textiles and footwear and waste generation CR fields of action and the so-called Sustainabilbecome completely significantly as well as to overall objectives ity Index, developed by transparent – and thus continue to improve soIn order to identify relevant disciplines for the Coalition and which controllable. In addition, cial standards in sourcing the new CR Strategy, the Group’s Corporate has been in a test phase the Sustainability Index countries. Responsibility division initially analysed otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 39 Strategy and Management Group subsidiaries participating in the CR Strategy were involved in the process of setting objectives. Subsequently, each subsidiary then established its own action plan for implementing the agreed company-specific, partial objectives to be achieved by the end of financial year 2012/13. Just like his Executive Board colleagues, Hans-Otto Schrader has assumed personal sponsorship for a core CR topic. Binding CR objectives for all subsidiaries stakeholder requirements and conditions in cating clear environmental and social prodThe Otto Group's CR Strategy will progresthe global marketplace. From that data, the uct features. sively integrate other subsidiaries. Central areas of Employees, Climate and EnvironSociety: Here, the Group does not establish topics include the development of sustainment, Suppliers, Assortment and CustomGroup-wide formulated CR objectives and able assortments and realization of the ers and finally, Society were identified as leaves this field of action to the individual ambitious Group-wide Climate Protection strategic CR fields of action. This structure companies. Strategy. Since March 2010, the CR Strategy also forms the framework for the present report. Within the individual fields of action, important Group issues have been defined: within the CR field of action Assortment and Customers, examples of these are organic Executive Board Member Topic Sponsorsh ip cotton, responsible trade, energy-efficient Hans-Otto Schrader electric and household appliances, wood Chairman of the Executive Board and Chief products from responsible forestry and conExecutive Officer Otto Group (CEO) Communication/Stakeholder Management sumer protection. The Otto Group strives for Dr Rainer Hillebrand Vice Chairman of the Executive Board, Brand, the following overarching objectives in the Service & E-Commerce OTTO Community Building in Web x.0 individual CR fields of action: Alexander Birken Facility Energy Efficiency and Member of the Executive Board, Human Resources, Controlling & IT OTTO, Chief Human Water Management Employees: Successful Diversity Management Resources Officer Social Commitment of Group employees; promoting work-life balDr Michael Heller ance as well as educational and further training. Member of the Executive Board, Sustainability in Wood and Paper Climate and Environment: Focusing on cliMerchandising & Category Management OTTO CmiA Textiles, Organic Cotton, Fairtrade mate protection, especially in purchasing Dr Timm Homann Member of the Executive Board, and distribution logistics, and increasing Retail Otto Group Consumer Protection resource efficiency at facilities as well as in Hanjo Schneider Social and Water Management transport and mobility. Member of the Executive Board, in the Supply Chain Services Otto Group Suppliers: Expanding social management Energy Efficiency in Logistics/Supply Chain and increasing transparency in the supply Jürgen Schulte-Laggenbeck Member of the Executive Board, Finance & IT chain. Otto Group, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Corporate Governance Assortment and Customers: Promoting conDr Winfried Zimmermann scious consumption through the expansion Member of the Executive Board, Human of sustainable assortments and communiResources & Controlling Otto Group Sustainable Development of Employment 40 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Strategy and Management has initially been implemented in ten of Steering Committee. In this way, the topic of the eleven reporting companies; UNITO was CR was also organisationally elevated from added as the eleventh in the autumn of 2011. the second management tier to Executive Therefore, binding CR objectives have been Board status. stipulated for all eleven Group companies included in the CR Report. For example, in the CR flagship projects context of the Climate Protection Strategy, The Otto Group supplements its substantial CR the Group sought a reduction of air freight performance in all disciplines with high-profile of 12% (bonprix) and 3% (OTTO). OTTO aims flagship projects, which represent major stimuto increase the percentage of cotton from li in the Group’s key CR fields of action. the Cotton made in Africa initiative to 10% in its own brands, while Schwab is aiming for a With international cooperation, the Otto Group percentage of 10% in its overall assortment has launched the pilot project ‘Product Sus(see p. 143). tainable Footprint’ in 2011. The goal is to In a series of on-site visits from June 2010 make the social and ecological impacts of to February 2011, Corporate Responsibility individual products measurable throughout staff provided Group subsidiaries with comeach product’s entire lifecycle (see p. 39). prehensive consultation on how to proceed, CR Management based on company-specific requirements Hermes followed suit with its WE DO! profor each competitive environment. The aim gramme for its own ambitious climate protecThe decentralized structure of the Otto Group was to inform them about the CR Strategy’s tion goals: annually reducing CO2 emissions requires a clear division of working processes operational framework and thus to develop along the entire supply chain by 2% and by for implementing its strategic CR objectives. a shared understanding of increased respon3.5% at Hermes locations. Customers are able Therefore, in 2010 the Group also refined and sibility. Among other things, individual focus to mark their shipments with the WE DO! lamodernised its CR organisation. The role of points of CR commitment, the specific form bel. Environmental and conservation activities CR Coordinators within the individual subsiof programme-implementation measures are also included (see p. 77). diaries has been reinforced: they now work and the opportunities for a deeper integrawith management to guide the integration tion of CR Strategy and reporting in business OTTO fosters conscious shopping decisions of CR into core business processes and in this processes were all addressed. with its online store ECOREPUBLIC, which alway, the Coordinators will play a key role in ready carried more than 3,600 products as of bringing together the CR activities of their Executive Board Sponsorships February 2011. A special guidance system of respective companies. Group Corporate Refor CR topics Eco Facts based on independent labels facilisponsibility now concentrates primarily on A central requirement for the success of tates finding sustainable products across all its Group-wide management and consulting the best multi-discipline strategy for the distribution channels − and communicates function as well as on its role as an initiator. Otto Group is the personal commitment of their added sustainability value in simple, This devision is also responsible for the deevery individual employee and manager. easily understood terms. Schwab, Baur and velopment, planning and communication of Board Members have a special responsibility UNITO have also embraced this concept (see Group-wide policies and projects; it reports here. In 2010, each of the eight Otto Group p. 115). semi-annually to the Executive Board which Executive Board Members has therefore asbears the primary responsibility for the desumed sponsorship of a key CR topic and will sign and ongoing development of the CR expressly promote its development. PreviSustainable Apparel Coalition Strategy. The status report is based on the ously, this was the responsibility of the CR www.apparelcoalition.org implemented, Group-wide CR data manageotto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 41 Strategy and Management ment that serves to identify and control key determine how deeply CR issues have aldesign and implement CR Management infigures from Group companies. Figures from ready been integrated in the core processes ternationally and to expand it to include all the Social Programme for suppliers are maof the company. CR-related figures from the major Group companies, which jointly gennaged in another database, called the Social Employees, Assortment and Customers as erate roughly 90% of Group revenue. By the Database. In addition to detailing the current well as Climate and Environment CR fields end of 2012, measures are to be initiated in level of implementation, the management of action are thus captured and prepared these companies in order to manage susreport covers objectives and proposed meauniformly throughout the Group for the tainability actively, based on Group-wide sures, thus accelerating further planning. very first time. In this way, the CR database regulations. is an effective means for evaluating the imThe CR Rollout covers topics from Standardised CR communications plementation status of CR objectives and three areas, with varying implementation structures managing the measures taken. Internal complexity and risk relevance. ‘Minimum’ The Otto Group has established standardised data comparisons allow for best-practice indicates those topics for which implecommunication and cooperation structures to identification and process improvements mentation implies no complex manageimplement the CR Strategy within the eleven (e.g. CO2 benchmarking; see p. 79). The ment requirements. These include, for exreporting companies. CR Coordinators at the figures collected are based on the CR and ample, banning the use of tropical timber, Group companies steer all CR-related activiClimate Protection Strategies and will be proof of origin when using organic cotton, ties and information as well as communicating summarised in CR Reporting. implementing the Code of Conduct and regularly with the Group’s Corporate Responstakeholder management. ‘Standard’ and sibility division. Additionally, in the relevant Group-wide Sustainability ‘Profiling’ include tasks with complex manOtto Group areas such as Controlling, Human Guideline bundles requirements agement requirements that significantly Resources, Law, Risk Management and CorFrom Autumn 2011 onwards many of the exceed the ‘Minimum’ coverage level, such porate Strategy, central CR contact employOtto Group’s CR-related requirements will as the Group-wide Climate Protection ees have been designated who also maintain be bundled into a Sustainability Guideline Strategy, development of the Social Proclose contact with the Corporate Responsibility that is valid for all main Group companies gramme or CR Reporting. These tasks are team. in the commercial segment. This Guideline undertaken primarily in companies with In order to embed CR more deeply as a governs the conditions under which merannual revenues of more than 50 mn€ – cross-company task in all organisational areas chandise may be procured and distributed. currently 43 Otto Group companies. of the Otto Group, Group-internal networking For example, the sale of goods with real The CR Rollout sets high standards, was intensified in the reporting period. For this fur components will be excluded; there particularly for Group companies that are purpose, CR Coordinators in the Group compaare provisions made for textiles tested for not yet integrated into the Otto Group’s CR nies continuously exchange information with harmful substances, and working condiManagement. They must develop a comthe responsible specialists in each of the options at suppliers’ facilities (see p. 104) prehensive understanding of sustainability erational areas. In addition to voice and video will be established. The Guideline’s impleas well as specific actions for conceiving conferences, cross-company workshops also mentation takes place at the Group comand implementing sustainability in their take place regularly. pany level and in future will be reviewed by own core business processes. Group Internal Audit. CR database as the basis for key-figure management Group-wide expansion of CR Introduced in the first half of 2010, the CR Management: CR Rollout 2011-2012 database provides a necessary overview In January 2011, the Otto Group launched of the comprehensive key performancethe project ‘Corporate Responsibility Rollindicator system; this allows the Group to out 2011-2012’ (CR Rollout). The goal is to 42 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Strategy and Management – Facts and Figures Facts and Figures Operating figures 2007/08 2008/09** 2009/10 2010/11 Net turnover for the whole Group in mn€ 10,058.3 9,992.5 10,132.0 11,403.9 Net turnover for the companies covered by this report in mn€ (combined values)* 4,312.0 4,214.5 5,060.4 5,733.2 Capital of the whole Group in mn€ 2,671.9 2,160.4 2,036.2 2,080.5 Capital of the companies covered by this report in mn€* 1,477.6 1,458.8 761.7 776.2 Liabilities of the whole Group in mn€ 10,786.2 4,460.8 4,292.8 4,534.3 Liabilities of the companies covered by this report in mn€* 3,303.4 3,617.6 1,347.5 1,762.6 * 2009/10 and 2010/11 reporting companies incl. Hermes. ** Figures adjusted for 2008/09 in line with 2009/10 Annual Report. Net turnover by region (whole Otto Group) The companies covered by this report generate 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 over half of the Otto Group’s turnover In financial year 2010/11 the net turnover for the eleven reporting 6,571.1 companies was 5,733.2 mn€, accounting for approximately 52% of 5,302.2 5,423.0 5,785.2 the Group’s overall turnover. The turnover of the whole Group was 11,403.9 mn€, 12.6% higher than in the previous financial year 2009/10. Germany is our largest sales market In financial year 2010/11 Germany remained the Otto Group’s most important sales market, accounting for 57.6% of Group turnover. Compared to the year before, we increased our turnover by 13.6%. In the 3,471.6 3,305.9 3,411.9 3,116.6 same period, business activities in the rest of Europe accounted for 978.7 30.0% of Group turnover, followed by North America and Asia with 247.0 1,037.5 263.7 999.9 251.6 268.1 1,152.8 10.1% and 2.3% respectively. in mn€ Germany Europe* North America Asia *Excluding Germany. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 43 Strategy and Management – Facts and Figures Net turnover by business segment (whole Otto Group) Double-digit turnover growth across 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 all three business segments In financial year 2010/11 Multichannel Retail accounted for 10,004.0 10,004.0 mn€ (8,921.5 mn€ the previous year) or 87.7% (88.1% the previous year) of the Otto Group’s turnover. This equated to 12.1% growth 8,955.0 8,802.4 8,921.5 in this segment. Besides the improvement in the economic climate, the greatest influencing factor here was e-commerce, accounting for almost 50% of turnover in the Multichannel Retail segment. In 2010/11 the Financial Services segment continued its positive growth trend of the past couple of years and increased turnover by 66.5 mn€ to 454.9 mn€. With a turnover increase of 17.1%, this segment achieved the highest growth rate. The Services segment, which 393.9 384.5 388.4 454.9 principally comprises logistics and travel service providers and the 709.3 805.6 822.2 945.0 Group’s sourcing companies, increased its turnover in 2010/11 to in mn€ Multichannel Retail Financial Services Services 945.0 mn€ from 822.2 mn€ the previous year – an increase of 14.9%. Consolidated income statement (summary for the whole Group) in mn€ 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 Revenue 10,058.3 9,992.5 10,132.0 11,403.9 Total operating income 10,877.4 10,688.2 10,834.0 12,174.9 Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 487.9 228.5 326.6 666.7 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 173.9 -95.4 46.2 377.5 Earnings before taxes (EBT) 161.8 135.6 -133.1 256.5 Profit from continued operations 94.5 125.7 -160.8 181.1 Profit from discontinued operations 182.1 203.6 371.8 0 Profit for the year 276.5 329.3 211.0 181.1 Accounting at Group leve In financial year 2010/11 the Otto Group’s operating income increased year. Income tax expense in 2010/11 was 75.4 mn€ following 27.7 mn€ by 1,340.9 mn€ versus the previous year. This total comprises the rise in the previous year (see p. 53 Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11). in turnover (+1,271.9 mn€) driven primarily by the positive perforOf the 181.1 mn€ profit generated for the year in 2010/11 (211.0 mn€ mance in e-commerce and the increase in other operating income of in the previous year) 125.3 mn€ (60.9 mn€ in the previous year) is at69.0 mn€. tributable to the Group, 45.5 mn€ (138.6 mn€ in the previous year) is Given the slight increase in depreciation and amortisation expenses attributable to non-controlling interests and 10.3 mn€ (11.4 mn€ in in financial year 2010/11 of 289.2 mn€ (280.3 mn€ in the previous the previous year) to publicly listed equity and participation capital year), EBIT amounted to 377.5 mn€ following 46.2 mn€ in the previous certificates. Amount of income tax expense (for the whole OTTO Group) in mn€ 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 Income tax expense in 2010/11 was 75.4 mn€ which equated to a 67.4 9.9 27.7 75.4 Group tax rate of 29.4%. The rise in income taxes was largely due to the increase in earnings before tax (EBT). 44 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Strategy and Management – Facts and Figures Number of employees Reporting companies employ 40% of (Full-Time Employees / FTEs, under IFRS accounting rules)* the Group’s total workforce 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 In financial year 2010/11, the Otto Group’s employee headcount – converted to full-time equivalents – totalled 49,721 (47,952 in the previous 49,359 49,170 47,952 49,721 year). The fall in headcount in 2009/10 versus 2008/09 was mainly due to the restructuring in the Group’s Great Britain activities. The eleven reporting companies employed 20,248 people in financial 20,248 18,131 12,371 12,307 year 2010/11, representing around 40% of the Group’s total workforce. This increase versus the previous reporting period is mainly attributable to the inclusion of Hermes in the group of reporting companies. The total number of employees (full-time and part-time) is reported Number of employees Group-wide Number of employees in the reporting companies** in the chapter ‘Employees’ and forms the basis for further related key figures. * IFRS = International Finance Reporting Standards; figures adjusted for 2008 in line with 2009/10 Annual Report. ** 2009/10 and 2010/11 reporting companies incl. Hermes. Legal disputes due to anti-competitive behaviour Legal disputes due to anti-competitive behaviour 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 In the reporting period, a total of 34 cases of legal action was tak19 en against the reporting companies for anti-competitive behaviour. 17 15 These cases predominantly concerned trademark and decency in15 fringements, as well as missing textile labelling and incorrect ‘Stiftung Warentest’ (German product testing institute) assessment claims. Included for the first time in the reporting period is the number of cases of legal action taken regarding consumer protection; these mainly n.d. n.d. 2 2 related to confusing shipping-cost claims as well as the wording of Number of cases of legal action taken due to anti-competitive behaviour terms and conditions. Number of cases of legal action taken regarding consumer protection Violations and sanctions 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 Violations of environmental standards 0 0 0 0 Violations of health or safety standards (product recalls) 8 15 2 2 Violations of customer-data protection laws* 46 43 23 32 Violations of product-information standards 0 6 10 10 Violations of marketing standards 34 18 10 10 * From financial year 2009/10, only those complaints are included which were addressed by regulatory authorities or lawyers. Consumer protection violations and sanctions In financial years 2009/10 and 2010/11, two product recalls in both The 20 violations of product-information labelling standards in the reyears fell within the reporting companies’ area of responsibility. These porting period concerned violations of laws regarding manufacturer’s included a soft-shell girls’ jacket from OTTO and a glass table from information, CE markings or missing instruction manuals. Examples bonprix (see p. 117). of marketing-standards violations included missing base-price inforIn the reporting period, regulatory authorities and lawyers presented mation and confusing quality-seal claims. a total of 55 complaints regarding violations of customer-data protecIn the reporting period, one complaint was also received due to a viotion laws. Many of the complaints concerned the sending of newsletlation of gender-equality laws. ters without the prior agreement of the addressee. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 45 37 Stakeholder Dialogue Open Dialogue as a Learning Process The Otto Group aims to continually develop as a global multichannel retailer. Consequently, we are conducting a wide range of discussions with our stakeholders, who include non-governmental organisations and our employees. These different perspectives help the Group to identify potential risks early on and produce solutions to ecological and social challenges more quickly. We are in continual dialogue with our varifrom politics, academia and the business and to draw impetus from them. A further ous stakeholders, who include customers, community. The diverse range of dialogues aim of our dialogues is to initiate and shape suppliers, employees, non-governmental enables our Group to gauge the expectapositive developments in the market, such organisations (NGOs) and representatives tions and requirements of our stakeholders as ensuring humane working conditions in our sourcing countries and raising the at“We are in continual dialogue with our stakeholders − tractiveness of sustainable products. In this and in particular of course with our customers: effort the Group has succeeded in bringing each year, the companies covered by this report together people of different and even coninteract with 37 million of them. This very close troversial perspectives, and initiating lively discussions through events on ethical condialogue allows us to better understand the current sumption, among other activities. and future needs of our customers. In this regard, Our Stakeholder Management System, which we further developed in this reporting conscious consumption is emerging as a social trend, period, allows the Otto Group to identify whereby growing consumer power plays a key role. We trends and possible critical issues early on will also continue to play an active and pioneering role in dialogue processes and to respond to as a communicator, agent and enabler between our these. Stakeholder dialogue is therefore a catalyst for innovation processes and thus suppliers and customers.” contributes to safeguarding the Group’s Dr Timm Homann, Member of the Executive Board, Retail Otto Group reputation. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 47 Stakeholder Dialogue Stakeholder gramme ‘Report Mainz’ and the animal welBoard, Otto Group Corporate ResponsibilManagement system fare organisation Four Paws on feather-down ity Area and the single companies; they also obtained from live plucking in the assortments guide how information flows internally. This The Otto Group is continually working towards of OTTO, Baur and Schwab, numerous letters will ensure that Group companies respond improving the quality of our dialogue further, of protest were received by CEO Hans-Otto with a uniform approach to all external as well as the way in which we work with our Schrader and the companies concerned enquiries. Furthermore, our procedural instrucstakeholders. We made an important step (see p. 104). We took immediate action, tions will indicate possible approaches on towards this in 2011 with the further developremoving all that particular supplier’s prohow best to respond to specific stakeholder ment of our Stakeholder Management System. ducts from our assortments. Furthermore, expectations and how to implement these we entered into very close dialogue with responses within the company. Depending Documenting interactions in the Four Paws and supported the animal welfaon the significance and urgency, this may eistakeholder management database re organisation in an initiative which aims ther be through decisions at Executive Board The basis of our Stakeholder Management to move the EU to tighten up live-plucking level or by adapting our policies and handSystem is the Stakeholder Management Data­ regulations. books. In addition, the procedural instrucbase in which we extensively document all tions provide guidelines on handling critical relevant interactions with our different stakeRoll-out of stakeholder management enquiries; for instance, if queries originate holder groups. Within this tool we list and procedural instructions from NGOs, these will immediately be forassign all internal and external stakeholders With our new procedural instructions which warded to our Corporate Responsibility Area, to a topic area or a stakeholder group for the we will roll out in autumn 2011 in the comwhich will then decide on the next steps. Climate and Environment, Suppliers as well panies covered by this report, we will further Critical enquiries from the media will be foras Assortment and Customers fields of action. professionalise our Stakeholder Management warded to the Group Communications Area System. These instructions set out how which will coordinate its efforts with our Verified Stakeholder stakeholder dialogues are managed at the Corporate Responsibility Area regarding the 77 Management System individual Group levels of the Executive underlying issue. To continually improve our CR performance, we have our sustainability-related processes − including our Stakeholder Management System − verified by the accounting and consulting firm PwC. Auditing is carried out under the AccountAbility1000 (AA1000) standard, and its core assessment criterion % of respondents in is the incorporation of stakeholders into the a survey of trends company’s sustainability process. in 2011 Dialogue with critical stakeholders based on the example of stated that they buy ethical products to ensure that live feather plucking they make the right choice. The same number place In the Otto Group, we have established a transparent and partnership-based way of immediate and fundamental trust in companies that working with our stakeholders, even when produce ethically sound articles. it comes to critical issues. In November 2010, following a report by the ARD television pro48 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Stakeholder Dialogue In its Stakeholder Workshops the Otto Group brings representatives from critical public associations, business, politics and science together around the table. Dialogue Events well as representatives from universities, the and Social Management System are imporUtopia Internet platform and the WWF. In tant reporting topics, both for our employees In this reporting period we engaged in dialine with the Group’s Vision as well as with its as well as for our external stakeholders. The logue with internal and external stakeholdmission ‘The Power of Responsibility’, our new Otto Group has been working on these two ers at numerous dialogue events – either at CR Strategy anchors the topic of sustainabiltopics very intensively for a while now (see the reporting companies’ locations or on-site ity as a core element in the Group’s culture. p. 76, p. 98) and they form core elements of in our sourcing markets. Here, primarily the At the same time we are pursuing the aim of our new CR Strategy. possible tensions between external requireperforming well in all CR sub-disciplines and Building on the results of the Materiality ments and the companies’ actual opportuplacing ourselves ahead of the competition in Matrix, participants produced five requirenities to influence matters were examined terms of overall results (see p. 39). ments on the future focus of our CR reporting. in detail. Focus topics included climate and At the centre was the requirement for environmental protection, switching to susMulti-Stakeholder Dialogue to proactive transparency when outlining the tainable assortments and working condifurther develop CR reporting Group’s business processes as well as their tions in the sourcing markets. For instance, and management impact on humanity and nature. In particuOtto Group representatives discussed opWe are further developing our CR reporting lar, it was felt that our Purchasing Policy and portunities to ensure humane working conas a central communication tool for stakethe implementation process for social and ditions (see p. 102) with trade-union and holder dialogue in active exchange with our environmental standards in the supply chain government representatives as well as with stakeholders. In a workshop held in 2010, 27 ought to be described in more detail. There other local stakeholders in Bangladesh, Turinternal and external stakeholders – includwere also demands for greater cross-industry key and China. Here, the Otto Group initiated ing representatives from NABU (German comparability in reporting facts, figures and a host of strategic and future-orientated diaNature and Biodiversity Conservation Union), specific targets and aims. Furthermore, it was logue events on Corporate Responsibility. Transparency International and the German stated that the interconnections between trade union ver.di – detailed their core exour Business and CR Strategies needed to be New CR Strategy event pectations of our CR reporting 2011. Prior to better established and that the whole Group In April 2010, a critical public attended our prethat, key CR topics were evaluated based on and its value chain ought to be incorporated sentation of the Otto Group’s new CR Strata questionnaire and the results were sumin our coverage egy. Amongst over 200 internal and external marised in a Materiality Matrix. The results These lively discussions provided imporattendees were managers from the Group as showed that our Climate Protection Strategy tant stimuli for the Otto Group’s CR reporting, otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 49 Stakeholder Dialogue We want to participate in dialogue with consumers, increasing their power. It is important not to overwhelm customers nor to patronise them. Dr Timm Homann, Member of the Executive Board, Retail Otto Group which we have already implemented to some Conference and discussions materials and paper products. Here, we’re extent in this current report. We have paid on protecting biodiversity playing a leading role in Europe in implegreater consideration to the requirement The Otto Group has traditionally held the menting FSC projects (see p. 84). for proactive transparency: in the chapters view that biodiversity should be treated ‘Climate and Environment’, ‘Suppliers’ as well responsibly. As a member of the Business Hermes intensifies as ‘Assortment and Customers’, the business and Biodiversity Initiative and host of two stakeholder dialogue environment along the value chain, resultof the initiative’s dialogue events, we made In the transport sector, Hermes is faced ing challenges and selected solutions are a decisive contribution to the preparawith particular expectations and chaldescribed in detail. For instance, the limited tions for the Conference of the Parties to lenges. For this reason it intensified the opportunities to exert influence on producthe Convention of Biological Diversity, held exchange with its stakeholders during the tion processes when sourcing products in in the Japanese city of Nagoya in October reporting period. In November 2010, the risk markets is one of the issues that we have 2010. As part of this, we organised an event company organised the first Hermes Fuhighlighted; among other activities, we are where environmental associations and ture Forum in Hamburg. 75 guests from countering this by stepping up our drive to member companies of the initiative were the political and business spheres, includform alliances (see p. 102). able to exchange experiences. During this ing numerous respected international event, the ‘The Economics of Ecosystems figures such as Nobel Peace Prize winner Consumer power dialogue and Biodiversity’ study was presented and Muhammad Yunus, former UN Secretary event in Berlin its consequences on the way companies General Kofi Annan, Puma CEO Jochen Zeitz In June 2011, we held our fourth expert operate were discussed. Furthermore, the as well as Dr Michael Otto and Otto Group workshop on Ethical Consumption, this Otto Group organised an initiative workCEO Hans-Otto Schrader, discussed what time entitled ‘Consumer power and conshop in Hamburg directly in the run-up to responsibility companies bear for social sumer confidence – consequences for Ethithe Nagoya conference, in which the final and ecological business practices. The aim cal Consumption’. Chaired by Otto Group preparations were made and future perwas to provide impetus for sustainable Executive Board Member Dr Timm Homann, spectives were discussed (see p. 81). entrepreneurship and to provide practical representatives from the spheres of politics, perspectives. At the forum, the significance the media and NGOs discussed the necesCross-industry information of conducting business in a way that uses sary prerequisites for customers to be able event on FSC® criteria as few resources as possible for growth and to take conscious and confident decisions As part of our membership of the Forest future competitiveness was discussed in as consumers. Together, a thesis was develStewardship Council (FSC), we organised detail. oped which is intended to provide guidance specialist dialogue events in 2010 in which to companies as well as those involved in we informed representatives from over 80 Employee loyalty – from informal politics and civil society. After a high-level printing companies, paper suppliers and discussions to expert groups podium discussion, the participants formed other FSC-certified companies about how Our employees are among our most importwo working groups in which, based on speto use the logo in compliance with FSC tant stakeholders. We offer them the opporcific expert theses, they discussed the role guidelines, and in which we discussed the tunity to contribute their ideas at numerof politics, civil society and the media in the latest status of those requirements. Beous formal and informal events, whether process of building confidence and compasides furniture production, FSC certificathrough getting involved in working groups nies’ opportunities to influence this. tion is particularly relevant to our printed or in informal networking events such as 50 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Stakeholder Dialogue Dr Timm Homann invites questions from participants at the Otto Group’s 4th Expert Workshop on Ethical Consumption, in Berlin. Lunch & Learn (see p. 57). When it comes to CR communications clude our Climate Protection Strategy, our susimportant company and cross-area topics, tainable online shop ECOREPUBLIC and the dewe bring together the employees concerned Besides stakeholder dialogues, our overall CR velopment of a Product Sustainable Footprint. in internal working groups. One example communications are aimed at informing our In terms of content, our CR communications is our Climate Protection Strategy Working internal and external stakeholders. Through focus on our five CR fields of action: Employees, Group that convenes on a regular basis; emour Group-wide CR communications we inSociety, Suppliers, Climate and Environment as ployees from 18 Group companies as well tend to intensify and systemise dialogue with well as on Assortment and Customers. as various Otto Group areas are involved in our stakeholders. At Group level we also pubBesides CR communication at Group level, this. Under the supervision of our CR Area, lish an exhaustive CR Report every two years, the single Group companies address their in the reporting period this Working Group which is supplemented with company-specific particular stakeholders in a targeted way and developed a plan to implement our Climate CR publications by our Group subsidiaries. on their own initiative, as these companies Protection Strategy agreed in 2007 at our are closer to their respective customers and locations (see p. 79). CR communications positions the products. Communication at Group level is Otto Group as thought leader therefore supplemented with local measures Through our CR communications we intend by the Group subsidiaries. For instance, OTTO to position the Otto Group more strongly than is increasingly reporting on its CR activities previously as a sustainable company group in the company’s ‘o.ton’ employee magazine. in the eyes of the public. To achieve this, we With its new environmental label WE DO!, clearly emphasise the Group’s qualities as a Hermes is highlighting its focus on carbonthought leader, initiator and pioneer of new efficient logistics services to its customers ideas, projects and initiatives in the area of CR. and clients, with all shipments across Europe Overarching strategic topics and projects inbearing this environmental label. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 51 Stakeholder Dialogue Constructively critical discussions within its stakeholder dialogues provide the Otto Group with fresh stimuli. Internal CR communications independent CR reports, which they use for five crowns by the agency ServiceRating; in We also further intensified our internal CR targeted communication to their specific the same year, SportScheck was awarded communications in the reporting period stakeholders. For instance, in January 2011 the title of ‘Best Sports Business’ by DISQ, through countless networking, training and Baur published its first concise CR report the German Institute for Service Quality. In information offers. Through our networking detailing its CR objectives, programmes and 2011 both OTTO and UNITO were elected in offers, we mainly target those responsible measures. Focusing on Climate and Environtwo different rankings as being the most for CR, such as CR Coordinators in the Group ment, Assortment and Customers, Suppliers, customer-focused service providers in the companies, or Social Officers who are active Employees and Society, this report linked retail category, with both receiving a ‘Serlocally in the sourcing markets. Furthermore, up with the five CR fields of action at Group vice Oscar’. the Otto Group offers employee training level. It is aimed at employees and business In September 2010 we strengthened courses and workshops as well as a growpartners, but is also available to customour position as a leader and pioneer in the ing number of presentations on CR topics. In ers on the company’s homepage. OTTO, field of climate and environmental protec2010 we launched an internal CR newsletter SportScheck, bonprix and UNITO have also tion, scooping the first ever ‘FSC® Global targeted at managers and employees across supplemented our CR reporting with their Partner Award’ in the mail-order category. the Group interested in the topic of CR. own publications. By contrast, Hermes pubWe earned particular praise from the FSC’s lishes its own environmental report once a renowned jury for the way in which we comOtto Group Trend Study 2009 – an year; this exhaustively documents the comprehensively promoted the significance of example of external CR communications pany’s performance in this area. the FSC logo for consumers (see p. 84). FurAt the same time as our CR reporting we pubthermore, Hermes was awarded the ‘Hanse lish a Trend Study every two years on ethical Numerous awards for CR performance Globe’ for sustainable logistics projects for consumption. In 2009 it focused on the topic In the reporting period, several reporting its efforts in climate and environmental proof ‘The future of ethical consumption’. When companies in the Otto Group were once tection. this was published, the results were met with again recognised with prizes and awards The personal commitment of great media interest; we also communicated for their special efforts, particularly in the Dr Michael Otto was also recognised once them at events and in the form of a brochure. areas of Services, Climate and Environment again with multiple awards. Among them, In 2011 the topic will be ‘Consumer confidence as well as Employer Quality. the Chairman of the Supervisory Board was and its consequences for ethical consumption’: In 2009 OTTO received the fashion inawarded the UNESCO ‘Support’ sculpture our aim here is to make ethical consumption a dustry’s ‘Top Employer’ award following in 2010 for his successful engagement in key topic in future public discussions. a study conducted by the specialist trade the area of climate protection (see p. 132). magazine TextilWirtschaft. The results are Supplementary CR reports by based on a survey of fashion industry gradthe single Group companies uates, job starters and job seekers carried Besides CR reporting at Group level, our out in 2009. In 2010 Baur was awarded the single Group subsidiaries publish their own ‘Excellent’ customer service certificate with 52 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Stakeholder Dialogue Memberships of Health and Sustainability) and has been a chain, reducing the use of natural resources and member since 2007. Utopia aims to change promoting environmentally friendly practices The Otto Group is an active partner in nuconsumer behaviour and people’s lifestyle by among the company’s customers. In October merous social, environmental and political promoting ethical consumption and thereby 2010, OTTO also supported the Utopia annual organisations through its memberships and environmentally friendly and fair-trade prodconference as a main sponsor of the event. involvement in both the private and public ucts. Since 2010 OTTO has showcased itself In October 2010, Hermes signed a fivesector. We expanded our engagement in the on this online platform with a comprehensive year cooperation agreement with NABU reporting period too, becoming a member company profile; through this it is also in conLandesverband Hamburg e. V. (the German of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, which tinual dialogue with the stakeholder group of Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union) we founded in 2010 together with other critical consumers. As one of the first compato support the union’s nature-conservation renowned international clothing companies to do so, in November 2009 OTTO signed work on the River Elbe floodplain in Lower nies. The Coalition’s aim is to develop a the Utopia Changemaker Manifesto, thereby Saxony. Baur is a signatory of the EnvironProduct Sustainable Footprint to provide underscoring its stated aim to be a pioneer in mental Pact of Bavaria and is also in direct an international benchmark for the assessthe area of Corporate Responsibility. The comdialogue with local authorities to reduce ment of product quality with regard to suspany is committed to upholding the Manifesto’s site-reconstruction noise levels, among other tainability criteria (see p. 39). Ten Commitments: these include integrating initiatives. Numerous other memberships OTTO was one of the founding partners sustainability at Executive Board level and into and collaborations shape the social and of the LOHAS platform utopia.de (Lifestyle management processes along the entire value environmental engagement of our Group. Otto Group key memberships and collaborations Discussions in the political sphere • Sustainable Apparel Coalition (since 2010) • National Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) forum • German Retail Federation (formerly Hauptverband des Deutschen • Initiative for Germany Einzelhandels [General Association of the German Retail Trade] • Founding partner of Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) (since 2009); prior to that, member of BAG [German Federal Association • Initiative 2° – German CEOs for Climate Protection (initiated by of Retailers] (since 1979)) Dr Michael Otto and a member since 2007) • Textile Exchange (since 2006) • Bundesverband der Personalmanager [German Federal Hermes key memberships and collaborations Association of Personnel Managers] (since 2009) • Official cooperation with NABU (since 2010) • Business and Biodiversity Initiative (since 2008) • Test partner in the Clean Energy Partnership (CEP) (since 2004) • German Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Union (NABU) (since 2007) • Member of the Umweltpartnerschaft Hamburg [Hamburg Environmental Partnership] (since 2003) • Forest Stewardship Council Germany (FSC®) (since 2006) • Collaborative member of the Wasserstoff-Gesellschaft • Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) (since 2004) Hamburg [Hydrogen Corporation Hamburg] (since 1996) • Global Compact (member since 2002) • Member of the Logistics Initiative Hamburg (since 2006) • Social Accountability International (SAI) (since 1997) • Umweltallianz II [Environmental Alliance II] of • German Environmental Management the Federal State of Saxony-Anhalt (since 2000) Association (B.A.U.M.) (since 1987) • German Association for Personnel Management (since the 1980s) OTTO memberships • Round Table Codes of Conduct forum (since 2001) • terre des hommes (partner since 2008) • Utopia (since 2007) Baur memberships • Environmental Pact of Bavaria (up to the end of 2015) otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 53 100 Employees Learning from One Another and Growing Together To the Otto Group, responsibility for our almost 50,000 employees means more than just safeguarding jobs. We aim to create an environment for our employees in which they can work creatively and develop innovative ideas. This is why we offer them a wide range of development and dialogue opportunities. The Otto Group’s human-resources manOur Group operates in a dynamic busiwe offer flexible working arrangements agement faces a variety of challenges. ness environment. Within this, our transiand systematic health management, along Among them, demographic change in partion to becoming a multichannel retailer with extensive professional development ticular demands human-resources policy as well as our international expansion reopportunities. Our Group places emphasolutions to attract talented employees to quire a high degree of willingness on the sis on supporting its employees according our Group and to secure their long-term part of our employees to learn and adapt to to the different stages of their lives and loyalty. This is why we invest extensively in change. The Group aims to help them – irtheir related needs to maintain their emattracting talent, vocational training and respective of gender, age and ethnicity – to ployability and motivation throughout employee loyalty. realise their full potential. To achieve this, their careers. “Responsibility is the core of our corporate mission. Our employees take responsibility for everything that can be improved, however big or small, and instil sustainability in the core business. They develop new ideas and also get involved on their own initiative: in 2010, over 100 of our employees volunteered in our Young ClassX music project. This is the attitude that will enable us to remain successful in the market long-term while also fulfilling our responsibility to society.” Alexander Birken, Member of the Executive Board, Human Resources, Controlling & IT OTTO, Chief Human Resources Officer otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 55 Employees New mission ‘The Power of Responsibility’: common commitment of the Otto Group Executive Board to a Group-wide, value-orientated company culture. Individual Human Resources Otto Group as an attractive employer. In innovate. Through its ‘Heine Online TransStrategies Contribute to the line with the Group’s commitment to treatformation’ programme, this Group company Implementation of our Mission ing employees and partners with respect, closely involves its employees in its transiwe give our individual Group companies tion to an Internet-based sales model. ImWhile Otto Group companies set different a high degree of autonomy and freedom plementation is made transparent using live strategic priorities when formulating their when formulating their individual humantickers, a newsletter, blogs, the Intranet and human-resources strategies, every comparesources strategies. This is essential in information events. ny follows the values set out in our Group ensuring that each Group company meets A further core value of our corporate mismission, ‘The Power of Responsibility’ (see the varying economic, social and cultural sion is promoting Diversity within our Group p. 32). They take appropriate measures to challenges in its particular business area companies, and this is reflected in our stracontribute towards ensuring the long-term and region. tegic priorities for human resources. Within profitability of the Group, promoting inthe context of expansion, bonprix is fosternovation and diversity, and positioning the Local implementation of ing exchange with its international group our shared values companies, for example by organising interOtto Group companies’ human-resources national human-resources meetings; UNITO Employee numbers strategies are derived from our Group’s mislaunched programmes and initiatives to pro2010/11 sion values. These strategies are evaluated mote work-life balance in 2011, and Hermes annually and analysed by our Group HR Diis pursuing the aim of strengthening its in22.0% 21.3% aged vision, which advises the Group companies tercultural competencies, making cultural aged under 30 over 50 on implementing human-resources policy diversity visible and successfully managing aims. It also provides operational support, demographic change. for instance by holding workshops and To unite the Group mission value of Profproviding best-practice examples. Besides itability with flexibility, OTTO is focusing on OTTO, Schwab, SportScheck and UNITO, in bringing flexibility to working hours and lo56.7 % aged from 30 to 50 2011 Heine also aligned its human-resourccations, as well as on making internal proEmployee headcount: 26,671 es strategy with the topic of e-commerce, cesses digital through its ‘Workspace 2010’ (reporting companies) thus strengthening our Group’s ability to programme. 56 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Employees A Responsible Employer Positive ratings Several companies covered by this report The Otto Group makes a point of actively regularly conduct employee surveys to involving employees in the company’s degauge employee satisfaction and enable velopment. We seek dialogue with them and them to identify the need to make changes their representatives, and promote open exearly on. In total, 16 surveys were conducted change across the entire Group. Besides this by the reporting companies in the reporting we develop consensus solutions in difficult period. situations, such as company restructurings. With over 60% of employees providing We also allow our employees to share in our feedback, Witt achieved an exceptionally economic success by offering them competihigh return rate in 2010. The survey revealed tive, performance-related remuneration as that employees rated the business climate Strengthening employee identification – OTTO emwell as attractive benefits. and the health management system as ployees as models on Fashion Days. particularly positive, with information and Open dialogue across all co-determination receiving a significantly hierarchical levels better rating than in the previous survey in Intensive exchange across business-areas 2004. and hierarchical levels promotes company-inDialogue events on critical ternal learning processes, strengthens team ‘Ich bin OTTO’ (I am OTTO) situations with stakeholders spirit and improves mutual understanding. In employee programme In critical situations too, such as prior to reparticular, informal discussion formats invite The majority of our Group companies acstructurings, the Otto Group fosters dialogue employees to have fun exploring new topics tively encourage employee identification with its employees and their representatives and to talk about them with colleagues and with the particular company’s aims and to find socially acceptable solutions together. managers. In 2010 OTTO invited its employees values. Following this approach, OTTO We enter into these discussions with the deto three Espresso Talks which were each atlaunched its ‘Ich bin OTTO’ (I am OTTO) prosire to find constructive solutions. At almost tended by an Executive Board member, plus gramme in 2009, against the backdrop of all our locations, the interests of employees Lunch & Learn business snacks with presenfar-reaching changes in the transition to are represented by Works Councils. In May tations of specialist topics. Baur, UNITO and an e-commerce business model, and the 2010, the youngest Works Council of the Witt also hold regular mealtime events with market opportunities that were opening Otto Group was founded in the administraExecutive Board members. Besides personal up as a result of the global economic crition office at OTTO Hamburg. exchange, our Group companies use their sis. OTTO communicated its corporate aims intranet sites to encourage dialogue and the and values to over 5,000 employees over Agreed approach to modernising transfer of knowledge between managers seven one-to-two-week campaign periods, warehousing logistics and employees. At Witt, for example, manat Fashion Days held in February 2009 or At the start of 2009 out Group decided to agers and the Works Council are available for presentations to OTTO Purchasing staff, for modernise its warehousing logistics serQ&A sessions on the Gute Frage (Good Quesexample. In 2010 the company highlighted vices. Before we took action we entered into tion) platform. At Heine, managers blog about its strategic aims with the ‘Lange Nacht intensive negotiations on the implementheir everyday work and answer employees’ der Gipfelstürmer’ (Night of the Mountaintation arrangements with employee repquestions. In 2010 SportScheck launched eers), in which various campaign stands resentatives. Faced with new competitors SportScheck-trainiert-Web-2.0 (SportScheck helped employees find out about stratein Germany and neighbouring European Trains Web 2.0) – an online platform that algies and initiatives designed to increase countries, our aim was to maintain our lolows all employees to share their knowledge. company profitability. gistics network’s competitiveness, thereby otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 57 Employees safeguarding jobs in the long term. Since further 107 jobs were lost as a result of the year, which is linked both to achievement mid-2009 we have been implementing the integration of Discount24 and Yalook into of the company’s as well as individual tarpackage of measures agreed with employee the existing online-shopping portal Smatch/ gets. Furthermore, the Group offers emrepresentatives under the name ‘Neue Shopping24. The workforce adjustments deployees both within and outside collective marktorientierte Lagerlogistik’ (marketscribed above were made to enable these salary scales additional financial bonuses, orientated realignment of the Otto Group’s companies to operate in a cost-conscious such as Christmas and holiday pay. In addiwarehousing logistics) or NmL for short. and efficient way, thus helping to ensure the tion, OTTO, Heine, Hermes, Witt, UNITO and Furthermore, our Group has kept its promise Otto Group’s long-term economic success. bonprix subsidise employees’ travel tickets to keep all our warehousing logistics locafor local public transport. tions open in Germany. Sharing in our Group’s success Over half of the reporting companies ofAlmost all the Group’s logistics locations through fair remuneration fer their employees the opportunity to join were affected by the changes – particularly A key element of the way the Otto Group an occupational pension scheme. Employees our logistics service provider Hermes, which manages its employees and ensures their are entitled to a collectively agreed pension reduced its headcount by 500 without the loyalty is through market-competitive and and a favourable rate if they are directly inneed for redundancies. Unavoidable workperformance-related remuneration. Persured or participate in the salary-conversion force reductions were organised in a soformance and success-related components scheme. The Employer’s Contribution made cially acceptable way and employees were at management level also form part of the by the Group is 10% of the pension contribusupported on their path to finding new various additional bonuses the Group offers. tion converted, provided that social security employment. To this end, Frankonia and Through stock-ownership plans in the form payments are saved through this. Hermes developed their own programmes, of profit-sharing rights, employees of comwith information and career-guidance panies in which the Group holds a majority Scope for individual responsibility events. UNITO established an own foundastake can also benefit directly from their in structuring working hours tion which offered its employees extensive company’s success. Depending on their areas of responsibility, qualification programmes following socially all Group companies offer their employees acceptable company restructuring. Hermes Executive Board and flexible working hours. At OTTO for inalso supported those finding a new direcemployee remuneration stance, over 700 employees regularly work tion for their careers by setting up an interConcerning remuneration practices, the from home, with laptops and iPads provided nal job-vacancies site. individual Group companies also act with for this purpose. At Baur, Heine, Hermes, great independence, within the framework Frankonia, Witt and OTTO, employees can Further personnel changes in the of collective wage agreements. However, use job-sharing arrangements – an offer single Group companies the underlying remuneration structure for taken up by some 200 Hermes employees. New business and sales models demand senior management levels is defined by In 2010/11, 51.2% of the reporting compafurther adjustments in the single Group the Group’s HR Division. Here, achieving nies’ employees worked part-time, which companies, such as at bonprix. In 2010, this sustainability objectives is an integral part equates to 13,659 employees. company successfully restructured its Purof the bonus system for Executive Board chasing and International Management armembers, with variable components based eas without reducing headcount; however, on the achievement of key operating figSportScheck and Schwab had to make 96 reures (please see the Otto Group’s Annual dundancies in administrative and customerReport 2010/11 for total remuneration figsupport departments, in particular because ures, p. 152). an increase in online orders reduced the need Non salary-scale employees also generAwards in the reporting period for telephone-based customer assistance. A ally receive a variable bonus for the financial www.ottogroup.com/cr-report 58 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Employees Targeted development of employees within the Otto Group Academy – ranging from young future managers to managing directors. Educational and Further seminars being held across the Group in the own Division. Stage four is the Top ExecuTraining reporting period. tive Development Programme for potential Executive Directors, in which around twelve We get in touch early on with potential emGroup-wide manager managers each year participate. ployees to attract new talent to our Group, development from the outset thereby countering any threat of a shortage Once a year, our Group HR Division conducts New digital of skilled employees. We also offer all our Group-wide performance and potential astalent-management system employees – from apprentices to managsessments of our managers, as part of our The Otto Group offers its employees indiviers – continuing professional development management-succession planning process. dual development opportunities which are courses which focus just as much on exBesides Division Managers and Directors, also aimed at strengthening our Group-wide panding their professional skills as on their since autumn 2010 we have also assessed management pool to meet future challenges. own personality. It is in our mutual interest Department Heads. When we identify highThis is why Group-wide talent management to ensure our employees receive extensive potential employees we support them as is closely integrated in our managementtraining at all stages of their careers, right part of an Otto Group Academy programme succession planning process. In 2011 we launthrough to retirement. We specifically prethat focuses on individual development ched our digital version, which provides even pare them to meet evolving challenges such stages. Right from the Group’s new Talent greater transparency on high-potential emas the digitalisation of commerce, as well as Development Programme, the basis is laid ployees and their development steps, therethe increasing internationalisation of our for Group-wide networking and transparent by supporting Group-wide career paths. From Group companies. documentation of career-development paths. autumn 2011, we also intend to replicate the The OTTO Academy offers an extensive The subsequent stages focus on Department management assessment processes as part range of Group-wide professional developHeads and very high-potential employees of our new SAP-based talent management ment courses. 2,303 participants attended at Division Manager level. In the case of the system: this will allow further personal infor202 training courses in 2010/11, ranging latter, since November 2010 Division Managmation to be linked. Here, internal high-pofrom IT courses to top-management semiers have benefited from such initiatives as a tential employees as well as external talent nars. Other Group companies also offer their Cross-Mentoring Programme: this supports − such as former employees or competitors employees a comprehensive range of furGroup-wide career paths with the aid of who cannot be appointed at the moment − ther development opportunities, with 3,677 mentors who are external to the manager’s will be entered into the system. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 59 Employees Common standards of knowledge outside their own working environments for Purchasing and Sales too. To offer an insight into company proTraining Offerings Number of Training Days In the reporting period we also conducted excesses and promote cross-area communitensive training in our central Purchasing and cation, since 2009 bonprix has called on its 2009/10 2010/11 Sales areas, for instance through our GroupDepartment Heads and supervisors each 13,542 wide development programme for Purchasers, year to spend some time in other areas of 12,453 which we launched in October 2010. The prothe business. Twice a year, Witt makes it posgramme aims to ensure a common standard sible for all employees to spend one day in of knowledge, to allow qualified purchasing another area that interests them. 4,737 3,008 decisions to be made in line with our corpoThe non-profit organisation SeitenEmployees (without managers) rate values. Furthermore, in partnership with Wechsel (Changing Sides) offers personal Managers the Bavarian Akademie Handel (Commerce development courses for managers, who Academy), SportScheck is offering a Sales can gain an insight into different ways of Manager qualification course which provides living by helping out for a week at a social content from the areas of Marketing and institution. Witt and bonprix also particities at a variety of levels. Using innovative reSales, Human Resources management as well pate in this project. cruitment methods, they specifically appeal as operational Controlling and Management. to young target groups and support them Systematically documenting right from the vocational orientation phase. E-commerce is a key topic further training As part of our further training activities, In return for the Group’s extensive investRecruiting talent via social networks we are placing a strategic focus on expandment in further training, our companies When approaching job starters, we increasing our employees’ e-commerce knowledge expect strong willingness from their emingly use social media such as Twitter, Faceusing a Group-wide intranet platform. Here, ployees to continue to learn. In this regard, book and Xing. By doing this we intend not e-commerce topics and terms are clearly exthe further training costs and rates are subonly to reach a wider target group, but also plained in short articles covering subjects ject to systematic checking at SportScheck to appeal specifically to new talents who such as viruses and different smartphone and Baur, for instance. In 2008 SportScheck are skilled in using new media and who can applications. E-commerce is also being introduced its own electronic reporting apply this knowledge in our company to atexamined in detail as part of Heine’s Onsystem for its stores: this logs the number tract a new generation of customers. We line Transformation programme (see p. 56). and type of events as well as the number of have almost 2,000 followers on Twitter who Heine has already achieved great success in participants. The end result for 2010 showed receive the regular job information updates this respect: in an exhaustive survey, 95% of 992 campaign events were held and 6,026 we post, while our ‘Otto Group Karriere’ employees said they understood and agreed people participated. In calendar year 2010, (Otto Group Career) fan-page on Facebook with the process. Baur and bonprix also ofBaur achieved an increase of 15% versus the has over 3,000 fans. News about job offers fer their own range of e-commerce training previous year in terms of its further trainis also spread via our employees’ personal courses, while OTTO has incorporated the ing rate, with the number of participants Facebook pages, and the Group has its own topic of ‘digital turnaround’ into its Leaderincreasing from 1,371 to 1,599. YouTube account where we post videos on ship Programme for 2011. career topics. Securing qualified new talent In June 2010 OTTO employees from the Gathering experiences in interrelated To counter the threat of a shortage of skilled company’s New Media Division launched a matters in other business areas employees and to secure a broad base of blog on e-commerce topics called ‘eStarter’. Many Group companies deliberately give qualified new talent for the Group, our indiTwelve months previously the company their employees space to gather experience vidual companies carry out numerous activilaunched an innovative recruitment cam60 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Employees paign called ‘So schnell wird man Chef’ Responsibility is a core value dowed Chair for Home Shopping and Service (Shoot to the top), in which users could creof vocational training Marketing at Zeppelin University in Friedrichs­ ate a personalised video. In an additional Our Group companies offer school-leavers hafen, which started its first cycle of lectures online video competition, the company gave a wide range of commercial, technical and in the 2010 winter semester. In addition, since away the opportunity to spend three days business vocational-training courses. These 2011 the first consecutive Master’s degree with OTTO’s management. The promotional place just as much emphasis on promoting course dedicated to e-commerce has been website was visited 250,000 times and over specialist know-how as on extensively prerunning in Germany at the Wedel University 9,000 videos were created. paring young people for the modern world of Applied Sciences – a Chair endowed by the We also make extensive use of new media of work. In the eleven reporting companies, Otto Group with the participation of Baur, in our vocational training. For example, OTTO in 2009/10 a total of 743 young people parbonprix, OTTO, Schwab, SportScheck and Witt. offers a multimedia training programme ticipated in vocational training in just over Furthermore, since 2008, Hamburg University covering topics such as such as personal 30 vocational training positions – with this of Applied Sciences has been offering the only development, developing values, sustainabilnumber rising to 778 in 2010/11. Multichannel Trade Management in Textile ity and innovation. OTTO and Baur’s trainee companies ofBusiness course in Germany – all made posOur Group companies have a range of fer apprentices specific opportunities to sible through our foundation professorship. offerings when it comes to specifically apimplement real-life, profit-orientated projA further example is SportScheck, which pealing to young people in the vocational ects themselves. This helps them acquire is driving forward modern management vocaorientation phase: key skills and qualifications such as an tional training in over-the-counter retail, with awareness of responsibility and cost, manits professional development course for Execuagement competencies and team-working tive Board employees. This was developed in • Schwab, bonprix, Baur, OTTO und Witt skills; moreover, they are also trained on collaboration with the University of St. Gallen. job-application training how to put entrepreneurial thinking and In addition to those mentioned, we also • Witt acting into practice. Cooperation5, OTTO’s collaborate with the following universities: podium discussions on applying for jobs trainee enterprise, devises and organises (for school pupils, teachers and parents) events, promotional campaigns and sup• European School of Business in Reutlingen • OTTO porting programmes for conferences and • Leuphana University, Lüneburg sending information to schools for parents’ office parties for the company. At b-sales, • Humboldt University, Berlin evenings on apprenticeships; interactive the trainee enterprise founded by Baur in • University of Münster apprentice blog 2009, apprentices auction sample articles, Westphalia – Marketing Center Münster • Baur watches and jewellery to employees via an • University of Applied Sciences, Wedel ‘Woche der Ausbildung’ (Training Week), intranet platform – and it already has al• University of Applied Sciences, Ambergin which school pupils work with Baur most 1,000 users. Weiden (Witt) employees on real-life projects • Frankonia Selected university collaborations The Otto Group plans to progressiveshort gunsmith internship Ideally, students are prepared during their ly expand its university partnerships. To • Witt, Schwab, Baur und Heine studies for the specific challenges facing them achieve this, we are seeking university part‘Fit für die Bewerbung’ (Fit for Application) if they intend to enter the world of multichanners for each of our segments: Multichannel initiative of the Goinger Kreis (a German nel retail. This is why the Otto Group has traRetail, Financial Services and Services. employment think-tank) ditionally played an extensive and long-term • UNITO role in engaging with the university sector to International Exchange Programme www.ottogroup.com/cr-report trial internship for school pupils motivate students to start their careers in our Cooperation5 Group. A current example of this is our enwww.cooperation5.de otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 61 Employees Diversity and Equal Opportunities The Otto Group is unequivocal in its commitment to offering all its employees equal opportunities, irrespective of gender, age, cultural background, ethnicity and physical characteristics. The prerequisite is a culture of openness and appreciation, in which Schwab actively promotes diversity among its workforce. each individual can realise his potential. This is something that’s also reflected in Schwab’s structure: This is why we have set to promote Diver60% of its workforce is female, women account for an abovesity as part of our new company mission, average 50% of managers, and people from 33 different ‘The Power of Responsibility’. nations work for the company. Agreement to promote Diversity Our Group Works Agreement on the Promotion of Diversity and Protection from Discrimination of December 2006 applies to all our Group companies in Germany; it forms the foundation for partnershipbased, non-discriminatory cooperation among employees. This Agreement calls on all our employees to actively play their part in applying these principles in their working environment, and the same message is spread nationwide across Germany through our E-Learning Programme. Appreciating the different stages of life Schwab is engaged in their opening times to Alliance in Hanau. FurOtto Group companies contribute towards improving its emplomore family-friendly thermore, the company the Group’s Human Resources policy, which yees’ work-life balance. hours, making changes is collaborating with the is geared towards employees’ different One example is its memto public transport timelocal specialist integrastages of life with a range of offers. This bership of Bündnis für tables and by setting up tion service (IFD) which is all the more important, as the shortage Familie (Family Alliance) a support service to proadvises employees and of skilled employees demands innovative in Hanau, which it joivide childcare at short managers in regular conmeasures to ensure employee loyalty and ned in 1999. The Alliance notice. Schwab is represultations on topics such maintain employability. As such we place works at a local level to sented on the Advisory as conflict management, particular emphasis on ensuring we have relieve the burden on Board as well as on the and on how to organise a balanced age-structure and that our emfamilies, for instance by Steering Committee workplaces to enable ployees have a healthy work-life balance getting stores and local and in various working full access for disabled (see p. 63). authorities to change groups of the Family employees. 62 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Employees A multi-purpose working space: OTTO and Witt offer parents a special child-friendly office. Work-life balance increased once again for this purpose in the a parents’ service of the Workers’ Welfare Flexible working models that balance work reporting period. Since 2010, OTTO and Witt Association, which finds childcare places and private life are offered as a matter of employees have also been able to bring across Germany. Since launching this coopcourse across the Otto Group. To support their children into work with them and use eration in June 2010, the service has been employees with dependants in need of dedicated parent-child rooms, should they used 62 times. care, OTTO launched its ‘Hilfe, meine Eltern run into difficulties finding child-minders. werden alt!’ (Help, my parents are getting This offer was used 52 times at OTTO durAchieving a greater percentage old!) seminar programme at the start of ing 2010. of women in top management 2011. This covers topics such as dementia/ Our Group companies also support When it comes to equal opportunities in Alzheimer’s and new types of accommodaparents in searching for suitable day-care the world of work, the Otto Group’s objection for the elderly. Employees with chilplaces. For instance, the OTTO package of tive is to balance the ratio of women to men dren are also supported, whereby Baur, measures ‘Eltern in Bestleistung’ (Parents at all levels as far as possible; however, we UNITO, Frankonia and OTTO extend statuat Peak Performance) launched by the feel that limiting this target to introducing tory parental leave. At SportScheck, 18% of Works Council and Human Resources dea female ratio when filling managerial posiemployees on parental leave are part-timpartment includes, among other things, tions is too short-sighted. Criteria such as ers – and the share of part-time jobs was a collaboration with ElternService AWO, qualifications and ability to fit in, as well as otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 63 Employees the individual’s motivation and impact are Including disabled people Health Management instrumental in filling managerial posts. The A key guiding principle of our Human Reshare of women in managerial positions in sources Strategy is to encourage people The Otto Group’s long-term Human Resourcfinancial year 2010/11 was 16.8% for the elevaccording to their individual abilities and es Strategy also includes extensive health en reporting companies. The Otto Group experiences. For instance, OTTO supports its and occupational safety management. This aims to achieve a ratio whereby women disabled employees by organising its workis increasing in importance, particularly in occupy at least 20% of all managerial posiplaces to offer them full access. At Hermes’ view of demographic change which is raistions as well as all other hierarchical levels offices in Hamburg, special receivers with ing the need for flexibility and performance by financial year 2015/16, across all Group vibrating alarms have been installed to alert at the same time. In accordance with the companies (see p. 142). deaf employees about the need to talk or WHO (World Health Organization) definition, One of the measures we have implespecific situations. we consider health as being a state of commented to expand the share of women In 2011, UNITO hired 37 employees with plete physical, mental, and social well-being. in managerial roles is our participation in physical or social disabilities as part of a voAs such, a focus area of the Group’s health the ‘Generation CEO’ initiative. Here, 40 cational training project in collaboration with management system is on prevention and female managers from various companies FAB. This is an Austrian organisation that therefore ensuring our employees are able to – including the Otto Group – receive career specialises in occupational integration, with continue performing at their best. Our multi coaching, get to know the Chief Executive the aim of finding them a regular job after award-winning health programmes help us Officers of the sponsoring companies and a maximum of two years. Schwab, Witt and play a leading role in the retail industry in are given wide-ranging networking supBaur work with the Integration Service (IFD); this regard. port. In September 2010, our Executive it advises the companies on all questions reBoard members Hans-Otto Schrader and lating to the hiring and employment of partiIntegrated health Dr Timm Homann met the participants in a ally and severely disabled people. In financial promotion: aktiv.net discussion group. year 2010/11, among the reporting companies The Otto Group’s Centre of Excellence for the share of severely disabled people in the Group-wide health management system is Mixed-age structure − workforce was 4.1%. aktiv.net, the network founded in 2000 by a Human Resources policy aim OTTO, with a health offering developed by an Demographic change is altering the Diversity Manager systemises interdisciplinary team of experts. Across Gerage structures of society, as well as the existing approaches many, aktiv.net supports 16,000 employees Otto Group’s own workforce. For this reaAlthough Equal Opportunities has trafrom 16 Group companies at 249 locations son, we consider all age groups when atditionally played a major role in the and also organises the 33 areas of our Group’s tracting talent, focusing on their potenOtto Group’s culture, in the reporting perisports offering. tial, and drive forward the promotion and od we decided to emphasize our systematAll eleven reporting companies also run appreciation of employees − regardless ic approach to Diversity Management even their own health management systems, ofof age. One example of how the practical more in the future. Since February 2011, a fering their employees extensive preventaknowledge of older employees is apprecifemale Diversity Manager has been looktive measures such as influenza vaccinations, ated is Baur’s 50+ programme, with which ing into all aspects of this topic in close back-care training and dedicated sports the company specifically supports the hircooperation with the Group’s companies. groups. ing of applicants over the age of fifty. OTTO This includes developing an integrated, and Witt offer special courses for older Group-wide Diversity Strategy and definOTTO Health Index 2010 employees, in which they get to grips with ing specific aims. Furthermore, we plan to In collaboration with the Mannheim Instigrowing older and the opportunities to acset measurable indicators to review progtute of Public Health, in 2010 for the first tively shape their career perspectives. ress. time OTTO surveyed the state of health and 64 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Employees performance of individual employee groups to adjust its offerings to meet actual demand even better. A parallel objective was also to increase awareness among managers for this topic. The annual OTTO Health Index result shows at a glance whether and Through its extensive ‘UNITO – we link family’ programme, this where a course correction needs to be made company specifically supports parents with young children. The or how effectively this was implemented. Of core elements are flexible working-hour models which are agreed the almost 5,500 employees invited to parwith employees for the long-term, so that personal needs can ticipate, 57% took part in the survey. be incorporated into their working hours. Here, employees can The results were positive: in 2010 and choose between morning and afternoon models and a relatively 2011 employees felt well supported by their adaptable, flexitime-based working structure. team and managers, and they also felt their work was appreciated – including in terms of being fairly remunerated. Employees also assessed their own performance to be high, thereby standing out positively versus comparable companies. The Index also revealed the need for action in terms of subjectively experienced health, employees’ ability to revitalise themselves as well as their worklife balance. We communicated the results Group-wide and derived corresponding measures such as workshops, target-group specific programmes and campaigns. From autumn 2011, king environments. integrate themselves Cooperation with health insurer ideas on how to improve The company also into everyday working Techniker Krankenkasse work-life balance will maintains contact with life. If needed, they are In 2010 OTTO also expanded its cooperabe gathered in an ideas employees on parental offered personal or spetion with German health insurer Techexchange specifically leave by sending them cialist professional deveniker Krankenkasse (TK). At the TK Fitness set up for this purpose – the employee newsletlopment further training Lounge, the company’s own sports centre, with the best ideas goter. It also plans to invite courses. over 700 OTTO employees train to build up ing on to be published in parents to a quarterly In 2010, UNITO was retheir strength and stamina, and make use the employee newsletter. shared breakfast which cognised by the Verband of TK's preventative courses − irrespective In addition, once a year managers also attend. österreichischer Mittelof whether they are insured by TK or not. UNITO organises a FamiWhen they return from und Großbetriebe des Since 2011 the offering has been further exly Day where employees’ parental leave, they Handels (Austrian Assopanded to include courses on healthy eatchildren and family have the opportunity ciation of Medium and ing and stress prevention. members get to see their to gradually ease themLarge Retailers) as being workplaces and find out selves into the working a particularly familymore about their worenvironment again and friendly company. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 65 Employees Running groups are part of the prevention programme in many Group companies. In June 2010, 200 OTTO employees ran for the children’s charity ‘Kinder helfen Kindern’. A focus on prevention since summer 2011 UNITO has been expandHelp for those affected Growing demands on employee’s work and ing its programme to promote mental health. We also help our employees in the event private lives are leading to an increase in subOTTO, Baur, bonprix, Hermes, Witt, of serious illness. Special counsellors form jectively experienced stress. To prevent burnUNITO, SportScheck and Schwab also ofa key point of contact, and can be conout and exhaustion among our employees fer their employees individual ergonomic tacted via aktiv.net for instance. They proand to help them find a healthy work-life balconsultations so they can avoid incorrect vide specific and personal advice on psyance, Otto Group companies place particular body posture and suffering health problems chological or social problems. In 2010/11, focus on preventative offerings as part of the in the workplace. Utilising Witt’s ‘moving’ the reporting companies provided 1,344 Group’s integrated health management sysprogramme specifically designed to prevent consultations on health-related topics. tem. back problems, employees can relax at their For instance, in 2010 Baur offered the computer workstations by taking short ex‘Stress Pilot’ programme which allowed ercise breaks during the working day. And chronic stress to be diagnosed at an early to ensure they don’t forget, a pop-up winstage based on a heart scan, and corresponddow notifies participants – in 2010 that was ing preventative measures to be taken. In adaround a quarter of PC users – that they dition to this offer, Baur Witt and SportScheck need to exercise, and guides them through Further development of intercultural offer courses on combating stress; Witt also the process. In 2010 Hermes launched a competencies and integration www.ottogroup.com/cr-report offers yoga courses and presentations on remassage programme for relaxation during aktiv.net laxation and work-life balance. Furthermore, the course of the working day. www.otto-aktiv.net 66 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Employees – facts and Figures Facts and Figures Unless indicated otherwise, all details concerning employee numsing, requires more flexible employment solutions owing to strong bers relate to the headcount determined on the balance-sheet date seasonal fluctuations such as Christmas business. Furthermore, as of 28 February 2011 of the eleven companies covered by this report. a high proportion of work at Hermes is physically demanding, the The biggest change in figures in the current reporting period comshare of women in the workforce is lower than at the retail compared to financial years 2007/08 and 2008/09 is due to the inclupanies. For the same reason, the accident rate at Hermes is higher sion of Hermes in our Corporate Responsibility Report 2011. The loowing to the nature of physically demanding work involved than gistics service provider, whose business model focuses on logistics at the retail companies where office-based commercial activities services, warehouse handling, order picking and returns procesare the norm. Employee Structure Number of employees 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 26,671 24,511 17.6% 21.3 % 16,199 17,356 15,969 15,547 19.1% 21.0% 18.0% 18.1% 8,312 9,315 14.7 % 21.9% 58.6% 56.7 % 59.8% 59.5% 59.0% 57.4% 57.8% 55.3% 22.2% 22.4% 21.8% 21.6% 27.5% 22.8% 23.8% 22.0 % 10 retail companies Hermes Total Share of employees younger than 30 years old Share of employees 30 to 50 years old Share of employees over 50 years old Impact of growth on employment In the reporting period, there was only a slight initial increase in headThe cumulated headcount figures of the reporting companies in the count, in line with the turnover development of the ten retail comreporting period rose by around one half, as a result of the inclusion panies; however, in financial year 2010/11 headcount grew by 7.1%. of Hermes. Employees by employment status (full time/part time) 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 46.1% 45.9% 46.3% 45.7% 59.1% 61.5% 50.7% 51.2% 53.9% 54.1% 53.7% 54.3% 40.9% 38.5% 49.3% 48.8% 10 retail companies Hermes Total Share of employees with a part-time contract Share of employees with a full-time contract Logistics requires flexible working-hour models The ratio between part-time and full-time employees in the ten the figures towards part-time contracts. To cushion employment retail companies has remained fairly consistent over the past peaks, Hermes also applies a relatively high number of seasonal few years; however, the inclusion of Hermes has caused a shift in contracts. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 67 Employees – facts and Figures Employees by employment status (contract type) 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 89.2 89.6 80.7 76.2 81.2 70.5 80.9 74.2 17.0 19.2 18.1 20.3 8.4 14.8 9.4 1.4 9.1 1.3 1.2 3.5 10.4 12.4 4.3 6.6 10 retail companies Hermes Total Share of employees with a fixed-term contract, in % Share of employees with a permanent contract, in % Share of employees with a temporary contract, in % Increase in fixed-term and temporary contracts The number of fixed-term and temporary contracts increased sigjust a few years ago. This results in an increase in the share of fixednificantly in the reporting period. In terms of types of employment term contracts. Adding to this are experiences gained from the ecostatus, this increase is in line with the general economic trend. The nomic crisis of 2009, which required that the companies act flexibly. Otto Group’s field of business has become more dynamic, with the The high number of temporary contracts at Hermes is specific to the demand and competition situation changing faster today than even transport and logistics industry. temporary agency employees 2009/10 2010/11 Increase in demand for temporary agency employees Given the increase in market dynamism, the Otto Group is increasing Number of temporary agency employees 1,099 1,964 its utilisation of temporary agency employees to respond flexibly to Share of temporary agency employees in the overall workforce, in % 4.6 7.4 sales-turnover fluctuations. Correspondingly, in both the last financial years the share of temporary agency employees in terms of our overall workforce increased by 78.7% to 1,964. Employees by gender 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 32.0 32.0 32.1 33.4 50.1 54.3 38.2 40.7 68.0 68.0 67.9 66.6 49.9 45.7 61.8 59.3 10 retail companies Hermes Total Share of female employees, in % Share of male employees, in % Increase in the share of male employees While the share of female employees in the previous ten reporting and physically demanding jobs are the reason for the further recompanies remained almost constant, Hermes reported a drop of duction in the share of female employees at Hermes. At the newly 4.2% in financial year 2010/11 versus the previous year. As a transconstructed Hermes hubs, women therefore only account for 13% port and logistics company, Hermes traditionally has a high share of employees due to the type of work involved. of male employees. Extensive new hirings in male-dominated IT 68 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Employees – facts and Figures Female managers 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 16.8 20.2 20.1 18.8 8.8 6.3 15.6 16.8 10 retail companies Hermes Total Share of female managers (employees with managerial responsibility, directors, managing directors), in % Small share of female managers in the logistics area The share of female managers has remained almost constant in the across all hierarchical levels, the overall share of female employees ten reporting companies included in the previous report. However, also fell. To counter this development, we aim to increase the share of due to the inclusion of Hermes, which as a logistics service providwomen in managerial positions, as well as on all further hierarchical er traditionally has a significantly lower share of female employees levels, to 20% by financial year 2015/16. Share of employees of Share of employees with foreign nationality unchanged foreign nationality 2009/10 2010/11 The proportion of foreign employees is a new inclusion in our Corpoin % 5.3 5.3 rate Responsibility Report 2011 and therefore only displays the development in the current reporting period. Only employees of foreign nationality were counted; characteristics such as migratory background or dual nationality were not recorded. Employee fluctuation* (Total) Fluctuation rate* by gender, in % 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Male employees 9.3 11.5 Female employees 9.9 17.0 Fluctuation rate* by age, in % Employees younger than 30 years old 24.7 26.5 12.2 16.3 14.8 11.0 11.1 11.7 9.7 Employees 30 to 50 years old 7.0 11.5 4.5 Employees over 50 years old 4.9 13.7 10 retail companies Hermes Total Fluctuation rate, in % * The reporting companies’ core data is based on calendar years. Only UNITO’s figures were gathered and analysed based on the financial year. Higher fluctuation in female and younger employees While the fluctuation rate hardly changed in terms of men, the flucpay. The fluctuation rate was also high among employees younger than tuation rate in female employees increased significantly from 10% to 30 years old, as this age group generally shows a higher willingness to 17%. As part of our market-orientated realignment of the Otto Group’s change employers. In 2010, an above-average number of employees warehousing logistics (see p. 57), female employees in particular took aged over 50 made use of the phasing-out of the statutory partialadvantage of a voluntary redundancy package that included severance retirement regulation, as part of restructurings in warehouse logistics. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 69 Employees – facts and Figures ing use of the phasing-out of the statutory partial-retirement regulaShare of severely disabled employees 2009/10 2010/11 tion as part of the restructurings. in % 4.6 4.1 As severely disabled employees make up a much greater percentage of older Otto Group employees compared to other age groups, this effect Falling share of severely disabled employees was also noticeable in the reduction in the share of severely disabled The fall in the proportion of severely disabled employees within the reemployees. porting period is, among other factors, due to numerous over 50s makShare of employees covered by collective wage agreements 2009/10 2010/11 Binding agreements With the exception of upper management, all of the reporting companies’ employees are covered by collective agreements, as part of 98.9 98.7 collective wage and works agreements. The proportion remained alShare of employees covered by collective wage agreements, in % most unchanged from its high level in the previous reporting period. Absentee rate Absentee rate remains constant 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Overall, the reporting companies’ absentee rate remains at around 6%; however, the rate at the transport and logistics service provider Hermes in % 5.6 5.4 7.3 7.3 6.2 6.1 was slightly higher, as is usual for the industry, compared to the ten 10 retail companies Hermes Total retail companies. The reason for this is because physically demanding * The reporting companies’ core data is based on calendar years. Only UNITO’s work accounts for a greater share of activities compared to the predomfigures were gathered and analysed based on the financial year. inantly office-based commercial activities in retail companies. Employees on parental leave 2009/10 2010/11 2,758 2,558 Total number of employees Number of employees on parental leave in slight decline on parental leave At the reporting companies in the 2010/11 financial year, 2,558 em92.5% 91.6% ployees took parental leave. The share of female employees was over Share of female employees 90%. Share of male employees 7.5% 8.4% Share of employees on parental leave in relation to the total number of employees 11.3% 9.6% 70 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Employees – facts and Figures Educational and Further Training Number of apprentices (total) 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 743 778 561 567 52.2% 52.1% 47.8% 47.9% Share of female apprentices 55 66 Share of male apprentices 10 retail companies shares by gender Number of apprentices (total) thereof Hermes Moderate increase in the number of apprentices More trainees, less working students The number of apprentices was also analysed by gender for the first The number of trainees increased from 24 to 32 in financial year time in this reporting period. Overall, the number of apprentices in2009/10. At 65.6%, the share of female trainees was slightly higher creased slightly. than that for apprentices in financial year 2010/11. The number of interns and working students fell slightly in terms of the yearly average, from 226 in financial year 2009/10 to 191 in financial year 2010/11. Further training seminars 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 Number of seminars Further training seminars for employees 629 773 1,342 1,254 295 152 1,637 1,406 Further training seminars for managers 168 249 244 283 15 92 259 375 Number of participants Employees 10,750 10,530 8,483 8,746 400 535 8,883 9,281 Managers 3,298 2,724 1,787 2,160 221 594 2,008 2,754 Number of training days used Employees 9,511 10,212 12,280 13,069 173 473 12,453 13,542 Managers 3,069 3,122 2,670 4,111 338 626 3,008 4,737 10 retail companies Hermes Total Expansion of further training offerings The reporting companies expanded their seminar offerings for the tiveness − particularly in 2009, the year of the economic crisis. The further training of managers and employees. This was done to raise number of training days used consequently rose, although there the level of qualifications and in doing so, the companies’ competiwas a reduction in the number of participants in absolute terms. Expenditure on educational and further training Expenditure on educational and further training 2009/10 2010/11 The reporting companies increased their expenditure on educaExpenditure on training, in € 7,895,333 8,868,945 tional and further training in financial year 2010/11 – in line with the increase in apprentices – versus the previous year by 12.3% to 8.9 mn€. Expenditure on further training in financial year 2010/11 was approximately 5.1 mn€. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 71 Employees – facts and Figures Health Management Work-related accidents 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 Number of work-related accidents and injuries per 1,000 employees 16.1 17.5 20.7 17.4 35.1 61.4 25.6 31.0 Number of accident-related lost days 3,606* 4,018* 3,896 3,242 2,631 4,964 6,527 8,206 Number of work-related fatalities 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 * Excluding bonprix 10 retail companies Hermes Total Variations in accident figures between the commercial and industrial areas of activity There is a significant difference between the accident figures of The increase in accident numbers at Hermes in financial year 2010/11 Hermes compared to the ten retail companies. While the number of was on the one hand due to the opening of the hubs in Friedewald reportable accidents per 1,000 employees among the retail compaand Langenhagen and the associated increase in physical activity; nies within the last four financial years ranged between 16 and 21, at on the other hand it was due to the reduction in activities with a Hermes this figure was 35 and 61 for the last two financial years relow accident risk, such as order picking, as part of the restructurings spectively. The reason for this higher accident number is the higher at Hermes within the new market-orientated realignment of the risk of injury that physically demanding warehousing work entails Otto Group’s warehousing logistics (NmL) (see p. 57). – a bigger factor at Hermes – compared to commercial activities. In financial year 2010/11 there was one commuting fatality at OTTO. Healthcare provision 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 Preventative schemes Number of employees taking preventative check-ups 1,332 1,203 877 2,211 Number of employees receiving influenza vaccinations 1,363 1,275 2,361 1,345 Number of employees attending first-aid courses 449 605 534 1,139 Number of employees attending presentations on health-related topics* 359 258 497 1,344 Number of employees utilising company sports offers** 2,008 2,071 2,063 2,022 Number of employees receiving ergonomic assessments 691 504 217 421 Number of employees taking driver-safety courses 36 33 108 45 Number of employees taking safety-training courses in the workplace 43 210 5,237 7,802 Number of employees attending further preventative schemes 898 920 838 374 * In financial years 2007/08 and 2008/09, the number of employees attending seminars on health-related topics as well as presentations on disease-related topics were gathered and analysed separately. To improve comparability, the figures were added together here, as they have been gathered together since 2009/10. ** Only employees making use of aktiv.net offers (provided to OTTO, bonprix, SportScheck and OTTO Office employees) Comprehensive healthcare provision The healthcare-provision figures fluctuate due to a change in There was also a significant increase in safety-training courses in the offer-and-demand situation. For instance, employees were the workplace. As these figures also include evacuation exercises offered additional shots against the swine-flu virus in financial in buildings, the number of participants fluctuates considerably. year 2009/10. The increased number of first-aid courses can be For instance, such exercises involving some 5,000 employees were explained by the training of new employees at Hermes locations. held at Hermes locations in 2010. 72 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Employees – facts and Figures Occupational pension provision and stock ownership plan Company contribution towards employees’ pension provision 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 Total of occupational pension provision, in € 16,609,804 9,775,141 7,893,729 8,534,672 3,390,890 3,944,013 11,284,619 12,478,685 Employer’s contribution as a percentage of wages 2.9 1.8 1.5 1.5 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.6 Participation rate, in % 82.3 82.4 80.2 75.7 91.1 87.3 83.9 79.1 * Excludes Hermes Einrichtungs Service (HES). 10 retail companies Hermes* Total Expenditure increases on occupational pension provisions In the reporting period, expenditure on occupational pension proThe participation rate fell from 83.9% to 79.1% in the reporting period. vision rose again slightly, following a fall in the previous financial This was due mainly to the strong increase in headcount in those years. This effect resulted mainly from the dependency on the calGroup companies that no longer offer occupational pension benefits culated contribution in terms of the technical interest rate under to new employees, as well as the departure of employees as part of IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) rules. our market-orientated realignment of the Otto Group’s warehousing logistics project (see p. 57) at one Hermes Group company. Employee capital-stock ownership programme 2007/08** 2008/09** 2009/10 2010/11 Total participation capital mn € 56.3 55.1 49.8 49.3 Newly subscribed participation capital, in mn€ 4.1 3.9 2.9 4.1 Average subscribed capital contributions, in € 985 980 803 1,012 Number of participants in the employee capital-stock ownership programme 4,131 3,989 3,592 4,089 Participation rate, in % 22.3 21.8 19.1 20.6 * Figures relate to the 26 Group companies that participate in the programme. Requirement for participation is a majority holding by the Otto Group and the company being economically stable over the long term. ** Following closure of the stock-ownership subscription period on 31.03 in each case, and closure of the financial year. Employees as stock-owners Fewer employees subscribed to participation capital than in either of the previous financial years. This is attributable to the financial and resulting personal insecurity caused by the economic crisis. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 73 50 Climate and Environment Climate and Environmental Protection in Core Processes The Otto Group seeks to avoid negative effects on the climate and the environment due to its business activities. Especially with regard to transporting goods and at its facilities, the company has implemented numerous climate and environmental protection measures. The CR database introduced in 2010 ensures a measurable and targeted approach. With its Climate Protection Strategy the dingly heterogeneous Group structure, make mentioned in the text of this chapter, they re­ Otto Group not only responds to climate this a challenging task. fer to adjusted values. For more on absolute risks but also increases its own indepen­ As a globally active multichannel retailer values, please see p. 86.). Economically as well dence from rising energy costs, thereby en­ with worldwide purchasing markets and as ecologically, it is therefore vital to control suring its competitiveness in the long term. a range of more than 100,000 articles, the inventory as closely as possible. Short-term The various business models implemented Group causes most of its CO2 emissions in the orders of articles with an unexpectedly high by Group companies, and the correspon­ transport of goods (where CO2 emissions are demand can often only be fulfilled by using air freight, which leads to particularly high additional CO2 emissions. “It is the Otto Group’s stated goal to 50 Another important source of CO2 emissions reduce its 2020 CO2 emissions by % for the Group is energy consumption at its lo­ cations – around a third of total emissions are compared to 2006/07, and by 70% for caused by running offices, warehouses and 2040. The realisation of our ambitious logistics buildings, as well as physical stores. Climate Protection Strategy is a key to Emissions from the use of company cars and innovation, and therefore our long-term corporate travel are comparatively low. To achieve its demanding climate protec­ business success.” tion targets, the Otto Group is focused on in­ Hanjo Schneider, Member of the Executive Board, creasing efficiency in the areas of transport, Services Otto Group facilities and mobility. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 75 Climate and Environment Climate protection Advancing climate change requires decisive action from everybody, including companies. Scientists estimate that warming the Earth’s atmosphere by an average two degrees Celsius is a critical risk limit beyond which the consequences cannot be calculated. To avoid crossing this limit, CO2 emissions must be lowered, especially in industrialised countries. The Otto Group has adopted a demanding Climate Protection Strategy to make its contribution. Goal: 50% reduction of adjusted CO2 emissions by 2020 Climate-friendly energy: Witt and Hermes heat with wood chips, amongst other systems. The Climate Protection Strategy adopted by the Otto Group Executive Board is aimed at lowering adjusted CO2 emissions due For the implementation of its Climate Procompanies. The aim is to expand the Strategy to transport, facilities and mobility. By the tection Strategy the Otto Group has formuas part of the Group-wide CR Rollout by 2012 year 2020, we plan to reduce CO2 emissions lated two premises. Firstly, the reduction (see p. 42) gradually to all Group companies by 50% compared to the 2006/07 financial of CO2 emissions should be as efficient and with an annual turnover of more than 50 mn€, year, and by 70% in 2040. cost-effective as possible, and be achieved which currently includes more than 40 comprimarily through increasing energy effipanies. Their share of the Otto Group’s total ciency. Secondly, the operative realisation turnover is more than 90%. of the required measures should be decentralised as a rule and carried out by individuImplementation status: −4% CO2 al Group companies. In the benchmark year 2006/07, CO2 emisDistribution of CO2 emissions sions from the 18 companies included here of the 18 companies covered by Systematic realisation of came to a total of around 306,000 t (see the Climate Protection Strategy climate protection measures also chart on the left). The adjusted CO2 2006/07 From 2012 we will control climate protection emissions of around 293,000 t during fi3% Mobility measures consistently across the Group: these nancial year 2010/11 represent a percentage will in future be identified systematically, clasimprovement of 4% for the companies com31% Distri­ sified and prioritised Group-wide according to pared to the benchmark year. bution 34% their effectiveness and cost. One important A clear improvement in CO2 and energy Locations step in this direction was the introduction of efficiency was achieved at company locations CO2 benchmarking, for which the key energy (−7%), in distribution logistics (−10%) and in figures for the German and Austrian Group mobility (−10%). In purchasing logistics, how32% Purchasing buildings have been recorded since 2010. ever, CO2 emissions rose due to the continued Total Co2 emissions (in t): 306,000 The Climate Protection Strategy is curhigh share of air freight (see p. 78) of 5% comrently implemented in 18 German Otto Group pared to the benchmark year. 76 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Climate and Environment Protecting the environment protects Efficiency increases for transport, the future. Preserving nature, locations and mobility protecting habitats and maintaining The core principle in our approach for achieving Group-wide climate protection the diversity of natural forms of targets is increasing energy efficiency. In life protects the basis of our own freight transport we distinguish between existence. purchasing and distribution logistics. Some Group companies have already managed to Dr Michael Otto, realise efficiency increases in the transport Chairman of the Otto Group Supervisory Board of the articles they market by reducing the proportion of air freight in the goods they purchase. In distribution, Hermes lowered Group’s warehouses and distribution centres. transparency. CO2 values are calculated on its greenhouse gas emissions through the Once orders are received, they are dispatched the basis of real-time data and communiuse of new, more economical vehicles and via Hermes from there as parcels to the end cated to business clients automatically on alternative fuels, as well as better utilisacustomers. On the German parcel market, every invoice. tion of transport capacity and more efficient Hermes moved more than 304 mn deliveries route planning. At our locations and faduring the 2010/11 financial year. PURCHASING LOGISTICS cilities, CO2 emissions are caused mainly by There is a long tradition of climate Around 32% of the Otto Group’s CO2 emisenergy consumption from the use of elecprotection at Hermes. As early as 1994 the sions are caused in purchasing logistics. In the tricity, gas, heating oil and district heating. company implemented CO2 controlling to benchmark year, these were portioned into Conveyor-belt systems in logistics buildings manage greenhouse gas emissions. Since 24% from air freight, 5% from sea freight, and as well as lighting, information technolits introduction, CO2 emissions per actual just under 3% from road transport. Although ogy, heating and air-conditioning are being delivery have been lowered from 0.43 kg to sea freight covers around 80% of our goods switched over to energy-saving technolo0.25 kg, a reduction of around 42%. transport requirements, it results in only about gies. In addition we are extending the use of 17% of CO2 emissions through purchasing. Air solar power, geothermal heat and biomass. Hermes WE DO! freight only accounts for about 15% of transThe area of Mobility includes all business Since 2010 Hermes has bundled its climate, port volume, but is the cause of nearly 80% of travel, operation of the company-car fleet. environmental and nature protection meaCO2 emissions in purchasing logistics. As part of our new Company Car Guideline, sures under the WE DO! label. The reduction of air freight – which in the Otto Group has committed to the proThe core of WE DO! is its CO2 Masterturn depends strongly on purchasing behavgressive reduction of CO2 values per kilomeplan, which stipulates an annual reduction iour in the Group companies – is therefore a tre driven in company cars. in CO2 of 3.5% at facilities, as well as 2% in key lever for lowering the Otto Group’s CO2 the transport area. With regard to the latvolumes. Whereas initial orders from suppliCentral importance of logistics for ter, the company maintains a modern truck ers in distant purchasing markets are generachieving climate protection targets fleet and participates in research projects ally transported by ship, repeat orders are ofPurchasing and distribution logistics is a paron extending the use of alternative mobility ten delivered by plane. The Otto Group needs ticularly CO2-intensive area, and is handled power plants, for example fuel cells. to find a balance between keeping its prommainly by our subsidiary Hermes. Hermes’ Hermes also includes its business partise to customers of constant availability of range of services follows the logistics value ners in the WE DO! strategy. One important goods on the one hand, and the challenge of chain. Goods are transported by purchascomponent is comprehensive CO2 controlaccurately forecasting actual sales volumes ing logistics from the sourcing markets via ling, which breaks down transport-related and therefore transporting goods in the most sea and air freight, and by truck or rail to the emissions precisely and therefore increases climate-friendly way on the other hand. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 77 Climate and Environment Group companies reduce the use of air freight bonprix plays a pioneering role across the Group in our drive to reduce CO2 emissions due to air freight. An increasing emphasis on the sea route is intended to lower the Consumption analyses at Baur showed that more than a proportion of air freight to 12% of selfthird of CO2 emissions at its locations were due to the use of sourced goods volumes by the 2012/13 busielectrical energy. Through various measures to lower electricity ness year; this is equivalent to halving the use, Baur managed to achieve annual CO2 savings of just under proportion of air freight since the 2006/07 700 t CO2 in the reporting period. financial year. OTTO has set itself a target of reducing the proportion of air freight by 30% by the 2012/13 financial year. During the same period, Witt intends to lower its adjusted CO2 emissions in purchasing logistics by 20% and, together with its transport partners, has introduced the CO2-PERATION Project. Its goal is to determine and realise CO2 saving potentials. For example, goods from Turkey are increasingly being transported by train and ferry. Witt also uses more combined sea and air transport as a CO2-saving transport alternative. Since 2010, the company has required its logistics partners to employ low CO2 engines. The Group companies’ measures to reduce air freight in favour of other transport types contribute measurably to achieving climate protection targets. A substantial proportion that adjusts to demand, in cooperation with the came from the purchase Baur installed motion Oberfranken Energy DISTRIBUTION LOGISTICS of more efficient conveydetectors and dimmers Agency, conventional From receipt of the products in the distrior and sorter systems at in its administrative fluorescent tubes and bution centres to their delivery to the end the Altenkunstadt site. offices. Both measures incandescent lights at customer, responsibility for distribution The compressed-air unit led to annual savthe Altenkunstadt and logistics lies primarily with Hermes. There was also renewed and ings of approximately Burgkunstadt sites is potential for saving CO2 mainly in the improved in terms of its 530 t CO2. As part of the were replaced with use of modern CO2-efficient vehicles and energy use. To achieve Energy Management energy-saving fluoresthrough continuous improvements in loenergy-saving lighting for Companies Project cent lighting. gistics processes. 78 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Climate and Environment Quiet and environmentally friendly: an electrically powered Mercedes-Benz E-CELL transporter in the Hermes fleet. Use of CO2-efficient vehicles GPS management, which has been used at 2010. CO2 benchmarking is based on the newly in distribution Hermes as standard since 2008. Furtherintroduced CR database and was developed Hermes’ own fleet is among one of the most more, around 420 transporters in the fleet and implemented by a Group-wide working modern in the sector: its approximately will be equipped with automatic start/stop group. It has determined 50 energy-related 1,300 vehicles are on average a maximum of engines by 2012. At the start of 2011, 220 vekey figures for different types of buildings. one-and-a-half years old and meet the strict hicles already had this efficiency system. With the aid of these data, the buildEuro 4 − and increasingly Euro 5 − emissions ings with the highest potential for efficiency standards. A special leasing model also gives FACILITIES increases are identified, and the effects and contract partners the option of using new, The CO2 emissions caused by running costs of any measures are then determined low-emission vehicles. In addition, Hermes facilities constitute about 34% of the through detailed analysis. Priority is given to has been committed to the development of Otto Group’s total emissions, of which the implementing measures with the best costalternative fuels since the 1990s: as a test use of electricity accounts for around 24%, benefit ratio. In the reporting period, the key partner in the Clean Energy Partnership, the and the use of heating about 10%. The enfigures for around 400 buildings owned by company participates in one of the largest ergy mix used in each country is the most the Otto Group in Germany and Austria were fuel-cell demonstration projects in the world. relevant factor in calculating CO2 emisrecorded. Since 2008, it has also used 20 transporters sions due to electricity consumption in the Detailed analyses have been carried out with dual-fuel petrol and natural gas engines Otto Group, consisting for example of coal, since 2011, and the initial investment deciin distribution delivery. gas, nuclear power and renewable energy. sions on this basis are planned for 2012. Since 2010, Hermes has been a cooperation partner of Mercedes-Benz in the use of CO2 benchmarking Increasing energy the first electric Vito E-CELL vans. The joint pito reduce emissions efficiency in facilities lot project in urban Berlin is designed to run To determine and control location and faDuring the reporting period, individual for a period of four years. cility-related CO2 reduction potential, the Group companies have realised numerous A similarly high potential for reducing Otto Group introduced a classification of its decentralised measures to increase energy CO2 lies in improving route planning with buildings according to efficiency grading in efficiency as part of facility management. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 79 Climate and Environment Energy efficiency at facilities Hermes • Installation of lighting and heating Use of own low-CO2 energy Group companies. The permitted level of controls in communal areas sources in reporting companies emissions is defined as 200 g CO2 per kilome• Replacement of light source The reporting companies realised a proportre driven. It is reviewed every two years, and • Certification of newly constructed comtion of their energy-saving potential at their will be lowered gradually. pany locations by the German Society for locations by using low-CO2 energy sources. Sustainable Construction (DGNB e.V.) Hermes improved its energy efficiency on Group companies reduce the one hand through installing photovoltaic mobility-related CO2 emissions Schwab systems at its northern hub in Langenhagen Some individual companies introduced fur• Construction of a Green Building-certified as well as at its Ohrdruf facility (generating ther measures in the reporting period for logistics building in Langenselbold 1,251 MWh annually). On the other hand, reducing mobility-related CO2 emissions. For • Partial switching-off and technological Hermes uses a solar thermal system to heat example, UNITO uses more video conferencimprovements in the sorter system at the the required hot water. ing to replace business trips, and also enHanau site SportScheck also uses renewable enercourages its employees to form drive-shares gies and has ensured the hot water supply at for the many journeys between its sites in Witt its Unterhaching location by harnessing geoGraz and Salzburg. In the reporting period, • Installation of heat-recovery systems in the thermal energy. Frankonia swapped ten diesel cars in its own ventilation plant Witt applies a further form of harnessing fleet for natural-gas fuelled vehicles. • Installation of a centrally connected alternative energy. In the reporting period this building control system for running Group company exchanged three of its conClimate protection solutions heating, ventilation and lighting according ventional heating systems for a local-network for delivery and distribution to demand heating system fired with wood chips, thus of catalogues cutting around 476 t CO2 emissions per year. Several Group companies have made their Frankonia In the spring of 2011 UNITO connected its catalogue distribution climate-friendly • Replacement of interior lighting central warehouse in Bergheim to the local with the help of CO2 compensation: OTTO • Thermal-insulation glazing and roof biomass heating plant and through this was used the Deutsche Post DHL’s GoGreen Serinsulation able to reduce its CO2 emissions significantly. vice to send out all of its addressed cata• Exchange of an unregulated heating boiler logues in a climate-neutral way. Likewise, for a high-efficiency boiler MOBILITY bonprix uses GoGreen for its climate-neu• Virtual servers Mobility – that is, the operation of the compatral mailing. Overall, these investments OTTO ny-car fleet and business trips for Otto Group compensated for 1,300 t CO2 through cli• Renewal of lighting systems at the employees – is of lower importance for total mate protection projects. Hamburg-Bramfeld site emissions, with a share of 3%. All the same, Additional CO2 emissions were saved the Company Car Guideline contributes mathrough shortening the channels between proHeine terially to raising awareness, since it assigns duction and distribution of catalogues: in 2009, • Progressive refit of workplace lighting to responsibility to top-level management and bonprix moved the manufacture of gravureon-demand operation since 2006 is often debated due to its symbolic value. print paper from a Finnish to a German facility. UNITO Company Car Guideline • Conversion of the Salzburg site under in force since 2010 environmental guidelines, including In January 2010, the Otto Group’s new Comconcept for use of natural light and LED pany Car Guideline came into force, which lighting systems applies to company cars in the German 80 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Climate and Environment Biodiversity In its commitment to biodiversity, the Otto Group fulfils its corporate Vision regarding acting responsibly for people and nature. As an internationally active trading company, Climate and environmental protection are firmly anchored in we ensure our offer of sustainably produced Hermes’ core business. Moreover, Hermes is committed amongst articles is constantly extended; furthermore, other things to preserving biodiversity. In cooperation with we work across companies to promote netthe local chapters of NABU, the German Nature and Biodiversity working between politics and industry with Conservation Union, the company has set itself the goal of the goal of maintaining biodiversity (see designing and running its logistics and warehousing facilities p. 104). in as nature-friendly a way as possible. Corporate initiative Biodiversity in Good Company In February 2008, together with the German Federal Environment Ministry (BMU) and other companies the Otto Group launched the cross-sector initiative Biodiversity in Good Company. More than 40 international member companies are committed to integrating the preservation of biodiversity in their corporate management systems and to positioning the topic on the socio-political level. Michael Otto Foundation for Environmental Protection As part of this coopadditionally created depend on sheltering The Michael Otto Foundation for Environeration, for example, habitats for bats, two in small spaces in roofs, mental Protection is among other things Hermes created nesting each for summer and hollows behind claddedicated to protecting the natural difor swallows, defined winter. These animals dings or in attics. For its versity of species. The focus of its work is green areas and inare strongly endangered commitment, Hermes the protection and preservation of natural stalled insect hotels at in their natural habitat: was awarded the bodies of water and adjacent habitats (see its Hanover-Langenhaas they cannot build ‘Bat-Friendly Building’ p. 132). gen site. The company their own nests, they plaque by NABU in 2010. Michael Otto Foundation Hermes Group German Society for Sustainable www.michaelottostiftung.de www.hermesworld.com/int/about_us/ Construction (DGNB e.V.). Biodiversity in Good Company environment/environment.html www.dgnb.de/_en/index.php www.business-and-biodiversity.de/en otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 81 Climate and Environment Environmental management coordinate the collection of old appliances, The Group companies use sustainably the elimination of harmful substances and reproduced office supplies. At all OTTO sites, all Awareness of the need for corporate envicycling of usable materials. Thanks to special technical appliances such as printers, photoronmental protection has been anchored in offers, increased turnover and growing cuscopiers and computers have been awarded the Otto Group’s company culture for many tomer acceptance, the number of returned the Blue Angel environmental seal. The comyears: as early as 1986 the single company appliances rose markedly in the reporting pepany uses 100% FSC® and recycled paper exOTTO declared environmental protection as a riod: with a total of 140,987 in 2010, it was 45% clusively. OTTO has received several awards corporate goal. All environment-relevant prohigher than the 2009 total. for environmental protection at its sites. In cesses at its locations are controlled by the 2009 OTTO was awarded second place in the Group-wide Environmental Management Reduce, reuse, recycle ‘Businesses with more than 500 Employees’ System. In its use of valuable materials such as paper category in the German Environmental Manand cardboard, the Otto Group subscribes to agement Association’s (B.A.U.M.) Office & Controlling based on CR database the ‘reduce, reuse, recycle’ principle. Prima­ Environment competition. The Otto Group’s environmental managerily, resources should be used as sparingly For the use of resources, most Group ment is supported by an extensive system as possible. If that is not possible, the used companies can show a recycling rate of over of key figures. The Group improved its envimaterials are recycled. Implementing this 95% at their locations; at Hamburg-Bramfeld, ronmental management controlling signifiprinciple requires the qualification and perthe site with the most staff, the rate is over cantly by introducing a central CR database sonal commitment of employees as a criti99%. Overall, total waste for the Group in in 2010 (see p. 42): the central availability of cal factor. Therefore, in this reporting period 2010 was 33,503 t, of which 985 t were reall environmental data now enables syste­ the Otto Group strengthened its training and sponsibly disposed, and 32,518 t were able matic controlling for the whole Group. Every awareness campaigns for the careful use of to be recycled. Across the Group, the rate is reporting company is required to submit all resources in the office. In the reporting peritherefore 97%. Dangerous waste only occurs environmental data on a continuous basis; od, the focus was on training new employees, in small amounts at the Group companies’ for example, this includes the number of trainees and subcontractors. facilities, as these are mostly office buildings appliances disposed of, and the paper con445 sumption in its offices. This system not only ensures a high degree of transparency and comparability, but also allows deviations and irregularities to be tonnes of discovered quickly and corrective measures to be derived and implemented. Disposal of used electrical appliances FSC and In accordance with the German Recycling and Waste Management Act, the Otto Group’s recycled paper waste management ensures the efficient were used by the reporting and economical disposal of electrical applicompanies in their offices ances such as washing machines and refrige­ during the 2010/11 financial year. rators. When a new appliance is delivered by As a proportion of total office Hermes, customers have the option of returning their old one at a low fee. Acting for other paper, that is 87.2%. Group companies as well, OTTO and Hermes 82 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Climate and Environment High recycling ratio in 2010: the reporting companies submitted 97% of their waste for recycling. and warehouses. If dangerous waste is proamounts of oil or diesel fuel leaked. All spills (Trust Improvement Program) ISO 14001 cerduced, this is generally old fluorescent tubes, were professionally remediated. tificate for its Environmental Management petrol separator contents and discarded elecSystem. The requirements of this process tric appliances. Fulfilling the DIN EN ISO 14001 exceed those determined in the ISO 14001 EnEnvironmental Management vironmental Management Standard, and can Further reduction of damage cases Standard therefore only be applied to highly evolved Overall, the risk of environmental damage By adhering to the DIN EN ISO 14001 Environenvironmental management systems. resulting from the Group’s activities is relamental Management Standard, companies Hermes achieved certification to this standard tively low, as the reporting companies are commit to voluntary self-control of their for the first time in 2003. involved in trading goods, or in the case of Environmental Management Systems. The Hermes, work as logistics service providers management system is audited and certified and do not manufacture goods themselves. annually by external assessors. Four of the The main risk of damage lies with Hermes, eleven reporting companies received their for example through transport accidents and audit certificate under this internationally the related risk of an oil spill. recognised standard. The Otto Group thereEnvironmental Management At Hermes’ main hubs, partner compafore has a pioneering role in its competitive Waste nies use specialised vehicles with hydraulic environment, as trading companies are not 2010 lifting mechanisms for loading and unloadusually ISO 14001-certified. OTTO was suc985 t Waste removed ing swap-body trucks. These vehicles gencessfully audited as the first trading compa(2.9%) erally use mineral-oil based hydraulic fluid, ny in the world to this standard in 1997. which can cause ground contamination in At Baur, the successful recertification of case the systems leak. For this reason, since the Environmental Management System for 2006 Hermes has required its partners to its Altenkunstadt, Burgkunstadt and Weisprogressively equip their vehicles’ systems main locations took place in July 2010. In with biodegradable hydraulic fluids. CurMay 2010, the German facilities in Hamburg32,518 t Waste submitted for rently, 98% of Hermes’ partner companies’ Bramfeld (OTTO), as well as Hamburg, Halrecycling (97.1%) specialised vehicles have been converted. densleben, Löhne and Ohrdruf (Hermes) and In the reporting period, there were a the UNITO Central Warehouse in Bergheim Total waste total of twelve incidents at the reporting were recertified. Hermes is one of the few lo33,503 t companies’ facilities, during which small gistics companies worldwide to hold the TIP otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 83 Climate and Environment Environmentally friendly packaging: customers receive around 130,000 parcels from OTTO, Schwab, Baur, bonprix and SportScheck each day bearing the FSC© label. Resource efficiency the years. The proportion of recycled paper clusively on chlorine-free (TCF) paper. OTTO remains at a maximum of 25% of paper used, also uses FSC-certified paper in seven other Among the most significant environmental so that the perception of a high-quality cataEuropean countries. Baur and Schwab also burdens arising from the Otto Group’s busilogue is maintained. use FSC-certified paper in the production ness activity is its use of resources. Ensuring For all paper manufactured from fresh of catalogues, flyers and mailings. Since the the responsible handling of key resources fibre pulp, the Otto Group guarantees start of the cooperation with the FSC, the such as timber and cotton is therefore one of through contracts with its paper suppliers label has been applied to around 500 mn our essential goals (see p. 104). that this does not originate from illegal felling. printed materials, catalogues, advertising Furthermore, the business model of materials and shipping boxes – making the trading companies within the Otto Group Print products from Group a European leader in applying the FSC requires the consumption of large amounts responsible forestry label. of paper to produce catalogues and advertisIn the production of printed items, the Group ing materials. Despite our steadily increasing works closely with the Forest Stewardship FSC Global Partner Award for online share of turnover, around half of all Council (FSC®) (see p. 105, p. 113). The FSC label comprehensive customer information orders are still triggered through catalogues. is applied to products whose timber content To raise awareness among its customers of Many online shop customers continue to is produced through responsible forestry. the importance of responsible forestry, the rely on our catalogues for inspiration, so it Since 2007, OTTO has been FSC-certified Otto Group informs them extensively about remains an important marketing instrument. for the production of and trading in printed the FSC label and the resulting environmenThe distribution of goods also generates products. In subsequent years, Schwab, tal benefits. In September 2010, it was the waste packaging materials, such as cardBaur, bonprix and SportScheck have joined first company to receive the FSC Global Partboard, filler material and plastic foils. To limit as part of an FSC Multi-Site Certification. ner Award in the mail-order category. Within the resulting negative effects on the environCurrently, the proportion of FSC-certified four years, the Group has realised more than ment, we are continually extending the recatalogue paper within the reporting com500 projects with 60 FSC-certified partner source-efficient use of paper and packaging panies is around 7%. companies, most of them printers and paper Group-wide. For example, catalogue formats The OTTO main catalogue is the Group’s suppliers. The Group fully intends to expand and page grammage have been reduced over largest print product by far, and is printed exthese activities. 84 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Climate and Environment Resource-saving packaging cotton used for textiles from the Cotton made levels. The installation of sound absorbers Another field for the application of resourcein Africa initiative may not be artificially lowered the noise levels. efficient measures is packaging, which is irrigated (see p. 105, p. 112). For many other With the goal of reducing noise emisused both for internal distribution of goods products, however, water consumption in the sions at the Altenkunstadt site, in 2010 Baur as well as mail order. Cardboard products, supply chain is not known. The Otto Group is began the construction of an enclosure for which make up a large proportion of the therefore participating in the development the freight centre; this was completed in packaging used, consist almost 100% of reof a Product Sustainable Footprint (see p. 39): May 2011. cycled materials. Group companies such as amongst other goals, this will make the waWith its extensive measures, the OTTO, Baur, Frankonia, Heine and Schwab are ter consumption for selected products over Otto Group takes responsibility for people also changing over their shipping materials the whole product lifecycle transparent. and nature and minimises the negative imgradually to FSC -certified recycled materi© In those regions where the reporting pacts of its trading activities. als. Every day, OTTO, Schwab, Baur, bonprix companies’ facilities are located, significantly and SportScheck distribute around 130,000 more ground water is produced than extractparcels with FSC labels. OTTO Office has likeed. The reporting companies, which do not wise set itself a target of changing over all of have their own production and whose waits shipping cartons to FSC-certified materiter requirements arise almost entirely from als. Reusable packaging is increasingly being administrative activities, concentrate on the used for internal goods traffic. use of water-saving technology and the prevention of accidents. They cover their water Reusable trays and thinner demand mainly from external supplies. One foils reduce use of plastics exception is the Hamburg-Bramfeld site, OTTO also continued developing the mail where only 20% of water comes from the packaging for its catalogues. The foil thickpublic water supply, 13% from rain water and ness has been reduced gradually: overall, about 67% from its own well. the foil used since 2010 is 32% thinner than before, yet still durable. UNITO has been usReducing noise pollution ing second-hand corrugated board from old No production takes place at the reporting cardboard packaging as parcel filler material companies’ sites, so there is no significant since 1995. From autumn 2011, OTTO Office noise pollution. Only HGV noise at the Bramplans to begin using Flo-Pak GREEN made feld site and at the Hückelhoven hub caused from 100% recycled polystyrene as in-transseveral complaints from residents in the report protection and filler material. porting period, due to HGV traffic for OTTO and Hermes. The cardboard presses used by Reducing waste water volume waste contractors also caused high sound and own water supply levels. To remedy this, a noise pollution wall Globally, water is increasingly becoming a was erected in Hückelhoven in 2009. scarce resource. Looking at the whole value Individual Group companies achieved chain, Otto Group companies use a large progress in protection from noise emissions amount of water; this is mainly in article produring the reporting period: employee surForest Stewardship Council duction stages, such as textile production. veys at Witt showed that in some areas of www.fsc.org German Environmental Management Individual companies already carry articles logistics handling there was noise pollution Association B.A.U.M. e.V. produced using less water: for example, the and this was confirmed by measuring sound www.baumev.de otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 85 Climate and Environment – Facts and figures Facts and Figures – climate The information presented in the chapter on climate protection reCO2 emissions were adjusted using the following performance units, fers to the eleven reporting companies and is financial-year data, which makes them comparable with the 2006/07 benchmark year: unless otherwise stated. The applicable CO2 key figures have been • distribution logistics: shipment volume (for example, deliveries to gathered and analysed for 18 German companies as part of the customers and returns) Climate Protection Strategy since the 2006/07 financial year (see • locations and facilities (new adjustment method from 2009/10): chapter ‘Climate and Environment’). Because UNITO was not indistribution logistics: shipment volume cluded in the Climate Protection Strategy at that point, its CO2 key mobility: journeys and/or passenger kilometres (pkm) figures are only available from 2009/10 and relate only to mobility offices: number of staff and size and facilities. logistics buildings: parcel turnaround per year CO2 emissions are adjusted on principle, that is, shown relative to warehouses: gross capacity of buildings the performance units explained below. Against the background of shops: opening hours and sales area a dynamic business development, evident for example in the strong other uses: surface area rise in distribution logistics freight volumes, an absolute view delivers a distorted image. Nevertheless, the table ‘Total CO2 Emissions’ Some of the values given for the 2006/07 benchmark year vary from shows both adjusted and absolute CO2 emissions. those given in the Sustainability Report 2009. This is due on the one For the calculation of location-specific CO2 emissions, a new adjusthand to the inclusion of Hermes in the reporting scope, and on the ment method is used retroactively from the financial year 2009/10. other hand to the change of method in the CO2 adjustment for locaThis is why, aside from the 2006/07 benchmark year, only the finantions. cial years within the reporting period, i.e. 2009/10 and 2010/11, can Since the Otto Group only maintains physical stores, administration be shown in the comparison. and logistics buildings, environmentally relevant gases such as SO2 or NOX which would typically arise from production are not emitted in meaningful quantities and are therefore not shown. Energy consumption at locations and facilities Energy consumption at locations and facilities Increased energy consumption due 2006/07 2009/10 2010/11 to raised heating demand Total energy demand* MWh 265,456 280,634 287,548 The reporting companies’ energy demand rose markof this, supply of electrical power MWh 134,581 146,305 140,258 edly during the reporting period. This was largely due of this, EcoPower supply % 0 0 0 to increased demand for heating at locations and faof this, heating-power demand MWh 130,874 134,329 147,291 cilities during the harsh winter of 2010/11. However, of this, district-heating supply MWh 21,597 21,991 19,959 progress was made in energy and CO2 efficiency by of this, heating performance unit, which becomes apparent in the generated with heating oil MWh 6,455 5,615 5,335 adjusted representation of ‘CO2 emissions at locaof this, heating tions and facilities’ (see p. 76). generated with natural gas MWh 102,822 103,463 117,160 From financial year 2012/13, the Otto Group plans – of this, heating supply and within the context of long-term supply contracts – to generation based on regenerative energy MWh 0 3,260 4,836 switch part of its electrical power supply to green Own regenerative power generation MWh 204 145 750 electricity. * Number of buildings used as basis varied slightly over the years. 2006/07: 278 buildings; 2009/10: 280 buildings; 2010/11: 290 buildings. 86 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Climate and Environment – facts and Figures Transportation performance Purchasing and distribution logistics transportation * Purchasing logistics** transportation distribution Delivery volume performance (ship, plane, HGV, train) (HGV, light vehicle)*** 2006/07 2009/10 2010/11 2006/07 2009/10 2010/11 144.6 143.6 985.7 128.1 871.4 904 * Excluding UNITO. ** In purchasing logistics, only self-performed or commissioned transportation is considered; freight transportation by importers is not taken into account. *** Through Hermes, incl. delivery of large pieces. mn tonne-kilometres mn deliveries Increasing freight volume requires adjusted transportation solutions The reporting companies’ transportation performance increased Since the importance for the Otto Group of the sourcing markets in significantly in the reporting period. This development applies to the Far East has constantly increased, transportation performance both purchasing and distribution logistics, and as the result of posiin purchasing logistics has also increased steadily since 2006/07. tive business development, is reflected in higher transportation volumes. Mobility Transportation and mobility volumes, vehicle fleet/ Lower CO2 emissions and increased company cars/business trips and CO2 emissions due to mobility transportation and mobility volumes The volume of corporate mobility transportation has increased sig2006/07 2009/10 2010/11 nificantly within the last few years. This reflects the increasingly in68.0* ternational orientation within the Otto Group as well as the positive 9,039 65.5* 58.1 8,349** 8,038** business development, which are leading to increased volumes of travel. At the same time, a decrease in CO2 emissions from mobility is evident: the cause of this is a reduction in CO2 per pkm, for example due to more efficient company cars. Transportation and mobility volumes in million passenger kilometres (mn pkm) CO2 emissions due to mobility in t * Total mn pkm values for company cars based on projections for 2009/10 and 2010/11. ** Adjusted CO2 emissions. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 87 Climate and Environment – Facts and figures Total CO2 emissions 2006/07 2009/10 2010/11 Distribution logistics share (Heavy Goods Vehicles ‘HGV’/light vehicle)* Purchasing logistics share (ship)* 29.6% 23.3% 28.9% 24.0% 30.9% 24.1% Purchasing logistics share (plane)* Purchasing logistics share (HGV/rail)* Mobility share (company cars, business trips, vehicle fleet) 9.5% 8.7% 9.6% Heating share (natural gas, heating oil, district heating) 6.1% 5.2% 3.0% 5.6% 2.9% at locations and facilities 3.1% 2.1% 1.9% 2.5% Electrical energy share at locations and facilities 24.8% 26.9% 27.3% Total CO2 emissions (adjusted) in t 291,633 283,268 280,09 Total CO2 emissions (absolute, not adjusted) in t 291,633 284,756 294,043 * excluding UNITO. Partial success in reducing CO2 The reporting companies’ adjusted CO2 emissions decreased by apThe absolute CO2 emissions for 2009/10 and 2010/11 given for comproximately 4% in the 2010/11 financial year compared to the 2006/7 parison are strongly influenced by respective business developments; benchmark. corresponding variations in purchasing and distribution transporCO2 emissions decreased disproportionally at locations and facilities, tation volumes influence these figures. An efficiency analysis as in distribution logistics via Hermes and for corporate mobility (busian interannual comparison is not possible here, which is why the ness trips, company cars and vehicle fleets). Below average, however, Otto Group has been using adjusted figures since the 1990s. were developments in purchasing logistics, with continued high proportions of air freight. Overall CO2 emissions at locations Efficiency increase improves CO2 balance and facilities (adjusted) at locations and facilities 2006/07 2009/10 2010/11 Measures to improve efficiency and avoid CO2 emissions in buildings as well as the increased use of alternative heating energy (for example, geothermal heat, wood chips) markedly lowered CO2 emis97,701 t 92,988 t 91.907 t sions at locations. 71.6% 73.4% 70.9% Conversion factors: 28.4% 26.6% 29.1% Electricity mix Germany: 520g CO2/kWh (2006/07); 508g CO2/kWh (2009/10, 2010/11) Austria: 251g CO2/kWh (2009/10, 2010/11); natural gas: 201g CO2/kWh; heating oil: 266g CO2/kWh; Share of CO2 emissions, heating district heating: varies, depending on local district-heating utility, between 77g CO2/kWh and 250g CO2/kWh. Share of CO2 emissions, electricity 88 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Climate and Environment – facts and Figures Total volume of CO2 emissions due to transportation and mobility (adjusted for parcel volume)* Stagnation in CO2 emissions due to transport 2006/07 2009/10 2010/11 There was clear progress in distribution, in particular in the delive184.893 t 181.932 t 180.150 t ry of shipments to customers via Hermes: CO2 emissions here fell by approximately 10%. These efficiency improvements, however, are 48.7% 46.2% 45.0% offset to a large extent in the overall balance by increased CO2 emissions in purchasing logistics, in particular due to the continued high 51.3% 53.8% 55.0% share of air freight. Emissions in t, therefrom. purchasing logistics share distribution logistics share * Excluding UNITO. Conversion factors: Air freight: 0.537 kg CO2/tkm (2006/07), Lufthansa 2007 and 2009 0.536 kg CO2/tkm (2009/10 and 2010/11) Sea freight: 0.023 kg CO2/tkm (2006/07), TUI/Hapag-Lloyd 2007 and 2009 (overseas) 0.021 kg CO2/tkm (2009/10 and 2010/11) Road freight: 0.11 kg CO2/tkm, IFEU 2008 Rail freight: 0.02 kg CO2/tkm, DB Schenker 2009 Vehicle fleet by EURO emissions standard* Number of low-emission vehicles increased 2009/10 2010/11 Most deliveries to end customers are carried out at Hermes through EEV 0 0 contract partners and freight forwarders. Hermes’ own fleet of comEuro 1 0 0 mercial vehicles and transporters, including transfer vehicles, was reEuro 2 0 0 duced to 1,285 vehicles in the 2010/11 financial year from 1,948 in the Euro 3 180 9 previous year. The reason was a significant limitation in the number Euro 4 1,727 942 of transfer vehicles. 26% of the vehicle fleet already fulfilled the deEuro 5 41 334 manding Euro 5 standard in the 2010/11 financial year. Euro 6 0 0 *Hermes’ own fleet Hermes CO2 balance for long-haul Relative CO2 emissions in distribution lowered 2009/10 2010/11 In its CO2 balance, Hermes distinguishes on the one hand between in kg CO2/du* 0.219 0.191 long-haul transport, the distances covered by HGVs from central de* du = delivery unit (parcel or mailing bag) pots via main parcel-turnaround points (hubs) to local Hermes depots, and transports for the ‘last mile’ from Hermes locations and satellite Hermes CO2 balance for ‘Last Mile’ depots to the end customer on the other. On both types of journey, 2009/10 2010/11 CO2 emissions per delivery unit were reduced in the reporting period. in kg CO2/du 0.259 0.246 otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 89 Climate and Environment – Facts and figures facts and figures – environment The Otto Group’s environmental key figures were collected for the the data are those locations that were relinquished in 2009 and first time with the help of the new Group-wide CR database. This 2010, including Billbrook, Norderstedt, Rheinmünster and Kalshas strongly improved data quality. All locations with a minimum dorf. Likewise, the new location Südhafen in Haldensleben was consumption period of six months and a consumption area of not included. more than 5,000 m² as well as all main administrative locations of The benchmarks were either financial years or calendar years, dethe reporting companies were taken into account. Rented spaces pending on the key figure. The relevant time period for the data is were also included. Overall, there are 35 locations. Not included in shown in each table. Locations Office-paper consumption 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 669 t 595 t 486 t 128 511 t 443 t 56 126 350 t 78 119 498 414 77 183 t 326 161 t 367 243 214 2 1 172 153 10 retail companies Hermes Total Total amount of A4 and A3 paper in t of this, FSC® paper in t of this, recycled paper in t Constant consumption over the long term despite cyclical fluctuations The Otto Group determines its use of office paper indirectly through the financial year 2009/10 OTTO ordered 306 t of office paper, but ordered amounts. Since the Group orders large volumes for longer only 134 t in 2010/11. Hermes used almost exclusively environmenperiods, the annual statistics show fluctuations or waves. This can tally friendly recycled paper and has the largest share of overall be seen in the order amounts for the single company OTTO, which paper consumption in the total amount. buys the largest amount of paper within the Group. For example, in Share of FSC® paper and recycled paper in High share of recycled paper the total amount of office paper In the previous two financial years, the reporting companies ordered 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 a large quantity of recycled and FSC paper compared to conventional paper. However, this development should be differentiated: whereas consumption figures for recycled paper stabilised at a high level, the 26.9 19.1 15.3 9.4 share of FSC paper declined after a peak in the 2008/09 reporting year. The cause of the fluctuation is the development at the single 69.6 54.8 74.5 71.9 company OTTO: the total amount of office paper ordered by OTTO declined significantly in the 2010/11 reporting year compared to the Share of recycled paper in % Share of FSC paper in % previous year. Whereas the percentage of FSC paper ordered at OTTO in the overall reporting period fell from 19.8% to a final 3.7%, the share of more environmentally friendly recycled paper increased to 95.2%. 90 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Climate and Environment – facts and Figures Water consumption at locations and facilities 2007* 2008* 2009* 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 200,850 196,530 152,901 148,852 140,803 141,654 55,727 59,196 5,575 5,670 4,791 6,372 3,443 3,889 8,234 10,261 (3.6%) (3.8%) (3.4%) (4.5%) (6.2%) (6.6%) (4.2%) (5.1%) 10 retail companies Hermes Total Water consumption per year (drinking and rainwater) in m3 of this, rainwater consumption in m3 (Share of rainwater consumption in % ) * The figures for 2007, 2008 and 2009 differ from those given in the previous report. Due to double counting and/or faulty data gathering at two reporting companies, they were corrected downwards. No uniform trends in water consumption At the retail companies, water consumption sank from 2007 to 2009. companies as well as at Hermes, due to the higher volume of business This was mainly due to the closure of UNITO’s Kalsdorf location. In the and number of employees. reporting period, water consumption rose slightly − both at the retail Land use* 2007** 2008** 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2,478,154 2,533,415 762,842 791,293 1,270,521 1,317,400 1,341,542 1,207,483 1,160,754 1,191,873 364,750 393,950 1,084,970 1,068,703 396,954 404,970 398,092 397,343 516,155 576,950 558,542 489,386 508,020 510,161 609,468 628,045 375,700 6,6 % 389,050 255,716 284,609 233,768 238,995 10 retail companies Hermes total Total surface area in m2 of this, constructed area** of this, sealed area** of this, greened non-sealed/constructed area** * The three subfigures do not always add up to the total surface area. The difference corresponds to the rented area, the use of which is not calculated precisely. ** Excluding OTTO Office and UNITO’s Salzburg location. Land use increased slightly In 2010, the reporting companies in the Otto Group purchased reduction in total surface area of the ten retail companies from 2008 around 55,000 m2 of new real estate. This expanded the Group’s toto 2009 is mainly due to the closure of UNITO’s Kalsdorf location. tal amount of real estate by 2.2% compared to the previous year. The otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 91 Climate and Environment – Facts and figures Waste volumes by category 2007 2008 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Total waste in t 20,666 17,505 16,401 17,472 13,846 16,031 30,246 33,503 Volume of dangerous waste in t 162 180 207 70 47 25 254 95 Share of dangerous waste in % 0.8 1.0 1.3 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.8 0.3 Volume of non-dangerous waste in t 20,504 17,325 16,193 17,402 13,799 16,006 29,992 33,408 Share of non-dangerous waste in % 99.2 99.0 98.7 99.6 99.7 99.8 99.2 99.7 Removal amount in t 2,460 2,441 973 787 559 198 1,532 985 Removal share in % 12.0 14.0 5.9 4.5 4.0 1.2 5.1 2.9 Recycling amount in t 18,208 15,066 15,428 16,685 13,287 15,833 28,714 32,518 Recycling share in % 88.0 86.0 94.1 95.5 96.0 98.8 94.9 97.1 10 retail companies Hermes Total High recycling rate increased further In 2010, the total volume of waste from the ten retail companies fell vice. In total, the share of dangerous waste types in 2010 was 0.3% slightly below the values of 2007 and 2008. In 2010, the volume of of total waste (95 t). The share of recycled waste increased slightly, generated waste and/or packaging waste increased, due to raised to reach over 97%. turnover. With the inclusion of Hermes in the CR reporting, the total amount The fluctuations in the area of dangerous waste were due to the of waste almost doubled from 17,505 t (2008) to 33,503 t (2010). two-year service intervals for petroleum separators, systems which Hermes reports an extraordinarily high share of recycled waste at separate mineral-oil components from waste water. These compo98.8%. nents must be disposed of as dangerous waste following the serContamination None of the locations reported contamination. There is suspicion backfilled underground tanks. There is a possibility that there is conof contamination at OTTO at the Hamburg-Bramfeld location, over tamination underneath the tanks. an area of approximately 50 m². This area includes two cleaned and Disposal of old appliances 2007 2008 2009 2010 Number of old appliances returned directly by customers (not via local authority)* 71,445 92,091 97,446 140,987 * Refrigerators, televisions, washing machines, dishwashers. Incentives to return old appliances successful When customers purchase particular electrical appliances, over increases, have almost doubled the number of old appliances Otto Group companies support them in returning old appliances by returned by customers since 2007. In 2010, at around 141,000 applipaying the transportation costs. This practice, as well as general turnances the number was 44.7% higher than in the previous year. 92 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Climate and Environment – facts and Figures Number of incidents at locations Very low release of fuels at logistics locations involving the release of chemicals, In this reporting period, for the first time the Otto Group discloses the fuels, oils 2009 2010 number of incidents during which chemicals, fuels and oils were re6 6 leased at reporting companies’ locations. Within the reporting period there were six incidents reported each year; these occurred mainly at logistics locations. In 2009, however, there was an incident at the Baur location in Altenkunstadt: during manoeuvring, the fuel tank of an HGV was damaged. Despite immediate intervention, approx. 200 l of biodiesel entered the sewage system. Number of complaints by employees/ Complaints due to noise neighbours due to noise 2009 2010 In 2009 there were six, and in 2010 four complaints due to noise, 6 4 which affected OTTO, Baur and Hermes. The cause for complaints was primarily HGV traffic at OTTO and Hermes facilities. Catalogues and advertising materials Paper consumption for catalogues and advertising Increasing paper consumption for materials 2007 2008 2009 2010 catalogues and advertising Paper consumption due to the production of catalogues and adver324,331 298,971 301,296 310,049 tising materials in the reporting companies increased steadily in the reporting period, as in previous years. Despite an increasing share of online retail, catalogues still remain essential communication media for Otto Group companies. 15,339 16,814 26,449 21,812 (5.1%) (5.6%) (8.5%) (6.7%) Total use in t of this, FSC® paper in t (of this, FSC paper in %) Sales-packaging consumption Sales-packaging consumption Higher consumption of packaging 2007 2008 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 due to increasing unit sales 11,304 11,454 The volume of sales packaging, the recycling of which depends on 10,465 10,770 10,912 9,516 Otto Group companies, increased in 2010 compared to the previous year by almost 5% to 11,454 t. The main cause of increased consumption was rising turnover in the reporting companies (see p. 44). Additional sales packaging, for which manufacturers of articles are 142 150 responsible as the originators, are not included in these figures. 10 retail companies Hermes Total Sales packaging in t otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 93 70 Suppliers High Standards And Strong Alliances The Otto Group’s retail companies want to offer their customers goods that have been produced in compliance with specific social and environmental standards. The Group therefore continues to extend the auditing and qualification of its suppliers and takes part in alliances to improve local working conditions. As an international trading group, the modity exchanges, raw material prices rose come harder for the Otto Group to purchase Otto Group is active on the global market, considerably in this reporting period. At the at stable prices while at the same time enan intensely competitive environment with same time, domestic demand increased in suring socially and environmentally sustainmany players and correspondingly high many emerging countries. And because our able production. pressure on costs. Due to strong global range includes well over 100,000 articles, To ensure our suppliers’ compliance demand for raw materials such as cotton the Otto Group orders lower amounts from with specific social and environmental and the scarcity of supply due to natural each supplier than a competitor with a more standards in the production of goods decatastrophes and speculation on the comfocused range would. As a result, it has bespite the above, the Otto Group participates in international coalitions. Together with our competitors, we can insist stan“The Otto Group buys goods from more dards are fulfilled without causing a disthan 70 sourcing countries and works advantage for individual companies. For suppliers from risk countries with limited with more than 5,000 suppliers. We government supervision such as Banglatherefore bear a particular responsibility, desh and India, we created our Social Programme in 1999 which consists of inspecboth for humane working conditions at our tions and qualification for suppliers. The suppliers globally, and the sustainable use Otto Group aims to alleviate social grievof raw materials in production. It is our aim ances for the long term. Beyond this, we to integrate all suppliers from risk countries are actively committed to improving sociopolitical circumstances in our sourcing in our Social Programme.” countries, in dialogue with government Dr Michael Heller, Member of the Executive Board, representatives and non-governmental orMerchandising & Category Management OTTO ganisations (NGOs). otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 95 Suppliers goods from Purchasing at OTTO and Baur, drawing only a small percentage of its articles itself from suppliers located in the EU. Mandatory guidelines for suppliers The Otto Group’s Social Programme is based on our Code of Conduct, which applies to all employees and suppliers of the Group. All business partners are required to accept it when agreeing contracts. At the same time, The Otto Group supports improved working conditions with its Social Programme. they commit to passing on the requirements of the Code of Conduct to their own subcontractors. Initially only applicable to the suppliers of merchandising goods, in March Social Responsibility in cludes the Otto Group (see p. 102) – considers 2009 we also made our Code of Conduct Purchasing Markets these regions to be countries at risk for trade. obligatory for suppliers of non-merchandisThe Otto Group therefore integrates its suppliing goods such as office equipment. The Otto Group introduced its Social Proers in these markets into its Social Programme. gramme as early as 1999. It is based on the Since 2010, this has also applied to Egypt, BraRequirements aligned with suppliers’ Code of Conduct launched in 1996, zil, Bulgaria, Morocco and Romania – in part, international standards and we regularly check compliance with this. because these countries have gained in imporMaximum working hours of 60 hours per tance as buying markets for the Otto Group, week, paid overtime and minimum remune­ Otto Group purchasing and in part because they were first defined as ra­tion of at least the legal minimum wage in risk countries risk countries by the BSCI in 2010. are central requirements of the Code of The Otto Group purchases goods in more than Conduct. It also includes a ban on child and 70 production countries worldwide. In most Purchasing structures in forced labour and upholds freedom of assoof these countries, compliance with social reporting companies ciation, workers’ right to unionise. In addiand environmental standards is regulated by The reporting companies Baur, bonprix, tion, trading partners must specify measures national law and checked by the state − and Frankonia (from summer 2010), Heine, OTTO, against discrimination, bribery and corrupthis is where we source the majority of our OTTO Office, Schwab, Witt and SportScheck tion; they must detail their programmes for goods. However, in some purchasing markets are responsible for their own purchasing on occupational health and safety and the envicompliance with these standards is not comthe global markets, and some also transfer ronment, and prove these during audits. The pletely guaranteed, so that the violation of hugoods to other Group companies. In most required standards are based on the guideman rights and socially unacceptable working markets these companies are supported lines from the International Labour Organiconditions cannot be excluded. Among these by the market organisation Hermes-OTTO zation (ILO) as well as on the UN Convention countries are China, India, Turkey, Bangladesh, International (HOI), a fully owned subsidiary on the Rights of the Child and the Convention Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan, Vietnam, the of the Otto Group. In countries such as Pakis­tan on the Elimination of All Forms of DiscrimiUnited Arab Emirates and Mauritius. The Busior Morocco where HOI is not represented, nation against Women. BSCI guidelines and ness Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) – a the Group relies on external market orga­ the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterunion of more than 650 global trading companisations, which we call agencies, instead. prises were also included in the formulation nies, manufacturers and importers, which inHowever, UNITO sources the majority of its of our Code of Conduct. 96 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Suppliers Employee awareness of the Code of Conduct A four-part series of reports in the Otto Group’s internal media starting in October 2009 showed the importance of the Code of Conduct from different perspectives. The practical implementation of the Code was New cuts, seasonal colours, changing fabrics: the textile industry demonstrated through a portrait of the is highly dynamic. Therefore the processes in the period between Social Officers (see p. 98) and their responthe initial design for an item of clothing to its serial production sibilities. Another contribution explained need to be as efficient as possible. the Code of Conduct in its relationship to the internal Anti-Corruption Guideline. The aim of this series was to raise awareness of the Code in employees who might otherwise not come into contact with it in their daily work. Hermes’ own Code of Conduct In addition to the Otto Group’s Code of Conduct, in spring 2011 Hermes introduced its own Code of Conduct which takes the specific requirements of a logistics company into account. Hermes’ Code defines social standards and working conditions and applies to all Hermes employees as well as its self-employed contract partners working in parcel distribution. The Code of To shorten product control and approval for of employees in the proConduct guarantees payment in line with development cycles almost all ranges. They duction countries. This in legal or industry standards. For example, substantially and boost can decide whether to turn leads to improved the Code of Conduct excludes all direct or employees responsibility fall back on the experquality and higher indirect disciplinary measures in form of in production countries, tise of their colleagues motivation in the local payment deductions. Furthermore, this bonprix re-allocated in Germany or to grant teams, but also to relief Group company supports its contract partprocess responsibilities approval themselves. The for quality development ners in corrective measures to solve any in 2010: in three Asian new distribution of tasks staff at bonprix; these problems that arise, within the spirit of the pilot regions – Hong Kong, has several advantages: specialists can now Code of Conduct. Serious violations of the Qingdao and Shanghai it avoids duplication concentrate on their core Code, for example illegal employment, lead – responsibilities were of effort, which speeds tasks, despite an increasto an immediate end of the contractual shifted to the local up the process. It also ing number of products relationship. In suspicious cases, employmarket offices, which are makes better use of the in the assortment. ees and contract partners can contact an now in charge of quality technical competencies ombudsman in full confidence. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 97 Suppliers Before establishing a business relationship, Social Officers inspect working conditions at production sites. The Otto Group’s since 2010. If the supplier only manufactures improvements for training programmes and Social Programme at one or two facilities, these are checked accompanying suppliers during the impleThe Social Programme of the Otto Group in any case. This extension is in response to mentation of these. Furthermore, the Social ensures that suppliers follow the Code of several factories increasingly producing for Officers maintain regular contact with the Conduct. It rests on three pillars: supplier one supplier, and therefore indirectly for the factories as part of follow-up audits. 23 Social audits, supplier qualification, and intensive Otto Group. Officers currently work for the Otto Group dialogue with the stakeholders involved locally. and are trained annually, most recently in All Otto Group companies in Germany, Social Officers: key role in March 2009 in Bangkok and in June 2010 in Austria and the United Kingdom that source implementing the Social Programme Hong Kong. centrally through market organisations are Since 2007, Social Officers have supported required to implement our Social Programme. the adherence to our Code of Conduct in Audit to BSCI Standard The Group’s Corporate Responsibility area derisk countries. These employees belong to If the pre-scan does not find any fundavelops, steers and controls the Programme, Hermes-OTTO International’s market organmental breaches of the Code of Conduct, leads the dialogue and defines responsibiliisations or agencies and function as a link the business relationship can commence. ties. Alongside this, it documents and combetween the Otto Group and its suppliers; By signing the contract, the supplier communicates the processes. they have prior knowledge of quality assurmits to adhering to the Otto Group’s Code ance or have worked as auditors. They carry of Conduct. From the third season onwards, Extending the Social Programme out pre-scans for the selection of suppliers, that is, after twelve months of active coopIn recent years, the Otto Group has extendduring which they inform potential busieration, the supplier is obliged to let their ed its Social Programme significantly. Since ness partners about the social requirements production sites be inspected by an auditor the start of 2009, suppliers of durable goods and carry out a pre-inspection of their proto check adherence to the Code of Conduct. such as decorative articles and electrical apduction facilities. Their goal is to determine Auditors are selected by the BSCI and must pliances have been inspected as part of the whether cooperation is feasible with the be able to show accreditation by the nonSocial Management System – and thus all new supplier, i.e. whether they already fulprofit organisation Social Accountability product groups traded by the Otto Group fil, or could fulfil, the requirements of the Accreditation Services (SAAS). If the supplier that it has sourced from risk countries. Code of Conduct. Social Officers also take passes the audit, the business relationship In addition, we have inspected at least part in training and qualification measures, – conditional on regular follow-up inspecthree production facilities for every supplier for example by selecting factories needing tions by the Social Officers – is extended for 98 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Suppliers another three years. Suppliers who make After half a year, there is a re-audit to check provements locally, the Otto Group instead a particularly good impression in the BSCI progress. By the second re-audit (within prefers stable and long-term relationships audit are recommended by the Otto Group twelve months) at the latest there must be a with its suppliers. to gain certification under the internationclear improvement in order for the business In total, we worked with 450 audited ally recognised SA8000 standard from SAI relationship to continue. All audit results companies in risk countries during 2010. (see p. 102), which places high demands on are recorded centrally in the Group’s Social Of these, 90.4% received an audit result of the working conditions in production. This Database (see p. 100). ‘improvement needed’ or better. A total of includes the manufacturer’s guarantee of 408 breaches of the requirements in the liveable wages as well as their responsibility Focus on qualification Otto Group Code of Conduct were recorded for humane working conditions along their and development in this set of audits (see p. 97). For 125 supentire production chain. In cases where suppliers refuse an audit of pliers, individual training and qualification Where suppliers are assessed with ‘imtheir sites, we terminate the business remeasures were carried out to ensure adherprovements needed’ or ‘non-compliant’, they lationship. The same applies if a supplier ence to the Otto Group’s Code of Conduct. are supported by the Otto Group through assessed as ‘non-compliant’ does not iman extensive qualification programme. Supplement measures for improving working pliers are graded as ‘non-compliant’ if they conditions, despite being offered help and fail to fulfil more than 50% of the requiregiven a warning. However, since the focus ments or one of the crucial criteria, such of the Social Programme is on the developas paying minimum wages and permitting ment and qualification of partners, this is one day off following six working days. only a last resort. To achieve permanent imCore Processes in the Otto Group Social Programme before first order: Pre-Scan sanction (if an audit is refused) Follow-up from 3rd Season sanction (if 2nd BSCI audit result Supplier BSCI Audit is ‘non-compliant’ ) ‘good’ repeat BSCI audit Follow-up 3 years without qualification external audits (if BSCI audit result is ‘improvements needed’ or ‘non-compliant’) audit repeated after 6 months otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 99 Suppliers Step-by-step inclusion of importers Demanding targets for viewed by all participants in the buying proAs of the 2012/13 financial year, further facimplementation of the Social cess and hence serves as a Group-wide control tories and market agents such as importProgramme and steering instrument. Since its completion, ers, which do not belong to the Otto Group To increase the transparency of social managequarterly reports based on key figures from and are active in critical sourcing countries, ment processes, the Otto Group created an exthe Social Database have been sent to the will gradually be included in the Social Protensive Social Database during the reporting Group’s Executive Board, in-market organisagramme. Implementation had been planned period and set clear targets for the Purchasing tions and Group companies to inform them of for the 2011/12 financial year, but the various areas in their selection of suppliers: Group the current progress towards targets as well decentralised purchasing processes in the companies’ Purchasing areas and the market as areas of improvement potential. Group companies required further harmoniorganisations have to generate 75% of their The data recorded in 2011 fall short of the sation. In March 2011, the Executive Boards turnover with suppliers in new risk countries targets the Group set itself. This was due to of the main German trading companies in who have achieved a ‘pass’. For the other risk the extension of the scope of application of the Otto Group were presented with a procountries, a target turnover ratio of 98% has the Social Programme to the entire article posal for integrating the importers. A workbeen established. Since the extension of the assortment as well as the increase of the ing group consisting of representatives from Social Programme, a ‘pass’ is only awarded to number of production sites to be inspected OTTO, Heine, Baur and SportScheck as well suppliers whose main production sites – and in 2010, many of which do not fully comas Hermes-OTTO International was created where applicable, up to two further factories ply with the requirements of the Code of to clarify detailed questions about imple− are assessed at least as ‘good’ or ‘improveConduct or have not yet carried out an aumentation. The goal is to develop a practical ments needed’ during auditing. dit. The relevant suppliers are being trained proposal for including importers to which all The Social Database contains data on by the Otto Group as part of the Social Proparticipants can agree by autumn 2011. suppliers, factories and audit results, can be gramme to eliminate any shortcomings. Supplier development We want to improve production conditions through constructive cooperation and stable supplier relationships. As the second pillar of its Social Programme, the Otto Group Distribution of qualifications Audit results in factories therefore carries out extensive qualification in risk markets programmes for its suppliers. The training 2010 2010 courses take place within the Group’s own 9.6% 9.5% Vietnam non-compliant Market Development Programme (MDP) and 17.3% Certificate 12.0% through external BSCI programmes. The lat15.9% improvements ter carries out approximately 100 courses Thailand/ needed Indo­nesia 47.6% annually for staff in leadership and middle China (incl. Hong Kong) management positions as well as for employees at an operational level. 27.0% Bangladesh 61.1% good Qualifications in supplier countries The MDP is aimed at suppliers and potential partners in risk countries that were assessed 100 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Suppliers as ‘improvement needed’ or ‘non-compliant’ during pre-scans and BSCI audits. The goal is to advise and direct them in adherence to the Systain Consulting Code of Conduct. The advice is based on a factory inspecsupports the Otto Group tion by Systain Consulting, a consultancy belonging to the Otto Group, to check the working conditions and management systems in the factories. Significant problems often exist in the systematic documentation of working hours, and in the areas of occupational health and safety and in dealing with overtime. To solve these, the Otto Group carries out intensive training courses, supports the creation of solid management structures and bears the cost of the qualification processes. In the reporting period, 125 qualifications were carried out for suppliers. Because of the importance of the Chinese market, the focus of qualifications in 2009 and 2010 was on China. The qualification of suppliers plays a key role in the Otto Group’s Social Programme for improving working conditions at production Social Programme works sites in the long term. At production sites where a need for for long-term successes improvements has been identified, Systain Consulting takes on the To achieve permanent changes in our purtask of advising and supporting. chasing markets, the Otto Group’s Social Programme is set up for the long term With its own local topics. Systain staff also the commitments of the and focuses on a process of continuous employees, Systain use their experience in Sustainable Apparel improvement. The current three-year plan visits the factories and training the local Social Coalition (see p. 39). In ends during the 2012/13 business year. One develops the required Officers. addition, Systain adviyear before its end in 2011, the Otto Group corrective measures in Apart from its active ses the Group on stratewill commission Systain to carry out a staclose coordination with participation in the gic decisions about the tus report, bearing the requirements of factory management Social Programme, development of the Soboth internal and external stakeholders in and workers. The task Systain supports the cial Programme and the mind. We will also consider the possibility primarily requires good Otto Group in the deveconcept development of extending the Social Programme in parknowledge of local lopment of a sustainafor climate-protection allel with the CR Strategy to further Group circumstances and tact bility footprint for selecmeasures in the supply companies and deeper into the supply in discussing sensitive ted products, as part of chain. chain (see p. 42). otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 101 Suppliers Alliances and Cooperations health and safety, which are also open to the Round Table on Codes of Conduct suppliers of all members. Dialogues in the Purchasing markets, but To have an impact on complex global markets also at Group locations, contribute to the and apply pressure to political demands, in Cross-sector commitment debate on current issues and the developaddition to its own activities the Otto Group to high social standards ment of solution approaches. The Round forms alliances with other important market In addition to its commitment to the BSCI, Table on Codes of Conduct is a multi-stakeplayers to improve working conditions. The the Otto Group is a sustaining member of holder forum of German companies, trade Otto Group’s CR Representative for PurchasSocial Accountability International (SAI), one associations, unions, NGOs and Federal Mining Markets also represents the Group’s inof the world’s most influential independent istries. All participants agreed in March 2011 terests in these markets and coordinates the multi-stakeholder initiatives for improving on a position paper with which they demand dialogue locally. In addition, the Group lends working conditions and workers’ rights. SAI the payment of living wages in developing practical help, for example by supporting assists companies in the systematic developcountries. The participants also developed a project for the terre des hommes charity ment of their procurement management. It practical recommendations and action plans working against child poverty (see p. 128). also awards the internationally recognised for implementing the living wage in the social standard SA8000 certificate for manuAsia region. As a next step, in autumn 2011 BSCI improves social standards facturing sites. there will be a meeting to discuss companies’ in the supply chain experiences in ensuring living wages in risk One of these alliances is the Business Social Alliance for minimum wages in Asia countries. Compliance Initiative (BSCI), founded in 2004 The Otto Group welcomes and supports the with the Otto Group’s participation. Its goal Asia Floor Wage Campaign (AFWC). The orDeveloping a sustainable is to improve working conditions in interganisers’ goal is the introduction of a stanproduct footprint national supply chains. Dr Johannes Merck, dardised minimum wage for Asia’s textile In March 2011, together with international Director of the Corporate Responsibility area sector, measured against the respective clothing companies and stakeholders in in the Otto Group, has represented the in­ country’s specific purchasing power. The the shoe and textile sectors as well as with terests of German member companies on the campaign has become necessary because scientific experts, the Otto Group founded BSCI’s Steering Committee since the start of in some Asian countries, wages are not sufthe Sustainable Apparel Coalition. The aim 2009. All members are committed to generficient to cover the livelihoods of workers of the Coalition is the development of a ating two-thirds of turnover through audited and their families. Previous initiatives by Product Sustainable Footprint, which will suppliers after three years. After five years, all the Otto Group and individual stakeholdbe an international measure for assesssuppliers are required to be assessed as ‘imers have so far not managed to achieve ing the sustainable quality of products and provement needed’ or ‘good’. BSCI has strict widespread living wages. The solution can improving transparency in the value chain. criteria for the audits: only auditors accredittherefore only lie in regulating labour costs Apart from the Otto Group, Gap, H&M, ed by the Social Accountability Accreditation in Asian buying markets with the inclusion Levi Strauss, Nike, Timberland, Wal-Mart, Services (SAAS), a non-profit organisation, of all market participants, thus making it Patagonia, Marks & Spencer and Li & Fung and trained by Social Accountability Internacompetitively neutral. The Otto Group has are among the more than 30 founding memtional (SAI) are admitted. The BSCI ensures recognised the urgency of the situation and bers (see p. 39). that members uphold their voluntary comtogether with other strong partners is using mitment and carries out an annual review on its influence, for example at Round Tables Limits of transparency this. It also collects the results of all audits, with government representatives, trade in the value chain which are available to all members for their unionists and NGO representatives in BanIn August 2010 consumer protection exrespective suppliers. BSCI also organises semgladesh and China, to influence decisionperts from Stiftung Warentest (a leading inars on specific topics such as occupational makers in the Asian textile sector. independent German product and service 102 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Suppliers Joint solutions for improved working conditions: the Otto Group participates in international alliances and stakeholder forums. quality foundation) examined the quality Cooperation with critical media plans to operate the Otto Grameen Textile of cotton tops from 20 fashion retailers, inCorporate action in finding a balance betCompany in Bangladesh. The aim of the Joint cluding an organic cotton top from OTTO. ween attractive purchasing conditions and Venture is to produce export goods under They also checked the working conditions social as well as environmental demands competitive conditions. An existing factory under which the products had been manuin developing countries was the topic of a will be rebuilt and extended according to enfactured. Stiftung Warentest was only able report by the ZDF TV channel entitled ‘Sew vironmental and social criteria. to certify that the Group company demonuntil you drop’. The report was filmed at The factory will function as a Social strated the rudiments of social and environOtto Group suppliers’ facilities for textiles, Business Type II: while it repays the loan mental commitment. Criticism was levelled furniture and shoes in Bangladesh and South granted by the Otto Group, part of which is in part at the behaviour of a subsupplier, an China, and broadcast in December 2010. The interest-free, 20% of profits and later 80% Indian spinning and dyeing company which film team accompanied the Otto Group’s CR of profits will be managed by a foundahad refused the auditors nominated by the Representative Purchasing Markets while intion and used for projects to improve living Foundation access to its production sites. specting working conditions and safety stanconditions for the employees, their families Another criticism was that the Otto Group’s dards. The pieces on Bangladesh and South and their home communities. 20% of profSocial Programme had not integrated this China focused on critical points such as overits will be reinvested into the factory. The pre-processing stage of production. time in production sites, but also mentioned development of the organisational strucAs there was no direct contractual relapositive changes in the manufacturing conture in Bangladesh was delayed in the retionship between the Otto Group and the ditions through controls implemented by the porting period, however. relevant spinning works, it was not possible trade. The report shows the daily struggle for to exert sufficient influence on the company. progress in upholding social standards, and Neither did Stiftung Warentest recognise inmakes clear that only continued cooperation ternal documents as proof of organic cotton will lead to improvement in local production and queried gaps in the external inspection. conditions. Whereas in the past certified organic cotton was used and its actual processing in Otto Grameen Textile Company products was ensured through an internal created as Social Business Type II safety system, independent certificates will Together with the Grameen Trust, a charibe used in future (see page 134). table NGO founded in 1989, the Otto Group otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 103 Suppliers The cultivation of organic cotton protects the soil and contributes to maintaining biodiversity. Responsible Selection of live plucking of down and feathers. In Noused. These measures avoid monocultures of Raw Materials vember 2010, the ‘Report Mainz’ programme and protect biodiversity in cultivation areas. For an assortment policy aligned with high by the ARD TV channel and the ‘Four Paws’ OTTO’s and Witt’s organic cotton ranges environmental and social standards, the seanimal protection organisation reported on are among the pioneers in the textile marlection of responsibly produced raw materilive plucking at suppliers for OTTO, Baur, Witt ket. Both offer their organic cotton textiles als is fundamental. Although the Otto Group and Schwab. The Otto Group rapidly re­moved through the PURE WEAR brand (see p. 113). does not produce any goods itself, it is neverall products from this supplier from the Textiles bearing this label must contain fi­ theless responsible as a trading company for assortment and terminated the supply rela­ bre mixes with a minimum of 50% organic the sustainable production of the articles it tionship (see p. 48). cotton, and while other natural and synsells. It has committed itself to strict procuthetic fibres are allowed, no conventionally rement policies, such as the Timber Sourcing Challenges in cotton cultivation and produced cotton may be used. PURE WEAR Policy and the Sustainability guideline, which opportunities for organic cotton as a brand will in future only be available at prohibit the use of particular raw materials. The Otto Group not only observes animal Witt; a new brand will be developed for OTTO protection regulations in the production and potentially for other companies in the Strict Directives for the textile trade of textiles; by using organic cotton, it also Otto Group. The new safeguard, agreed by From autumn 2011, all of the main Group contributes to promoting biodiversity. The the Otto Group Executive Board, prescribes companies in the Otto Group’s trading segutilisation of non-degradable chemical and certification of the range through one of the ment will be subject to their own Sustainasynthetic pesticides, insecticides and ferti­ two internationally recognised standards: bility Directive, which brings together previlizers is prohibited in the cultivation of orgathe Otto Group accepts Organic Exchange as ously separately regulated CR requirements nic cotton. Likewise prohibited is the use of the basic standard, and Global Organic Tex­ for products with working conditions for supgenetically modified organisms. Organic cultile Standard (GOTS) as the premium standard. pliers (see p. 42). Among others it contains rutivation respects annual crop rotation in the Apart from these requirements, suppliers les on animal protection, bans real fur from fields, pests may only be removed by natural must be able to show a BSCI audit result of at the entire assortment and prohibits the use methods and only organic fertilizer may be least ‘good’ or SA8000 certification (see p. 99). 104 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Suppliers Development opportunities harvest. Therefore the Otto Group adopted a process through regular dialogue with polifor African cotton policy in mid-2011 that discourages all its supticians and NGOs. The developmental aid initiative ‘Cotton pliers and their subsuppliers from processing made in Africa’ (CmiA) was founded in 2005 cotton cultivated in Uzbekistan. In addition, Heine achieves FSC® certification by the Aid by Trade Foundation (see p. 133). the Group has banned the purchasing of all of wood products CmiA is not organic cotton, but it is harvesUzbek textile products. The Otto Group is Since October 2010, seven new Heine supted by hand and in its cultivation great care is aware that a complete enforcement of the pliers in Latvia, Romania and Indonesia taken with the effective and responsible use ban is a very difficult task, due to the comhave been certified to FSC standard for of pesticides and fertilizers. plexity of the supply chain, and has formally solid wood fibreboard and recycled teak. The trade partners in this initiative form required its manufacturers to instruct their Latvia, one of the most important timber a Demand Alliance and are thus able to ofsubsuppliers accordingly. suppliers to the Otto Group, decided in 2010 fer the cotton producers reliable sales chanto suspend certification for the Spring/­ nels and prices above the market average Wood products from Summer season 2011 due to the economic for their products. In addition, they support responsible forestry crisis. However, Heine successfully argued the smallholder farmers in the transition of In Otto Group companies’ assortments, timfor retention of the certification process their production to environmentally friendly ber is of great importance. The Otto Group in Latvian national forests. Thanks to the processes. is therefore committed to responsible for­ strong pressure of the market agency in estry in order to prevent overexploitation Riga, the decision was reversed for the folTransparent value chain in the of forests. Since 2007, the Timber Sourcing lowing season: from Autumn/Winter 2011, cultivation of CmiA cotton Policy has regulated the sourcing of furnicertification will once again be verified. By the end of 2010, 237,000 smallholder ture and accessories from solid wood. The During 2011, Heine and the market agency farmers were taking part in the project and Otto Group demands that the legally sound in Riga held several workshops with Latvifarming a total of 330,000 ha. CmiA offers its origin of timber is proven by providing an suppliers to drive forward the issue of trade partners the benefit of a transparent documentation of the timber’s botanical sustainable industrial timber furniture provalue chain and with its Global Sourcing Unit name and its region of origin. Five compaduction. has created a unique service for this. Control nies in the Otto Group are pioneering the systems ensure that the initiative’s quality Timber Sourcing Policy, and have taken on and manufacturing standards are adhered responsibility for the origin of solid wood to and developmental aid goals are fulfilled. ranges in the absence of legal regulations. For example, Impact Monitoring observes European timber regulators – based on changes in the farmers’ income as well as the the EU’s FLEGT (Forest Law Enforcement, social and environmental development of Governance and Trade) action plan – will their community. In May 2010, this data was introduce mandatory laws in this area from used to complete the first full and indepen2013. The Otto Group, along with WWF, dent verification of all CmiA cultivation areas. campaigned for legal regulation. The work In addition, the quality of CmiA cotton is in­ completed as part of the Timber Sourcing spected every two years (see p. 134). Policy provides a good basis for fulfilling the requirements of European timber reguPolicy rules out use of Uzbek cotton lation from 2013 onwards. Until these reguIn Uzbekistan, pupils still in childhood and lations come into force, the Otto Group will students are forcibly recruited for the cotton continue to critically accompany the FLEGT otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 105 Suppliers – facts and figures Facts and Figures The Otto Group runs a broad-based Social Programme to consistentIn parallel to the extension of the group of risk countries, supplier ly monitor and improve production conditions for goods from risk evaluations were developed methodically in 2010 to respond to countries and traded by the Otto Group. Apart from textiles, shoes changing conditions. As part of continuing globalisation and order and toys, durable goods such as decorative items and furniture have diversity, the number of production sites used by each supplier has been included since 2009. In the reporting period, the Social Proincreased. This requires an extension of the inspection practice to gramme was applied in China, India, Turkey, Bangladesh, Thailand, further production sites. Indonesia, Pakistan, Vietnam, United Arab Emirates, Mauritius and, In summary, the following factors influenced the number of factories as of 2010, in Egypt, Brazil, Bulgaria, Morocco and Romania. The key to be audited, and therefore the audit status of suppliers: figures in this chapter relate to calendar years from 2007 to 2010 in• extension of the Social Programme to durable goods clusive. In a consolidated format, they provide information on mea• integration of further risk countries sures and results in the companies included in the Otto Group Social • inclusion of additional Group companies in the Social Programme Programme, which are Alba Moda, Apart*, Baur, bonprix, Frankonia, • audit of up to three factories per supplier. OTTO UK, Heine, OTTO, OTTO Office, Schwab, SportScheck, UNITO and Witt (including Sieh an!, see p. 8). * As of May 2010, Apart no longer belongs to the Otto Group. Order volume* by risk country Suppliers* by supplier performance in % 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Egypt n.d. n.d. n.d. 0.8 6.7 7.1 16.8 7.9 15.0 12.0 12.1 34.8 45.3 Bangladesh 3.7 2.9 5.0 4.6 8.9 9.9 11.3 Brazil n.d. n.d. n.d. 0.2 9.1 12.4 Bulgaria n.d. n.d. n.d. 1.5 64.2 51.6 55.0 19.9 China (incl. Hong Kong) 55.8 61.5 56.5 55.5 India 14.5 13.0 15.7 10.5 Indonesia/Thailand 1.9 2.7 2.3 3.8 Order volume by supplier performance ** Morocco n.d. n.d. n.d. 0.8 Mauritius 3.4 2.1 0.8 0.3 2007 2008 2009 2010 Pakistan 1.1 1.8 3.2 2.0 4.1 2.0 8.5 7.9 2.8 7.6 2.7 4.4 10.9 12.9 Romania n.d. n.d. n.d. 0.7 8.2 8.0 7.2 44.1 Turkey 15.9 11.3 11.8 15.1 United Arab Emirates (UAE) 2.7 3.8 3.9 2.7 43.0 Vietnam 1.0 0.9 0.8 1.5 77.2 73.7 74.8 * Audit-relevant order volumes = from 3rd season in % in % certificate (SA8000/ICTI) pass good incomplete improvements needed not audited critical * Audit-relevant suppliers = from 3rd season. not audited ** Audit-relevant order volumes = from 3rd season Developing supplier evaluations In 2010, the Otto Group expanded its evaluation method for supplier ‘pass’ (all factories satisfactorily audited), ‘incomplete’ (not all relevant performance. Whereas until 2009, the audit result from one factory factories audited or not all satisfactory) and ‘not audited’ (the relevant per supplier was sufficient, from 2010 the audit results of up to three factories have not yet been audited). factories per supplier are taken into account. The evaluation categories The extension of the inspection spectrum up to three factories per supwere also adjusted: since 2010 the Otto Group distinguishes between a plier has meant that the proportion of order volume from suppliers with 106 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Suppliers – facts and figures a ‘pass’ mark was very low during 2010, at 44.1%. There are two matein risk countries were not audited in 2010. Of these, only 12.9% were rial reasons for this: even one ‘critical’ audit result at one of a supplier’s included in the order volume. relevant factories leads to an overall supplier evaluation as ‘incomplete’. In 2009, before the change in supplier evaluation, the order volume Another cause of this low result is the new risk countries, in which the from suppliers with audit results of ‘improvement needed’, ‘good’ audits generally still need to be carried out. In total, 45.3% of suppliers and/or ‘certification’ came to a total of 92.9%. Suppliers* and order volumes** by supplier performance country 2007 2008 2009 2010 country 2007 2008 2009 2010 10.0 42.8 21.0 52.5 24.2 42.2 27.3 46.4 48.0 75.5 India 10.0 80.0 67.7 66.7 65.5 egypt 28.5 52.6 50.7 4.0 45.4 48.0 28.7 2.3 4.8 0.7 6.1 2.8 5.5 1.8 6.5 1.4 3.0 2.4 1.8 1.1 22.2 Indonesia/Thail. 12.5 11.2 8.3 14.1 22.2 22.1 38.5 48.6 50.0 42.3 40.0 32.1 38.5 80.7 38.1 76.7 Bangladesh 62.5 79.7 75.0 74.7 66.7 74.5 11.2 15.4 11.6 30.0 56.7 15.4 7.1 9.9 25.0 54.8 46.1 41.5 46.1 46.2 25.0 30.0 25 9.2 5.5 16.7 9.1 11.2 11.1 3.5 10.1 17.8 100 100 7.1 31.9 Brasilia Morocco 92.9 68.1 33.3 60.3 60.0 58.9 60.0 75.0 60.0 52.3 33.3 81.5 Bulgaria Mauritius 4,8 66.7 61.9 47.7 22.2 40.0 41.1 40.0 40.0 25.0 17.5 18.5 China (incl. Hong Kong) 1.0 0.1 2.8 0.5 9.6 0.8 36.7 45.7 50.0 34.8 71.4 69.3 84.6 70.4 54.2 64.0 Pakistan 71.1 92.6 62.7 85.2 68.5 91.1 24.4 65.2 48.1 50.0 45.8 14.1 38.9 36.0 9.6 14.3 28.4 29.6 3.8 5.3 7.9 4.8 14.3 15.4 18.3 3.5 20.4 9.0 14.0 3.3 6.2 2.3 Number OrderNumber OrderNumber OrderNumber OrderNumber OrderNumber OrderNumber OrderNumber Ordervolume volume volume volume volume volume volume volume in % pass certificate good incomplete * Audit-relevant suppliers = from 3rd season improvements needed critical not audited ** Audit-relevant order volumes = from 3rd season otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 107 Suppliers – facts and figures Suppliers* and order volumes** by supplier performance (Continuation) country country 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 100 100 40.0 28.1 33.3 25.0 55.6 28.3 14.3 38.3 Romania VAE 35.7 71.9 75.0 59.6 66.7 60.0 40.7 50.0 33.3 21.0 11.1 12.1 82.2 87.5 78.7 85.5 86.4 93.0 23.2 8.0 42.8 17.2 42.8 8.3 50.0 19.7 29.2 28.1 Turkey Vietnam 86.4 66.6 54.4 80.3 46.3 47.2 12.5 28.6 28.6 58.3 50.0 30.5 14.3 26.2 14.3 8.1 7.4 11.5 11.4 7.6 3.7 24.9 24.7 9.7 5.1 9.8 3.1 6.1 3.3 5.6 14.3 2.2 14.3 0.2 Number OrderNumber OrderNumber OrderNumber OrderNumber OrderNumber OrderNumber OrderNumber Ordervolume volume volume volume volume volume volume volume in % pass certificate good incomplete * Audit-relevant suppliers = from 3rd season improvements needed critical not audited ** Audit-relevant order volumes = from 3rd season Suppliers and order volumes by risk countries The development of supplier evaluations in 2010 required audit reand Thailand: whereas in 2009 17 suppliers were audit-relevant, this sults to be presented in a different way. As of 2010, the new evaluation number increased in 2010 to 42. China, the Otto Group’s largest sourccategories of ‘pass’ and ‘incomplete’ are in use. Also, the unaudited ing market, also saw a clear increase in suppliers from 2009 to 2010. factories and suppliers per country are given for 2010, whereas for Nevertheless, the proportion of not audited order volumes for China the period from 2007 to 2009 only the distribution of audit results in 2010 was only 6.2%. is shown. The introduction of the Otto Group’s Social Programme to the new Due to the inclusion of new risk countries and the increase in the risk countries during 2010 achieved differing rates of progress: Brazil number of suppliers in individual risk countries, the number of auditand Romania were unable to report audit results in this period, while relevant suppliers increased significantly from 2009 to 2010. This dein Morocco, Bulgaria and Egypt the first audit results were able to be velopment can be seen in the example of the figures for Indonesia delivered. Distribution of audit results by factory Audit results along the supply chain The evaluation of supplier performance with ‘pass’ or ‘incomplete’ (see 2010 legend p. 106–108, figures from 2010) is detailed to the factory level in 9.6 17.3 this representation. The factories’ audit results are given in line with 12.0 in % the evaluation categories of ‘critical’, ‘improvements needed’, ‘good’ certificate (SA8000/ICTI) and ‘certificate’. Overall, this evaluation is based on 450 valid BSCI augood dits and certificates in the risk countries. improvements needed critical 61.1 108 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Suppliers – facts and figures Distribution of violations of standards Increased detections of violations 2007 2008 2009 2010 of standards by suppliers Management system 37 44 30 31 From 2009 to 2010, the number of audited factories with which Documentation 44 65 44 69 the Otto Group cooperated increased by 24%. Thus, more violations Maximum working hours 37 51 35 62 were also identified. Wages 41 49 36 49 The reported violations relate to factories that received evaluations Child labour/young workers 10 13 10 15 of ‘critical’ or ‘improvements needed’ in BSCI audits. As in previous Forced labour 3 2 1 2 years, in this reporting period the majority of violations were in the Freedom of association and areas of documentation, health and safety regulations (with the maright to collective bargaining 15 20 13 13 jority classified as ‘improvements needed’) as well as in maximum Discrimination 1 2 1 2 working hours and wages (with the majority classified as ‘critical’). Working conditions (cleanliness, ventilation, etc.) 10 9 4 18 In the area of child labour/young workers, there were no critical Health and social arrangements 32 42 19 32 violations in the reporting period. In the area of forced labour, there Occupational health and safety 40 57 39 75 was one critical violation in 2009. The Otto Group no longer works Accommodation 10 15 9 10 with this supplier. Two critical violations were reported in the area of Environmental requirements 13 14 13 30 freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining in 2010: Total number of violations 293 383 254 408 for example, one supplier was unable to guarantee that employees were able to report infringements of their rights anonymously. Distribution of qualifications by risk country 2007/08* 2008/09* 2009/10* 2010/11* Number Share in % Number Share in % Number Share in % Number Share in % Egypt 0 0 9 8.6 0 0 0 0 Bangladesh 48 24.0 8 7.6 10 16.1 17 27.0 China (incl. Hong Kong) 27 13.5 72 68.5 36 58.1 30 47.6 India 86 43.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Indonesia/Thailand 0 0 7 6.7 11 17.7 10 15.9 Pakistan 3 1.5 0 0 5 8.1 0 0 Turkey 36 18.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Vietnam 0 0 9 8.6 0 0 6 9.5 Total 200 100% 105 100% 62 100% 63 100% * These figures were reported on a financial-year basis. Fewer qualifications in the reporting period As part of its Market Development Programme, the Otto Group carries The focus of activities was on China, the largest sourcing market. As out factory visits and runs workshops for its suppliers to ensure their Bangladesh is a market requiring intensive supervision, a total of 27 qualification and compliance with social-programme standards. In the qualifications took place here in the 2009/10 and 2010/11 financial reporting period, fewer qualifications were carried out compared to years. Due to the increasing importance of the Indonesia/Thailand both the preceding years, because, contrary to the original plan, larger market, a total of 21 qualification measures were implemented here parts of the budgets were used for stakeholder dialogues locally in the in the same period. sourcing markets. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 109 3,600 Assortment and Customers Expanding our Sustainable Assortments The Otto Group aims to raise awareness among and inspire as many consumers as possible for sustainable products. To achieve this, the Group produces attractive, easily accessible product offers, communicates the added value of sustainability clearly and expands its relevant assortments continually. “With an assortment of Our central position at the interface beinvolved in the production of sustainable over 3,600 products tween manufacturers and customers allows us to bring our influence to bear on goods are treated with care – for instance, the land used to cultivate organic cotton is in our ECOREPUBLIC both sides. As part of this, we see an opnot contaminated with artificial fertilisers online shop, we are portunity and duty to promote ethical conand pesticides. However, that brings with it enabling our customers to sumption further. an increase in effort which, in conjunction When shopping, an increasing number with rising prices on raw material markets, make a conscious decision of customers now pay attention to where leads to higher purchasing costs. in favour of sustainable the goods on offer are made and the condiFor this reason, the Group considers it products. We aim to make tions under which they are produced. Deas one of its main duties to make it easithis assortment attractive mand for responsibly produced products er for our customers to choose a product continued to grow even during the global which may sometimes be slightly more and available to as many economic crisis of 2009. Despite this posiexpensive. We display and describe the people as possible – which tive market development the Otto Group is relevant sustainability aspects directly on is why we are continually faced with a huge challenge, as the majoror next to the product. In our online shops ity of its customers still predominantly buy and catalogues, these Eco Facts bundle toexpanding our conventional products. This is why we have gether the relevant information and also sustainable assortments.” set ourselves the aim of raising awareness make products easier to identify. FurtherDr Rainer Hillebrand, Vice Chairman among as many consumers as possible more, OTTO’s entire assortment of sustainof the Executive Board, Brand, and inspiring them with the advantages able goods is clearly presented in its online Service & E-Commerce OTTO of sustainable products. Natural resources shop ECOREPUBLIC. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 111 Assortment and Customers tends to achieve a target of 10%, Schwab 10% in terms of its own and third-party brands, and bonprix 5%. In contrast, Heine is basing its 10% target in terms of its own and third-party brands on using CmiA and organic cotton (see p. 143). Top quality with social added value: continual expansion of the Group’s textile offering in Cotton made in Africa quality. Expanding our organic cotton assortment So far organic cotton still plays a secondary Sustainable Product Worlds (CmiA) articles. These articles are produced role in global cotton cultivation, accounting to a social and ecological standard, and we for just 1.1% of the total cotton harvest. Some To promote ethical consumption, Group compredominantly offer these articles in our leading textile retail companies are already panies are continually expanding their susown-brand assortments (see p. 104) where achieving much higher organic cotton shares tainable assortments and raising awareness they account for a 0.7% share of our overall in their textile assortments. Concerning the among their customers about these products. textile assortment. Based on a new countOtto Group companies covered by this report, ing procedure, 2010/11 saw an increase the share of organic cotton quality is currentExpanding our sustainable from 102 to 260 t over the previous year in ly just 1.5%, and in terms of their own-brand assortments the quantity of CmiA cotton processed (see assortments 2.1%. At the single company While we produce the majority of our assortp. 123). In 2009 we set ourselves the aim of OTTO, the share of its own-brand assortment ments using conventional means, we subject achieving 750 t by the end of 2011, although is 4.4%; the share of organic cotton in terms them to rigorous minimum requirements this was based on a data-collection process of third-party brands is still very low. (see p. 105) such as testing textiles for harmful that has since been revised (see p. 143). CmiA Based on our new counting process, sevsubstances. That said, compared to our conproducts can be found in the assortments of en Group companies sold a total quantity of ventional assortments, the share of certified eight of the reporting companies. As part of 364 t of organic cotton in their assortments sustainable products is still mostly relatively our CR Strategy (see p. 39), four of the rein the financial year 2010/11. The Otto Group small. To increase this share, within the frameporting companies have set themselves inis aiming to increase the amount of organwork of our CR Strategy eight Group compadividual aims to further expand their share ic cotton processed to 450 t by the end of nies have set themselves individual aims, taiof CmiA assortments by 2012/13: OTTO in2011 (see p. 122, p. 143). OTTO, SportScheck, lored to and targeting the relevant assortment spectrum, to further expand their sustainable Share of organic cotton Share of energy-efficient large assortments. We intend to increase the share articles offered household electrical appliances of sustainable products both in terms of our in the whole assortment in the whole assortment own brands (such as Hanseatic) where the 2010/11 2010/11 Otto Group has brand rights and associated 1.5% responsibilities, as well as third-party brands (including Puma, for example). Cotton made in Africa textiles In the financial year 2010/11 the Otto Group companies covered by this report offered a 77.5% total of 813 different Cotton Made in Africa 112 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Assortment and Customers bonprix and Witt have set themselves individual aims within the framework of our CR Strategy: by the end of financial year 2012/13 OTTO is planning to increase the amount to 5% in terms of its own brands; bonprix is Every Otto Group reporting company that carries organic cotton aiming for a 2% share in its own and thirddisplays this range separately in their catalogues and online party brands, SportScheck for a 3% increase shops. In relative terms Witt dedicates a lot of advertising space in these brand groups, while Witt intends to to organic cotton and has been playing a pioneering role within increase the share of organic cotton to 6% in the Otto Group for many years. relation to the overall textile assortment of its core brand WITT WEIDEN. Extensive range of energy-efficient, large household electrical appliances Otto Group companies already carry a very good range of energy-efficient products in the large electrical household appliances segment. OTTO, Schwab and Baur have now systematically removed fridges, freezers, washing machines and dishwashers from their assortments that do not have an energy-efficiency rating of at least an ‘A’. Furthermore, since 2006 many appliances offered by OTTO and UNITO, such as freezers, have borne the EcoTopTen seal awarded by the Öko-Institut Freiburg (Eco Institute). This The company uses the ted right in the foreword. ded with the catalogues. seal is only awarded to high-quality prodPURE WEAR brand name Since March 2009 Witt Since 2008, Witt has also ucts that offer a significant environmental to market organic cothas also been regularly been advertising PURE benefit and which at the same time repreton articles. Once again, providing information on WEAR articles on the sent good value for money. Witt’s Spring/Summer the sustainable quality Internet in a separately 2011 catalogue features of its individual article themed section of the Wood from sustainable forestry an extensive range of groups – ranging from online shop. After cotton, wood is the Otto Group’s secPURE WEAR fashions. In the skin-friendliness of Witt carried 1,004 PURE ond most frequently used raw material. It addition the articles are PURE WEAR articles to WEAR articles in its ranis used in the production of catalogue and advertised bundled tosupplier audits – on the ge and as a result used advertising materials as well as products gether over six catalogue inside-cover pages of its around 118 t of organic in our furniture assortments. The Group pages with a new design catalogues. These meacotton in 2009, equating companies are continually increasing the and with their own logo sures are supplemented to a 4.1% share of its overshare of certified wood products that meet in the form of a green by a four-page brochure all textile assortment. the internationally recognised criteria of leaf. The range is highlighwhich is regularly incluthe Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) (see p. 105). otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 113 Assortment and Customers Eco Facts offer the customer orientation in ethical consumption. Of the reporting companies, Heine, vegetable-tanned leather as well as certified discussions is to encourage manufacturers OTTO, Baur, OTTO Office, bonprix, UNITO natural rubber, organic cotton and recycled to increase their implementation of this and Schwab offered a total of 338 different materials. standard. Furthermore, SportScheck holds FSC® articles in their assortments in the fian advantageous position in the outdoor nancial year 2010/11. In the same financial Close collaboration with brand clothing market thanks to its high order year, the share of FSC®-certified products insuppliers at SportScheck quantities, allowing it to encourage supcreased from just under 4% to 7% compared In spring/summer 2011, SportScheck expliers to align their portfolio more with to the year before – with OTTO achieving panded its assortment of third-party the bluesign standard. a share of almost 13% based on its overall branded outdoor articles by 240 sustainfurniture range. The FSC target share for able products – equating to a share of Energy-efficient living 2012/13 in line with our CR Strategy is 15% 36% of all newly incorporated products. The Otto Group’s sustainable assortments of solid wood furniture for OTTO, 20% of the The purchasing criteria include organic do not consist only of consumer goods; overall wood assortment including wooden cotton quality and a recycled-materials they also include property. Since early 2011 components for Heine and 15% for Baur, also ratio of at least 50%. This total included UNITO has offered 50 different passivebased on its entire wood assortment. 166 bluesign-standard certified products, house models in its assortment. These which SportScheck markets in its online houses primarily cover their heating reSustainability in our shop and in prominent places within its quirements from sunlight as well as from footwear assortment stores. The requirements of this standard waste heat generated by people and equipWhen it comes to shoes, sustainability still guarantee compliance with strict criteria ment in the home. The houses don’t need plays a secondary role and the existing susin terms of resource productivity, labour traditional heating even in the winter, tainably produced footwear segment is thus law as well as imissions, watercourse and thanks to their excellent insulation, an air/ relatively small. As such, the Otto Group aims consumer protection. To enable SportScheck water heat pump which extracts heat from to close this gap as part of its CR Strategy. As to further expand its assortment of bluethe ambient air and a ventilation system Baur purchases a significant proportion of sign-certified outdoor articles it is workwhich also recovers heat. the shoe assortments within our Group, the ing closely with manufacturers and supcompany is focusing on expanding its suspliers. During the planning phase of a new Positioning sustainability tainable shoe range as part of the Group’s collection the company focuses on diaas a selling point CR Strategy: by 2012/13 this share is to aclogue, bringing together its brand manuThe Group companies intend to raise cuscount for 2% of the overall shoe assortment. facturers and bluesign-standard representomer awareness about the advantages of Here, key sustainability criteria include using tatives around the table. The goal of these sustainable products, as the purchasing 114 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Assortment and Customers conditions for our Group’s companies can only improve if demand increases – which in turn can have a positive impact on endcustomer prices. Only limited space is available to the Group companies to put forward selling points both in the online shops and in their In July 2009 OTTO launched the online shop ECOREPUBLIC. This catalogues. Besides including product qualishop bundles together and presents the single company’s entire ties that are decisive for customers, such as assortment of sustainable products – in February 2011 this totalled price, size and brand, little space therefore remains next to products for communicatmore than 3,600 products from the areas of fashion, living and ing sustainability aspects. Nevertheless, our technology. Here, our Eco Facts system provides guidance and Group companies are also seeking ways to information on each item’s sustainability-related quality. present sustainable product qualities in a clear way to offer customers easy guidance. OTTO mainly uses so­ shion, plus further current the aim of offering OTTO For this purpose, since as far back as cial media and blogs to news. At utopia.de, the customers sustainable 2009 OTTO has been bundling its sustainraise awareness of its web portal for sustainable product alternatives coable product ranges in a dedicated online online shop. On OTTO’s consumption, OTTO prevering as many areas of shop: ECOREPUBLIC. This shop is aimed ‘Two for Fashion’ blog, sents the ECOREPUBLIC their lives as possible. Its at a broad base of consumers who are inin the ECO Top 5 section shop and other CR activisuccess justifies the concreasingly interested in ethical consumpECOREPUBLIC’s Purchasing ties for discussion to a cricept: in the financial year tion and sustainable products. To address Manager gives monthly tical group of consumers. 2010/11 it had already gethis target group, OTTO has developed acupdates on the latest The ECOREPUBLIC range nerated turnover of over companying marketing and communicatrends in sustainable facontinues to grow, with 270 mn€. tion campaigns in its CR Strategy. Consequently, the homepage of the online shop otto.de has been permanently linked to the ECOREPUBLIC shop since March 2011 and it has been displaying its ranges increasingly on site banners. UNITO also continually places ECOREPUBLIC shop articles on the homepage of its online shop. OTTO also promotes the topic in its catalogues, where it presents sustainable fashion collections − made from organic and CmiA cotton, among other products − on multiple double-page spreads. In addition OTTO has developed the Eco Facts customer-guide system: this is a collection of modern, eyecatching symbols that highlight the sustainability value of products. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 115 Assortment and Customers Eco Facts state sustainability us, as these build trust among consumers in Product Quality and Safety added value the quality of the products and their sustainEco Facts meet customers’ need for guidable added value. In turn this has a positive efThe Otto Group subsidiaries are responsible ance when digesting the numerous susfect on how we are perceived as a responsible for the quality of the products they directly tainability labels already on the market. ToGroup of companies. import in their function as trading compaday, many consumers feel overwhelmed by The aim of Eco Facts is not to replace exnies. We have high standards when it comes the flood of eco labels, whereas in other aristing labels, but rather to allow consumers to to evaluating product quality: we do not eas they are missing essential information. make better use of them. Eco Facts improve measure this only in terms of qualities such OTTO, Schwab, UNITO and Baur therefore guidance when dealing with labels, make it as durability, finish and aesthetics, but also in place Eco Facts directly next to the product easier to identify sustainable products and, as terms of the production process. in their online shops and catalogues to give a result, make it simpler for the consumer to customers a quick overview of the particumake sustainable purchasing decisions. Systematic spot checks in lar key sustainability aspects in each case. all textile assortments Eco Facts are divided into five categories: Prominent partners as ambassadors By conducting systematic spot checks, we • Eco Bio denotes the use of natural raw maof sustainable fashion monitor compliance with statutory requireterials with noticeable ecological advantagWhen marketing sustainable products, OTTO ments to certify the safety of our textile clothes such as organic cotton or FSC®-certified also counts on the credibility of recognised ing assortments. In addition, since 2008 (or as timber. partners. In collaboration with the designer far back as 2004 in the case of Witt) the com• Eco Recycling denotes the use of recycled Michael Michalsky and the World Wide Fund panies covered by this report have placed spematerials, for instance when textiles are for Nature (WWF), OTTO has been showcascific requirements on the testing of the textile made from recycled materials by the brand ing its Protect! fashion line since August 2010 assortments for harmful substances based on PYUA. in the ECOREPUBLIC shop at otto.de. The colthe Öko-Tex Standard 100. Several accessories • Eco Engagement denotes products which, lection is devoted to protecting endangered and decorative items which do not directly when purchased, support social or nonspecies and these are represented as printed touch the skin when worn, as well as certain profit initiatives; products include textiles designs on organic cotton t-shirts. For every rug products, are among the things excluded from the CmiA initiative. t-shirt sold, 5 € goes to the WWF. Since Octofrom testing. The eco material requirements • Eco Energie is used to denote particularly ber 2010, the collection of musician Thomas include testing for formaldehyde, heavy metenergy-efficient devices and appliances; D, member of the German band Die Fantas­ als as well as carcinogenic and allergenic dyes. the evaluation is based mainly on energytischen Vier (The Fantastic Four), has also been The threshold values are determined using efficiency ratings of the European Energy available in the ECOREPUBLIC shop: he has put the latest scientific knowledge and technolLabel. together a unique, recyclable collection made ogy available. Even stricter testing parameters • Eco Vital denotes products that promote or from organic cotton for the eco label PYUA. apply to children’s clothing. If the textiles are protect health. Among others this includes within statutory thresholds – and if our Group low-radiation phones, or products specially subsidiary wishes – the textiles are awarded developed for those suffering from allergies our own company seal ‘hautfreundlich, weil and which have been awarded the Seal of schadstoffgeprüft’ (skin-friendly, tested for Approval, for instance. harmful substances). Almost 100% of the texWe only assign a product to one of our tiles offered in the assortments of OTTO and Quality seals Eco Fact categories if it has been awarded a www. ottogroup.com/cr-report Schwab bear this seal. Overall, textiles tested trustworthy label attesting to a quality check Cotton made in Africa for harmful substances accounted for 70% of www.cotton-made-in-africa.com/en by the Otto Group, or an external certification. the textile assortment offered by the reportEcorepublic Working with external labels is important to www.otto.de/Ecorepublic ing companies in the financial year 2010/11. 116 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Assortment and Customers by allowing them to access customer information necessary for the recall, after signing a corresponding confidentiality agreement. In the reporting period, there were four incidents in which Group companies recalled own-brand articles: a soft-shell girls’ jacket from OTTO where a cord did not meet the required breaking-point standard; a glass table from bonprix which broke for no obvious reason; Hanseatic-brand bicycles at Baur where there was a potential risk of the frame breaking; and at OTTO, a service provider exchanged a furniture-light LED set which had a poorly isolated power supply unit. Test enquiry relating to REACH chemicals poorly answered A test enquiry by BUND (nature and environmental protection federation Germany) concerning the chemical composition of wellington boots which fall under the REACH Quality control by Hansecontrol: textiles are checked against strict criteria for harmful (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and substances and their skin-friendliness. Restriction of Chemicals) regulation was incorrectly forwarded by Schwab and as a result was not answered appropriately. Under the Testing for harmful substances Product recalls according REACH regulation, companies are required by Hansecontrol to defined guidelines to respond to customer enquiries concerning The Otto Group implements its product Despite our high standards and rigorous safethe chemical composition of products within quality and safety requirements using corty checks, defects in terms of product quality 45 days. Following this incident, Schwab reresponding supplier-requirement profiles and safety cannot be completely ruled out. For viewed its entire customer service process (see p. 104). Here, our German companies this reason, we have defined a standard prochain and, in cooperation with Hansecontrol, call on the expertise of the testing insticedure for all Group companies when it comes retrained managers and customer centre emtute Hansecontrol, which is also part of to dealing with product recalls. If production ployees. Furthermore, a policy was produced our Group. Companies monitor compliance responsibility lies with the Group company iton how to deal with the REACH regulation with the Group’s requirements by means of self, such as when clothing is sourced directly and a procedure was defined. Both entered internal quality checks. The Hansecontrol from the Far East, the particular company into force in 2010. testing institutes in Hamburg and Dongconducts the product recall itself in consultaguan in Southern China, as well as testing tion with the authorities involved. However, partners nominated by Hansecontrol such if responsibility – as is often the case – lies as SGS or Texanlab and Ecolab in India, conwith the brand supplier, then the supplier is Hansecontrol www.hansecontrol.de duct harmful-substance testing for our enresponsible for conducting the recall. We supREACH tire Group. port suppliers in fulfilling this responsibility www.reach-info.de otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 117 Assortment and Customers Customer Orientation The stated aim of Otto Group companies is to offer customers first-class service. To achieve this, among other things they train those employees who are in direct customer contact. Our OTTO Office specialises in selling office equipment, communications objective is to achieve a high level of customer technology and office furniture to small and medium-sized business satisfaction and in doing so positively influence customers. In this segment, purchases are primarily made under the willingness of customers to recommend us, economic considerations, the main purchasing criteria being quality and also to influence their purchasing decisions. and price. It is a bold move to offer sustainable products here – something which OTTO Office decided to do, based on conviction. Customer satisfaction study and training measures The company has product segment. Since as far back as 2009, In September 2009 we conducted an inachieved particular sucAs part of our CR Strategy, OTTO Office has bundled ternal study of ten of the eleven reporting cess in the price-sensitive OTTO Office has also set its range of sustainable companies to measure the quality of cusproduct area of toners, itself individual aims to goods in a dedicated, tomer service and support, both in terms where it has successfully expand its sustainable asthemed section on the of telephone and e-mail contact. As part launched own-brand arsortment. By the end of Internet. Here, simply by of our study, customers who contacted the ticles bearing the ‘Blauer financial year 2012, 5% of clicking on the environEngel’ (Blue Angel) enviall wooden articles, includmental qualities customers customer centre were asked to assess the ronmental seal. The Blue ing wooden materials, are can find out about what discussion they had had. The services ofAngel is regarded as the to be FSC® certified and makes the particular article fered by our Group across all categories of highest and most strin10% of its product offer especially environmentally questions, such as friendliness, contactabilgent requirement in this is to be climate-efficient. friendly or healthy. ity and expertise, were assessed as positive by the study participants and we achieved a well above-average score at Group level. Here Witt did extremely well, placing itself above the overall good level of the Group in many categories including friendliness, contactability and overall satisfaction with telephone-based customer contact. Furthermore, OTTO Office and Frankonia regularly review their competitors' telephone-based customer service to compare this against their own quality. To improve customer satisfaction further still, OTTO focuses on direct contact: every new employee spends the first two weeks in the company’s customer centre. There, they conduct one-to-one discussions as well as answer e-mails and enquiries to raise their understanding of what custom118 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Assortment and Customers ers need. Schwab ensures the quality of its customer service by means of a new training concept which includes communicating via social media. Witt, Frankonia and bonprix also continually train their customer service employees. Regular customer surveys for quality assurance Eight of the eleven reporting companies regularly measure their customers’ satisfaction and willingness to recommend. In addition to the monthly satisfaction surveys it conducts, With the customer’s needs firmly in focus: Hans-Otto Schrader presents the ‘OTTO in 2010 Baur gathered customer feedback reHome Affairs Catalogue’ iPad app. lating to quality and assortment-based topics on two occasions, as part of its Consumer Appraisal event. For this purpose Baur estabdirectly to its E-Commerce Department, thus M-commerce as a new sales channel lished its Service and Customer Department allowing problems to be solved quickly, as all Along with Amazon, the Otto Group is one in March 2010. Schwab also conducts regular e-mail enquiries are already answered within of the world’s largest online retailers, already customer surveys to measure satisfaction twelve hours. generating some 50% of its overall turnover with the company’s services and e-mail servia the Internet. Even in this rapidly changing vice via its internal Telephone Marketing DeImproved delivery information sales channel, the individual companies are partment. and new dispatch services continually adapting their offerings to match In the past, imprecise delivery time informanew technological developments. For inAnswering customer tion frustrated customers. This is an area stance, in June 2010 OTTO upgraded its online enquiries promptly where our Group companies achieved signifshops with a new operating concept, techniBesides the customer approach, other factors icant improvements in the reporting period. cal improvements and additional service ofincluding call-waiting times play a key role in Since August 2010, the estimated delivery ferings for smartphone users. SportScheck terms of customer satisfaction. This is why time of articles that are currently unavailable customers have also been able to shop using UNITO and bonprix defined standards in 2010 is also displayed in Frankonia’s online shop. their smartphones since October 2010 – and to keep this waiting time as short as possible. In the same year, OTTO already increased the UNITO customers too since February 2011. At UNITO, 80% of incoming calls must be anreliability of its delivery information by 95%. OTTO and SportScheck have also provided asswered within 20 seconds; inbound e-mails Since the middle of the year, alternative arsorted apps for mobile shopping on the iPad are responded to within 24 hours at the latticles are also proposed to customers if the since 2010. SportScheck offers its customers est. At bonprix, the average caller-waiting displayed delivery times are too long. In the a special type of mobile shopping in the form time of 15 seconds must not be exceeded. large-goods assortment area, which includes of in-store order terminals which offer access bonprix, Witt, UNITO and Frankonia also use items such as fridges and furniture, Hermes to the company’s entire online range and ala database-supported e-mail management has provided OTTO customers with a new low those articles which are unavailable insystem for efficient and prompt processing delivery service since the start of 2010: on store to be ordered directly in the store. of e-mail enquiries. Since 2009, Baur has the day of dispatch, customers can view the used its Mantis system to forward enquiries location of the delivery vehicle as well as the and complaints regarding online shop usage estimated delivery time. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 119 Assortment and Customers Data Protection Otto Group companies manage a host of personal details about their customers, staff and job applicants. Quite rightly, these people expect us to take all the necessary measures to protect their personal information from misuse. We manage data protection through Group-wide policies and monitor compliance with them by conducting external and internal security checks. Central coordination of data protection Our Group IT Security Guideline, most recently updated in 2009, guarantees that data is protected in all eleven of the companies covered by this report. Furthermore, it is supplemented by our Data Protection Guideline In the purchasing processes for high-quality furniture assortments, which places additional requirements on the Heine goes far beyond usual industry standards as the company’s Group’s eleven reporting companies. Both engagement doesn’t end at the stage of raw-material selection. As Guidelines are consistent with the requirefar back as 2008, after rigorously auditing its suppliers in the key ments of the German Federal Data Protection purchasing market of Latvia, Heine launched a cooperative project Act. In compliance with this Act, in 2009 untogether with its suppliers aimed at producing environmentally der an Executive Board resolution data profriendly furniture. tection and IT security were separated from the operational areas and consolidated in our Since that time Heine ing the use of environproject, Heine plans to new organisational unit Data Protection and has only been working mentally friendly dyes, launch a special environIT Security, under the responsibility of our with those suppliers that adhesives and varnishes. mental auditing system Chief Data Protection Advisor. accept the company’s Additionally, a docuat the Latvian production At Group level, the Chief Data Protection internal, ecological menting and monitoring sites. During the course Advisor coordinates the single companies’ product-design requiresystem was established of the overall project, officers and instructs them on how to deal ments which stipulate, which is intended to help Heine has done a lot of with specific data-protection issues. Both among other things, that further improve the use work to convince its supparties are in regular contact with each FSC®-certified timber is of resources. Currently, pliers and has supported other, such as at our annual two-day Data to be used. As part of the several factories are althem extensively. If the Protection Conference. In addition, in 2009 project, further criteria ready using it to also log system proves a success, we set up a central ‘data-protection wiki’ on were developed to their energy and materiHeine plans to roll it out our intranet, where data protection and IT ensure production is als consumption. in other countries and to security policies, checklists and procedures sustainable – includIn the next stage of the cover other suppliers. can be viewed. 120 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Assortment and Customers Internal and external datafrom the Bundesverband des Deutschen VerAnswering data-protection protection and IT-security controls sandhandels (German E-Commerce and Disenquiries at OTTO The Otto Group’s IT Security Guideline sets out tance Selling Trade Association), UNITO was The single company OTTO received some 600 how we protect personal information against awarded by the österreichischen Handelsdata-protection enquiries from customers in unauthorised access and theft, as well as verband (Austrian Trade Association), and at 2009. To enable the company to respond as the security requirements on our IT systems. bonprix, the Trusted Shop seal confirms that quickly and definitively as possible to such Since 2001, our Group Audit area has regularly personal information is protected. enquiries, OTTO established a central point checked whether the reporting companies are Our IT Core Security Suite is a further tool of contact together with the Customer Diacomplying with these provisions and whether to ensure IT security. Before IT projects with logue Department to answer sales-related, key data-processing systems are protected a value of over 50,000 € can be launched, data-protection questions. against unauthorised access. Furthermore, all questions listed must be answered and it checks whether the accountable specialist IT security requirements met. At the same areas are implementing the measures stiputime, this is used to document the security lated by the Chief Data Protection Advisor. measures of the individual IT systems. Our We supplement our Group-internal daIT Core Security Suite currently applies to the ta-security checks with external checks. For majority of reporting companies, but we ininstance, seven of the eleven reporting comtend to roll this out Group-wide from 2012. In panies have the security of their online shops February 2011 an extended version of our IT certified by external companies: Baur, OTTO Core Security Suite came into force at OTTO. and OTTO Office were awarded the TÜV (GerIt places greater focus on e-commerce topics, Award for outstanding customer man Technical Inspection Association) seal, such as additional security requirements for orientation Witt and Schwab received the quality seal integrating social media into the online shop. www.ottogroup.com/cr-report 338 articles made of FSC®-certified timber were offered by the reporting companies in the 2010/11 financial year – more than seven times as much as in the 2006/07 financial year. Apart from furniture, this also included home accessories. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 121 Assortment and Customers – Facts and Figures Facts and Figures Unless indicated otherwise, all of the reporting companies’ key figover, besides own-brand products (Otto Group owns brand rights) ures relating to the Assortment and Customers field of action have the new key-figure scope also includes external brands (brand rights been collected on a financial-year basis. The data relates to the ten owned by third parties). reporting companies from the Multichannel Retail segment. Products carried over from the previous season’s assortments were The scope of the key figures changed between financial years also included in the data-gathering process. For example, if an article 2008/09 and 2009/10 as it took into account the assortments of all is offered in both the Spring/Summer and Autumn/Winter seasons, it sales channels, whereas the focus had previously been on the (main) is only counted once. Another new development is the introduction of catalogue offer. Besides all catalogues, since the 2009/10 financial a minimum sales criterion of 20 pieces in order to forego the need to year the current scope of the key figures includes the Internet and include articles such as those sold online in smaller quantities. These over-the-counter retail. Furthermore, cross-selling assortments adjustments have improved the key figures’ validity. At the same time, have also been incorporated: these cover all articles that the comhowever, in two instances (amount of organic and CmiA cotton propanies offer their customers by cross-selling them from other Group cessed) the previous years’ comparative figures had to be modified to companies, instead of sourcing them themselves. For this reason, in ensure the necessary level of transparency and to allow a comparison the Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) cotton, organic cotton and Forest to be made. Stewardship Council (FSC®)-certified timber key-figure explanations To improve the transparency and raise the comparability of different a distinction is made between those articles that the company has sustainable assortment groups, from financial year 2009/10 details sourced itself and offers the customer, and the total number of artiare also given on the number of articles for organic cotton and CmiA cles offered in each case (including cross-selling assortments). Morekey figures, besides details on the amount processed. Amount of organic cotton processed share of 50%). This is necessary, as some organic cotton textiles con2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 tain additional non-cotton fibres. Even though in practice the organic 364 t cotton share is typically well over 50%, the Otto Group cannot assess this for each individual product; we therefore use this conservative 188 t method to determine the key figure. To bring transparency to this de146 t 107 t velopment over the past four years and allow the values to be compared, the figures from financial years 2007/08 and 2008/09 have been adjusted to follow this method. As such, the figures are not consistent with those stated in the last report. Organic cotton on a growth trend On the basis of the new method, it is clear that there has been a conTo gather data on the amounts of organic cotton processed, a new, siderable increase in the amount of organic cotton used, with figures fundamentally modified method was used in the reporting period, almost doubling in the reporting period. Behind this, OTTO’s figures whereby only half of the determined weight of the textiles was asare particularly impressive as, under the new method of data gathersessed in each case. This method conservatively assumes that textiles ing, it almost quadrupled the amount of organic cotton used from only meet our minimum standards for organic cotton (minimum 64 t in financial year 2009/10 to 254 t in 2010. 122 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Assortment and Customers – facts and Figures Amount of organic cotton articles* Increasing diversity of organic cotton articles 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 This reporting period was the first time the Otto Group collected data on the number of organic cotton articles. It showed that the range of 74,050 78,087 26,913 34,817 100,963 112,904 organic cotton articles offered, particularly in terms of the Group’s own 1,695 brands, has increased considerably. As Group companies responsible 1,649 1,296 (2.1%) 1,319 (1.5%) for their own purchasing activities, OTTO and Witt had the Group’s (1.8%) (1.3%) 23 46 greatest share of organic cotton articles in financial year 2010/11 at 968 (0.1%) (0.1%) and 536 articles respectively. Besides self-sourced articles, OTTO also Own brand External brands Own and external brands cross-sells articles from other reporting Group companies (cross-sellNumber of textile articles in the entire assortment ing assortments). Of the total number of 1,649 organic cotton articles Number of organic cotton articles (share of the overall textile assortment) offered by the reporting companies, OTTO carries the greatest assort* Figures correspond to those articles sourced by the Group companies themselves on the market. ment with 1,170 different articles. This is followed by Schwab with 703 articles and Witt with over 543. Overall, in financial years 2009/10 and 2010/11, the number of Group companies offering their customers organic cotton articles rose from six to seven respectively. Amount of Cotton made in Africa fibre processed 50% in terms of fibres processed). Accordingly, products are calculated to only be produced half with CmiA cotton and half with non-cotton 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 260 t fibres. In practice the percentage of cotton may, in many cases, also be significantly higher in the case of CmiA products. To bring trans134 t parency to this development over the past four years and allow the 102 t 30 t values to be compared, the figures from financial years 2007/08 and 2008/09 have been correspondingly adjusted. As such, the figures are not consistent with those stated in the last report. Doubling of the amounts of Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) On the basis of the new method, it is clear that there has been a To gather data on the amounts of CmiA cotton fibre processed, the strong increase in the amount of CmiA cotton quantities used, with Otto Group opted for the same conservative calculation method as the tonnage of CmiA cotton more than doubling in the reporting pefor organic cotton. This method assumes that all products only meet riod from 102 t in financial year 2009/10 to 260 t in 2010/11 under the the Group’s minimum standards for CmiA cotton (minimum share of new data-gathering method. Number of Cotton made in Africa articles* and external-brand offering has been positive, with the number of 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 2009/10 2010/11 articles offered increasing by 57% from 517 in financial year 2009/10 to 813 in 2010/11. 74,050 78,087 26,913 34,817 100,963 112,904 Among the Group companies, OTTO offered the widest assortment depth with 428 different, self-sourced CmiA articles. OTTO also had the largest overall offering of CmiA products of all the reporting com20 47 813 766 517 497 (1.0%) (0.1%) (0.1%) (0.7 %) panies (including cross-selling assortments and external brands) at (0.7%) (0.5%) Own brand External brands Own and external brands over 700 articles in financial year 2010/11. Schwab and Baur also carNumber of textile articles in the entire assortment ried more than 500 different CmiA articles each in their assortments Number of CmiA articles (share of the overall textile assortment) in 2010/11 (including cross-selling assortments and external brands). * Figures correspond to those articles sourced by the Group companies themselves on the market. Overall, in financial years 2009/10 and 2010/11, the number of Group companies offering their customers CmiA cotton articles rose from Range of CmiA articles expanded seven to eight respectively. The number of CmiA articles offered by Group companies is a new At 0.1%, external brands are still playing a minor role in the area of inclusion in this report. The development of the Group’s own-brand CmiA cotton among the reporting companies offering these products. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 123 Assortment and Customers – facts and Figures Textiles tested for harmful substances Modified data-gathering method 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 There are principally two reasons for the fall in the share of textiles tested for harmful substances: firstly, there has been a strong increase over the last four financial years in the reference value used 81.4% 83.7% to determine the key figure. The reason for this is the broadening of 70.1% (65,260) (66,908) 69.9% (70,796) (78,931) the key figure’s scope to include textile projects in all sales channels which, besides catalogues, also includes over-the-counter retail and especially the Internet. Second, a more rigorous data-gathering methShare of textiles tested for harmful substances in the entire assortment od was introduced which was applied to the Group companies in the (Number of textiles tested for harmful substances) reporting period. Number of rugs offered Further increase in the number of certified bearing the RugMark/GoodWeave seal rugs in the reporting period 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 In 2010, RugMark became GoodWeave. It takes up the work of Rug1,677 1,492 Mark and in doing so builds on its 15 years of experience in preventing 1,260 1,103 child labour. Since 2010, handmade rugs from Nepal and India have been awarded the GoodWeave label. We have increased the number of certified rugs since financial year 2008/09. FSC®-certified articles* Continued rise in responsible forestry products 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 The Group’s assortment of articles certified to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) standard is continuing to increase, with the number of 4,047 5,046 FSC articles increasing sevenfold over the past four financial years. 338 OTTO, the largest retailer of FSC articles, more than doubled its range (6.7%) from 154 products in financial year 2009/10 to 320 in financial 2010/11. 65 154 In total, the number of Group companies offering their customers 48 (3.8%) FSC articles increased from five to six from financial years 2009/10 to Number of furniture and home accessories in the assortment Number of FSC articles in the assortment (Share of 2010/11. FSC articles in the entire assortment, in%) * Furniture and home accessories (solid wood, veneered wood and MDF) articles. Figures correspond to those articles sourced by the Group companies themselves on the market. Product recalls Low number of recalls 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 In the last two financial years the Otto Group took responsibility for Product recalls* n.d. n.d. 2 2 conducting two recalls in each year. These included a soft-shell girls’ jacket from OTTO, in which a cord did not meet the required breaking* Product recalls, where the Otto Group is obliged to conduct these in its own name. point standard (see p. 117). 124 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Assortment and Customers – facts and Figures Assortment adjustment reduces share of energy-efficient electrical appliances OTTO and UNITO account for almost all purchases of our engergyBy contrast, UNITO increased its share of energy-efficient refrigerators efficient large household electrical appliances assortment, with Baur, and dishwashers from financial year 2009/10 to 2010/11, starting from Frankonia and Schwab offering electrical equipment as cross-selling a low level. assortments. Since the reporting period, washer-driers and tumble-driers have been A clear reduction in the number of more costly appliances with aboveincluded for the first time in calculating the share of energy-efficient average energy efficiency led to a fall in the share of energy-efficient large household electrical appliances. This also led to a fall in the share large household electrical appliances in several sub-assortments in the in 2010/11, as there are still relatively few energy-efficient tumble driers 2010/11 financial year. The cumulated share across all product groups available on the market. was 77.5% in financial year 2010/11, compared to 82.2% the year before. energy-Efficient large household electrical appliances* 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 Number of large household electrical appliances in the entire assortment n.d. n.d. 1,632 1,832 Share of energy-efficient large household electrical appliances in the entire assortment 63.5% 69.4% 82.2% 77.5% energy-Efficient large household electrical appliances* by product group 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 Total number of refrigerators/freezers 282 344 422 744 Share of refrigerators/freezers with an energy-efficiency rating of A+ or better, in % 49.6 56.7 84.4 86.0 Total number of washing machines** 268 271 430 403 Share of low-consumption washing machines** (using less than 45 l of water for a 5 kg wash and with an energy-efficiency rating of A or better, in %) 75.7 80.4 84.4 72.7 Total number of electric ovens 103 93 325 312 Share of electric ovens with an energy-efficiency rating of A or better, in % 73.8 89.2 97.2 93.6 Total number of dishwashers ** 120 84 307 240 Share of low-consumption dishwashers (using less than 14 l of water, with a standard machine width and with an energy-efficiency rating of A or better, in %) 60.0 64.3 80.8 62.5 Total number of washer-driers ** n.d. n.d. 30 32 Share of tumble-driers with an energy-efficiency rating of A or better, in % n.d. n.d. 83.3 65.6 Total number of tumble-driers** n.d. n.d. 118 101 Share ot tumble-driers with an energy-efficiency rating of A or better, in % n.d. n.d. 28.0 22.8 * Tumble-driers, washer-driers, electric ovens, washing machines dishwashers, refrigerators and freezers, fridge-freezers. ** Efficiency criteria also include water-consumption figures. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 125 165 Society Taking Action Beyond our business case The Otto Group also assumes its social responsibility beyond its business activities. In particular, the Group places educational opportunities for young people at the focus of various projects and initiatives. Engagement for the good of society is a as the company’s founder, Prof. Werner Otto The Hamburg Secondary School Model longstanding tradition for the Otto Group and the current Chairman of the Otto Group (‘Hamburger Hauptschulmodell’) − is anothand its affiliated companies. Its numerous Supervisory Board, Dr Michael Otto. Many of er example of the successful engagement of activities are shaped to a major extent by the Group’s executives and employees are the Otto Group to improve education opporthe exemplary commitment of leaders such also personally committed to social causes. tunities for young people. This transregionally established project supports secondary “The Otto Group takes a position on socio-political school graduates with a successful transition from school to professional life. issues and actively pushes developments. Consequently, The Otto Group is involved not only in we engage with these issues within initiatives and the local areas of its various locations, but associations, for example with the Goinger Kreis. also for young people in critical purchasing markets. For instance, we are working with Together with our partners we want to create and raise the child aid organization terre des hommes awareness of social issues such as young people’s right against child labour in India. to an education, and create tangible solutions. In the The commitment of the Otto Group is year 2010 alone, 165 youths participated in job training complemented by the activities of the individual Group companies, which are responcourses at Otto Group companies.” sible for their own projects, align those projDr Winfried Zimmermann, Member of the Executive Board, ects with local needs and customise them Human Resources & Controlling Otto Group individually. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 127 Society Societal Engagement of recreational activities on offer, with 76% of Student enthusiasm for classical the Otto Group and its them attending educational institutions on a music: The Young ClassX Reporting Companies regular basis by 2010. In the province of Bihar The Otto Group takes another approach Within the activities of the Otto Group and in the same period of time, 1,150 children aged to promoting education in Hamburg with the variety of its individual companies there five to 14 years were already enrolled. Also, the its unique youth music project, The Young is a broad spectrum of social, cultural and affiliated vocational training system is well ClassX, that intends to inspire children and athletic project sponsorship. A focus is on a­dopted there, with 132 adolescents currently young people to enjoy classical music. In colimproving educational opportunities for chilin training. In 2010, 44 adolescents successfully laboration with the ensemble Salut Salon, dren and adolescents both near the compacompleted training in the tailoring trade, which The Young ClassX launched after a successful nies’ own locations in Germany and also in also conveyed personalized expertise in how pilot phase in January 2010 with Dr Michael sourcing countries. to set goals and how to structure their days on Otto as its patron. The project encourages their own. Thirteen boys began with studies at children and adolescents to approach classiFuture opportunities for child workers a technical school. Likewise, the training cencal music in a playful way and aims to moIn India, a significant sourcing market for our tres and youth clubs are very popular in both tivate them to become musically active. In Group’s companies, we promote the project ‘A districts. Additionally, during the period 2008 cooperation with the Salut Salon Ensemble, Future through Education’ in cooperation with to 2010 microloans supported 27 women’s selfGroup Executive Board Member Alexander the child aid organization terre des hommes. help groups in Bihar that now operate a small Birken has developed this project’s ambitious While the financial sponsor is the Otto Group, business independently and no longer depend educational approach. terre des hommes manages the project. Since on the labour of their children. The young participants have the opporMarch 2008, the project partners have been In November 2010 representatives of the tunity to participate in a neighbourhood working against child labour in the northern Otto Group invited journalists to travel with choir, to learn an instrument, to play in an Indian state of Bihar and in the slums of New them to New Delhi. They wanted to get an orchestra, or to attend concerts. A speciallyDelhi at a structural level: child workers are on-site impression of how it is possible to sucprovided Music Mobile brings them to these integrated into the state schools and their cessfully release people from the cycle of povmusical learning opportunities and audifamilies are assisted in setting up their own erty and to help them secure an independent tions with the numerous cooperation partsmall businesses. life. On this trip the media representatives ners. The youngsters’ self-confidence, team The children are approached by projwere able to engage the children and their spirit and perseverance are strengthened ect staff members and motivated to attend families in personal discussions. through group musical rehearsals. The assisa study centre; here, they are prepared for tance of prominent musicians adds further school attendance through instruction in Financial assistance for value to the project: one of the highlights reading and writing. Connected to the educaIndian school for the deaf during the reporting period was a workshop tional programme are also youth clubs and liThe individual company bonprix has also with the internationally renowned percusbraries. The project provides adolescents with been involved in India for years through sionist Martin Grubinger from Austria. No a course of vocational training as an alternaimproving educational opportunities. bonless successful was the annual concert in tive to unskilled manual labour. prix employees conduct regular fundraising June 2010, in the organization of which 50 events on their own initiative for the benefit Otto Group employees participated volunSuccess and expansion of the project of a school for deaf children in the southern tarily. Since its inception, The Young ClassX A Future through Education Indian town of Tirupur and sponsor indiproject has developed very well, with 25 Since its launch in 2008, A Future through vidual children there. In 2009 and 2010, in Hamburg schools and more than 1,600 stuEducation had made considerable progress addition to material donations, more than dents already involved and with the comby 2010: in New Delhi, around 675 children are 25,000 € were donated for the development mitment of new project partners such as integrated into the range of educational and and maintenance of this school. the Hamburg State Opera and the company 128 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Society Steinway & Sons. The project is to be further developed and a growing number of students to be actively involved. In 2011, The Young ClassX was honoured by the German Lack of physical activity and related motor impairment in children Federal Ministry of Education and Research is widespread. With its sports programme SportScheck therefore in the competition 365 Locations in the Land takes up the challenge to help primary school children rediscover of Ideas as a ‘Selected Location 2011’. their in-born joy of movement. Facilitating career entry: Goinger Kreis The Goinger Kreis (“Going Group”) sees itself as a forum and think-tank for innovative personnel and sociopolitical issues. One of this initiative’s functions is to develop and bring into public debate new approaches to personnel management. Dr Winfried Zimmermann, Member of the Executive Board, Human Resources and Controlling Otto Group, is personally and actively involved in driving this initiative. In addition to the ‘Environment’ working group he directs the project Quo Vadis? which promotes the development of new ideas for the employer-employee partnership. The initiative was launnich, in which children SportScheck has also The Goinger Kreis’ ‘Fit for Application’ ched in 2008 in cooperawere encouraged to exerused its well-established campaign helps youths with vocational tion with the Technical cise alongside students city races for the beneguidance and is comprehensively supportUniversity of Munich; and employees of the fit of After-School Club ed by Otto Group companies. For example, it supports children and Technical University of Sports: per kilometre that SportScheck invited around 70 secondary youth day-care centres Munich. In the Festival’s each participant runs, the and junior high students to its Munich head throughout Germany second year, the primary company donates five office for job-application training during the in building a self-devegoal was to integrate euro-cents to the initiatiGerman nationwide campaign days in 2009 loped, age-appropriate the concept in the state ve. In its first year, twelve and 2010, where they received targeted advice exercise programme children’s education syscity races raised donafrom company representatives. The young for one year. This is tem: physical education tions totalling 31,495 € participants had the opportunity to receive now already running students were supported with 32,864 € donated a simulated job interview, receive a subsein 20 facilities. in developing and imthe following year. Since quent evaluation and to create a customized plementing a repertoire its inception, SportScheck strengths and weaknesses profile. Baur, Witt, In April of 2010, the first of movement games for has invested a total of Schwab and Heine also participate in these After-School Club Sports children in After-School just under 80,000 € in annual Advice Days and in 2010 assisted a Festival was held in MuClub Sports. Since 2009, this project. combined total of 125 students from the region with job-application training. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 129 Society vocational guidance and business, as well as on the fact that a search for an apprenticeship will be conducted on the students’ individual strengths and interests. Meanwhile, all 91 schools in Hamburg take part in the Model, As an outfitter for hunters and foresters, Frankonia and its from which secondary-school pupils graducustomers are committed to helping protect domestic species. ate. The Model has already been adopted in 19 cities and communities throughout Germany, and once in Switzerland too. Four additional regions are in the establishment stage. Even in London, there is already interest in the Hamburg Secondary School Model concept. In 2010 a total of some 1,600 secondaryschool leavers in the project were also accepted in unsubsidized training, who would otherwise have ended up in so-called ‘onhold’ programmes. The single company OTTO continually develops the Model, ensures its The company has already vation of species. A varime responsibility for indidissemination, assists other regions in its resumed and continued ety of local organizations vidual nesting boxes. The implementation and organizes a nationwide its successfully run Nesworks together preparing children care for placing exchange of experience. ting Boxes Campaign the nesting boxes: under the nesting boxes as well with numerous local the supervision of local as checking and maintaiSchool uniforms with partners in 2011. In this hunting associations and ning them regularly; they added social value way, Frankonia not only forest agencies, workalso accept responsibility When it comes to school uniforms, opinmakes a practical conshops for the disabled for tracking the nesting ions are divided fairly evenly in Germany. tribution to protecting construct boxes approand reproduction of the Whereas proponents emphasize the posiindigenous songbirds, but priate to the respective birds. The activities are tive impact in a sense of community, opalso contributes to raising species, while schools and documented with photos ponents fear egalitarianism. With its conawareness of the conserkindergartens can assuand reports. temporarily designed and sustainably produced concept collection of various school uniform items for the Hamburg School Hegholt in 2009, OTTO succeeded in Hamburg Secondary School Model received special transitional help, such as convincing even sceptics of the advantages offers career jump-start preparatory courses at companies, the rate of school uniforms. One example of a model project is the Hamin Hamburg even reached 28% in 2011. One The new school clothes are based on burg Secondary School Model, introduced by in three of the Hamburg job-starters has an designs by OTTO designers, made with CotDr Michael Otto in 2000. This project has sucimmigrant background, meaning this project ton made in Africa and sewn by employees ceeded in increasing the number of Hamburg is also achieving top results in this regard naof ‘Hamburger Arbeit’ (Hamburg Labour secondary-school leavers who subsequently tionwide in Germany. Union) (see p. 112) – an employment serenter unsubsidized training from 6.7% in 2000 The success of the Hamburg Model revice for long-term unemployed people and to 20.1% in 2010. Including the students who lies on the close connection between school, people with disabilities. Thanks to this ini130 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Society tiative ten seamstresses have already been assistance in their daily lives. As a result, by disastrous flooding in August 2010, emaccepted into employment relationships Schwab has designated its corporate buildployees donated 10,000 € for the victims to providing statutory social insurance. At ing as a Safe Haven for children. Youngsters the Malteser Hilfsdienst aid organisation, the same time, instruction will highlight who feel uncomfortable, are at risk or are for which the company also doubled the sustainable manufacturing processes for injured can take refuge there. sum. The money will be used to give the clothing and sharpen students’ awareness population access to clean water. of the importance of ethical consumption Transport and logistics at an early stage. for social projects Aid for earthquake victims in Japan Hermes provides logistics services for social After the massive earthquake in Japan and Joint sporting events for health projects: for example, for the association the tsunami it triggered in March 2011, the and community spirit Schüler Helfen Leben e. V. (‘Schoolchildren for Otto Group asked all employees to donate Exercise is healthy, and shared sporting acSocial Solidarity’), the company supplies free to the children's rights organization Save tivities strengthen a sense of community – information and registration materials for a the Children, which cares for children in ditwo good reasons for Otto Group companies nationwide campaign day at schools – some saster areas. The Group has pledged to subto also get involved in sports and physical 4,000 letters and packages every year. Stusequently double the total sum donated. activity. Baur organized the tenth Kaufweltdents can work on that day instead of going In addition, the individual company OTTO Baur Triathlon, with about 250 athletes comto school and can donate their wages to charlaunched a t-shirt sales promotion at its onpeting each year. On its anniversary in 2010, ity projects in south-eastern Europe. Since line shop in late March 2011 that was adoptpeople with physical disabilities also particiMarch 2010, Hermes has also been involved ed by other Group subsidiaries: 50% of the pated for the first time, so that the sporting in a project to re-use bicycles in South African sale price of each t-shirt bearing the ‘Help event was co-designated as the official BaSOS Children's Villages. For this project, the for Japan’ logo also went to the children's varian Championship of Handicapped Tricompany transports donated bicycles from rights organisation. athletes. In the preliminary programme the throughout Germany to the project partner’s company also organised children's 400 and logistics centre (fahrrad.de). 800 metre races to benefit a needy family in the district of Lichtenfels. Rapid assistance for victims of natural disasters Societal engagement: Children's Otto Group companies and their employees Hospice and Children's Safe Haven respond quickly and with minimal red tape In the years 2009 and 2010, bonprix inin providing assistance to victims of natural troduced numerous charity events for its disasters such as the earthquake in Haiti and long-standing commitment to the Sternthe floods in Pakistan, both in 2010. For examenbrücke Children's Hospice in Hamburg. ple, following an intranet call for donations, In both years the staff collected nearly employees gave about 27,000 € for the earth18,000 € for terminally ill children and adoquake victims in Haiti, an amount the comlescents, above all through proceeds from pany doubled to 54,000 €. Heine presented flea markets and sales promotions. Thanks the European Well Company with employee to this support, in 2010 this care facility contributions of 2,000 € towards the conwas expanded and is now open to young struction of a water-supply system in Haiti. adults as well. In Hanau, Schwab engages The Otto Group maintains close ties with terre des hommes www.terredeshommes.org in a prevention project, run by the city and Pakistan as a key sourcing market for raw The Young ClassX the local police, for children who require materials; when that country was affected www.theyoungclassx.de otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 131 Society Foundations and Leading the field in Primary-school children for the entrepreneurial engagement environmental protection: the responsible use of water Michael Otto Foundation In spring of 2010, the Foundation launched The two major Otto Group-related foundaEstablished in 1993, the Michael Otto Founits educational programme AQUA AGENTS tions − the Michael Otto Foundation for Endation for Environmental Protection advoin Hamburg, which playfully trains primaryvironmental Protection and the Aid by Trade cates pioneering projects and perspectives school children to become water experts and Foundation − are pathfinders for social in nature conservation and with its involvewhich has received an award from the UN. change. Both foundations were established ment aims to lead the field and motivate This programme, developed with partners in by Dr Michael Otto, but their functions and further exemplary initiatives. With this obthe educational, economic and nature conactions far exceed the interests and needs of jective it supports major nature conservaservation fields, aims to motivate children the corporate Group. tion projects, promotes innovative educato question their use of water resources and tion measures and initiates various dialogue to advocate their protection and responsible Award for long-term engagement events. Its support focuses on effective longcoexistence. The most important medium In 2010 UNESCO awarded Dr Michael Otto term projects for the protection and preseris the AQUA AGENTS briefcase, containing a prize for his many years of exceptional invation of rivers and wetlands in Germany, projects on topics such as water supply and volvement in climate protection: the sculpEastern Europe and in Northern and Central sanitation, water as a habitat, Harbour City ture ‘Support’ by the artist Lorenzo Quinn. The Asia. It is supported both organisationally Hamburg, or even hidden water consumpsame year, Dr Otto received the Theodor-Heuss as well as financially by the single company tion in the production of goods. Field trips Award for exemplary achievements in economOTTO. to select water sites in Hamburg compleic and social activities. ment the programme. Students can subsequently apply for funding from the Founda100 tion for their own projects, such as adopting a stream. In 2010, teachers at more than 80 Hamburg schools were trained in this educational concept and 250 schoolchildren were able to deepen their knowledge over 40 fieldtrip days. primary schools Interdisciplinary dialogue on conservation policy issues Once a year, the Michael Otto Foundation invites influential representatives from government, industry, conservation organisations in Hamburg have and science for an interdisciplinary dialogue trained around on the latest conservation policy issues. The ‘Hamburg Forum on Nature Conservation’ 2,000 students to series of discussions aims to develop resultsbe AQUA AGENTS orientated approaches to solutions. since 2010. In 2009, the participants debated the risky handling of natural resources under the title ‘Nature – a free-for-all?’. The speakers, who included the Czech Environment 132 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Society Dr Michael Otto supports school children in their educational training to become AQUA Agents. Minister Dr Ladislav Miko and the recipient of be employed globally for the effective reducDemand Alliance guarantees the the Alternative Nobel Prize, Prof. Michael Suction of greenhouse-gas emissions. This initiasuccess of Cotton made in Africa cow, presented ways to make the supposedly tive works with scientists, politicians and civil The key to this initiative’s success lies in building free resources of nature calculable. In the folsocieties on long-term solutions to climate an extensive Demand Alliance. This consists of lowing year, experts debated the opportuniprotection. more than 20 international trading and manuties and risks for ecosystems associated with facturing companies, including major brand reincreased urbanization; the approaches deThe Aid by Trade Foundation tailers such as Tchibo, REWE Group and Puma, veloped can be viewed on the Michael Otto The Otto Group partners the Aid by Trade which buy textiles made specifically from CmiA Foundation’s website. Foundation, which initiates pioneering projcotton and market them to their customers. In ects in developing countries to improve local 2010, the partners jointly sold more than 10 mn Initiative 2° – German CEOs people’s living conditions as well as to proitems of clothing of CmiA quality. Through lifor Climate Protection tect the environment. This Foundation was censing fees, the companies taking up CmiA The majority of international climate scientists founded by Dr Michael Otto. cotton also make a contribution to improving agree that climate change with unforeseeable According to the developmental apliving conditions in the CmiA-producing reconsequences is unavoidable if man-made proach of ‘helping people help themselves’, gions. Thus training courses are financed localgreenhouse gas emissions are not drastically the Foundation promotes regional sustainly, for example, in which smallholder farmers reduced within the next few decades. In the able cultivation of agricultural and forestry in the five project regions Benin, Burkina Faso, initiative 2° – German CEOs for Climate Proproducts, so as to enable small farmers to Ivory Coast, Malawi and Zambia learn efficient tection, launched by Dr Michael Otto in 2007, improve their living conditions through and environmentally friendly farming methods leading business executives have joined forces their own efforts. These principles were for growing cotton that will help them to boost in order to decisively address climate change. implemented in an exemplary way in its quality and bottom-line earnings. These trainThis initiative actively supports the German first initiative Cotton made in Africa (CmiA) ing courses in conjunction with higher incomes Federal Government in implementing a glo­ (see p. 112), which is now also supported by allow the farmers to develop independent new bally orientated and market-based climate several Group subsidiaries as well as by nuperspectives. The initiative’s efforts to improve policy. It also promotes the development of merous other trading and manufacturing the educational situation of local people as a technologies, processes and services that can companies. whole also play an important role. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 133 Society Promoting education in India: the Otto Group supports school projects run by terres des hommes. Social projects within the Close cooperation with smallholder latter collect comprehensive data, such as Cotton made in Africa initiative farmers in the verification process payment to the smallholder farmers, and forThe CmiA initiative is also intended as faThe CmiA label guarantees that the cottonward this to the auditors; this simplifies vericilitator for social public-private partnership production process respects social, envification and lowers costs. The first complete (PPP) projects to strengthen the social infraronmental and economic aspects in equal and independent verification of all CmiA restructure. With this in mind, in the autumn measure. In order to manage this process gions was concluded in May 2010. of 2009 jointly with partners from industry efficiently and cheaply with more than and public agencies the initiative launched 200,000 smallholder farmers in five differa literacy project for adults in the project reent countries, the Aid by Trade Foundation gion of Burkina Faso. An evening school co– in cooperation with the Dutch University financed by the Otto Group provides 5,000 of Wageningen, the auditing and consultadults with the opportunity to learn to read ing firm PwC, various developmental and and write. During a trip to the project region environmental policy actors as well as AfriDialogue processes of Benin in December 2010, Dr Michael Otto can cotton companies included in the initiawww.ottogroup.com/cr-report laid the foundation stone for a new school tive – developed a verification system and Michael Otto Foundation www.michaelottostiftung.de building. He travelled with representatives presented it to the public in May 2010. Its Aid by Trade Foundation of the Foundation and partner companies in effectiveness depends on close cooperation www.cotton-made-in-africa.com/en Initiative 2° – German CEOs for Climate order to gain first-hand knowledge of pro­ between smallholder farmers and the cotProtection gress made by the CmiA initiative. ton companies: as superordinated units the www.initiative2grad.de/index.php?lang=en 134 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Society Thought-leader in sustainable development Interview with Dr Michael Otto The Otto Group has promoted environmenthe one hand, companies have to ensure they Dr Michael Otto: I am in no doubt whattal protection for 25 years. Do you see today’s provide suitable offers and convince consumsoever that the public and private sectors globally networked economy as an opportuers of the added value of ecologically and soneed to network far more closely to make nity, or as more of an obstacle in this effort? cially sustainable products. And on the other change happen. Our initiative 2° – German Dr Michael Otto: As both. Global trade hand it is important that as many consumers CEOs for Climate Protection illustrates one implies an enormous burden on the global as possible develop a clear awareness of the approach to this issue. As entrepreneurs in climate and environment, of course, this initiative we work to support pomerely due to the long freight routes litical decision-makers, on both a naand the associated CO2 emissions. tional and an international level, in On the other hand I am convinced their efforts to protect the climate. that the business community has With Sustaineo we have transferred many opportunities in this area to this principle to the field of developimprove the situation − through the mental cooperation and are working intensified global transfer of knowto form close national and internahow, for example. Companies can tional cooperations here too. and must make a major contribution here. For instance, with its CliYour strong personal engagement is mate Strategy the Otto Group set itwell known, and you have received self the objective in 2007 to halve its many awards for this. What drives Group-wide CO2 emissions by 2020. you – and how do you find the time And in recent years many companies for all your initiatives? have set out to combine ambitious Dr Michael Otto: Reading the ecological and societal goals with Club of Rome’s report ‘The Limits of their business requirements. I sinGrowth’ at the beginning of the 70s cerely hope that many more will do was a powerful inspiration. This was the same. the trigger for me to commit to environmental and climate protection. The media have highlighted a new Dr Michael Otto, Chairman of the Otto Group Supervisory Board Naturally this implies dedicating a sigconscious-consumer movement over nificant amount of time, but given my the last couple of years, with the so-called effect of their own buying decisions, and purpersonal convictions I am more than happy to LOHAS – followers of a Lifestyle of Health chase sustainable products – even if these do this! Today I have a little more time availand Sustainability – at the forefront. How do are sometimes a little more expensive. able for my foundations’ engagement than I you see this trend developing? had in my time as Chairman of the Otto Group Dr Michael Otto: We see this trend With your climate protection initiatives Executive Board. For instance, I was recently spreading further through society and estaband most recently also with Sustaineo, able to travel to the Aid by Trade Foundation’s lishing itself. Many customers are changing the Founders’ Alliance for Developmental project regions in Zambia and Benin, and to their buying behaviour and critically quesCooperation, you are working specifically talk to the cotton farmers there in person. I tioning product quality and production conto bring politics and business together was deeply impressed by their progress and ditions. What is key here is that this change around the table. What is the thinking beto see how the Foundation’s work is making a in attitude is taking place on both sides: on hind this? secure existence possible for them. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 135 GRI-G3 Content Index GRI-G3 Content Index The Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 of the fulfilled. At the same time it shows to what extent tion given in this Corporate Responsibility Report Otto Group and its eleven reporting companies the Group companies provide information on the and to the Group’s Annual Report 2010/11. The GRI is based on the requirements of the Global Rerespective GRI indicators for the reporting period. Index is intended to serve simultaneously as the porting Initiative (GRI) and completely fulfils the In addition, the Otto Group explains why no furOtto Group’s Communication on Progress regardrequirements of the G3 Guidelines. The GRI has ther details are provided in this Corporate Responing its adherence to the United Nations Global examined this Corporate Responsibility Report sibility Report on certain indicators. Additional inCompact: the Group gives an account here of its and has confirmed its compliance with the Guidedicators whose fulfilment is not obligatory as core commitment to fulfilling the Global Compact’s lines by awarding it the highest Application Level, indicators for Application Level ‘A+’ are marked in Ten Principles. References to the corresponding ‘A+’. The following GRI-G3 Content Index details blue type. To comment on the required informaPrinciples are integrated in the left-hand column where in this report the individual indicators are tion, the Otto Group refers both to the informaof the GRI-G3 Content Index. Global Reference / Compact GRI Indicator Reported Direct Answer Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the p. 3 organisation 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities p. 29, p. 30-34, p. 36-39, p. 140; Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 6 et seq., p. 35 et seq., p. 45 et seq., p. 48 et seq. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Foldout 3-4, p. 4-8 2.2 Core brands, products, and/or services p. 4-8 2.3 Organisational structure p. 4-8, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 12 et seq. 2.4 Headquarter location p. 4-8 2.5 Countries in operation p. 4-8, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 12 et seq. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 4-8 2.7 Markets served p. 4-8, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 12 et seq. Reporting companies of the Otto Group are characterised by various customer profiles that in total, both in B2C and in B2B, cover a broad-ranging customer base (see Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 28-30, p. 32-33) 2.8 Scale of the organisation p. 4-8, p. 43-45 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or p. 4-8, p. 30, p. 31-32, p. 67, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 12 et seq. ownership 2.0 Awards received p. 132-134, p. 53, www.ottogroup. com/cr-report > Assortment and Customers, www.ottogroup. com/cr-report > Employees, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 27 et seq. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Foldout 3-4 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Foldout 3-4 3.3 Reporting cycle Foldout 3-4, p. 51-52 3.4 Contact point for questions Foldout 7 3.5 Process for defining report content Foldout 3-4, p. 47-51 3.6 Boundary of the report Foldout 3-4 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Foldout 3-4 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, and outsourced operations Foldout 3-4, p. 4-8, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 12 et seq. 3.9 Data measurement techniques Foldout 3-4, p. 67, p. 86, p. 106, p. 122 3.10 Effects of re-statement of information provided in Foldout 3-4, p. 67, p. 86, p. 106, p. 122 earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or Foldout 3-4 measurement methods 3.12 GRI Content Index p. 136-140 3.13 External assurance Foldout 3-6 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure p. 34-35, p. 39-42 4.2 Indicate whether the chairperson is also managing German company law stipulates that the tasks of the Chairman of the Otto Group Executive Board and the Chairman of director the Supervisory Board be strictly separated from one another. 4.3 Independent members on the board This indicator only refers to organisations that do not have a Supervisory Board; it is therefore not relevant to the Otto Group. 136 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group GRI-G3 Content Index Global Reference / Compact GRI Indicator Reported Direct Answer 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide p. 57 recommendations to the board As the legal and liable entity for the Otto Group, Otto (GmbH & Co KG) is 100% owned by the Otto family, the point ‘Shareholders’/Minority Shareholders’ recommendations’ does not apply. Employees’ representatives for making recommendations to the Executive Board are the Group Works Council and the individual Group companies’ Works Councils. Employees may also make recommendations to the Executive Board via the Supervisory Board of the Otto Group, half of which is composed of Works Council and trade-union representatives. Moreover, at the Annual Works Meeting and also at the invitation of the Executive Board to an annual information event, all employees have the opportunity to direct questions and make recommendations personally to the Executive Board. 4.5 Linkage between executive compensation and p. 58, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11 organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interest on the board This indicator is not relevant to the Otto Group, as the company group is owned by the Otto family and Dr Michael Otto is Chairman of the Group's most senior decision-making body. 4.7 Expertise of board members on sustainability topics p. 40-42 4.8 Statements of mission, internal codes of conduct, and p. 31 (graphic), p. 34, p. 39-40, p. 76, p. 83, p. 96-101, p. 104, p. 112 principles 4.9 Procedures for board governance on management of p. 35, p. 40-42, p. 82, p. 98 sustainability performance 4.10 Processes for evaluation of the board’s sustainability The performance of Executive Board members is assessed by the Supervisory Board, which also takes into account the performance environmental, occupational safety and socially related aspects embedded in the company’s objectives. 7 4.11 Precautionary approach p. 35-38, p. 116-117, p. 120-121, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 35 et seq. 4.12 External charters, principles or other initiatives Foldout 3-4, p. 53, p. 81, p. 84, p. 96-97, p. 102-103, p. 112, p. 136 4.13 Memberships in associations p. 39, p. 52, p. 96-97, p. 102, p. 132-133 4.14 Stakeholder groups Foldout 3-4, p. 47, p. 53 4.15 Stakeholder identification and selection p. 48 The Otto Group chooses relevant stakeholders in close accordance with the Group's CR areas of corporate action. Further professionalisation will occur with the introduction of procedural instructions in autumn 2011. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement p. 49-52, p. 57-61, p. 119 4.17 Topics and concerns raised by stakeholders Foldout 3-4, p. 49 Economic Performance Indicators 1, 4, 6, 7 Disclosure on management approach p. 4-8, p. 30-34, p. 36-38, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 10 et seq. EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 128-131, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 92 7 EC2 Financial implications due to climate change The costs of possible climate change effects cannot currently be forecast. However, the Otto Group sees direct as well as indirect financial risks that may result from climate change. p. 36-37, p. 133 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan p. 58, p. 73; Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 84, p. 208 EC4 Financial government assistance In this reporting period, the eleven companies covered by this report received no significant public financial subsidies. 1 EC5 Standard entry-level wage compared to local minimum Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 92 wage Otto Group salaries are generally bound to a collective wage agreement. Even for non-salary scale employees, salaries are above average. EC6 Policies, practices and proportion of spending on locallyp. 96-99, p. 106-108; Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 12 et seq. based suppliers The Otto Group is a globally active group of companies that also procures its goods internationally. With its extensive social programmes, the Group contributes to social development in countries where legal regulations do not guarantee sufficient protection for workers. 6 EC7 Local hiring p. 62-64, p. 69 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services for public p. 128-134 benefit EC9 Indirect economic impacts Against the backdrop of its comprehensive sustainability approach, this single indicator is not a priority for the Otto Group. Environmental Performance Indicators 7, 8, 9 Disclosure on management approach p. 3, p. 34-35, p. 39-40, p. 76-85, p. 104-105, p. 116-117, p. 132-134, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 46 8 EN1 Volume or weight of materials used p. 79-80, p. 82-85, p. 90-92, p. 105, p. 122-124 8, 9 EN2 Recycled materials p. 82-83, p. 84-85, p. 90, p. 92, p. 114 8 EN3 Direct primary energy consumption p. 86 To ensure comparability within the organisation and in relation to other companies, energy consumption is collected and reported in MWh. 8 EN4 Indirect primary energy consumption p. 86 To ensure comparability within the organisation and in relation to other companies, energy consumption is collected and reported in MWh. The proportion of renewable and non-renewable energy sources reflects the particular energy mix of the country. 8, 9 EN5 Energy conservation p. 76-81, p. 86-89, p. 125 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives for energy-efficiency and renewable energy p. 3, p. 29, p. 39-41, p. 76-81, p. 112-116 8, 9 EN7 Initiatives for reducing indirect energy consumption p. 3, p. 29, p. 39-41, p. 74-80, p. 84-85, p. 112-116 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal p. 84-85, p. 91 The main source of water consumption is the public drinking water supply as well as collected rain water. 8 EN9 Water sources affected by water withdrawal Within its water management, the Otto Group takes no water from sensitive ecosystems. 8, 9 EN10 Water recycled and reused This indicator is not relevant to the Otto Group, as the Otto Group is not a production company. As a rule, the only waste water generated is comparable to domestic waste water. There is no waste water recovery or reuse. Status completely covered partially covered not material otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 137 GRI-G3 Content Index Global Reference / Compact GRI Indicator Reported Direct Answer 8 EN11 Land assets in or adjacent to protected areas This indicator is not relevant to the Otto Group, as the plots of land it uses are not – nor are they immediately adjacent to – protected areas. 8 EN12 Impacts on biodiversity p. 81, www.ottogroup. com/cr-report > Society 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored p. 81 8 EN14 Strategies for biodiversity p. 50, p. 81, p. 84-85, p. 104, p. 116, p. 132 8 EN15 Endangered species affected by the organisation's The new sustainability directive ensures that materials from animals or types of wood that are classified according to the business activities IUCN as endangered are not used. A quantitative listing of the number of species is therefore not carried out by the Otto Group. 8 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions p. 76-78, p. 87-88, p. 89 8 EN17 Other greenhouse gas emissions It is not possible for the Otto Group to provide information extending beyond the reporting of CO2 emissions (e.g., NOx, SOx and other emissions), as the Group reporting companies' locations are administrative and logistics facilities where, aside from noise, no additional emissions are generated. 7, 8, 9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions p. 102-103, p. 133, p. 141-143 8 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Because the Otto Group is not a production company, this key figure is not material. 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other air emissions Because the Otto Group is not a production company, this key figure is not material. 8 EN21 Water discharge There is no direct routing to surface water. As there are no production plants within the Otto Group, its take-up of water almost corresponds to the volume of waste water it generates (minus the volume of water that is used for air humidification in air-conditioning systems). 8 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method p. 82-83. p. 92 8 EN23 Significant spills p. 82-83, p. 87, p. 89 8 EN24 Waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel p. 92 Convention 8 EN25 Impacts of discharges and runoff on biodiversity Waste water is not generated by the production process; it corresponds to normal domestic waste water. Waste water is channelled into the local waste water (sewage) system. In this reporting period there were neither any significant emissions of water-polluting substances nor any stress placed on water reserves by waste water emissions and/or emissions to surface water. 7, 8, 9 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts p. 3, p. 75-77, p. 83-85, p. 86-93, p. 102-103, p. 116-117 8, 9 EN27 Packaging materials p. 85, p. 92-93, p. 141-143 8 EN28 Sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 41 regulations 8 EN29 Environmental impacts of transport p. 76-80 7, 8, 9 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and As the Otto Group carries out integrated environmental and climate protection measures, the costs of the environmental investments protection activities of the eleven Group companies in this report cannot be isolated. Social Performance Indicators: Labor Practices and Humane Work 1, 3, 6 Disclosure on management approach p. 29, p. 34-35, p. 39-40, p. 55-65, Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 42 LA1 Entire workforce by employment type, contract and p. 67-70 region Financial year 2009/10: part-time contracts: 12,257 employees, full-time contracts: 11,940; fixed-term contracts: 3,696, permanent contracts: 20,165, temporary contracts: 1,074 Financial year 2010/11: part-time contracts: 13,659, full-time contracts: 13,013; fixed-term contracts: 5,242, permanent contracts: 20,272; temporary contracts: 1,792 6 LA2 Employee turnover p. 67, p. 69 A breakdown by gender is expected to be reported in the next Corporate Responsibility Report. LA3 Benefits to full-time employees p. 57-61, p. 67-68, p. 72-73 1, 3 LA4 Employees with collective bargaining agreements p. 70 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational p. 57-58 changes The stated goal of the Group’s human resources policy is to inform both employees and their representatives as early as possible about planned changes in the company. The other eleven companies in this report also adhere to this principle, depending on the nature of the change. 1 LA6 Workforce represented in joint health and safety The reporting Otto Group companies have different occupational committees in which employees and employers are committees all included. 1 LA7 Occupational diseases, lost days and number of p. 64-66, p. 70, p. 72 fatalities 1 LA8 Training on serious diseases p. 64-66, p. 72 1 LA9 Trade union agreements on health and safety p. 64-65 Health protection and occupational safety at the eleven Group companies in this report are in line with applicable EU regulations as well as with respective national stipulations. Humane working conditions as well as social aspects are defined in works agreements established in cooperation with the Works Councils and their Working Committees. At the Group’s head office, an occupational Health Management System has been introduced, which is considered to be a management instrument. LA10 Training per employee p. 55, p. 59-61, p. 71 The Otto Group collects continuing education data in days. The conversion factor amounts to 7.5 hours for one day. LA11 Knowledge management and programmes for lifelong p. 55, p. 57-63. p. 71, p. 141-143 learning LA12 Regular performance and career development review p. 59 Performance assessment is a core human resources instrument of the Otto Group. Assessment frequency is governed by the different human resources systems in place at each company, however. As a rule, junior staff are assessed every six months, executives and employees with managerial responsibility are assessed annually, and salary-scale employees every three years. An annual or date-specific rate of assessment is therefore not a meaningful indicator. 138 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group GRI-G3 Content Index Global Reference / Compact GRI Indicator Reported Direct Answer 1, 6 LA13 Composition of governance bodies p. 63-64, p. 67-70 In the Otto Group's governing bodies (Executive Board and Supervisory Board), out of 29 members, five are female. No further details are given in order to respect privacy protection regulations. 1, 6 LA14 Gender pay disparity Given the current status of Otto Group data, it is not possible to make a meaningful statement on gender-based variations in compensation. Compensation is particularly dependent on the specific professional function of male and female employees, but based on experience, also depends on length of employment and age. To determine a possible genderrelated dependency, differentiated, multivariate analyses would be required. Furthermore, within the Otto Group the percentage of women at Division Manager and Board level is comparatively small, meaning that individual cases have a disproportional influence on the overall picture and render a meaningful statement impossible. In pursuing the goal of a consistent, Group-wide compensation policy, the Otto Group applies so-called ‘analytical position gradings’ in many Group companies. Compensation for a particular position is thus orientated by the value of the function carried out and the corresponding salary benchmark determined by an independent external provider. Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights 1-6 Disclosure on management approach p. 29, p. 39-40, p. 96-101 1-6 HR1 Investment agreements In this reporting period, the Otto Group made no investments in areas where it was necessary to take human rights aspects into account beyond the essential validity of the relevant stipulations of the Group’s Code of Conduct. 1-6 HR2 Supplier screening on human rights p. 98-101, p. 106-108 1-6 HR3 Training on human rights p. 98, p. 100-101, p. 109 1, 2, 6 HR4 Incidents of discrimination p. 109 A case of discrimination within the reporting period does exist. In this case, measures were taken on a personal level and not communicated externally with respect for individual rights. 1, 2, 3 HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining p. 70, p. 96, p. 109 1, 2, 5 HR6 Child labor p. 96, p. 105, p. 109, p. 124, p. 128 1, 2, 4 HR7 Forced labor p. 96, p. 105, p. 109 1, 2 HR8 Training of security personnel p. 98, p. 100-101, p. 109 1, 2 HR9 Violations of rights of indigenous people This indicator is not generally relevant to the Otto Group. Social Performance Indicators: Society 10 Disclosure on management approach p. 34-35, p. 49-51, p. 96-97, p. 104-105, 120-121 SO1 Impact of business activities on communities p. 96-97, p. 104-105, p. 128, p. 132-134 10 SO2 Corruption risks p. 35 Each department manager updates his/her employees regularly on Group policy. Compliance is audited by random sampling on a regular basis. During the reporting period, there were no suspected cases prompting more comprehensive examination. 10 SO3 Anti-corruption training p. 35 Each department manager updates his/her employees regularly on Group policy. Compliance is audited by random sampling on a regular basis. During the reporting period, there were no suspected cases prompting more comprehensive examination. 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption p. 35 1-10 SO5 Lobbying p. 49 10 SO6 Donations to political parties and politicians The Otto Group does not donate to political parties. 10 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior p. 45; Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 41 SO8 Sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations p. 45; Otto Group Annual Report 2010/11, p. 41 Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility 1, 8 Disclosure on management approach p. 34-35, p. 116-121 1 PR1 Health and safety impact of products on customers p. 116-117, p. 120-12, p. 124 1 PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety standards p. 45, p. 109, p. 124 8 PR3 Product information p. 90, p. 112, p. 116-117, p. 124 8 PR4 Non-compliance with product information standards p. 45, p. 124 PR5 Customer satisfaction p. 118-119 PR6 Programmes for adherence to marketing communicap. 34, p. 45, p. 97, p. 120-121 tion laws, standards and voluntary codes PR7 Non-compliance with marketing communication p. 45 standards 1 PR8 Complaints regarding customer privacy p. 45, p. 120-121 PR9 Sanctions for non-compliance with product and service p. 45 related regulations The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact www.ottogroup. com/cr-report Global Reporting Initiative www. globalreporting.org Status United Nations Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org completely covered partially covered not material otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 139 GRI-G3 Content Index 140 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group CR Programme CR Programme 2011 Comprehensive CR reporting requires the fortion are carried out decentrally on the initiaProgramme refers to relevant text passages mulation of clear objectives. The Otto Group’s tive of individual Group companies, and are in the current Corporate Responsibility ReCR Programme details all the Group’s manot therefore included in the Group CR Proport 2011 as interfaces to sections of the terial CR objectives and their implementagramme. For each top-level field of action the reporting content. The content of the Protion status during the reporting period. The CR Programme nominates a major, Groupgramme is linked to the preceding reporting Programme is organised into five top-level wide strategic objective as well as operative cycle: the goals which were achieved by Febfields of action: Strategy and Management, objectives with corresponding implementaruary 2009 are no longer included and operaEmployees, Climate and Environment, Suption timeframes. These are made measurable tive objectives as yet unachieved have been pliers as well as Assortment and Customers. at relevant points in the Programme by the assimilated in the current Programme and The activities within the Society field of acinclusion of key figures. Furthermore, the partly adjusted in textual terms. Objective Objectives timeframe Status Page/comment Ensuring long-term profitability through strategic CR management Further development of the existing CR Strategy; production of Group FY 2010/11 2010 replaced by new CR Strategy p. 39 et seq. and company-specific CR concepts (10 Group companies) Revision and updating of the objectives of the 10 Group companies (GCs) within the FY 2012/13 p. 40 framework of the CR Strategy, as well as integration of at least 2 further GCs in the CR Strategy Executing the CR Rollout in German and international Group companies 2012 p. 42 Strategy and Management Expansion of the CR organisation: nomination of a Managing Director responsible for CR 2012 p. 42 and implementation of CR Coordinators at all Group companies included in the CR Rollout Development and implementation of a Sustainability Guideline p. 42 2011 for all retail companies in the Otto Group Introduction of an integrated CR Data Management System for all FY 2009/10 p. 42 reporting companies and a management process based on this Establishment of an integrated Compliance Management System 2012 p 34 et seq. Introduction of the process instructions Implementation of a Stakeholder Management Systems 2010 delayed (to autumn 2011) Continuation and expansion of existing stakeholder contacts FY 2010/11 p. 46 Implemented via the Social Introduction of implementation controlling and definition of a management Database; annual reporting to the process for the Code of Conduct (Merchandising/Non-Merchandising 2010 Compliance Committee since 2011 goods); checking of its implementation status in all contracts, and reporting to the Compliance Committee; employee sensitisation p. 35, p. 97 Establishment of the new position ‘Data Protection and IT Security’ 2009 p. 120 et seq. (reports to Member of the Executive Board, Finance and IT) Expansion of the scope of the IT Core Security Suite to cover the entire Group 2012 p. 121 Promoting Diversity, work-life balance as well as employee qualification and development Development and implementation of a social plan to mitigate social hardship and FY 2009/10 p. 57 reduce workforce redundancies resulting from company restructuring measures Improvement of employee loyalty through a work-life balance FY 2010/11 p. 63 programme (e.g. flexible working hours and locations) employees In the reporting period the objective was Production of a Group-level Vision to promote next-generation management talent 2010 integrated in the following reporting period Production of a Group-level Strategy for Group-wide FY 2012/13 p. 56 careers promotion and personal development Implementation of a digital system for Group-wide talent management FY 2010/11 p. 59 Further development of employee qualification programmes and offers FY 2010/11 p. 59 et seq. (focal points: E-Commerce, internationalisation, innovation) An intensified employee recruitment effort through harnessing FY 2010/11 p. 60 et seq. digital media (Internet portals, video interviews) Expansion of segment-related university and technical university 2012 p. 99 cooperations (to recruit next-generation specialist managers) Objective achieved Objective partially achieved Objective not achieved New objective otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 141 CR Programme Objective Objectives timeframe Status Page/comment Production of a Group-wide Diversity Strategy and p. 64 2012 employees development of corresponding measures p. 34 Development and establishment of internal Diversity controlling 2012 p. 64 (annual Progress Report incorporating Diversity key figures) Percentage of at least 20% women as well as at least 20% men in FY 2015/16 p. 63 et seq. management positions and on all further hierarchical levels Responsible use of resources and increasing resource-efficiency Reduction of adjusted CO2 emissions by 50% 2020 p. 76 Integration of the international GCs delayed; Integration of the international companies of the Otto Group with annual turnover of 2010 to be carried out within the CR Rollout by 2012 >50 mn€ in the Climate Protection Strategy, incl. completed data-gathering for the base year p. 76 Reduction of CO2 emissions in purchasing logistics: • Hermes: at least -17% in purchasing-related freight 2020 • OTTO: 30% reduction in share of air freight FY 2012/13 p. 77 et seq. • bonprix: reduction in share of air-freight to 12% FY 2012/13 • Witt: -20% CO2/t of imported merchandising goods FY 2012/13 Reduction of CO2 emissions in parcel distribution transport: p. 79 • Hermes: at least -30% (-2%/year) 2020 Re-examination of management methodology for the Climate 2009 Audit carried out by PwC Climate and Environment Protection Strategy by an external company consultancy Detailed analysis of potential areas of locationand facility-related CO2 reduction, within the framework of CO2 benchmarking1; derivation of possible measures/ 2012 p. 79 costs as well as definition of the order of investment by CO2 -avoidance cost Reduction of CO2 emissions at locations and facilities: • Hermes: -50% (-3.5%/year) 2020 p. 79 et seq. • SportScheck: +10% energy-efficiency increase FY 2012/13 Implementation of the Leadership Declaration of the ‘Business & Biodiversity’ Initiative and presentation of related measures to the 10th 2010 p. 81 Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the CBD 2010, Japan Certification of Environmental Management Systems (EMS) to ISO 14001 Standard: p. 83 • Recertification for Baur, OTTO, Hermes and UNITO FY 2010/11 Not achieved by SportScheck and Schwab, as • Initial certification for Schwab and SportScheck FY 2010/11 their internal EMS were assessed as sufficient Expansion of FSC® certifications and activities in paper products Until the end of FY 2010/11 (catalogues, advertising materials, packaging): application of 500 mn FSC logos • Application of over 200 mn FSC logos on paper products 2009 p. 84 • Schwab, Baur, bonprix and SportScheck: multi-site certification 2009 • OTTO, Baur, Frankonia, Heine, Schwab, OTTO Office: FY 2012/13 changeover to FSC cardboard parcel packaging • OTTO Office, SportScheck: changeover to FSC or recycled paper FY 2012/13 As a result of transfer of the parcel Lowering of packaging quantities through weight reduction – test at Hamburg location 2009 distribution centre from Hamburg to Haldensleben, the project was cancelled Continued use of recognised forestry certification systems for timber FY 2010/11 p. 105 tracing and therefore the exclusion of illegally felled timber Adjustment of the timber-tracing system to meet the new EU (Illegal) Timber Regulation 2012 p. 105 Expansion of social management and increase of transparency in the supply chain Israel is no longer defined as a risk country, Implementation of the Social Programme (‘Pre-scans’, audits, due to BSCI modification; audits in qualifications, training courses))in the newly defined risk countries FY 2010/11 Romania, Brazil only from 2011 onwards Israel, Egypt, Brazil, Bulgaria, Morocco and Romania p . 96 Expansion of the Social Programme by at least two further Group companies FY 2014/15 p. 101 (so far 13) within the framework of the CR Rollout and the three-year plan Suppliers Integration of Hard Goods suppliers in Assortment: implementation of the Social Programme for Durable Goods suppliers FY 2010/11 the Social Programme since 2010 p. 98 Implementation of a database, together with Hermes Otto International, that enables the visualisation of the entire supplier structure incl. subcontractors, as well as serving the 2010 p. 99 further expansion of the systematic implementation controlling/reporting organisation Approval of a concept for the systematic integration of importers in the Social Programme 2009 p. 100 Implementation delayed until the end Implementation of a concept for the systematic integration FY 2010/11 of 2011 due to differing purchasing of importers in the Social Programme processes in Group companies Objective achieved Objective partially achieved Objective not achieved New objective 1 Individual location and facility-related measures to increase energy efficiency from the CR Programme 2009 were integrated in the CO2 benchmarking process. 142 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group CR Programme Objective Objectives timeframe Status Page/comment CR Representative for Buying Markets carried Development of a training concept for the Social Programme: out training courses on-site in buying offices • Knowledge dissemination and anchoring in the Group companies FY 2010/11 p. 98 • Expansion to all employees in the buying offices (not only Social Officers) Development and implementation of a policy governing Delayed due to other current focus suppliers 2010 relationships with suppliers’ subcontractors topics (e.g. Usbek cotton, see p. 105) Audit objectives for Purchasing and Import organisations: Modification of the evaluation methodology • New markets: audit result ‘pass’ for 75% of order volume for auditing suppliers. Audit results 2011 and 50% of number of suppliers at least “need for improvement“ and • Existing markets: audit result ‘pass’ for 98% of order comparable to suppliers’ performance 2011 volume and 85% of number of suppliers ‘pass’, current status see p. 106 et seq. Continuation of the Market Development Programme with suppliers FY 2010/11 p. 100 Promoting conscious consumerism through the expansion of sustainable assortments and the clear communication of ecological and social product characteristics Introduction of a new organic cotton label 2012 p. 104 et seq. 2010: 260 t, stricter data-gathering procedure introduced for CmiA: only Increase of cotton processed for Cotton made in Africa to a total of 750 t/year 2011 explicitly certified CmiA cotton is counted p. 112 Increase in the percentage of Cotton made in Africa cotton taken up by individual companies (basis): • OTTO: 10% (own brands) FY 2012/13 • bonprix: 5% (own and third-party brands) FY 2012/13 p. 112 • Heine: 10% (target incl. organic cotton, cotton assortment) FY 2012/13 • Schwab: 10% (own and third-party brands) FY 2012/13 FY 2010/11 364 t/year Increase of the processed quantity of organic cotton to 450 t/year 2011 p. 112 et seq. Increase in the percentage of organic cotton taken up on an individual company level (basis): • OTTO: 5% (own brands) • bonprix: 2% (own and third-party brands) FY 2012/13 • Heine: 10% (incl. CmiA cotton) FY 2012/13 Assortment and Customers • SportScheck: 3% (own and third-party brands) FY 2012/13 p. 112 et seq. • Witt: 20% (all cotton / Modal textiles) FY 2012/13 FY 2012/13 Increase in the percentage of other sustainable textiles: • SportScheck: 10% ecologically advantageous synthetic fibres (own and third-party brands) FY 2012/13 • Baur: 2% of footwear assortment classified as sustainable FY 2012/13 p. 114 • First climate-neutral products at OTTO, Frankonia and SportScheck FY 2012/13 • OTTO Office: 10% climate-efficient products FY 2012/13 p. 118 FY 2010/11 351 articles; more on Increase in the offers of FSC® certified wooden products to 100 products Group-wide p. 122 annually, with the majority in the OTTO assortment 2011 Did not join the Wood Group; promotion of FSC instead by means of In parallel to this, joining the WWF’s ‘Wood Group’ 2011 CR objectives and implementation of the EU (Illegal) Timber Regulation Increase in the percentage of wooden articles with FSC certification on an individual-company level (as % of an assortment): • OTTO: 15% FSC certified (solid-wood assortment) FY 2012/13 p. 114 • Heine: 20% FSC certified (wooden-articles assortment) FY 2012/13 • Baur: 15% FSC certified (wooden-articles assortment) FY 2012/13 • OTTO Office: 5% FSC certified (wooden-articles assortment) FY 2012/13 p. 118 FY 2010/11 78%, due to assortment adjustment Increase in the percentage of efficient household electrical appliances (refrigerators 2011 in 2009 following the economic crisis, and freezers, washing machines, dishwashers, electric ovens) to 85% disadvantaging energy-efficient appliances Promotion of the topic of CR in customer communication on individual-company FY 2010/11 p. 114 et seq. level (e.g. increased application of goods quality seals and labels, or Eco Facts) FY 2010/11 70% due to introduction of Increase in the percentage of textiles tested for harmful substances to a total of 95% 2011 a stricter data-gathering procedure in the reporting period Strengthening of data protection: Delay in the introduction of new IT systems • Development and implementation of a new IT concept (encryption of customer data 2010 implementation by the end of 2011 in the Enterprise Resource Planning system and in the Enterprise Data Warehouse) Objective achieved Objective partially achieved Objective not achieved New objective otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 143 Glossary Glossary AccountAbility1000 AccountAbility1000 is a series of Earth. An increase in the concentration of greenhouse REACH REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisainternational, freely available standards. These support gases causes a rise in the Earth’s surface temperature tion and Restriction of Chemicals) is the European companies in establishing indicators and targets within and is a contributing factor in climate change. Community Regulation on chemicals and their safe their CR activities and their stakeholder engagement, in use. It came into effect on 1 June 2007 and regulates International Labour Organization (ILO) The Internameasuring progress and reporting on this. the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restrictional Labour Organization (ILO) is a special organisation tion of chemical substances. BSCI The Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) established by the United Nations to promote and moniwas founded in 2004 under the umbrella of the Eurotor social equality as well as human and employee rights. SA8000 SA8000 is an internationally recognised, pean Foreign Trade Association (FTA). It is an association certifiable standard for social management systems Materiality matrix A materiality matrix provides twoof companies whose objective it is to ensure their supdeveloped by Social Accountability International (SAI). dimensional representation of sustainability-related pliers comply with a consistent social standard. Founded in 1997, SAI is a non-governmental organisatopics along two axes, according to their relevance to tion dedicated to ensuring that ethical and humane Code of Conduct The Otto Group’s Code of Conduct companies as well as their stakeholders. The basis for labour conditions are upheld throughout the entire sets out principles and aspects of Corporate Responsithe matrix is a precise analysis of stakeholder expectasupply chain. SAI has developed effective systems to bility that are in harmony with international conventions, to support the development of strategies at an audit social standards. The SA8000 standard is used tions. As the umbrella of the Otto Group’s social proearly stage to manage possible opportunities and risks by the BSCI as the best-practice standard. gramme it is an integral component of every supplier to the company. contract and commits them to upholding clear social Social Business Type II The objective of a Social BusiMobility In this report, ‘mobility’ refers to the operaand environmental standards. ness is not to maximise profits. Its priorities are the tion of Otto Group company vehicle fleets, the use of pursuit of sustainable social and often ecological obCompliance Management Compliance Management company vehicle pools, as well as employees’ business jectives. In contrast to a Social Business Type I, a Type ensures that laws and Otto Group guidelines as well as trips by plane, train and rented car. II takes a profit-orientated approach. However, profits voluntary commitments, for instance the Group’s Code Multichannel provider ‘Multichannel’ is a business are not paid out as returns on capital but are returned of Conduct, are upheld. model based on multiple sales and communication to its employees in the form of a ‘social profit’. The CR Rollout Through the ‘Rollout Corporate Responchannels. The Otto Group sells products and services via objective is to improve the living standards of the local sibility 2011–2012’, the Otto Group is establishing and three channels: catalogue, e-commerce and over-thepopulation for the long term. implementing consistent sustainability standards in its counter retail. Multichannel Retail, Financial Services and Social Media ‘Social media’ describes digital platforms companies. Services form the Otto Group’s three business segments. that enable users to network as well as to exchange inDiversity Management Diversity Management refers OECD The Organisation for Economic Co-operation formation and opinions. to the strategic integration and leveraging of the indiand Development (OECD) is an international organisaSustainable Apparel Coalition The Sustainable Apparel vidual differences of employees, within the context of tion with 34 member states which are committed to Coalition was established in March 2011 by internatheir activity for the Group company. It aims to create the principles of democracy and market economy. The tional manufacturing and retailing companies, stakea productive overall working climate through the posiobjective of the OECD is to harmonise sustainable ecoholders and and scientific experts to drive forward the tive valuation of individual differences, to prevent social nomic development with raising living standards and development of a Product Sustainable Footprint. The discrimination of minorities and to improve the equality supporting the economic development of other countries. Coalition’s objective is to establish an international of opportunities. Öko-Tex® Standard 100 Öko-Tex Standard 100 is an benchmark for the qualitative evaluation of prodEthical consumption Ethical consumption describes independent, internationally consistent monitoring ucts under sustainability criteria. The Otto Group is a consumer behaviour in which the buying decision is and certification system for raw, intermediate and endfounder member of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition. no longer exclusively influenced by perceived value for consumer textile products. It sets out comprehensive Sustainability Guideline The Otto Group has estabmoney. Rather, the customer takes other aspects into criteria and strict limit values for the testing of textiles lished binding guidelines for Group-internal processes consideration, including the fair treatment of employfor harmful substances. and procedures. The Sustainability Guideline bundles all ees and suppliers as well as the responsible use of natuOmbudsman In cases of conflict, for instance when sustainability-related processes and procedures for the ral resources in the production and use of articles. suspicion of corruption is reported, an ombudsman fulfils purchasing and sale of merchandising goods. It applies FSC® Multi-Site Certification The non-governmental the role of an independent and confidential arbitrator. He to all retail companies in the Group. organisation FSC was set up in 1993 with the objective is obliged to maintain absolute confidentiality concernThinktank A ‘think-tank’ is a not-for-profit orientated of ensuring environmentally, socially and economically ing the identity of the individuals who contact him, and research organisation, whose main task is to pursue sustainable forestry. The FSC Multi-Site Audit enables supports the search for a solution to the reported issue. scientifically based, often interdisciplinary research on the certification of several locations within a company Public Private Partnership A public-private partnerpolitically relevant topics and to publish related findings group under a single certification number. ship describes a partnership between private business and comments. Greenhouse-gas emissions Greenhouse-gas emisand the state, in which both partners invest know-how TIP The Trust Improvement Program (TIP) is a certi­ sions describe the release of various gases (such as and capital in order to carry out an enterprise or initiafication procedure aimed at companies that place high on carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxides) into the atmotive on the state’s behalf. a (or an environmental) management system. sphere and which partly reflect the heat radiated by the 144 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Assurance statement assurance statement Independent Assurance Statementi To Otto Group, Hamburg We have been engaged to perform a moderate assurance We also have been engaged to report on recommendations for the engagementii on the adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility further development of Corporate Responsibility management and Principles with respect to the eleven Group companies reporting. covered by this report (hereinafter “the reporting companies“) We conducted our work in accordance with AA1000 Assurance and on specified quantitative sustainability-performance Standard (AA1000AS) 2008 and additionally observed the Internainformation selected by the Otto Group from its ‘Sustainability tional Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. Report 2011’ (hereinafter “the sustainability report”) iii Those standards require that we comply with professional requireManagement’s Responsibility ments and plan and conduct the engagement, under consideration Otto Group‘s management is responsible for of materiality, to express our conclusions with moderate assurancei, •• the adherence to the Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and the level of assurance requested by the Otto Group. We are indepenResponsiveness set forth in AA1000 AccountAbility Principles dent in the meaning of section 3.2 of AA1000AS (2008). Based on our Standard (2008) (the “AA1000 AccountAbility Principles”) in the skills and experiences within non-financial assurance, sustainability Corporate Responsibility management and management, social and environmental issues, as well as expertise in the retail and consumer goods industry we possess the required •• the preparation of sustainability-performance information in the competencies to perform this assurance engagement. sustainability report in accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 (pp. 7-17) of the Global In a moderate-assurancei engagement the evidence-gathering Reporting Initiative (GRI). procedures are less extensive than in a high-assurance engagementiv and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a high assurance This responsibility includes the design, implementation and engagement. maintenance of systems and processes to ensure adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles and to prepare the sustainability The procedures selected depend on the assurance provider’s profesreport using assumptions and estimates which are reasonable in sional judgment. the circumstances. With respect to the adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles regarding the reporting companies we performed the Assurance Provider’s Responsibility following procedures on the level of corporate headquarters of Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on our work the Otto Group, amongst others: performed as to whether any matters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that, in all material respects, •• Inquiries of management. •• Inspection of relevant documentation. •• the systems and processes implemented by the Otto Group for the eleven reporting companies are not sufficient to fulfil the •• Evidence-gathering procedures on the implementation and requirements the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, suitability of relevant systems and processes on a sample basis. Materiality and Responsiveness, or With respect to the selected specified sustainability-performance •• the selected specified quantitative sustainability-performance information of the sustainability report we performed the following information in this sustainability report has not been prepared in procedures, amongst others: accordance with the abovementioned criteria of the Sustainability •• Inquiries of employees at group level responsible for CR CommuniReporting Guidelines Vol. 3 of the GRI. cation and Controlling, Social Responsibility, Sustainable Products, Within the scope of our engagement we considered the following and Climate Protection. quantitative sustainability-performance information from the sec•• Inspection of procedures for collection, calculation and reporting of tions ‘Facts and Figures’ of the sustainability report selected by the sustainability-performance information. Otto Group: Share of FSC articles within the chapter Assortment and •• Testing of controls implemented to ensure the data quality of Customers, CO2-Emissions from Otto Locations within the chapter sustainability information. Climate and Environment and within the chapter suppliers supplier •• Analytical procedures on selected sustainability information. performance on the basis of order volume, supplier performance on the basis of supplier count, supplier performance on the basis of risk •• Site visits at Hamburg (bonprix, Hermes Logistik) and Burkunstadt countries, supplier count per risk country and distribution of factory (Baur). audit results. C5 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Assurance statement Key Findings and Conclusion Recommendations Findings in relation to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principle of Without qualifying our conclusions above, we recommend for the Inclusivity: further development of Corporate Responsibility management and •• Specific commitments to the stakeholders of the reporting reporting the following: companies are implemented and communicated at all levels of •• We recommend to systematize the group wide stakeholder the organization. management activities as part of the planned CR-Rollout in the •• Whereas some elements of the group wide Stakeholder ManageGerman and international Group entities. Otto Group should ment practices have been formalized in the reporting period, the document basic requirements as instructions for management. documentation of group wide standards is still to be improved. •• We also recommend to further improve the group wide sustainability data collection processes and to formalize the use of underlying methods and internal controls. Findings in relation to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principle of Materiality: •• Systematic procedures are implemented at corporate level to Hamburg, 27th of July 2011 determine the relevance and significance of sustainability topics for the reporting companies. Exchange on material issues takes PricewaterhouseCoopers place through group wide communication channels. Aktiengesellschaft Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft •• The results of the materiality assessments and the status of engagement of priority topics are included in the sustainability report. Andreas Bröcher ppa. Mark Fabisch Accountant Findings in relation to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principle of Responsiveness: •• Processes and procedures are established and reproducible to deal with and respond to material topics and stakeholder concerns. •• The reporting companies follow up on relevant topics and thus complement the group wide coordinated stakeholder communication of corporate functions. •• By applying the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of GRI suitable principles for stakeholder reporting are applied. Based on our moderate assurance engagement, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the systems and processes implemented by the eleven reporting companies of the Otto Group are not suitable to adhere to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Furthermore, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that, in all material respects, the selected specified quantitai Translation of the independent assurance report, authoritative in the German version. tive sustainability-performance information of the sustainability report has not been prepared in accordance with the criteria of the ii The moderate level of assurance in AA1000AS (2008) is consistent with limited Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3 (pp. 7–17) of GRI. assurance respectively in ISAE 3000. iii Our engagement applies to the German version of the sustainability report. iv The high level of assurance in AA1000AS (2008) is consistent with reasonable assurance respectively in ISAE 3000. otto group Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 C6 imprint Publisher Otto (GmbH & Co KG) Dr Johannes Merck Director of Corporate Responsibility Wandsbeker Straße 3-7 22172 Hamburg Phone: +49 (0) 40 64 61-0 Fax: +49 (0) 40 64 61-85 71 www.ottogroup.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 www.ottogroup.com/cr-report Contact Andreas Streubig, andreas.streubig@ottogroup.com Division Manager Environmental and Social Policy Project Management and Coordination Daniel Hußmann, daniel.hussmann@ottogroup.com Text and Art Direction Stakeholder Reporting GmbH, Hamburg Image Credits Otto Group: p. 30-36, p. 40, p. 56-57, p. 63, p. 66, p. 76-83, p. 97, p. 104, p. 112, p. 114-117, p. 119, p. 129, p. 134 Jens Boldt: p. 2, p. 28, p. 46, p. 54, p. 74, p. 94, p. 110, p. 126, p. 135 Markus Hansen: p. 10-23, p. 49, p. 52 Volkmar Otto: p. 51, p. 52 AQUA-AGENTEN Office/K. Angerer: p. 133 Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI): p. 96, p. 103 FSC/E. Goethals: p. 118 iStockphoto: p. 84, p. 101 Systain Consulting: p. 98 shutterstock: p. 39, p. 59, p. 62, p. 65, p. 113, p. 120, p. 130 Disclaimer This Corporate Responsibility Report contains forward-looking statements which are based on the opinions and estimations of the management. Although the management assumes that the expectations expressed in these forward-looking statements are realistic, it cannot guarantee that these expectations will actually prove to be correct. Assumptions entail risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Otto (GmbH & Co KG) accepts no liability and offers no warranty against the possibility that this Corporate Responsibility Report may contain editorial errors or be otherwise incomplete. Otto (GmbH & Co KG) has no plans to update the forward-looking statements or to provide any corrections or supplements to this Corporate Responsibility Report, nor does it undertake any obligation to do so. However, Otto (GmbH & Co KG) does reserve the right to update this Corporate Responsibility Report at any time without notice. In the event of discrepancies between the German and English versions of this Corporate Responsibility Report, the German version shall be final and definitive. ENVIRO TOP – recycled paper made from 100% waste paper. Produced without additional optical brighteners and without chlorine bleaches. Certificate: RAL UZ14 ‘Blauer Engel’ (Blue Angel) environmental seal. C7 Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 otto group Wandsbeker Straße 3-7 22172 Hamburg Phone: +49 (0) 40 64 61-0 Fax: +49 (0) 40 64 61-85 71 Internet: www.ottogroup.com
