Statement from Dr. Abubakar Yaro, CEO, Africa Health Research Organization (AHRO) AHRO & Human Rights The term “human rights” means different things to different people. It covers a broad spectrum of topics: from civil and political freedoms, to economic, social and cultural rights. At its very essence, it is about the rights and freedoms of individuals based on human dignity a value which commands wide respect and acceptance internationally. To AHRO, the term refers to internationally-recognized human rights, as expressed in the United Nation’s (UN’s) International Bill of Human Rights5 and the International Labor Organization’s (ILO’s) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work6. In some circumstances, other internationally-recognized rights may also be relevant, such as the rights of vulnerable or marginalized groups, for example, indigenous peoples, women, ethnic and religious minorities, and children. The Africa Health Research Organization therefore abides by the fundamental rights and principles proclaimed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration and conventions. The Human Rights Charter, called RESPECT, is based on the following principles: • Recognition • Equality • Safety • Partnership • Equity • Consistency • Territories These, AHRO respect and abide by them. Principle on Labor AHRO believes and respect its labor force. Therefore, the organization agrees to the following principles: • Freedom of association is respected • Working condition are always safe and hygienic • Under no circumstance will child labor be engaged • Living wages are paid • Working hours will not be excessive • No discrimination will be allowed • Regular employment will be provided • No harsh or inhuman treatment will be tolerated. Principle on Anti-corruption The organization takes the issue of corruption extremely serious. Therefore in its effort to curb any form of corruption, the organization has adopted the following anti-corruption policy: • No Bribery • No embezzlement, theft and fraud will be tolerated • Exploitation is a no go area • Favoritism, nepotism, clientelism will not be accepted • Money laundering is a poison the organization DNA • Offering or receiving unlawful gratuity is not acceptable
