COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2010 This report is Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC’s third Communication on Progress Report. It covers January 1st until December 31st 2010 and reaffirms the continued support from Hikma’s CEO for the Global Compact, and incorporates sections of Hikma’s policies, Corporate Responsibility Report, Code of Conduct and includes the UNGC’s 10 universally accepted principles and their implementation at Hikma. Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Contents • Letter from CEO Said Darwazah • The Global Compact 10 Universally Accepted Principles o Commitment o Systems o Actions o Performance 2 Communication on Progress Report 2010 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC CEO’s letter, Greetings from the headquarters of Hikma Pharmaceuticals in Amman Jordan, I am proud to introduce Hikma’s third Communication on Progress Report thus sustaining Hikma’s active membership of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The report signifies Hikma’s commitment to aligning its operations with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, and demonstrates a sign of Hikma’s business stewardship and dedication to bring about positive change. As Hikma’s operations grow, so does its role as a UNGC member taking on greater responsibility for the development, implementation, and disclosure of environmental, societal and governance policies and practices. The UNGC is one of the world’s largest corporate citizenship initiatives with thousands of participants from around the globe making it an ideal platform to induce sustainable change. Its network of multiple stakeholders that combines the expertise of the public sector, private sector, and civil society provides an ideal tool to advance in ways that benefit societies everywhere. Although we are a global company, we are keen on acting locally in all the communities we operate in and aim to provide quality medication in a way that sustains the public interest of all stakeholders. It is our duty as a multinational business to uphold the universal principals and inspire our stakeholders to do the same, nurturing the UNGC’s network to include more people and consequently magnify its impact. As an enterprise, we remain committed to conducting our business in such a manner that prioritizes these values and adopts them as core business elements at Hikma. Since the UNGC allows for its members to choose the solutions that best suit their business; it allows for creativity, innovation and sharing of this extensive knowledge through the COPs of all the compact’s members. And for any given solution to succeed, it must be understood and appreciated by all employees in the company, with the management’s leadership and support. An example of such an initiative at Hikma was the formation of a Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee (CREC) in August 2010. This committee was formed in accordance with the principles of good corporate governance and in response to the expanding compliance requirements in all areas of the Group’s business. We at Hikma believe the Global Compact is an effective and credible framework that provides a great foundation for pragmatic action towards the UNGC universal principles through a global collaboration that is strongly geared towards sustainable development. It gives one great satisfaction to be part of an organization which not only contributes to the economy through financial performance, but also caters to the wellbeing of society as a whole. Said Darwazeh CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Communication on Progress Report 2010 3 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC The Global Compact 10 Universally Accepted Principles 4 Communication on Progress Report 2010 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle One: Hikma conducts its business with high ethical values and in compliance with applicable local, Business should support and state, federal, and foreign laws. Within the Hikma respect the protection of Group, every facility complies with the laws of the internationally proclaimed country it is located in. The Employees Human human rights Resources Bylaws and supporting policies meet, and where possible, exceed all labor laws and regulations in all the countries in which we operate. Hikma code of conduct policy (“Code”): It is the policy of Hikma worldwide to be an equal Principle Two: opportunity employer, to compete fairly and to operate with a high standard of ethics. The Hikma Code describes this policy and must be Business should make sure that applied by all Hikma employees. they are not complicit in human rights abuses The Dignity Principle from Hikma’s Code states the following: Respect for the individual: • Respect the dignity and human rights of others. • Adopt work practices that respect employees’ dignity and human rights. • Prevent any kind of harassment in the workplace. • Prefer suppliers and partners whose employment practices respect dignity and human rights. Health and safety: • Protect human health and safety. • Ensure that products and services sustain or enhance customer health and safety. • Protect employees from avoidable injury and illness in the workplace. • Provide a work environment that is free from substance abuse. • Prefer suppliers and partners whose work practices respect international labor standards on health and safety. Privacy and confidentiality: • Respect customers’ privacy; protect confidential customer information within legal and regulatory frameworks. • Respect employees’ privacy; protect confidential employee information within legal and regulatory frameworks. Use of force: • Abstain from directly or indirectly using forced or child labor. Association and expression: • Recognize employees’ right to free association and collective bargaining. Communication on Progress Report 2010 5 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC • Respect customers’ cultures. Health and Safety Training: • Respect local cultures. Training is provided regularly to all employees. It is provided to new employees at the beginning of Learning and development: their employment. Specialized training for specific • Assist employees in developing skills and equipment is mandatory for operators whose work knowledge. entails using this equipment. • Create employment opportunities that enhance human development. Monitoring, Reporting and Communicating: Any injury that occurs during working hours should Employment security: be reported immediately by managers. A report • Safeguard employment and employability. should be completed as soon as possible and forwarded to Human Resources, the HS Supervisor Systems and General Manager. Monitoring the Code at Hikma Learning and Development: • Employees are assisted in developing skills and The process for monitoring the implementation of knowledge. This encompasses a continuing the Code is as follows: education scheme for Hikma employees, which entails providing scholarships to employees who • The Corporate Communication Department develops qualify. and updates the Code. • Employment opportunities are created to enhance • The CEO approves the Code. human development. • The Corporate Communication Department annually distributes the Code to all corporate employees and Monitoring the Health and Safety Policy at collects the signed receipts. Hikma • Managers worldwide understand the Code and explain it to their employees. The process for monitoring the Health and Safety Policy and procedures is: Hikma Health and Safety Policy The Health and Safety Policy is critical at Hikma General Manager: because of the nature of Hikma’s line of business, The HS directive is overseen by the General Manager operators must stay safe and manufacturing plants of each unit, who takes responsibility for ensuring must be equipped with systems for safely operating the implementation of the Health and Safety Policy. the machinery. The policy revolves around different areas and is practically implemented through HS Supervisor: certain processes. • An HS Supervisor is appointed in each manufacturing unit to take responsibility for The health and safety processes are: ensuring the implementation of the policy and compliance with local regulations. Employee Health: • If so required, the HS supervisor may allocate • All employees of Hikma will be provided with appropriate resources at each level of the Health Insurance for both them and their organization to ensure the necessary compliance. immediate family. This may include roles for a Fire Officer and a First • It is the responsibility of the employee to inform Aider. his or her manager / supervisor of any health condition or illness which will affect the safe CR Champion: performance of his or her job. A champion in each unit is selected by the GM and the CR department, and will also work with the Accident Prevention: representatives appointed to ensure the day to day Safety rules are posted throughout the plant and implementation and communication of the Policy administration buildings, for the protection of all is fulfilled. employees. Managers and supervisors are expected to enforce these rules. Employees who disregard safety rules will be warned and disciplined 6 Communication on Progress Report 2010 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Administration Programs Portugal; among a total number of 25 employees The first cornerstone of Hikma social responsibility that were covered by Hikma that year. is that it cares for its employees and their families. • The formalization of Hikma’s ethical compliance Hikma provides decent income and benefits and supervision by forming the CREC committee including but not limited to special child care in August 2010. assistance programs to working mothers and • The CREC committee met once during the year. employment of handicapped persons. Hikma also The programme of meetings is scheduled to provides support for the education of employees and expand over the course of 2011. their family members who qualify for scholarships • Communication of Hikma’s Health and Safety within its continuous education scheme. policy to employees continued to be a priority in The administration respects employees’ rights in line 2010. All new employees learned about Hikma’s with the UNGC human rights principle. It upholds Health and Safety Policy as part of their induction. the employees’ right to privacy, and protects • All employees received training in Health and confidential employee information within legal and Safety on a regular basis. regulatory frameworks. Employment security is also • Each unit completed an annual Health and Safety protected through safeguarding employment and review. employability. • Operators underwent training for safely operating certain equipment. The Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics • All new employees took a medical examination Committee (CREC) at company expense. Additional periodic In accordance with the principles of good corporate examinations may be required from time to time, governance and in compliance with the Combined also at the expense of the company. Code and Markets Law, and in response to the • The CR Champions carried out several campaigns: expanding compliance requirements in all areas You are Hikma general employee health day, of the Group’s business, the Board formalized its first aid training, fire drill practice, anti-obesity oversight in this critical area by forming a new campaign within the company and in the local committee, the Compliance, Responsibility and community, breast cancer day in line with the Ethics Committee (CREC). world breast cancer initiative, and world heart day. The key functions of the Committee are to oversee the Group’s approach to compliance-related issues including the Group compliance function, Performance anti-corruption, whistle-blowing, statements and policies on ethics, conduct, values and principles In 2008, the Code was updated and released to and at Board level to set and review Group policy in all Hikma managers across the Group, and it was the area of Corporate Responsibility (CR), which is signed by over 60% of Hikma managers. In 2009, supported by the CR Steering Committee. the Code was incorporated in the induction process for all new employees. Consistency and continuity Actions of the code’s implementation continued in 2010, whereby 2225 codes were signed by employees. • Signing of the Code in 2010 by current and new Hikma employees. Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: • Hikma provides specialized training under • LA7: rates of injury, disease, lost days, absenteeism its continuing development and education • LA10: average hours of training per employee per scheme. Around 2300 employees underwent category the specialised training out of a total of 5400 • HR2: percentage of suppliers/contractors undergone employees worldwide. human rights screening • Approximately 250 training session were conducted in Hikma worldwide. The trainings were in specialized areas that include: soft skills, foreign languages, business, professional pharmaceutical related. • Hikma provides scholarships for continuing education under its continuing development and education scheme. The number of people who started their education in 2010 was 9 employees, with 8 employees from Jordan and one from Communication on Progress Report 2010 7 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Four: Labour Standards Hikma Pharmaceuticals has always adopted Business should uphold the standards that are consistent with established and elimination of all forms of forced globally accepted labour requirements and this is and compulsory labour evident in all of Hikma’s subsidiaries. Ensuring our employees are properly taken care of is one of the core values and principles that Hikma was built on. Systems Hikma’s Code specifically states that the company Principle Five: will “abstain from directly or indirectly using forced or child labour” and will not deal with any supplier who does not honour international labour Business should uphold the standards. Hikma “prefers suppliers and partners effective abolition of child labour whose work practices respect international labour standards” (Hikma Code). Furthermore, Hikma commits itself, at a minimum, to abiding by the local labour laws in each of its locations and, at most, exceeding them. The labour laws in all the countries Hikma operates in prohibit the employment of minors under the age of eighteen. Hikma implements a “Grievance procedure” which is an accountability procedure that ensures that all forms of forced and compulsory labour are reported in a timely manner. These procedures maintain Hikma’s high ethical standards and cover any mistreatments that might occur between employees. Actions Hikma audits all its main suppliers in regards to their employment practices. The practice was initiated in 2007 and Hikma seeks to improve upon its record. The significant suppliers in addition to the contractors that have dealings with Hikma were identified and have undergone human rights screening as part of the supplier audit procedure. In 2011 we aim to revise the supplier audit procedure and update the audit questionnaire in accordance with internationally agreed upon best practices. Hikma follows strict accountability procedures that entail actions for rapid reporting of any labour mistreatments. The actions entail a Grievance Procedure that allows employees to notify HR instantly of any labour grievances they experience and HR immediately take measures to remedy the issues in a responsible manner. Hikma applies accountability throughout all its operations and has very open communication whereby any employee can communicate the grievance to the CEO personally and expect that steps will be taken to rectify it. 8 Communication on Progress Report 2010 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Performance To ensure all Hikma employees are aware of these standards and abide by them, working with preferred suppliers was incorporated in the Code which has been in effect since 2006. The labour laws of the countries that Hikma facilities are located in are put into effect and communicated to managers within their anti-corruption training to ensure fair dealings among employees. Hikma employees including managers and non-managers underwent anti-corruption training in 2010. In USA 69 employees underwent anti-corruption training in the fourth quarter of 2010. In Hikma AMC Jordan 83% of employees underwent training during the first quarter alone, and a total of 175 employees underwent training throughout the year. Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: • SO3: percentage of employees trained in anticorruption policies • HR2: percentage of suppliers/contractors undergone human rights screening. Communication on Progress Report 2010 9 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC sex, marital status, national origin, present or past Principle Six: history of mental or physical disability and any other factors not related to a person’s ability to perform a job” (Equal Treatment of Employees & Harassment Business should uphold the Policy and Procedure). elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Actions occupation As evidence of its commitment to providing a discrimination free environment, Hikma introduced an “Equal Treatment of Employees & Harassment” policy in 2004. The policy was updated in 2009, Commitment and states that we do not condone favoritism or inequality in any shape or form. Hikma is committed to providing employees with During the hiring process, recruiters are instructed an environment free of all sorts of discrimination. and expected to eliminate any kind of discrimination Hikma commits itself to “practice non discrimination and abide by the equal treatment of employees and provide equal employment opportunities” stated within the policy. (Code). Hikma’s Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee (CREC) implements the principles Systems of good corporate governance and ensures the fulfillment of compliance requirements in all Fairness Principle from the Hikma Code areas of the Group’s business, which includes the elimination of discrimination in respect of • Fair Dealing employment and occupation. 1. Deal fairly with all parties. The CREC was formed in August 2010 and met 2. Deal fairly with minority share owners. once during the year under review. The programme 3. Treat customers fairly in all aspects of of meetings is scheduled to expand over the course transactions. of 2011. 4. Offer fair and reasonable compensation. 5. Deal fairly in all activities, including pricing, Performance licensing and rights to sell. • Fair Treatment The Equal Treatment of Employees & Harassment 1. Practice nondiscrimination and provide equal policy was sent to all managers across the Group employment opportunity. who in turn were asked to circulate the policy to 2. Engage in free and fair competition. their employees and update their policies manual 3. Refrain from colluding with competitors on last reviewed in 2004. prices, bids, and output or market allocations. 4. Require suppliers and partners to refrain from Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: bribery and improper payments. • SO3: percentage of employees trained in anti5. Do not retaliate against employees who report corruption policies violations of law or company standards. • HR2: percentage of suppliers/contractors undergone human rights screening Hikma prides itself on being an equal opportunity employer and is dedicated to eliminating discrimination with the company. Matters pertaining to discrimination in respect of employment and occupation are covered in Hikma’s Recruitment Policy worldwide. The Policy states the necessity for “equal employment opportunity in hiring” in the globally acknowledged standards of equal opportunity. Hikma believes “in the equal treatment of employees and does not condone favouritism or inequality in any shape or form. Hikma does not discriminate based on a person’s race, color, religious creed, age, 10 Communication on Progress Report 2010 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Seven: Hikma strives to ensure the adaptation of environmentally friendly processes in all its plants Business should support a across the Group whenever possible. precautionary approach to Along these lines, Hikma is committed to fulfilling environmental challenges the International Organization of Standardization (ISO) 14001 requirements or its equivalent in all the productions facilities worldwide. Systems The Hikma environmental policy includes compliance with the environmental legislations, prevention of pollution, and the continuous improvement of the Environmental Management System, all the related Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), and environmental programs. Hikma is applying the environmental policy in every unit in order to improve operations from an environmental point of view. Hikma is keen on improving on all fronts including minimizing our impact on climate change, water pollution, land contamination, and energy use. Actions Actions taken to ensure the optimal results for Hikma’s environmental policy include: • Training employees on the environmental policies and all the related SOPs • Periodic internal audits • Management review meetings • Environmental programs such as reducing hazardous and non hazardous waste • Continuity for the ISO 14001 certification or its equivalent Performance Our environmental impact is assessed on yearly basis through our Global Reporting Initiative. We have continued with our commitment to achieve the target and goals of ISO 14001 or its equivalent to reduce the environmental impact produced by energy consumption, hazardous waste, water usage and electrical consumption. Improvements were noted across the Group including Hikma Jordan, Arab Medical Containers (AMC), a Hikma subsidiary in Jordan and Westward and Multi-Source Injectables (MSI) in USA. In Jordan, a reduction by 4.8% of fuel consumption was achieved in 2010 when compared to the previous year. Hazardous waste was reduced by 17% and there was an increase of electrical consumption due to the new plant expansion and Communication on Progress Report 2010 11 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC new Hikma Jordan administration building. In Hikma AMC plant the fuel consumption was reduced by 12.3% during the year in review. In USA, there was a decrease in the electrical consumption equivalent to 0.43% in addition to a decrease of 9.4% in total water withdrawal. Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: • EN3: direct energy consumption • EN8: total water withdrawal • EN22: total weight of waste 12 Communication on Progress Report 2010 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 1. Installation of new energy saving features in the electrical system. Principle Eight: 2. Scheduled calibration for steam generators. 3. Installation of a final filtration process for industrial Business should undertake waste water treatment. initiatives to promote The above processes are tested in Hikma’s corporate facility in Jordan and then implemented in Hikma’s environmental responsibility facilities worldwide. Commitment Performance Hikma is committed to promoting environmental Hikma’s Jordan facility continued to improve its responsibility and utilizing environment-friendly operations and achieved a re-certification of the processes in all its plants across the Group whenever ISO 14001 and AMC obtained re-certification possible. This commitment can be seen in several of the ISO 14001 as well as Occupational Health official documents such as the Code, Environmental and Safety Standard OHSAS 18001 certification. Policy, and the company’s Annual Report. Hikma facilities worldwide improved their “We aim to minimize our impact on the standards as required to be compliant with the environment where possible through integrating ISO re-certification or its equivalent in the country our environmental policy into all areas and activities in which they operate. Hikma deploys periodic at Hikma” (Environmental Policy Statement, 2007). monitoring for direct and indirect emissions by Hikma will “adhere to environmental laws and direct measurement and indirect measurement standards domestically and internationally. through KPIs (key performance indicators) as well Protect, and where possible, improve the natural as water testing. environment, and prefer partners who observe applicable environmental standards” (Code). Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: • EN3: direct energy consumption Systems • EN8: total water withdrawal • EN22: total weight of waste Hikma deploys reporting systems that aim to reduce energy consumption, waste, greenhouse gas emissions and water consumption. These systems include the Global Reporting Initiative, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and the International Finance Corporation (IFC) audits. Hikma is modifying all related SOP to include strong objective documentation for the ISO 14001. Through best practices, achievable targets and goals are set, such as reducing the energy consumption; reducing the hazardous waste in each unit, in addition to implementing training and awareness. Hikma initiatives start off at Hikma corporate offices in Jordan and are then implemented globally. Hikma is committed to reporting all its environment-related activities, results and performance to various national and international organizations such as the Ministry of Environment of Jordan, Jordan Environment Society, Department of Statistics in Jordan, IFC and CDP. Actions As part of its commitment to its environmental principles, Hikma finalised the following: Communication on Progress Report 2010 13 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Nine: Hikma is committed to promoting environmental responsibility and utilizing environment-friendly Business should encourage the processes when possible. development and diffusion All of Hikma’s new buildings will be built in an of environmentally friendly environmentally friendly manner. Hikma is serious technologies in its commitment to the environment as an integral part of its corporate strategy. This commitment is stated in several official documents such as the Code, the Environmental Policy, and the company’s Annual Report. “We aim to minimize our impact on the environment where possible through integrating our environmental policy into all areas and activities at Hikma” (Environmental Policy Statement, 2007). Hikma will “adhere to environmental laws and standards domestically and internationally. Protect, and where possible, improve the natural environment, and prefer partners who observe applicable environmental standards” (Code). Systems Hikma is committed to fulfilling the ISO 14001 requirements or its equivalent. It is also dedicated to being an active member of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Furthermore, Hikma collaborated with “Self Energy” (“Self Energy” partners with building owners and operators to save money save energy and save the environment www.selfenergy. eu ) to discuss optimal ways to reduce energy costs and increase sustainability throughout its facilities. Hikma’s consideration of the environment is reflected throughout its processes, and this is evident in its purchasing policy, which was updated to state that Hikma is required to install environmentally friendly equipment in its production units. In addition a contract with an external agency was signed to check all the energy usage in Hikma with the aim of reducing the energy consumption in all forms. The improvement on the environmental front for all processes is an ongoing effort. A new study with local contractors was conducted regarding the waste management. The information resulting from the study was incorporated into the processes. In 2011, we aim to build a state-of-the-art lyophilized plant in Portugal that is fully environmentally friendly. Actions Hikma Group is seeking to reduce energy costs and increase sustainability throughout all of its facilities by implementing Energy Conservation Measures (ECMs). 14 Communication on Progress Report 2010 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC There are three specific objectives surrounding this Recently, Hikma has done the following: vision: • Installation of harmonics filters in the electrical 1) Minimize energy costs system. 2) Maximize sustainability through reduction of • Installation of a new sensor for humidity and carbon emissions temperature control. 3) Reduce reliance on the electricity supply from the • Installation of a high efficiency motor in the public supply network production line machinery. ECMs consist of two groups of technologies that Performance enable the above objectives to be achieved: Energy Efficiency technologies enable the As a measure of its performance in applying energy (both electrical and thermal energy) that is environmentally conscious principles, Hikma procured to be utilised more effectively within the continues to improve its operations in all locations. facility. By improving energy efficiency, the user The production facilities have achieved redoes not need to use as much energy to deliver the certification of ISO 14001 and the OHSAS 18001 same tasks or processes. or their relevant equivalents worldwide. Hikma is Decentralised Energy technologies enable committed to the highest manufacturing standards energy to be produced at or near the point of use, with multiple FDA approvals. generally from renewable energy sources. This is in contrast to the traditional, wasteful and increasingly Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: costly method of buying energy that is generated • EN3: direct energy consumption in a centralised power station that may be many • EN8: total water withdrawal hundreds of kilometres from the point at which the • EN22: total weight of waste energy is needed. Communication on Progress Report 2010 15 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Commitment Principle Ten: Hikma does not tolerate corruption in any shape or form and has undertaken strict measures to Businesses should work against ensure the compliance of all employees with these standards. corruption in all its forms, Hikma is committed to ensure all business including extortion and bribery dealings are conducted in a fair manner and has a zero tolerance policy to all forms of bribery and corruption. This is done through the partnership with PACI (Partnering against Corruption Initiatives) as well as internal systems based on the company’s Code. Hikma also has policies and procedures to counter bribery and corruption under the Share Dealing Code and Disclosures Policies. “Hikma does not condone or participate in bribery in any form of corruption and refrains from using suppliers who utilize these methods” (Code). Systems Citizenship Principle from the Hikma Code • Law and Regulation 1. Obey applicable laws and regulations. 2. Do not obstruct legal rights of share owners. 3. Adhere to competition laws. 4. Adhere to environmental laws and standards domestically and internationally. 5. Adhere to the letter and spirit of tax laws and make timely payments of tax liabilities. • Public Goods 1. Do not condone or participate in bribery or other forms of corruption. 2. Protect and, where possible, improve the natural environment. 3. Promote sustainable development. 4. Ensure that products and services sustain or enhance the natural environment. 5. Prefer suppliers and partners who observe applicable environmental standards. • Cooperation with Authorities 1. Cooperate with public authorities to address threats to public health and safety from the company’s products. 2. Cooperate with employee groups, government and others to address employment dislocations created by business decisions. • Political Noninvolvement 1. Recognize government’s obligation and jurisdiction concerning society at large. 2. Avoid improper involvement in political activities and campaigns. 16 Communication on Progress Report 2010 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC • Civic Contribution Performance 1. Contribute to the economic and social As part of Hikma’s commitment to work against development of local communities and the world. corruption, it makes sure that the stakeholders it 2. Develop innovations in technology, products, works with are also fair, ethical and do not engage in processes and practices to the best of the nor tolerate any forms of corruption. To understand Company’s ability. suppliers’ ethical policies and practices, an audit 3. Contribute to charitable causes. questionnaire is sent out to all suppliers. This 4. Support employee involvement in civic affairs. measure of performance ensures compliance with 5. Take a leading role in preserving and enhancing international standards in ethical standards as well the physical environment. as environmental and human right standards. This practice is always implemented and new suppliers As part of its Code, Hikma is committed to are always audited, researched and scrutinised. “cooperate in all efforts to eliminate bribery and corruption.” As Hikma is publicly listed under the Hikma measures the following GRI indicators: London Stock Exchange, it continues to implement • SO3: percentage of employees trained in antiits Share Dealing Code and Disclosure policies that corruption policies follow strict guidelines regarding share dealing and prohibit the use of internal information for personal gain or insider trading. Furthermore, the CREC committee upholds the principles of good corporate governance. The key functions of the Committee are to oversee the Group’s approach to anti-corruption, whistle blowing, statements and policies on ethics, conduct, values and principles. Actions • Employees are encouraged to report any suspicious activities. • There is ongoing education underway on the Share Dealing Code and Disclosure policies to ensure all employees are aware and in compliant with them. Currently, to ensure no insider information is used in share dealings, • Hikma issues a closed period for employee share dealing two times a year, usually 3 months prior to disclosing company results, and this is communicated clearly to all employees across the Group. • The formalization of Hikma’s ethical compliance and supervision by forming the CREC committee in August 2010. • The CREC committee met once during the year. The programme of meetings is scheduled to expand over the course of 2011. • In 2011 we target to hire a dedicated compliance officer in Hikma’s corporate office to coordinate and ensure that Hikma complies with ethical business standards and takes active measures to work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • The anti-bribery policy in Hikma that was established in line with the Bribery Act in the UK will be updated in 2011 as part of the new compliance officer’s responsibilities. Communication on Progress Report 2010 17 For further information please contact: Hikma Pharmaceuticals P. O. Box 182400 11118 Amman Jordan Telephone: +962 6 5802900 Facsimile: +962 6 5827102 www.hikma.com
