WORLD-CLASS AIRPORTS CORPORATION CREATING BIZ & LIFE KAC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 A B O U T T H I S R E P O R T This 2011 Sustainability Report of the Korea Airports Corporation (KAC) is the third of its kind. The ﬁrst one was Contents published in 2009, and we have continued to publish them INTRODUCTION on an annual basis ever since. This allows us to pursue C2 About this Report our goal of sustainable growth by transparently disclosing 01 INTRO 08 CEO MESSAGE the vision and strategies of our sustainability management activities to our various stakeholders. We then refl ect their CORE TOPICS IN THE REPORT viewpoints in our subsequent business operations. 10 Materiality Test PERIOD AND SCOPE STRUCTURES This report covers KAC’s sustainability management activities from 16 KAC Overview January 2010 to December 2010, although some quantitative data in it 18 Vision 2020 and Sustainability Management have been drawn from 2008 to 2010. Its scope includes three regional 21 Communications with Stakeholders 22 A Leading Practitioner of Ethical Management for Two Consecutive Years ofﬁces and thirteen regional airports spread across the country. Some 25 Customer-Oriented Management: Number one in Terms of Airport Service of the information has been adopted from previous reports, if there Quality were no signiﬁcant changes in terms of our operations and business 30 Service Quality Management: Enhancing Customer Value 32 Managing for Accident-Free Airports characteristics during this reporting period. Results from before and after the period have also been included when necessary. OUR ROLE IN THE ECONOMY 36 Enhancing our Economic Performance and Fair Distribution of Proceeds PRINCIPLES This report follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines. CHANGE More information on them can be found in the GRI G3 Index in the 42 Reinvigorating Regional Airports to Further Balanced National Development Appendix. Units are given alongside numerical ﬁgures. The basic unit 45 Creating New Growth Engines for Non-Aeronautical, For-Proﬁt Businesses of currency is the Korean won (KRW). 49 Practicing Low Carbon Green Management by Publishing Carbon Report 53 Human Resources Development: The Bedrock behind KAC’s Competitiveness 56 Promoting Creative and Forward-Looking Labor-Management Relations APPLICATION LEVEL OF GRI G3 GUIDELINES 58 Aviation Industry Cooperative System for Mutually Beneﬁcial Growth This report fulﬁlls all the requirements for Application Level A+ of the RESPONSIBILITY GRI G3 Guidelines. This has been veriﬁed by an independent third-party agency. 62 Reinforcing Measures to Reduce Noise Pollution and Support Local Communities 65 KAC’s Energy Management Activities to Cope with Climate Change 69 Social Contribution Activities THIRD-PARTY VERIFICATION The accuracy and reliability of the information contained in this report BALANCE has been veriﬁed by Deloitte Anjin LLC. This report is published in both 74 Corporate Governance Korean and English, and a summary version of it is also available. In 76 Risk Management 77 Management Performance Trends addition, a PDF version can be found on KAC’s website, (www.airport. 78 Aviation Safety System co.kr). 78 Aviation Security System 79 Environmental Management System 80 Minimizing Environmental Impacts Address: Strategic Planning Team, Korea Airports Corporation 83 Employee Status 64 Haneul-gil, Gangseo-gu, Seoul 85 Management for Employee Satisfaction Telephone: 82-2-2660-2527 APPENDIX Fax: 82-2-2660-2240 Email: seypark@airport.co.kr 88 Independent Assurance Statement 90 GRI G3 Index 94 Airport Operators Sector Supplement This report contains the VOICEYE code in the upper 95 ISO26000 Checklist 96 United Nations Global Compact right corner of each page. Visually impaired people 97 Status of Compliance 98 Awards, Memberships, and Certiﬁcations can access the contents of this report by scanning the 99 Glossary codes with their smart phone. 101 Questionnaire for Readers Celebrating the thirtieth anniversary of our establishment, we at Korea Airports Corporation set up the “Vision 2020” corporate vision. This is to move beyond the achievements made for the last thirty years and to advance into a world-class airports corporation. World-Class Airports Corporation Creating Biz & Life! We will create customer values through sustainability management, fulﬁll the roles higher than expected for an airports corporation, and carry out the economic, social, and environmental responsibilities for all our stakeholders. Airports can be the start of an exciting journey for one person, a perfect place to work or relax for someone else, and a combination of exciting shopping and cultural experiences for another. With Gimpo Airport already named the world’s best facility in its class in terms of airport service quality by Airports Council International in 2010, KAC’s reputation as a company that is committed to the highest possible level of service and comfort has never been more secure. FOCUS ON _ 01 Committed to Customer Fulﬁllment, Conﬁdence, and Happiness KAC is committed to protecting the earth and its environment for the enjoyment of future generations. For this, we do our utmost to ensure that our operations are environmentally sustainable. This includes the creation of a Low Carbon Green Airport vision, the publication of Korea’s ﬁrst-ever carbon report by a public corporation, dramatic reductions in the volume of airplane noise, and energy conservation activities designed to deal positively and proactively with the problem of climate change. FOCUS ON _ 02 Creating Green Values and Caring for Nature KAC’s exports of aviation equipment to the whole world and technology-based professional consulting services are a clear demonstration of our technological excellence. As our R&D business expands and strengthens, the future value of KAC will increase exponentially. FOCUS ON _ 03 Flying higher with a Forward-Looking Vision Based on Constantly-Advancing Technologies CEO MESSAGE Growing into a “World-Class Airports Corporation Creating Biz & Life” through our “Vision 2020” corporate vision Dear KAC Stakeholders: First of all, I would like to thank you for your unwavering support and encouragement. Korea Airports Corporation operates fourteen airports across Korea, as well as an Area Control Center and ten VHF omni-directional air navigation systems. In addition, we fulﬁll our role as one of the country’s leading public corporations by carrying out our social responsibilities and earning the trust and respect of all the members of our society. The year 2010 was especially meaningful for KAC, since it marked the thirtieth anniversary of our establishment. We also faced some very demanding business conditions. They included continuing growth in the international aviation market, the expansion of the Korea Train Express (KTX), and ﬁerce competition among airport operators. Our employees responded to these challenges by developing a wide range of customer-oriented services, pursuing a number of high-value R&D projects, improving the company’s brand image, and enhancing the efficiency of our operations. Since we recently added nonaeronautical, overseas-based projects to our business portfolio, we took another important step by announcing our “VISION 2020” to create a springboard for further growth. This is KAC’s third sustainability report. It outlines our vision of becoming a “World-Class Airports Corporation Creating Biz & Life,” as well as our determination to continue practicing sustainability management. In accordance with the ten principles 08 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT of the United Nation’s Global Compact, we carried out activities for sustainability management in the areas of the economy, society, and the environment in 2010, and accomplished certain results. The purpose of this report is to disclose those activities and announce those results. One of the company’s primary goals is to improve the operational efﬁciency of its airports and contribute to the public good. We do this by supporting the central government’s policies for enhancing the financial soundness of the country’s public institutions. This includes implementing operating strategies that are custom-tailored to the circumstances of each of our airports, putting programs in place to reinvigorate the economies of the areas in which we operate, and supporting and encouraging the development of low-cost carriers. In addition, we are leveraging our technological advances in the ﬁeld of aviation R&D and our successful forays into foreign markets to continue diversifying our business portfolio and create future growth engines. Given the public’s growing interest in and demand for the practice of corporate social responsibilities, it is imperative that we establish closer communications channels with all of our stakeholders. In 2010, one of our overriding goals was to operate our airports in ways that met the real needs of air travelers and companies. This, in turn, allowed us to strengthen our customer satisfaction management system. In terms of social contribution activities, we focused on ameliorating the damage caused by aircraft noise and assisting low-income families who were suffering from it. We also helped members of multicultural families residing in the country to visit their home countries. Last winter, Korea experienced unprecedentedly cold weather and heavy snowfalls. Many people believe that this is proof positive of the damage being inﬂicted on our planet by climate change. Luckily for us, the Korean government had already announced “Green Growth” as its new national vision, and both public corporations and private enterprises had joined in the campaign. In line with this, KAC set its environmental vision as becoming a “Low Carbon Green Airport.” The vision includes three strategies: practicing green management, becoming increasingly environmentally friendly, and enhancing our relationships with local communities. In addition, we became the very first public corporation in Korea to publish a carbon report. Some of the other environmental initiatives that we undertook include the “Green Footprints” program, which encourages our employees to alter their daily work habits to reduce energy use, our collaboration with airlines and related institutions through the Green Partnership Consultative Group, and the creation of a carbon-neutral forest. Airports are no longer just places where travelers wait for their ﬂights to be called. Instead, they are being transformed into venues in which we can carry on with our work, have fun, take a rest, and even go shopping. In short, they have evolved into multi-functional areas for work and leisure activities and cultural events. KAC’s goal is to meet the challenge of satisfying the needs of a multitude of stakeholders. We will do this by constantly changing and innovating to embrace the future. As always, I look forward to your continuing support and encouragement. Thank you. July 2011 President and CEO of Korea Airports Corporation 09 MATERIALITY TEST CORE TOPICS IN THE REPORT Materiality Test KAC developed the structure of this report after analyzing and prioritizing issues of interest to its stakeholders in various areas that constitute sustainability management. This was done pursuant to the GRI G3 and AA1000APS principles of materiality, inclusivity, and responsiveness. Reporting Principles KAC BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT ISSUE APPROACH Materiality Inclusivity Responsiveness 1. Identifying Major Issues 2. Stakeholder Analysis 3. Developing the Structure for the Report s !NALYZING THE )NTERNAL AND %XTERNAL s #ONFIRMING A 0OOL OF !LL 3TAKEHOLDERS Environments s )DENTIFYING +EY 3TAKEHOLDERS s #ONFIRMING 7HETHER +EY )SSUES 2EFLECT s #REATING A 0OOL OF 3USTAINABILITY -ANAGEMENT KAC’s Goals and Strategies Issues s $EVELOPING A 3TRUCTURE FOR THE 2EPORT s )DENTIFYING +EY )SSUES 10 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Identifying Major Issues KAC identified major issues regarding its sustainability management activities by analyzing both its internal and external environments. We then prioritized the issues according to their significance and relevance to our overall sustainability management goals. Sustainability Issue Pool Prioritization ISSUE Media Research Industry Trends Global Standards KAC Vision Overseas BM SIGNIFICANCE RELEVANCE • The impact of sustainability management• Financial influences, the results of KAC’s related issues on the organization’s management policies, the status of similar decision-making and management activities businesses, and social issues were also was taken into account. considered. • The influence of KAC’s organizational behavior was also analyzed. Media Research Media coverage, both in Korea and abroad, was analyzed in four different areas: general, Industry Trends Global Standards KAC Vision Overseas Business Models the economy, society, and the environment. This allowed us to Major issues were also identified We also took recent changes in KAC’s management vision, Up-to-date developments and understand the level of media from studies of local and overseas global standards and guidelines strategies, and goals were issues relating to sustainability exposure that our sustainability sustainability management (including the United Nations analyzed to assist in the management were reflected management activities enjoyed, programs--especially those being Global Compact, ISO 26000, and development of major issues. through in-depth analyses and assisted us in developing a list carried out by leading international GRI G3) and other relevant issues of leading overseas airport of important stakeholder issues. airport corporations. into consideration. corporations. Stakeholder Analysis After developing this pool, KAC identified its key stakeholders by considering their impact on all aspects of its operations–including its short-term financial results, core competencies, and governmental regulations. DIFFERENTIATION PRIORITIZATION • Are they helpful in differentiating ourselves from our competitors? • How important are they in terms of our business? • Are they helpful in leveraging our core competencies? Investors and Financial Contributions Local Communities and Social Contribution Activities Human Resources and Employment Resource Consumption BUSINESS Business Partners Products and Services Public Policies Facilities and Equipment R&D • Do they have a social impact? • Is effective implementation possible? • How relevant are they to our vision and strategies? • Do they have a long-term impact? • How effective is our investment in them? • How relevant are they to the industry to which we belong? COMMERCIAL / SOCIAL IMPACT ALIGN WITH CORP STRATEGY 11 MATERIALITY TEST CORE TOPICS IN THE REPORT Developing the Structure of After the key issues had been identified, we conducted surveys and carried out indepth interviews with our major stakeholders to ascertain their impact on the company the Report and their level of interest in it. Stakeholder Ⅱ. Promoting Active Prioritization Map Survey 1 In-depth Interviews Engagement Method: Electronic surveys using a structured Method: Individual, face-to-face interviews questionnaire Period: April 7-27, 2011 Period: March 21-28, 2011 Target: Target: KAC employees 1. Employee: s Byung-no Kim, Director, R&D Center s Ji-young Park, Assistant Manager, Customer Number of Respondents: 312 Service Team Response Rate: 100% 2. Airline: s Young-wook Kim, Director, Eastar Jet 3. Government: s Jin-deok Kang, Team Leader, Clear s Environment Department, Yangcheon-gu Ofﬁce Survey 2 4. NGO: s So-hee Kim, Director, Climate Change Center, Korea Method: Individual interviews using a structured Green Foundation HIGH Ⅲ. Encouraging questionnaire 5. Local Community: s Kyung-ja Kweon, Local Community Cooperative Period: March 21-22, 2011 Representative Attitudes by 6. Domestic Route User: s Seok-gyu Lee, CEO, DAU Metal Target: Visitors to Cheongju International Airport s Autumn Garrett, Teacher Stakeholders Number of Respondents: 60 7. International Route User: s Jong-gu Jung, CTO, Higashiyama Level of Impact on KAC Response Rate: 100% Film DIAGRAM OF STAKEHOLDER PRIORITIZATION Ⅳ. Providing Information and Carrying Out Public Relations (PR) Activities Ⅰ. Risk Response LOW Level of Impact by KAC HIGH Customers 2011 KAC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Employees Airlines Enhancing Public’s Awareness of KAC New Growth Engines, Creative Corporative Culture Reinvigorating Regional Airports s )N DEPTH )NTERVIEW s )N DEPTH )NTERVIEW s )N DEPTH )NTERVIEW Seok-gyu Lee, CEO, DAU Metal (Domestic Route User) Byung-no Kim (R&D Center, KAC) Young-wook Kim (Eastar Jet) Autumn Garrett, Teacher (Domestic Route User) Ji-young Park (Customer Service Team, KAC) Jong-gu Jung (International Route User) s %MPLOYEE 3URVEY s3URVEY AT #HEONGJU !IRPORT Need an efficient structure to pursue new Need to publicize the results of sustainability growth engine businesses. Should create an Should develop incentives and institutions to management to local and foreign customers. aggressive, forward-looking corporate culture. give a boost to regional airports. Government NGOs Local Communities KAC’s Public Charateristics & Noise Abatement KAC’s Public Characteristics & Noise Abatement KAC’s Public Charateristics & Noise Abatement s )N DEPTH )NTERVIEW s )N DEPTH )NTERVIEW Distribution of KAC’s Economic Proceeds Jin-deok Kang (Clear Environment Department, So-hee Kim (Climate Change Center, Korea Green s )N DEPTH )NTERVIEW Yangcheon-gu Ofﬁce) Foundation) Kyung-ja Gwon (Local Community Representative) Needs to be more active in dealing with noise Should create a green partnership to realize lowRegions benefiting from KAC are different from issues. carbon, green airport. those suffering damage. 12 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Based on the data about stakeholders' impact on the company and their level of interest, we classified the key issues into four categories. Then, we developed the structure of this report. Materiality Test Chart HIGH Priority Category Ⅱ Priority Category Ⅰ Stakeholders’ Level of Interest Priority Category Ⅳ Priority Category Ⅲ LOW Impact on KAC HIGH KAC Sustainability Strategy Priority Category Ⅰ Key Issues 2011 KAC Sustainability Report Priority Category Ⅱ& Ⅲ Public Characteristics and Enhancing Public Awareness Structures • Customer-Oriented Management: Cost Reductions and Raising Communications Number one in Terms of Airport Service Quality Efficiency of Management Economic Value and Job Creation Distribution of Proceeds Our role in the economy Performance and Competency-Based HR Management Reducing Noise and Environmental Reinvigorating Regional Airports Change • Reinvigorating Regional Airports to Support for Local Communities’ Impacts Further Balanced National Development Development and Growth Public Awareness New Growth Engine Businesses Change • Creating New Growth Engines for Service Quality Survey and Reflecting Non-Aeronautical, For-Profit Businesses Results for Improvements Lowering Regional Airports’ Deficits Creative Corporate Culture Change • Human Resources Development: Exchanges and Cooperation The Bedrock behind KAC’s Competitiveness with Local Communities base on • Promoting Creative and Forward-Looking Management for Co-Existence Labor-Management Relations Skills Enhancement and Utilizing Experts Contributing to the Government’s Public Characteristics and Reducing Noise Change • Practicing Low Carbon Green Drive for a Fairer Society Management by Publishing Carbon Report Innovation and a Creative Corporative Culture Consistent and Systematic Social Responsibilities • Aircraft Noise Abatement Contributions Activities and Support for Local Communities Employee Benefits and Healthy Work• Social Contribution Activities Life Balance Respect for Gender Equality and Diversity Enhancing Customer Satisfaction through Differentiated Management Realizing Low Carbon Green Growth Customer Safety and Risk Management Establishing Communications Channels with Local Communities 13 SECTION. 01 IN THE INTEREST OF OUR #534/-%23 !.$ 4(% 2%34 /& 34!+%(/,$%23 +!# )3 !$6!.#).' ).4/ ! h7/2,$ #,!33 !)20/243 CORPORATION CREATING BIZ & LIFE.” 14 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT S T R U C T U R E S Our corporate vision refl ects our determination to contribute to the advancement of the national economy AND THE WELL BEING OF THE +OREAN PEOPLE Sustainability management is a key contributor to earning and maintaining the trust of our various stakeholders. KAC OVERVIEW STRUCTURES Comfortable Airports Opening the Skies to Everyone KAC Overview Korea Airports Corporation (KAC) is a public enterprise. We manage fourteen regional airports (at Gimpo, Gimhae, Jeju Island, Daegu, Gwangju, Cheongju, Yangyang, Muan, Ulsan, Yeosu, Sachun, Pohang, Gunsan, and Wonju) in a smooth and integrated manner. The company was ﬁrst established as the International Airport Authority in 1980. Its mandate is to provide an efﬁcient and effective air transport service and to contribute to the development of the national economy by building, managing, and operating airports. In 2002, the Authority was renamed Korea Airports Corporation, in accordance with the Korea Airports Corporation Act. Main Business Area Managing and operating airports and Noise abatement activities, including the developing surrounding areas installation of soundproof facilities Establishing, developing, and improving Manufacturing, selling, and exporting Research into and development of facilities needed for enhanced airport equipment developed while building, technologies related to building, managing, operations, including aircraft, passenger managing, and operating airport facilities, and operating airport facilities terminals, and cargo processing facilities and winning overseas airport projects 1980.05.03 International Airport Authority established 1980.07.01 Gimpo International Airport acquired 1983.05.09 Gimhae International Airport established 1984.06.01 Civil Aviation Training Center established 1985.09.06 Jeju International Airport established 1990.04.07 Renamed Korea International Airport Authority 1990.06.28 .INE AIRPORTS ESTABLISHED INCLUDING THE ONE IN $AEGU 1991.12.14 Renamed Korea Airports Authority 1997.01.15 Cheongju International Airport and Wonju Airport established HISTORY 1999.01.15 /PERATIONAL CONTROL OF EIGHT 6(& /MNIDIRECTIONAL 2ANGE 4ACTICAL AIR .AVIGATIONS 6/24!# ACQUIRED INCLUDING !NYANGS 2001.03.29 International routes handed over from Gimpo International Airport 2002.03.02 Renamed Korea Airports Corporation 2002.04.03 Yangyang International Airport established 2003.11.30 'IMPO (ANEDA ROUTE OPENED 2005.12.21 Service & Aviation Security Training Center established 2007.10.23 Muan International Airport established 2010.06.29 6ISION  ANNOUNCED 2010.07.08 Uljin Flight Training Center acquired 16 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Status of Airports Civil Airports [6] Gimpo, Jeju, Yangyang, Muan International Yangyang Gimpo Ulsan, Yeosu Domestic Dok-do Island Wonju Ulleung-do Island Cheongju Joint Civil-Military Airports [8] Daegu Gimhae, Daegu, Cheongju International Gunsan Pohang Gwangju, Sacheon, Pohang, Gunsan, Wonju Domestic Ulsan Gwangju Gimhae Muan Sacheon International Airport: 7 Yeosu Domestic Airport: 7 Jeju KAC consists of three main divisions, seven departments, one center, and twentyOrganization six teams in its head office. We also manage fourteen airports, an Area Control Center, and a Civil Aviation Training Center. The Research & Development Center was established in 2011. Its goal is to help reinvigorate regional airports and boost customer demand for air travel. As a result, the number of KAC’s teams rose by one from the previous year. Organization Head Office: 3 divisions, 1 center, 7 departments, 26 teams Branches: 14 airports, Area Control Center, Civil Aviation Training Center Organizational Chart Total Workforce: 1,696 people Board of Directors Chairman and President Commission of Auditors Executive Vice President Corporate Auditor Audit and Inspection Department Strategic Planning Division Corporate Management Airside Operations and Division Safety Division 3 Regional Main Offices Research & Development Planning & Coordination Human Resources Safety & Security Center Department Management Department Department 11 Regional Airports Management Evaluation Management Systems Operations Coordination Construction Management Civil Aviation Department Department Department Department Training Center Contingency Planning Public Relations Business Development Area Control Center Department Department Department 17 KAC SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURES Vision 2020 and Sustainability Management Establishing Vision 2020 and Vision Announcement Ceremony On June 29, 2010, KAC held its 30th anniversary ceremony. It was attended by about six hundred of its employees, Korea’s Minister of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs, guests from related organizations (including representatives from the company’s partners, such as airlines and on-site agencies) and other stakeholders. During the ceremony, KAC announced its “Vision 2020” corporate vision. This was designed to redeﬁne the company’s core values, keeping pace with the changed government policies and the constantlychanging operating environment. It outlines the company’s future goals and initiatives to achieve them through the exercise of sustainability management. The vision also demonstrates KAC’s underlying goal of contributing to the enhancement of the nation and its economy by evolving into a world-class airports corporation creating value in business and life. 30th Anniversary Ceremony Vision Announcement Ceremony Major Sustainability Management Tasks KAC is committed to sustainability management. It has embarked upon a program that will improve its sustainability management activities by managing the goals and action items of each of its operating areas and checking the outcomes on an annual basis. In order to augment the trust level of our various stakeholders, we faithfully carry out all our corporate social responsibilities in terms of the economy, society, and the environment. Strategic Tasks for 2011 Enhancing Sustainability Management Creating a Culture of Integrity and Strengthening Relationships with Local Increasing Social Contributions Activities Ethical Behavior Communities (Including Noise Reduction) 18 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability Management Structure n g, a n d O pe ratin a na gi gA in g irp ,M s ort uil d yB ybm no co its E a nd VISION M IS S IO N • of t he N ation World-Class Airports p m e nt Corporation Creating S To P r in P GOAL Biz & Life ve lo ubli c Su o vi De rveys de he RW an ot • K Ef et ci •N en b fi ut lio ta n tri o. 1 tril nd Co 1.5 ni E ffe nd ea OE nR ctiv e R ev Air Transport Servic 0% en •1 ue ses • 30 % of usines Revenu wB e to Come from Ne us ce tom ten C erorie -exis Core Values nted r Co , Pion nt fo eering, and Manageme Strategic Tasks Strengthening Airport Operations Developing New Growth Engine Creating Customer Value Innovating Management Businesses Infrastructure Enhancing Competitiveness of Key Strengthening R&D and Developing Ensuring Highest Possible Level of Strengthening Employees’ Skills Airports New Businesses Safety and Security Sets and Improving Management Processes Reinvigorating Regional Airports Continuing Advance into Overseas Augmenting Customer Service Airport Projects Establishing a Strategic Organizational System Realizing a Leading, Future Airports Building a “Sky City” by Developing Strengthening Sustainability Areas Surrounding Airports Management Creating a Warm and Welcoming Corporate Culture Raising Operating Efficiency of Airports Engaging in Construction and Operation of New Airports 19 KAC SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURES Efforts to Bring Vision 2020 and Sustainability Management to Fruition One of KAC’s main goals in developing its Vision 2020 was to strengthen the connection between its overall vision and its operational strategies. As a result, the company has improved the linkages between its fourteen strategic tasks and its internal management index. Another of its goals is to add to its competitiveness and create a performance-based corporate culture. This will be done by linking its employees’ performances to their compensation and evaluations in a more direct manner. “Received AAA” Grade from the Ministry of Knowledge Economy for KoBEX SM The Ministry of Knowledge Economy carries out a Korean Business Ethics Index Sustainability Management (KoBEX SM) survey to measure the level of sustainability management among domestic companies and encourage their adoption and use of the tenets of sustainability management. This is done by means of a survey and by conducting a media search. 2009 2010 AAA Grade of the KoBEX SM Mark AA AAA Strengthened Linkage between Vision, Strategies, and Targets by Project and Team s -ID TERM AND YEARLY BUSINESS PLANS WERE ESTABLISHED IN LINE WITH CORPORATE VISION AND STRATEGIES s 3TRATEGIC TASKS AND ACTION ITEMS WERE IDENTIFIED IN RELATION TO MAJOR PROJECTS Set Target Level of Projects by Strategic Task, Target, and Team s -ID TERM MANAGEMENT GOALS WERE DEVELOPED FOR EACH STRATEGIC TASK s 0ROJECT SPECIFIC TARGETS WERE ESTABLISHED IN ACCORDANCE WITH GOALS Improved Linkage between Vision, Strategies, and Performance Management to Further the Implementation of Strategies s 3TRATEGIC TASKS WERE FIRMLY ALIGNED WITH THE COMPANYS MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE EVALUATION INDEX Improved Management’s Participation in Sustainability Management Activities s -EMBERS OF THE COMPANYS MANAGEMENT PARTICIPATED IN SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS ACTIVITIES THIRTY TWO TIMES s 3UPPORTED MEMBERS OF MULTICULTURAL FAMILIES WHO WANTED TO VISIT THEIR HOME COUNTRIES AND ESTABLISHED A carbon-offsetting forest. Five other events of a similar nature were held. 20 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Communications with Stakeholders KAC divides its stakeholders into five main groups: customers, partners, employees, local communities, and government authorities. We communicate with major stakeholders at least once a year in a number of ways, including management disclosure, surveys, and collecting customers’ opinions. We will continue to pursue our sustainability management activities by building up trust with our stakeholders. This will allow us to identify and deal with issues that are important to them. KAC’s Stakeholders Customers Business Partners Employees Customers that utilize KAC’s facilities for air In addition to airlines and maintenance service These are KAC’s internal stakeholders. They transport or other services. firms, there are about four hundred organizainclude both whiteand blue-collar workers. tions that have contracts with KAC. They include other state-run enterprises and firms that deal with equipment outsourcing, materials, administration, and so on. Local Communities These include local residents, NGOs, universiGovernment Authorities This group includes such government bodies and STAKEHOLDER ties, and research institutions in areas served by KAC’s regional main offices or airports. agencies as the National Assembly, the Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs, and the GROUP Board of Audit and Inspection. Many of them work with KAC to establish legal and institutional measures to revitalize its airports. Communications Channels ent Gove Custo Serv agem rn er Gene Man , custom ky Auth ment Sh ral S Mee arehold sure eys, oritie disclo tion surv m, KAC mers s m ting, c o ers’ fac ste e Asse eeting, operativ satis (VOC) sy er Servic N porta mbly, co ational e m r Voice ll, Custo Custome tee Bu l, Int mmu e n Be rs, mit Pa sine l s Oper rnationa ications Voice Markete ent Com ca ie ation l rtn ss Lo unit s Co Airports (CS) anagem ers m t uncil dis Ma Employees en ice M c n Com em al c V lo ag ag rm s, co ost OC s sure eme an fo M e, in orum ubli c ns ca ys , s nt e pa gat ulta rrie tem urve o i s i t gs, f s, p t e rtn he tive rs , L ys N mm rin ion er rin b com ow , s, o Complaint Co the sess ings On gs w die mu Management ga ng ear i s n iefi h Co Site th b , info ity, Committee, employee br mm Cu usi rm itte sto nes al suggestion system, work e me s reporting, KAC Voice Bell, rV OC workshops, surveys 21 ETHICAL MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES A Leading Practitioner of Ethical Management for Two Consecutive Years Ethical management is an integral part of sustainable growth. KAC clearly defines the ideals of its ethical management: honest and fair business practices, prevention of corruption, customer satisfaction, respect for employees, and respect for the ecosystem. These were expressed in an anagram (KAC ECHO) as well as in our Ethical Charter. By actively practicing the ideals, we will earn the trust of all members of our society. KAC ECHO is an anagram for KAC’s social responsible management ideals. They inKAC ECHO clude preserving and protecting the environment and encouraging the development of an integrity-based community mentality. KAC ECHO First Prize for Integrity and Ethical Management Refers to KAC’s ethical management ideals, spreading out like an echo. E NVIRONMENT Importance of the Environment C LEAN Stressing the Need for Ethical Behavior H ARMONY Being Community-Oriented O BLIGATION Corporate Social Responsibilities Ethical management is an integral element of sustainable growth. As a member of UN Global Compact the UN Global Compact, KAC subscribes to its ten main principles regarding human rights, labor standards, and the environment, and submits a Communication on Progress (CoP) to it every year. The company’s commitment to ethical management is reﬂected in its various employee training programs, including courses on ethical behavior and how to detect, avoid, and report on corruption. Public Organization Integrity Ranking by the Korean Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission Year 2009 2010 http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Grade Top Top Number of Times Management Has Expressed its Commitment to Ethical Management 2009 80 2010 212 22 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ethical Management System KAC’s ethical management system plays a seminal role in all its operating processes. System Establishment >> Training and Practice >> Monitoring >> Assessments and Improvements Ethical Behavior Training Ethical Management Assessment Management Leadership Public-Private Consultative Body Programs System Rewards and Punishments for Ethical Norms Organization CSR Programs Integrity Ombudsman Ethical Management Activities Ethical Behavior Management Ethics Level Measurement Identification System for Areas Internal Control Programs Plan Programs Needing Improvement Head: Corporate Auditor Anti-Corruption Integrity Implementation Group Members Executive Vice President, Private-Sector Member, Directors of Planning & Coordination Department, Management Systems Department, Human Resources Management KAC’s “Anti-Corruption Integrity ImplemenDepartment, Operations Coordination Department, Safety & Security Department, tation Group” is tasked with implementing Construction Management Department, Research & Development Center, Audit & the company’s anti-corruption and integrity Inspection Department policies. We formed an organization called “Integrity TF” in January 2010 to assist with Audit TF Team Administration TF Team Technology & Facilities TF Team its operations. • Integrity TF Team • Organization & Legal • Green Airport Leader : General Management Affairs Leader : Mainly Responsible for • Audit 1 Leader : Mainly Responsible for Technology & Facilities • Audit 2 Leader Administration • Aviation Facilities Leader • Strategy & Planning Leader • Construction Projects • Investment & Planning Leader Leader • Safety Environment Leader • Human Resources Development Leader • Property & Procurement Management Leader Discipline, Prevention of Ethical Management, Construction Management, Corruption, Institutional ImCustomer Management, Design Services, Repairs provements, Uncovering of Personnel Administration, & Maintenance, Facility Corruption・Punishments Contract Administration, Improvements ・Reviews・Assessments PR・Education • A well-respected company committed to open, honest, and ethical behavior KAC’s Ethical Charter • Honest and equitable business practices • Dedicated to the prevention of corruption and the establishment of a culture of integrity • Committed to customer satisfaction and being customer-oriented • Respect for employees • Active involvement in areas of public interest, the creation of new values, and the development of the nation and its society • Respect for people and environmental conservation and protection Printed Material on Ethical Practices 23 ETHICAL MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES Achievements of Ethical Management System Dissemination and Expansion of Training in Ethical Behavior Enhanced Access to Reporting Channels to Prevent Corruption (Unit: Persons) (Unit: Cases) 2008 4,785 2009 14 2009 8,497 2010 158 2010 8,307 2009 30 Number of Trainees 2010 37 * All employees of KAC are required to receive training on anti2009 7 corruption policies and procedures at least once a year. In 2010, 2010 25 the rate of employees receiving the training stood at 100%. Consultations on Code of Conduct Reports on Outside Lectures Reports on Return of Money and/or Valuables 100-day Ethics & Integrity Campaign ”Great March” Generating Awareness of the Need for Ethical Behavior April-May At this stage, we focused on “understanding”” and “consensus”” to generate an awareness of the need for ethical behavior among our employees. s 0UBLIC CONTESTS WERE HELD IN SIX AREAS INCLUDING USER CREATED CONTENTS SLOGANS POSTERS ETC s %MPLOYEES SUGGESTIONS TO ENGAGE THE PUBLICS INTEREST WERE COLLECTED VIDEOS ON THE NEED FOR ETHICAL BEHAVIOR WERE PRODUCED AND TRAINING SESSIONS WERE HELD IN EACH DEPARTMENT Involving People in Ethics & Integrity Campaign June Celebrated “Integrity Day” and “Integrity Month.” A wide variety of activities and events were held to “encourage the development of” a culture of ethical behavior. Integrity Golden Bell s “Integrity Month” Activities included external PR efforts, intensification of training in ethical behavior, and self-monitoring. s “Integrity Day” (June 16) events included reading the Integrity Declaration, “Integrity Golden Bell”, and an awards ceremony for contest winners. Spreading a Culture of Ethical Behavior July By disseminating the results of the ethics and integrity campaign, a culture of ethical behavior was “established.” s 4HE DEVELOPMENT OF A CULTURE OF ETHICAL BEHAVIOR WAS ENCOURAGED THROUGH THE USE OF PRINTED Integrity Memorandum materials and the establishment of a website. s ! VIDEO AND A MEMORANDUM MARKING “Integrity Month” were distributed to both internal and external organizations through the company’s intranet and website. s ! BOOKLET RECORDING THE “Integrity Day” events was distributed to both internal and external organizations. In order to proactively deal with the requirements of the ISO 26000 (the international Response to Global Ethical Issues standard for social responsibility), KAC reorganized the Ethical Management Committee to the Social Responsibility Committee. * The ISO 26000, developed by International Organization for Standardization (ISO), is a set of international standards outlining an organization’s responsibilities in such areas as corporate governance, human rights, and consumer issues. 24 CUSTOMER-ORIENTED MANAGEMENT KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer-Oriented Management: Number one in Terms of Airport Service Quality “No.1 in Airport Service Quality (ASQ)” by Airports Council International “Most Efficient Airport” by Air Transport Research Society Customer Satisfaction Management In 2010, KAC took a number of steps to improve its CS management system. In Using the CS Management System to addition to being an integral part of the company’s overall Vision 2020 campaign, Advance into a World-Class Airports they were designed to speed our evolution into a world-class airports corporation Corporation creating higher-than-expected customer values. One of our main objectives is to “Realize Enhanced Customer Impressions” through partnerships with a number of our stakeholders, including airlines, our commercial tenants and contractors, and organizations situated within the airports’ premises. KAC abides by all customerrelated laws and regulations in such areas as PR and marketing, the protection of confidential customer data, and safety and health. There were no reports of violations in any of these areas in 2010. KAC’s CS Vision and Strategies CS Vision Delivering Happiness and Excitement through Enhanced Customer Impressions Strategic Goals Number One in Customer Satisfaction as a Public Corporation Global Top 3 for ASQ Hall of Fame for CS Management Service Identity An Airport Where Excitement Begins! Core Values Safety Convenience Happiness Valuable Time Social Responsibilities Strategic Directions and Midto Long-Term Management Plan Advanced CS Management VOC-Based Improvements to Improvements to Services Innovating Service Quality System CS Management and Facilities Based on Customer Values •Integrated Service Quality •Establishing and Imple•Operating and Advancing Management System menting Midto Long-Term the VOC System •Differentiated Passenger •Strengthening CS InnovaManagement Plan •Expanding Customer ParConvenience Spaces and tion System •Performance Evaluation ticipation Services System to Ensure Enhanced •Intelligent Customer Con•Generating Profits from CS CS Management tact Center Academy Advancing into Foreign Markets Named No. 1 in Airport Service Quality (ASQ) 25 CUSTOMER-ORIENTED MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES KAC’s CS implementation organization is called the CS Management Committee. CS Implementation Organization Chaired by the CEO, it also includes relevant departments at the head ofﬁce and its regional main ofﬁces, as well as a number of consultative bodies for both internal and external customers. As part of its efforts to optimize the CS implementation organization, KAC maintains an innovation TF composed of employees from its business partners. Last year, it also deployed CS Marketers (or “Sky Voices”) as a vehicle for enhanced customer participation. CS Management Committee Composed of 12 Members, Including the CEO and 6 Outside Experts s Deals with Major CS Management Issues Budgeting and Employee Customer Participation Channel Opinions, CS Implementation Organization Supports and CS Support Division Suggestions, Rewards for s Senior/Junior Sky Voices Participation in Head Ofﬁce Excellent s CS Academy Consultations Performances s On-Site Agency VOC Committee s CS Innovation Group (Head Ofﬁce) s Operations CS Team s Regional Discussion Groups s CS Innovation TF (Composed of s Airport Revitalization Consultation Participation Diagnoses/ Business Partner Employees) in Establishing Regional Main Ofﬁces/Regional Reviews/ Council s CS Innovation Group (Regional Main Policies, Airports Feedback Data Ofﬁces) Rewards, and and Innovation s Terminal Operations & Service Team Cooperation Support (To be s Operations Service Team pursued) s Operations Team I’m a businessman, and I’m always short on time. When I have to go on a business trip away from the big cities, I always travel by air. Even though they’re a little more expensive than other transportation modes, airplanes save me time. That’s why I use them. One thing that I really like about Gimpo Airport (also known as the “Biz-Port”) is that I can book and print out my tickets at home on the Internet. It’s simple, easy, and convenient. Unfortunately, a lot of other ﬂyers don’t do this because they don’t know about it. If it really wants to become “Biz-Port” serving Northeastern Asia, Gimpo needs to operate more ﬂights. Its greatest advantages are its fast and convenient check-in and immigration procedures and its easy accessibility. But I can’t fully enjoy these beneﬁts, since it doesn’t operate enough ﬂights. If it keeps investing in advanced services, Gimpo will keep attracting INTERVIEW more and more tourists and businessmen and grow into Northeastern Asia’s leading air travel facility. WITH Seok-gyu Lee, CEO, DAU Metal STAKEHOLDER 26 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Establishing a Customer-Oriented, Ubiquitous Operating Environment KAC is committed to making constant improvements to its boarding processes, its “u-Airport” project, and the development of technologies to assist it in establishing a world-class, ubiquitous operating environment in all its airports. The objective of KAC’s u-Airport project is to automate all of its airport services, u-Airport providing customers with speedier and more accurate boarding services and allowing it to start making further inroads into overseas markets. In 2010, after our u-Airport technologies had been installed in all our airports, our service utilization rate reached 70%. By 2012, as the system becomes more refined, we expect it to reach 90%. KAC’S U-AIRPORT PROJECT U-PASSENGER U-SAFETY U-BUSINESS U-FACILITY • ONE-PASS Boarding Service • High-Tech Security System • Advanced Management • Integrated Facilities • Common Use Self-Service • Airside Car Restriction System Information System Management System Check-In Kiosks (CUSS kiosks) • Barrier-Restricted Area • Mileage Points Linked with Use • Intelligent Parking Management • Common Use Terminal Management of Airport System Environment (CUTE) • Broadband Communications • Air Freight with RFID tags KAC has established a One-Pass Boarding System utilizing ubiquitous information Establishing a ONE-PASS Boarding technologies to provide its customers with faster and more convenient airport System services. By using it, passengers with access to the Internet can make reservations and print out their boarding passes at home. Instead of checking in at a service counter, they can now board flights using their home-printed boarding pass. Put into full service in July 2010, the system is now being used by passengers taking domestic flights operated by six airlines at all fourteen of our airports. As of July 2010, the average passenger’s waiting and boarding time was shortened by 2 minutes and 4 seconds. In addition, the maximum waiting and boarding time was ONE-PASS Boarding Service Process reduced by 20 minutes and 8 seconds. Internet Ticketing Check-in Counter Auto Boarding Gate Boarding after Security Screening 1 2 3 Make Reservations at Pass the Auto Boarding Gate Undergo Security Screening Airline’s Homepage and SKIP Print Boarding Pass Board the Plane! 27 CUSTOMER-ORIENTED MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES Establishing an Integrated VOC System The goal of KAC’s “Sky Voice (VOC)” system is to integrate and manage its various customer communications channels and enhance the level of the company’s VOC-based customer satisfaction processes. All customer responses are entered into a safe and secure database. In 2010, the system was reﬁned to deal with customers’ needs in a speedier and more accurate manner, allowing KAC to provide world-class service at every customer contact point. VOC Analysis and Management Process Processing Processing Designation of Person in Charge Processing/Sign-off Results (Inputs) Department >> Input by Employee, VOC Type >> Review, Improvement, Conﬁrma>> Results Notiﬁcation, Conﬁrmation, Conﬁrmation, Etc. tion, Impossible to Proceed Compensation, Disposal, Etc. Reviews and Scope VOC Management Department VOC Management Department Company-Wide Analyses Cycle DAILY / Daily (Employee in Charge): Daily (Employee in Charge): Regularly (CEO): WEEKLY Review Processing Status in Real Review Processing Status in Real Review Processing Status and Give Time Time Instructions for Resolution Weekly (Team Head): Weekly (Team Head): Every Other Week (CEO): Review Processing Status and Deal Review Processing Status and Attempt to Alleviate Customer with Disputed Items Disputed Items Dissatisfaction (Send Out Letters) MONTHLY / Monthly (Branch Head): Monthly (Responsible Department): QUARTERLY Review Results Aggregate and Report on Monthly Processing Results Quarterly: Report Quarterly Processing and Analysis Results (Company-Wide Executive Meeting) SEMISemi-Annually: ANNUALLY Select and Register Issues /ANNUALLY Annually: Report Processing and Analysis Results/Measure VOC Key Performance Indicators (KPI) and Make Compensation (Employees & Departments)/ Reﬂect on Balanced Score Card (BSC)/ Report Results of Key Issues Processed KAC has also introduced a VOC service enhanceImprovements in Services/Facilities by VOC ment program to facilitate and improve the use of customer information collected through the sysAnalysis of VOC Cases by Category in 2010 tem. It enhances the company’s ability to utilize (Unit: Cases) its capabilities to the fullest by moving away from Critical Responses 98 the manual use of the system. 92 Parking Management Tenant 42 Main Contents of Program Public Transportation 32 Homepage 31 s #HANGES IN 0ARADIGM  h#ATCHING 5P WITH 6/#v Non-Smoking Policy 29 s 6/# 0ROCEDURES$IAGNOSES AND !NALYSES s %FFECTIVE 6/# ASED 2ESPONSES AND %NHANCING Convenience Facilities 22 Usage and Response Skills Indoor Temperatures 18 28 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Improvements in Service and Facilities As a Result of VOC Analyses Critical Response from Employees Second-Hand Smoke (Gimpo and Gimhae Airports) • Conducted service education centering on real-world cases: Examples • Expanded and improved smoking areas Outdoor smoking areas were found through VOC and monitoring were used for this training. added at Gimpo Airport, raising the total to 11 Cigarette smoke detectors • Continued to manage areas where complaints were raised through VOC, were installed at 12 sites, and will be installed at all our airports in 2011. or where monitoring was not sufficient: Company-based trainers studied • Designated 27 sites (including bus stops, which are the butt of the most contact points and conducted further training. In addition, the assessment smoking-related complaints) as non-smoking areas. system for our business partners was improved (Service Level Agreement was introduced, and other measures were taken). Complaints about Commercial Tenants’ Services and Prices • Assigned innovation TF activities to business partners’ employees: This helped to enhance their customer response service levels. • I mproved customer satisfaction survey of commercial facilities and strengthened incentives and penalties (→ Offered rewards for “bestComplaints Regarding Parking Facilities practice” tenants and reflected their performance when renewing contracts. Enhanced rewards system and required people who were • B uilt additional parking facilities to tackle parking shortages: A new complained about to undergo further customer service training). car park building for domestic flight passengers was built at Gimpo • Implemented “best practices” accreditation scheme and conducted PR International Airport. and marketing events. • Enhanced efficiency of parking facilities by establishing an intelligent • Introduced an Airport Prices Index management system and incorporated parking management system. it into airport pricing policies. • Added extra cameras to help resolve disputes when complaints about parking-related issues arise, such as damaged vehicles. Sky Voice System Results Illegal Taxi and Other Public Transportation Activities • This problem has been under management since it was named as a key 256 VOC issue in December 2009: Crackdowns are conducted on a regular 155 basis, and extra equipment has been bought to help deal with it. • I nstalled 18 CCTVs to record illegal actions and made warning 136 137 announcements. 79.7 74.1 Complaints about Homepage 2009 2010  VOC Processing Satisfaction Level (Points) • Upgraded channels on which information is posted, including the FAQ  Number of Complaints through VOC page: The results of our VOC data analyses were also given. • Provided more information on the homepage: Including real time flight  Number of Compliments through VOC schedules and Management Disclosure Day. Hello! My name is Autumn Garrett. I’m working as a middle school teacher in Yongin-si. I’ve traveled around the world and used lots of international airports, but the airport services in Korea are especially outstanding. Clean and convenient facilities, kind and professional staff, and easy signboards (which are critical for foreigners) are some of the best things about them. However, there is one small thing that needs improvement. Compared to Japanese or Taiwanese airports, the information desks here seem a bit understaffed, especially around the baggage claim and entry areas. When I was at an airport a while ago, I looked around for someone to help me, but it was difficult to find anyone. INTERVIEW I hope there will soon be more personnel available to help travelers, and especially international flyers. Another suggestion is to offer courtesy phones for tourists who don’t have a cell phone that works in Korea or enough Korean money to borrow one. WITH Autumn Garrett Oklahoma City, OK USA STAKEHOLDER Public Middle School Teacher in Yongin City, S. Korea 29 SERVICE QUALITY MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES Service Quality Management: Enhancing Customer Value Improving Service Quality Management System KAC is committed to improving its service quality management system to provide customers with the highest possible quality of service. After developing a wide range of service standards in 2005, the company went on to revamp its service manual, began monitoring its service providers, and strengthened its customer response quality management processes. Other improvements are being made on a continuing basis. Improving the Customer Charter and Enhancing Service Performance Standards KAC’s commitment to customer service is reﬂected in its Customer Charter. In addition, its service implementation standard management index was increased to 32 items (15 measurable, 17 non-measurable) per airport. Performance results are evaluated semi-annually. The results can be viewed on KAC’s homepage or through public institution disclosures. Managing the Quality of Personalized Services KAC provides high-quality service at all its customer contact points. This includes on-site CS training to strengthen its employees’ CS mindsets and remind them to always behave courteously. The company also carries out regular monitoring activities, using a checklist it developed to ensure total objectivity. These efforts to provide the ultimate in personalized customer service will continue going forward. CS Training Using Real-World Examples KAC shares customer complaints and the results of its monitoring activities with employees who are responsible for CS training and includes them in its service manual. Analyzing real-world examples from the customer’s point of view plays an important role in enhancing the skill sets of employees working at customer contact points. Investments in CS Training KRW 108 Million 9.09% KRW 99 Million INCREASE 2009 2010 30 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Efforts to Enhance CS Skill Sets in 2010 Taking Outside Courses Internal Drive to Enhance Skill Sets Benchmarking through Overseas Study Trips • 7 courses in such areas as Quantum Creative • 3 workshops delivered by 31 in-house trainers • Visit to Singapore’s SQ Center (2 employees) Teaching (10 employees). CS trainers, working• CS Specialists Course (8 employees) • CS Innovation Conference (4 employees) level employees, etc. • Benchmarking other institutions (Incheon Port Authority, etc.) Survey of Customer-Orientedness CS Achievements in 2010 2009 75.9 points 2010 86.9 points Airport Service Quality (ASQ) Evaluation–Number One Player in Our Group! The Management Grand Award in the Customer Satisfaction 4.64 Management Category 4.57 4.58 4.34 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q Self-Survey of Customer Satisfaction (KAC-CSI) 2009 84.0 points 2010 86.6 points I often fly to and from Japan on business. For me, Gimpo Airport is a workplace as well as a travel facility, because I have to deal with my business for about an hour every time I visit it. There are so many time-saving services at this airport! Gimpo really provides me with an optimal working environment. However, I would like to see even more meeting rooms with all the necessary facilities and equipment, at the same reasonable prices as now. This is important to me, because I often have meetings there with busy foreign businessmen who are time-conscious too. The airport’s design and facilities are excellent, and its staff members are wonderfully kind. I remember one of them carrying a big, heavy-looking bag for a student. While carrying it, he said “This bag is full of books. You must be a student studying overseas.” I saw his kindness, and was touched by his commitment to his work and helping people. I think that it would be a good idea to show a short video clip at Gimpo and the country’s other regional airports detailing KAC’s sustainability management programs and performances, so that both local and foreign visitors can see them. If everyone can see how INTERVIEW hard KAC is working to reduce costs and energy use, they will be able to understand and support its sustainability management practices much more easily. WITH Jong-gu Jung, CTO, Higashiyama Film STAKEHOLDER 31 MANAGING FOR ACCIDENT-FREE AIRPORTS STRUCTURES Managing for Accident-Free Airports Results of Airport Safety Management The objective of KAC’s airport safety policy is to avoid any and all accidents. According to Korea’s Aviation and Railway Accident Investigation Board, the company was not responsible for any aviation accidents during the past ﬁve years. We are committed to ensuring that our security and safety programs are able to continue this proud record. Enhancing Airport Safety KAC is committed to safe ﬂights and secure airports. In 2008, for example, we recorded an international airport safety standards compliance rate of 99.73%--the best in the world. To ensure that we will continue to maintain that level, we carry out a broad range of systematic and comprehensive ﬂight safety and airport security management processes. As a result, the number of comments by Korean government inspectors regarding our level of safety and security decreased by 18% from a year ago. International standards compliance rate is assessed once every six years. Results of Universal Safety Oversight Audit of Number of Comments by Government Inspectors Countries with Major Airports – International Standards Compliance Rate 18 11 9 International Standard Country 2008 2009 2010 Compliance Rate (%) KAC 99.73 Canada 95.38 Number of Accidents and Potential Risks United States 91.13 Number of Accidents Number of Potential Risks Potential Risks China 86.64 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Risk factors were reduced Germany 84.20 by unearthing more 0 0 1 169 183 152 potential risk factors. Norway 81.90 The introduction of the airport classification system means that our inspections of Ensuring Safety through Airport take-off and landing facilities, measurements of runway friction, and rubber elimination Classiﬁcation System cycle standards can be applied differently depending on the airport being studied. Before this, the standard was applied universally, regardless of the number of ﬂights. This change has allowed us to enhance our operational efﬁciencies dramatically. We apply international airport management standards to all our facilities, including Enhancing Air Safety by Revising Airport those that only handle domestic flights. This enhances our safety and security Operating Regulations operations considerably. Airports Handling International Flights Working Group at Head Ofﬁce Revisions through Joint Efforts of Employees Standards (Draft) Drawn and Fully Reviewed (Weekly Meetings) from Head Ofﬁce and Branches Workshops for Responsible Employees from 106 Airport Operating Regulations Improved Head Ofﬁce and Branches 32 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Airports Handing Domestic Flights Only Responsible Employees Designated for Each Investigation into Current Status of Each Adjustments and Improvements to Airport Airport Airport Operating Regulations Management at the Same Level as International Airports 288 Airport Operating Regulations Adjusted Establishing a 3D Obstacle Management System Our fully-computerized, 3D Obstacle Management System allows us to determine whether any of our structures located within height restriction zones surrounding our airports violate height limitations. We built it to eliminate factors that may cause risks to aircraft flying near our airports. In 2010, we made five improvements to the system, including adding an instrument that clearly shows the distance between an airplane and an obstacle. 3D Obstacle Management System 01 3D Obstacle Management System 02 Number of Bird Strikes Measures to Prevent Bird Strikes 70 In July 2009, KAC signed an agreement 55 55 with Korea’s National Institute of Biological 2008 2009 2010 Resources to study the types of birds that could conceivably collide with airplanes. Bird Deterrence Methods Scarecrow at Jeju Airport Mock Eagle at Jeju Airport Nets in Green Areas at Gwangju Airport Participation by Airport Employees in Safety Management System (SMS) KAC has established a voluntary and confidential reporting system to enhance communications with airport personnel regarding safety-related issues. This allows us to review our safety requirements and make quick and effective corrective measures. The system facilitates the voluntary reporting of potential risk factors by ensuring that the people making the reports are not penalized for their actions. In that sense, the characteristics of the system are voluntary nature, confidentiality, and immunity. Reports can be made both online (on our homepage) and offline, by phone, fax, or mail. In addition, nearaccidents and instances of obstacles to aviation safety are reported according to Articles 8 and 8-2 of Safety Management System (SMS) the Enforcement Rule of The Aviation Act. Risk assessments and reduction measures are carried out according to our risk reporting procedures. 33 SECTION. 02 4(!.+3 4/ 4(% 0!33)/. !.$ COMMITMENT OF ALL ITS %-0,/9%%3 +!# 35##%%$%$ IN RAISING THE OPERATIONAL %&&)#)%.#9 !.$ %.(!.#).' 4(% 3/5.$.%33 /& )43 FINANCIAL STRUCTURE. 34 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT O U R R O L E I N THE ECONOMY Going forward, we will continue to distribute a fair and reasonable share of our operating proceeds among the society, our customers, partners, employees, and the communities in which we work. By doing so, we will play an important role in creating new opportunities for growth and employment. 35 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND FAIR DISTRIBUTION OF PROCEEDS OUR ROLE IN THE ECONOMY Enhancing our Economic Performance and Fair Distribution of Proceeds Achieving Management Efﬁciencies through Sound Financial Structures and Careful Budget Management KAC’s sound financial structure is based on the determination of all our employees to enhance our operations by allowing management to make timely decisions regarding such issues as productivity enhancement and cost reductions. In 2010, the economic performance of our non-aeronautical business area improved Management Performance in 2010 steadily, thanks to the growing revenue from renting buildings at Gimhae, Jeju, and (Unit: KRW Million) other regional airports. Increases in the market share of low-cost carriers, a rise in Revenue 485,397 the number of passengers taking Jeju-bound flights, and economic recoveries in Operating Income 62,269 neighboring countries such as China led to a rise in passengers, flights, and cargo Net Income 57,654 volume. These factors resulted in greater proﬁts from our variable rents, augmenting 당기순이익 57,654 both our revenue and our net income. Revenue Structure Area Main Sources Aeronautical Business Fees for landing, lighting, and parking, apron fees, and passenger terminal rentals Non-Aeronautical Business Rent for land and buildings, in-house operation fees, parking lot income, and facility management and maintenance fees Property Development and Rentals Revenues from development of distant space within airports Overseas Business Revenues from construction and operation of overseas airports and consulting services, etc. Revenues from consulting services and sale, installation, repair, and maintenance of independently-developed aviation R&D Business safety equipment, etc. Air Transport Results Domestic Routes International Routes Number of Passengers (Unit: 10,000 people) 4,041 3,610 3,426 3,363 3,402 731 628 596 560 519 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2009 33 2009 4,170 Flights 2010 34 Passengers 2010 4,772 [ Unit: 10,000 ﬂights ] [ Unit: 10,000 people ] UP 2.7% UP 14.5% 36 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Indirect Economic Impacts Developing Related Industries Job Creation KAC invests in aviation-related facilities and equipment and manages In 2010, KAC contributed to job creation by hiring interns, offering jobs to fourteen airports across the nation. We also contribute to the well-being of the underprivileged, and maintaining a total workforce of 1,696. Employment ancillary industries, such as tourism and leisure. In addition, we enhance was also provided for our business partners in such areas as airport airport security in collaboration with the Regional Maritime Affairs & Port management and passenger services. Authorities, and support the running of Formula 1 car races. Supporting the Underprivileged Participating in the Nation’s Development KAC provides economic and social supports for low-income families, the KAC is involved in a multitude of research projects aimed at securing new disabled, and people living in areas affected by noise from its operations. The growth engines. Our investment and R&D activities on this front are carried out main thrust of our social contributions activities is to bridge the education and in collaboration with the central government and various research institutes. information gap afflicting low-income families. Value of the Air Transportation Business Comprising about 10% of Korea’s distribution channels, airports play an essential role in the nation’s industrial development and its imports and exports sectors. They also have a non-quantifiable security and economic value, since they can be utilized by the air force at a moment’s notice. KAC is also contributing to the nation’s security by advancing into the defense industry. Increase in Passengers Using Gimpo Airport Increase in Passengers Using Regional Airports Increase in Passengers Taking Flights to Jeju (Unit: 1,000 people) (Unit: 1,000 people) (Unit: 1,000 people) UP 14.3% 17,566 UP 14.5% UP 15.3% 30,156 15,724 26,333 13,643 15,370 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Company-Wide Campaign for Creative Management In order to evolve into a “World-Class Airports Corporation Creating Biz & Life”, as stipulated Plans for Creative Management in its Vision 2020, KAC is committed to company-wide creative management activities to achieve four strategic goals. Stragetic Goals 1.5 Trillion in Revenue 30% Revenue from New Businesses 10% ROE Number One Ranking in Public Surveys Targets • Strengthen Airport Operations and Raise Management Efficiency by 10% • Implement Creative Management to Become an Advanced, World-Class Corporation Strategic Tasks Enhancing Airport Operations Raising Management Efficiency Autonomous and Creative Management • Selling Operating Rights to Cheongju • Raising Organizational and Personnel • Establishing an Autonomous Airport Management Efficiencies Management System Developing Open and Transparent • Saving Budget • Improving Ways of Working Selling Procedures • Enhancing Airport Infrastructures • Expanding Innovation Capacity Selecting Best Possible Private Operator • Reducing Public Debt • Establishing an Organizational Culture • Enhancing Management Systems 37 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE AND FAIR DISTRIBUTION OF PROCEEDS OUR ROLE IN THE ECONOMY Distribution of Economic Value KAC distributes a reasonable portion of its proceeds among its customers, business partners, and employees, the communities in which it operates, and the larger society. This helps these stakeholders to grow economically. PROCEEDS SHARING Larger Society Customers Partners KRW 12.0 Billion in Taxes KRW 1.6 Billion for Digital KRW 98.2 Billion for Outsourced and Imposts Technologies and Customer Security and Facilities Service Training Management Services and KAC paid KRW 12,000 million in taxes and Purchases from SMEs imposts. Some of the proceeds that we The company paid KRW 1,600 million for make from our business activities are automated and digital technologies and KAC paid out KRW 98,200 million for paid out in the form of taxes. In 2010, the carrying out customer service training. outsourced security and facilities company paid KRW 11,951 million in taxes This includes KRW 1,521 million for airport management services and purchases and imposts. automation facilities and digital technologies from smalland medium-sized businesses and KRW 108 million for training courses to (SMEs). The actual breakdown was KRW enhance the convenience and satisfaction 96,710 million for security and facilities of its customers. management, and KRW 1,469 million for goods and supplies from SMEs. 38 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sources of Proceeds KRW 485.4 Billion in Revenue KRW 57.7 Billion in Net Income KAC registered KRW 485,397 million in revenue from its aeronautical In 2010, the number of KAC’s air passengers rose by 14.4%, helping and non-aeronautical businesses in 2010. us to realize KRW 57,654 million in net income. This was a 35% increase compared to the previous year. Employees Local Communities Shareholders and Investors KRW 119.6 Billion in Wages KRW 39.2 Billion in Noise KRW 12.9 Billion in and Education and Training Reduction Efforts and Job Dividends Expenses Creation Efforts for LowIncome Earners We believe dividends are a fair portion Proceeds flowing from our employees’ of our proceeds for shareholders and creativity and innovation capabilities are As part of our efforts to share our proceeds investors. In 2010, we paid KRW 12,971 distributed to them equitably. Our total with local communities, we invested KRW million won in dividends for them. cost for wages and education and training 38,000 million in reducing noise in areas expenses in 2010 stood at KRW 119,554 affected by aircraft operations and KRW million. 1,184 million in creating jobs for low-income earners. 39 SECTION. 03 +!# (!3 !,7!93 %%. !.$ 7),, % ! &5452% /2)%.4%$ #/-0!.9 4(!4 $%!,3 7)4( #(!.'% !.$ #(!,,%.'% ). ! 0/3)4)6% !.$ 02/!#4)6% -!..%2 40 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT C H A N G E We will focus on six key management tasks of boosting regional airports for balanced national development; STRENGTHENING NON AERONAUTICAL FOR PROlT BUSINESSES implementing low carbon, green management policy; DEVELOPING HIGHLY SKILLED HUMAN RESOURCES ESTABLISHING A FORWARD LOOKING LABOR RELATIONS AND pursuing healthy and sustainable growth. 41 REINVIGORATING REGIONAL AIRPORTS CHANGE Reinvigorating Regional Airports to Further Balanced National Development Turning Gimpo Airport into Northeast Asia’s “Biz-Port” After the bulk of its international routes were taken over by Incheon International Airport (IAA) when it opened in 2001, there were growing calls for Gimpo Airport to brand itself as the airport that provided travelers with the easiest and most convenient access to Seoul. It was also argued that this change would add to Korea’s national competitiveness. In response, we adopted a “Biz-Port” strategy of providing flights that are custom-tailored to meet the needs of business travelers. This included adding a new route between Gimpo and Beijing, and increasing the number of ﬂights to Japan. In addition to pressing for the deregulation of even more international routes, we have maximized the use of the airport by revamping its interior to provide our customers with enhanced shopping and leisure opportunities. Named World’s Most Efﬁcient Mid-Sized Airport In July 2010, the Air Transport Research Society named Gimpo the world’s most efficient midsized airport, praising it for achieving remarkable growth by opening air routes to major cities in Northeastern Asia and operating specialized commercial services through its Biz-Port project. We also came first in an Airport Service Quality (ASQ) survey examining the level of operations and services that airports offer. Gimpo Airport received 4.53 points out of a possible 5. Strengths of Gimpo Airport Status of Operational Routes and Passenger Numbers at Gimpo Airport s 0ROXIMITY TO DOWNTOWN 3EOUL SAVES CUSTOMERS TIME SINCE THEY CAN Category Results in 2010 easily access both subway line 9 and the IIA railway. Operational Routes 11 s 4HE TIME NEEDED TO PASS THROUGH CUSTOMS AND IMMIGRATION HAS Numbers of Passengers 14,405,000 been shortened dramatically. In addition, an air transport network Numbers of International Passengers 3,161,000 covering large nearby cities has been established. 국제 여객량 3,163천명 Advantages of the Gimpo-Beijing Route Regular ﬂights between Gimpo and Beijing will be operated four times a day starting in July 2011. This new route will greatly enhance the convenience of business travelers ﬂying between Beijing and Seoul, and also make it easier for Chinese tourists to come to Korea. In addition, it will save travelers 50-60 minutes in time and KRW 5,000-56,000 in costs compared to similar ﬂights to or from IAA. KAC’s ultimate goal is to reinvent Gimpo Airport as a true “Biz-Port” by developing a “Korea-China-Japan One-Day Life-Sphere” service that will make it possible to travel between Seoul, Beijing, and Tokyo in one day. 42 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Reinvigorating Regional Airports KAC operates fourteen airports, but only those in Gimpo, Gimhae, and Jeju have been able to operate profitably since their establishment. This is mainly due to fundamental constraints to creating demand, such as small populations, a poor tourism infrastructure, short flight distances, and high fixed costs. In 2010, KAC developed a regional airports reinvigoration strategy to strengthen their primary role as airports and their secondary function as publicly-owned institutions. The strategy was put into action through a number of support projects custom-tailored to reflect the characteristics of each facility. They included reducing costs, adding to the number of international routes and enhancing domestic ones, revising the country’s air transport licensing policy to attract more low-cost carriers, reducing the fees paid for the use of airport facilities, and adding more aviation support equipment. KAC provided KAC focused on Cheongju/ additional supports Gimpo/ efforts to develop Muan/Gunsan/ KAC introduced Yangyang/ for areas with them into Korea’s Yeosu/Pohang/ a wide range of Gimhae/Jeju 3 main domestic support programs. Wonju/ Sacheon underdeveloped Ulsan/Daegu/ transportation airports. Gwangju networks. Regional Airports’ Public Functions Regional airports function as strategic facilities for national security, fill in for other nearby airports in Important National Facilities emergencies, and lead industrial progress and growth in science and technology; Boost investments in areas around airports, create jobs that will benefit local economies, contribute to the The Economy invigoration of local economies through the diversification of their industrial structures; Promote cultural exchanges both at home and abroad, provide rescue equipment during disasters, and Society and Culture attract tourists and perform public relations functions for provinces and regions; and Transportation Methods Facilitate development of other modes of transportation and raise productivity by saving people’s time. Improvements to the Operations of Regional Airports in 2010 KAC is striving to upgrade the operations of its regional airports and revitalize local economies. Enhancing Profitability KAC’s Efforts to Revamp Regional Airports’ Functions EXAMPLE Overhaul the air transport system, increase the number of routes, augment profits from nonMerging Gwangju and Muan Airports aeronautical activities, and readjust legal and institutional infrastructures The separate operations of airports in Gwangju and Muan are causing inefficiencies. To tackle this problem and boost regional airports in the process, we are closely working with Improving Efficiency the Korean Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs. By encouraging the relevant Increase operating efficiencies through local governments to reach an agreement, we will complete the merger by the time when organizational restructuring: enhance operational the Honam Line of Korea Train Express goes into service. efficiencies, strengthen core functions, and revamp other functions Main Results in 2010 Adding to Public Value Develop airports’ special values and positive Year 2009 2010 Improvement impacts, and rationalize operations to increase Number of Flights Operated at Regional Airports 212,439 216,561 UP 1.9% public value Number of Passengers Using Regional Airports 26,333,000 30,156,000 UP 14.5% 43 ACTIVATING REGIONAL AIRPORT CHANGE Establishing Theme-Based Strategies to Reinvigorate Gimhae and Jeju Airports GIMHAE Theme Promotion Strategy JEJU Theme Promotion Strategy AIRPORT AIRPORT s h#ENTUM 0ORTv s h'REEN 0ORTv s UILD A PUBLIC RELATIONS CENTER TO s %STABLISH A hCULTURE TERMINALv promote regional tourism and leis 3TRENGTHEN TIE INS WITH CULTURAL EXsure resources. perience programs. s $EVELOP PROGRAMS TO STRENGTHEN ties between Gimhae and Busan. Invigoration Strategy Invigoration Strategy s /PEN NEW ROUTES TO MEET TOURIST demand. s !DD INTERNATIONAL ROUTES TO #HINA s &OCUS ON ATTRACTING #HINESE TOURISTS Japan, and Southeastern Asia. s 3TRENGTHEN RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEs -AXIMIZE USE OF TERMINALS holders. Preparing for the Second-Stage Launch of KTX Strategy Measures Reduce Travel Costs s 2EDUCE PARKING FEES FOR CUSTOMERS USING HOME PRINTED KAC established an airport promotion plan in February boarding passes. s 2EDUCE PARKING FEES FOR CUSTOMERS USING PARKING FEE 2010 to minimize the effect of reduced demand for collection machines. aviation services following the second-stage launch s #UT ,##S FARES BY  of KTX. s 0ROVIDE FREE PARKING TIMES Maintain Flight Levels s 2EDUCE FEES FOR USE OF FACILITIES s -EET WITH AIRLINES #%/S s !DJUST mIGHT SCHEDULES s 2EVISE REGULATIONS ON SUPPORTS FOR AIRLINES Improve s $EVELOP LIGHT RAIL TRANSIT SYSTEM AND IMPROVE CONNECTING Transportation and system at Gimhae Airport. Services s /PEN 6)0 ROOMS AND RESERVED PARKING SPACES TO THE PUBLIC s )NTRODUCE AIR MEMBERSHIP CARDS s 3HORTEN CHECK IN TIMES 국제 여객량 3,163천명 KAC’s Commitment to Joint Growth with Low-Cost Carriers (LCCs) As part of KAC’s midto long-term management strategy, a wide variety of supports will be provided to assist the growth of lowcost carriers. They include lowering the standards for opening international routes so that they can compete more easily against the Korea Train Express (KTX). In addition, we have been working to develop niche routes serviced by small aircraft in an effort to operate airplanes with the number of seats appropriate for the demand of each airport. Working with Central and Local Governments Supporting LCCs Encouraging the Small Aircraft Business Loosen restrictions on market entry Provide incentives for LCCs Open niche routes Increase subsidies for losses Conduct joint marketing and public relations activities Provide dedicated facilities 36.8% 35.1% LCC Flight-Sharing Ratio LCC Passenger-Sharing Ratio 32.6% 27.7% 2009 2010 2009 2010 44 NON-AERONAUTICAL, FOR PROFIT BUSINESSES KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT As is the case with KAC, stimulating the use of local airports is crucial for low-cost carriers like us, because our main operations are based on servicing domestic routes. Local airports are necessary to develop local economies, but their infrastructure is insufficient, and consumer demand is too low. That’s why their rate of utilization is so small. In addition, it’s too expensive for budget airlines to use or rent airport facilities, making it difficult to maintain and develop local lines. In order to attract foreign tourists and increase demand, budget airlines should be given incentives so that they can use local airports more aggressively. I’m suggesting this because then budget airlines could have a competitive edge in using local airports, based on the nature of their business. We offer essential services at reasonable prices. In sum, KAC needs to hurry up and start offering special INTERVIEW incentives to low-cost carriers like ours. WITH Young-wook Kim, Director, Eastar Jet STAKEHOLDER Creating New Growth Engines for Non-Aeronautical, For-Profit Businesses Relationship between Air Transport Business and New Growth Engines Enhance Non-Aeronautical Profits Ease burdens on airlines and airport users by limiting increases in airport facilities user fees. Increase Demand for Aviation Services Contribute to the growth of non-aeronautical business profits, including rental income. Importance of Non-Aeronautical, For-Profit Businesses In line with the International Civil Aviation Organization’s (ICAO) recommendation to recognize the importance of non-aeronautical, forprofit businesses, KAC is establishing strategies to encourage their development by benchmarking best practices at overseas airports. Ratio of Aeronautical/Non-Aeronautical Proceeds in 2010 (Unit: KRW 100 Million) ICAO Recommendations The ICAO policy on user fees stresses the importance of non-aeronautical, for-profit businesses, and recommends the development of a wide range 3,165 Non-Aeronautical 1,689 Aeronautical of these income sources. The policy excludes 2010 licenses that are directly related to aeronautical services, such as fueling, in-flight meals, and onthe-ground services. 45 NON-AERONAUTICAL, FOR PROFIT BUSINESSES CHANGE Ratio of World Major Airports’ Non-Aeronautical Proceeds 70.5% 65.4% 65.9% 63.0% 65.2% 60.3% Korea Airports Japan Airport Changi Airport Group AENA Fraport AG Vancouver International Corporation Terminal [ Singapore ] [ Spain ] [ Germany ] Airport Authority KAC’s Non-Aeronautical, For-Proﬁt Businesses KAC has established a midto long-term roadmap for its non-aeronautical, for-proﬁt businesses. This will allow it to nurture new growth engines while focusing on its air transport business at the same time. Midto Long-Term Roadmap Roadmap for Growth BY 2013 Airport operator focusing on original BY 2017 Aeronautical business operator maintaining BY 2020 World-class airports corporation businesses additional new growth engines Goals Secure infrastructures and growth Expand scope of aeronautical businesses Becoming world-class airports engines for sustainable growth based on competencies corporation creating biz & life Projects s 3TRENGTHEN CORE COMPETENCIES s Make inroads into overseas markets s Become a world leader in terms of s 2EINVIGORATE REGIONAL AIRPORTS s Adopt a variety of business models and revenue and profitability s Realize vision of a forward-looking form strategic alliances s Increase revenues from new businesses future airport s Participate in new airport construction (KRW 500 billion) s Reinforce business infrastructures projects Concessions Business R&D Business KAC is uncovering new revenue sources, such as increasing its revenue KAC is also securing intellectual property rights in related business areas from airport rentals. This is being achieved through a positioning strategy through steady R&D efforts into aviation safety equipment. It is working initiated by each airport. The strategy includes establishing differentiated to either sell or receive royalties from them by strengthening its overseas concessions management structures and holding cultural events. marketing activities. This includes participating in international exhibitions. Property Development and Rental Business Overseas Airport Development Projects As part of its strategy of diversifying its revenue sources through new KAC has set a goal of winning 28 overseas airport development projects by business opportunities, KAC is developing the areas around its airports. 2020. This will allow it to raise its brand image and lay the groundwork for Some examples include a multi-complex area called “Sky Park” and public becoming a truly global airports corporation. golf courses. 0.6% 49.5% 34% KAC’s Commitment to a Vigorous R&D 14% Business 2010 2020 5% KAC has set a goal of increasing the ratio 13% 34% of its R&D business to its total revenue from 49.9% 0.6% in 2010 to 14% by 2020. ● Air Transport Business ● Concessions Business ● Property Development and Rental Business ● Overseas Airport Projects ● R&D Business 46 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Midto Long-Term R&D Business Plan Short-term (by 2013) Mid-term (by 2017) Long-term (by 2020) Goals Revenue (KRW 100 Million) 182 1,089 1,973 Number of Aviation Equipment Developments (Total) 12 21 27 Implementation Tasks Establishing an R&D Master Plan Augmenting Aviation R&D Increasing Profits from R&D Developments Strengthening R&D Infrastructure R&D Investment by Year Establishing a Proprietary Brand of Aviation Safety Equipment (Unit: KRW 100 Million) KAC is seeking to increase its global market share of aviation safety equipment through competition with global aviation safety equipment manufacturers such as 2008 45 Thales and SELEX. Another of its goals is to produce equipment with independently 2009 52 developed technologies that can be used in place of imported goods. The company’s 2010 79 ultimate goal is to establish itself as a “global top 3” player in this business area. R&D Status The R&D Center has sold aviation safety equipment to twelve countries, including Turkey, Iran, and Saudi Arabia. This demonstrates the high quality and cost competitiveness of our products. Aviation Safety Equipment ILS (Instrument Landing System) p rovides airplanes with runway centerline and landing path DVOR/DME information. DVOR (Doppler Very High Frequency Omni-Range) g ives directional information. DME (Distance Measuring Equipment) gives distance information. TACAN (Tactical Air Navigation System) displays direction and distance for military airplanes. Airfield Lighting Systems ILCMS (Individual Lighting Control & Monitoring System) gives time information. Light Emitting Diode (LED) lamps are used in airfields. Pavement Management System Web-Based Airport Pavement Management System enables systematic management. Airfield LED Lighting Systems Runway Roughness Analysis System ensures safe aircraft flights. Colombia Winning Overseas Airport Projects As of 2010, KAC had been awarded consulting projects at six airports in Colombia. They include consignment operations and improvements to facilities. The fixed annual revenue from these projects, which will extend for fifteen years from December 2010, is expected to reach KRW 4 billion. The Philippines KAC is currently carrying out an operation & management (O&M) project at Clark International Airport in the Philippines. A memorandum of agreement was signed in 2010 for designing airport facilities and operating the airport terminal for thirty years. Total profits from the projects are estimated to be in excess of KRW 5 billion. The main contract is scheduled to be signed in the first half of 2011. Winning Consulting Projects at Six Airports in Colombia 47 NON-AERONAUTICAL, FOR PROFIT BUSINESSES CHANGE Gimpo Airport General Development Plan (“Sky-City”) Developing Areas around Airports After the hand-over of its international routes to IAA, Gimpo Airport was left with many idle facilities and a lot of undeveloped land. In order to make good use of these assets, a three-stage development plan was established. The first-stage development, which was completed in 2004, turned the once-idle terminal into a complex of shopping spaces, theaters, and convention facilities. When the secondstage development project ends this year, a hotel, theme park, and department store will appear. The third, outer area, which is scheduled for completed in 2014 will feature community gymnastics facilities and golf courses. Once the project is completed, its annual revenue is expected to reach about KRW 50 billion. First-Stage Development of Idle Facilities Second-Stage Development of Sky Park Third-Stage Development of Public Golf Courses The R&D Center and its accumulated technological expertise play a significant role in KAC’s business success. For example, we are aimed at representing 20% of the company’s revenue by 2020. We export facilities, provide consulting services, and offer facilities grants and other forms of aid. The R&D Center has immense potential. Our primary goal is to maximize efﬁciencies and reduce operating costs at the fourteen airports that KAC currently runs. The proof of our success lies in the extremely positive way that KAC is received both at home and abroad, heightening our brand value in the process. One obvious result of this was winning an airport consulting order from the country of Colombia. We export aviation safety equipment that is based on our very own independentlydeveloped, highly-advanced information technologies. The excellence of this equipment is recognized globally, even though most of it is only two years old. This success is due to KAC’s organizational stability as a public enterprise, as well as our superb information technologies. We want to hold 15% of the world’s aviation industry market for safety equipment by 2020. To accomplish this goal, we’re putting immense efforts into R&D. The R&D Center was only established three years ago, but our number of employees is increasing rapidly. Sometimes decisions have to be made in a hurry; that’s the nature of the business. That’s why the center needs to have an independent business structure that will allow it to respond to rapidly changing situations and enable fast decision-making. Such a change in our business structure would also supplement, and even strengthen, communication channels with stakeholders which are currently a bit insufficient. R&D INTERVIEW investment takes time to produce results. Given this, I hope our stakeholders will continue to support and invest in the center from a longer-term perspective. WITH Byung-no Kim, KAC R&D Center STAKEHOLDER 48 LOW CARBON GREEN MANAGEMENT KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Practicing Low Carbon Green Management by Publishing Carbon Report Vision of Green Management for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Reductions VISION Creating a “Low Carbon Green Airport” Target 0.7% Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions Strategy Practicing Green Management Environmental Friendliness Relationship with Local Communities Implementation Practicing green management through Contributing to the protection of the Initiating GHG reduction efforts through Projects GHG management systema environment by lowering energy disclosure of carbon information and consumption and GHG emissions and cooperation with similar institutions recycling waste materials • Establish a GHG inventory • Use new and renewable energy • Carbon Report • Operate a GHG management system • Use high-efficiency equipment • Exchange information with other airports • Establish reduction target • Reduce energy consumption in buildings •S  trengthen cooperation with similar • Develop energy management system • Save daily energy use and exercise institutions • Develop environmentally aware recycling • F acilitate exchanges with local organizational culture • Apply green technologies communities •P  romote customer participation Commitment to Low Carbon Green Management As its first step toward green management, KAC established a greenhouse gas Airport Practicing Green Management inventory and management system. This laid the foundation for its further GHG reduction activities. Information on GHG emissions from our airports across the nation is given in the form of statistical data to ensure its objectivity and reliability. Our reduction target has been set at 0.7%, which will bring us to our 2005 level by 2015, the equivalent of a 9.8% reduction on a BAU basis. Because energy management is a critical component of its overall management activities, KAC operates an Energy Management System (EMS) and an internal management unit that are tasked with GHG-related issues. BAU (Business as Usual) GHG emissions forecasts based on existing GHG reduction technologies and current policies Midto Long-Term Investment Plan for Carbon Management KRW 195.2 billion KRW 9.4 billion KRW 19 billion 2010 Carbon Report 2009 2010 2011~2015 49 LOW CARBON GREEN MANAGEMENT CHANGE In order to ensure that its airports are as environmentally friendly as possible, KAC Environmentally Friendly Airports is taking aggressive steps to reduce its volume of greenhouse gas emissions and strengthen its energy efﬁciency by adopting new and renewable energy sources. For example, our use of high-efﬁciency equipment has resulted in less energy use and fewer GHG emissions. We are also conducting R&D activities into a wide variety of green technologies, including an airﬁeld LED lighting system. Strategy to Adopt High-Efﬁciency Equipment Using New and Renewable Energy Sources Overarching Strategy Making Airport-Speciﬁc Investments to Realize a Green Airport Identifying AirportRegional main ofﬁces in Gimpo/Gimhae/Jeju-do Midand small-sized airports to operate facilities only when need Speciﬁc Characteristics Use too much energy due to constant operation of facilities arises (e.g. actual airplane operations) Directions Reduce heating and cooling loads and Consider energy savings and emissions reductions from the electricity use for heaters perspective of lowering base loads s Determine what new and renewable energy sources are s Take future operational goals and the surrounding appropriate for large-sized airports to reduce emissions and environment into consideration improve KAC’s public image s Consider use of new and renewable energy sources given s Achieve GHG reductions by using more efﬁcient equipment weather conditions and in spite of low return on investment s Consider GHG reduction effects on KAC’s public image Implementation Projects s Replace existing lights with LED lamps s Replacing existing lights with LED lamps s Lower heating and cooling load by using high-efﬁciency s Install solar PV generation system in areas with sufﬁcient equipment sunlight s Install geothermal heating and cooling system s Cut heating load by using solar thermal system s Power lights using solar PV generators s Shift to low-carbon fuels s Cut heating load by using solar thermal system KAC introduced its first carbon report in 2010, containing information on its GHS Relationship with Local Communities emissions volumes, the measures it is taking to reduce them, and related activities. New issues of the report will be published on a regular basis. We are also hoping to collaborate with other airports and institutions through information exchanges and the establishment of a “Green Partnership Consultative Group.” We also signed an agreement with the Korea Forest Service to carry out a pilot carbon-offset forest project. It will be the ﬁrst one in the country. Developing Low-Power Aviation Safety Equipment The independent development of aviation safety equipment offers KAC both technological advantages and export opportunities. It also contributes to our campaign to realize a green airport. Green Building Project KAC is working to develop “green” buildings that use less energy and emit fewer greenhouse gases. One of them is part of the “Sky Park” project for the revitalization of Gimpo Airport, whose terminal will be turned into an environmentally friendly meeting and travel space by 2014. In addition, eco-friendly, high-efﬁciency equipment will be installed at Jeju Airport as part of the expansion of its international terminal. This latter facility took many other steps toward becoming a “green” airport between 2009 and 2010, installing solar PV and geothermal systems and using high-efﬁciency Green Building Project pumps, environmentally friendly insulation materials, and recycled materials. 50 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our Carbon Points Scheme, which we introduced in 2010, awards stakeholders with Applying a Carbon Points Scheme to All points and other incentives according to their volume of GHG emission reductions. Airports Nationwide Airlines, commercial tenants, and on-site government agencies can claim these rewards by converting their savings in electricity use into GHG reductions. Category Reward One Best Practice Winner 6-month Free Parking Ticket Three Excellent Practice Winners 4-month Free Parking Ticket Four Good Practice Winners 3-month Free Parking Ticket Our goal in establishing a carbon-neutral forest is to work with local communities Establishing a Carbon-Neutral Forest to offset CO2 emissions. We began the program in collaboration with the Gangseogu Municipal Office, which administers the area that Gimpo Airport is located in. In addition to providing us with a way of contributing to the larger society, it adds to our standing as a caring and concerned corporate citizen. The memorandum of understanding between KAC and the local administrative office includes details about the forest’s maintenance, funding, volunteer work, and public relations activities. KAC will provide KRW 50 million annually for three years to assist in its development, while the Gangseo-gu Office will choose a site and carry out repair and maintenance work. In 2010, KAC planted 1,679 trees, worth KRW 50 million. Carbon-Neutral Forest KAC Gangseo-gu Office Korea Energy Management Corporation Participated in the Participated in the kick-off ceremony kick-off ceremony and Issues sarbon-neutral and provide funding provide and manage certificate for voluntary to create forest. the land. reduction efforts. Based on an MOU Project Budget and Amount of CO2 Offsets Project Budget Signing Ceremony for Establishing a Carbon-Neutral Forest Annual funding of KRW 50 million from KAC’s social contributions budget • Represents 10% of KAC’s overall social • Carbon-neutral certificate for voluntary contributions budget reduction efforts from Korea Energy • For three consecutive years Management Corporation Amount of CO2 Offsets Total 1,000 tCO2 Tree Planting Ceremony for Establishing a Carbon-Neutral Forest 51 LOW CARBON GREEN MANAGEMENT CHANGE KAC’s campaign to develop a truly green airport includes joint efforts that will involve Setting up a Green Partnership and beneﬁt all its stakeholders, including on-site agencies and local communities. Consultative Group We set up a Green Partnership Consultative Group in 2009 to achieve this goal. The group consists of twenty-eight KAC team leaders and junior employees responsible for dealing with GHG issues, along with representatives of eleven airlines and on-site agencies. They meet every two months to discuss such issues as joint responses to the government’s low carbon policy, mutual support for CO2 reduction activities, and their GHG emissions reduction goals. Other topics that they deal with include other ways of acting together, methods for reducing emissions, the operation of the Aircraft Ground Power System (ACGPS), and replacing airport vehicles with eco-friendly ones. Launching Ceremony of Green Partnership Consultative Group Aircraft now account for 3.5% of human activities affecting climate change, and the report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change indicates that this ﬁgure will reach from 5 to 15% by the year 2050. Since air travel is on the rise everywhere, the aviation industry is experiencing correspondingly rapid growth. As a result, almost all of the airports around the world are pursuing greater proﬁts, while also attempting to minimize their environmental impacts. This is why KAC’s vision of becoming a “Low Carbon, Green Airport” is so timely and appropriate. I am very impressed to see how deeply KAC’s management is committed to that vision. That’s why KAC received the highest prize at the “LOHAS Management Awards 2010” in the service, ﬁnance, and distribution category from the Climate Change Center of the Korea Green Foundation. A further proof of this commitment is the publication of this sustainability report. One suggestion that I’d like to make is to use speciﬁc ﬁgures for the previous year’s target, results versus targets, and the next year’s targets to express this commitment more clearly. If data on KACs’ greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption levels, water resources management, and other subjects contained in this report were to be supplemented with easy-to-understand ﬁgures, the places where the company has done well and has faltered would show up more obviously. Then new measures and plans could be set up accordingly. In order to realize its vision of becoming a “Low Carbon, Green Airport,” KAC needs to establish strategic relationships with all its business partners. The “Green Partnership” joint consultative body that the company set up in 2009 is a good start at this. However, further progress needs to be made in this area to achieve lasting results. Working with other major stakeholders, including NGOs and research institutes that deal with climate change issues, INTERVIEW would be another good way of making new approaches to KAC’s sustainable development activities. WITH So-hee Kim, Director, Climate Change Center, Korea Green Foundation STAKEHOLDER 52 HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Human Resources Development: The Bedrock behind KAC’s Competitiveness Establishing a Competency-Based Human Resources Development System KAC has established a human resources development system and a mediumto long-term career development roadmap to foster the growth of value-creating employees who will make significant contributions to its future success. The roadmap is used to assist in the creation of training courses based on employment position and work sector. We also established a midto long-term personnel policy that dovetails with our Vision 2020 corporate goals. Its purpose is to foster the growth of employees whose expertise and capacity for innovating and executing will turn our corporate vision into a reality through differentiation, efficiency, and professionalism. Thanks to these efforts, KAC was awarded the 2010 Management Grand Award for human resources development in the “innovation leadership” category by the Korea Management Association Consulting. KAC’s Human Resources Development System Goal Fostering Human Resources Who Can Bring KAC’s Vision to Fruition Strategy Fostering the Development of Core Human Career Development Education and Training Resources Implementation • Establish two-track system: one that • Define targets clearly • Establish a competencies-based training Project includes white-collar workers, and one • Identify career objectives for personnel structure that doesn’t to be fostered • Develop personal competencies • Determining career targets and • Add to pool of white-collar workers for diagnostic tools Establish competenciesdesigning career paths core business sectors based GAP training program HR Infrastructure Develop an e-HRD system infrastructure and measure employees’ level of satisfaction with educational and training opportunities Improving Personnel Policy through HR Management Reviews Aspects of KAC’s HR development system that need improving are discussed at workshops. They are based on information and feedback gained from our employees and outside experts. We held a “White-Collar Workers Workshop” involving thirty four participants in May 2010 and an “HR Insight Workshop” in July. Follow-up briefing sessions were held the next August at the Head Office and in Jeju, Gwangju, Gimpo, and Busan. These gave our employees an advance opportunity to learn about changes to our personnel policy. Core Projects for Human Resources Development in 2010 • Identify new white-collar sectors • Develop competency-based educational and • Designate career targets and classification types Establishing training system in accordance with core values Improving Career • Establish career development plan through e-HRD Competency• Strengthen process for identifying organizational Development System Based Education and individual needs Policy (CDP) • Set up a support system to deliver information on and Training • Design needs-based training courses training and educational opportunities System • Develop educational programs that achieve • Revamp the system to select, foster, and manage management goals white-collar workers more accurately Strengthening • Revamp overseas training programs Improving the • Increase the white-collar HR pool Function-Specific • Develop courses to facilitate core projects White-Collar • Apply a grading system and the “Pool In/Out” Competencies Training Program principle to white-collar workers • Strengthen educational and training supports for white-collar workers 53 HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT CHANGE Designing Training Courses KAC selected a number of key HR projects to pursue in 2010, after consulting with an outside professional research ﬁrm. This ensured the efﬁcacy of our educational and training programs by establishing a competency model-based HRD process that is custom-tailored to meet our speciﬁc needs. In 2010, we offered courses that were designed to increase our employees’ knowledge of our core values and vision, and stopped offering ones that were deemed to be inefﬁcient and/or ineffective on a cost/beneﬁt basis. The courses were ran more than four times. Number of Employees Completing Education and Training Courses ● In-house Training ● External Training ● Cyber Education 1,032 1,171 2009 2010 2,965 Total 4,334 337 2,129 Total 3,641 341 Establishing a Competency-Based e-HRD System As-IS (Program-centered) Level-speciﬁc Functions-based Functions-speciﬁc education and education and education and Special education training training training To-Be (Competency-centered) Value-oriented Competencies Relation-oriented Function-oriented (Functions-based education Competencies Competencies and training) (Level-speciﬁc education and (Functions-speciﬁc education training) and training and special education) Our ﬁrst goal was to identify speciﬁc training needs and requirements. To accomplish this, basic and necessary company-wide skills were segmented into three divisions through the use of competency modeling. This was followed by the creation of a competency pool, enabling us to identify speciﬁc factors that accompany each skill. We also carried out a survey of our working-level divisions to determine our training needs on an organizational basis, and conducted skills evaluations with individual employees to identify them at the worker level. Following that, educational and training courses were offered to enhance unsatisfactory skills sets. We also determined that our career development policy needed to be revamped. As part of that process, we surveyed our employees to determine what training methods and processes they would prefer. Workshop of Employees in Charge of Each Section of Workshop of Community Service Group Leaders Code of Conduct 54 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fostering the Development of Globally-Oriented Employees From September to December 2010, KAC operated a simulation program in which the participants took on an imaginary project. The goal of the exercise was to raise the competency levels of employees who will be involved in overseas projects in the future. Thirtynine trainees were assigned to build and operate an imaginary airport with similar conditions (such as geographical location and size) to those that the company is targeting for possible overseas management projects. The goal of the program was to enhance the participants’ problem-solving abilities. We also provide a variety of other supports for fostering globally-oriented leaders, including enrolling them in overseas MA and MBA programs, overseas training opportunities, and personnel exchanges with overseas airports. Results of Competency-Enhancement Training for White-Collar Workers  Attainment of Basic Competencies (Unit: People)  Skills Reinforcement (Unit: People)  Additional Development of Global Skills (Unit: People) 40 22 14 8 5 5 6 2 2008 2009 2010 Education Cost (Unit: KRW Million) 2008 10 2010 57 2010 73 KAC’s Customer Service Team members meet people who come to its airports. I believe that enhanced customer support is a primary basis for realizing KAC’s Vision 2020. That’s why our team is constantly thinking up new ways to meet the diverse needs of our customers. For example, we responded to requests to deal with the problem of second-hand smoke at bus stops by initiating a non-smoking campaign and installing smoke detectors around our airports. However, KAC doesn’t have a company-wide policy or proper incentives to encourage more actions like this. If we had a corporate culture that stressed the importance of employeeled thinking about issues like these, I’m sure that our workers would come up with a host of interesting and workable ideas. In addition, while KAC is committed to hiring more women, female employees still represent less than 10% of the total workforce. If we truly want to increase the number of women INTERVIEW working here, we need to implement systematic training programs that can help female employees strengthen their skills sets and keep them motivated. WITH Ji-young Park, Assistant Manager, KAC Customer Service Team STAKEHOLDER 55 LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS CHANGE Promoting Creative and Forward-Looking Labor-Management Relations Facilitating Advanced Labor-Management Relations Vision “Creative Labor-Management Partnership Opening the Future Together” Core Values Toward the Government: Toward the a: Toward Customers: Principles and Efﬁciency Respect and Trust Responsibility and Sharing 4 Strategies & 16 Labor-Management Culture Emphasizing Fairness and Efﬁciency Forging a Cooperative Labor-Management Partnership Projects s 2EVISE OUTMODED SYSTEMS AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PRACTICES s -AINTAIN THE ,ABOR -ANAGEMENT #OOPERATION 0ROMOTION s !PPLY THE REVISED ,ABOR 5NION !CT Committee s -AXIMIZE EFFICIENCY THROUGH A POSITIVE NEGOTIATION CULTURE s ENCHMARK BEST PRACTICE COMPANIES s %FFICIENT IMPLEMENTATION OF GOVERNMENT POLICIES s #ARRY OUT JOINT SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS ACTIVITIES s )NCREASE PUBLIC AWARENESS OF LABOR MANAGEMENT COOPERATION Enhancing Trust by Enhancing Communications Strengthening Company-Wide Labor Management Capabilities s 3ET UP A COMMUNICATIONS ENHANCEMENT TASK FORCE s 2ESTRUCTURE LABOR MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION s %XPAND COMMUNICATIONS CHANNELS s %STABLISH ROLE OF LABOR MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION AND INCREASE s -AINTAIN MULTI LEVEL LABOR MANAGEMENT CONSULTATIVE GROUP its scope of activities s %STABLISH IN HOUSE COMPLAINTS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM s $EVELOP A SENSE OF UNITY AMONG LABOR MANAGERS s #ARRY OUT TRAINING TO ENHANCE LABOR MANAGEMENT CAPABILITIES In 2008, KAC became Korea’s very ﬁrst public enterprise to conclude a salary agreement without any labor negotiations. This resulted in a wage freeze, a radically restructured employee beneﬁts program, and reduced paid leaves. In 2009, we were the ﬁrst Korean public enterprise to impose wage cuts. In 2010, labor and management signed an employment agreement based on the central government’s recommendations, freezing wages and eliminating special rules for retirement payments. Later on, in response to recommendations made by the Board of Audit and Inspection in 2010, KAC abolished its paid Foundation Day leave, the ten-day long-service leave for employees who have been working at KAC for ten years or longer, and long-term leaves for family events. These are all examples of the efforts that KAC is making to develop harmonious labor-management relations that can overcome economic crises and enhance management efﬁciency. KAC has now enjoyed disputes-free collective bargaining procedures for twenty-three years in a row. Results of Mutually-Beneﬁcial Labor-Management Relationship Performance Index 2008 2009 2010 Number of Years without a Labor Disruption 21 22 23 Mutual Satisfaction Level with Labor-Management Communications 49% 52% 54% Revenue per Employee Total Revenue/Number of Employees of the Year’s End (Unit: KRW Thousand) 208,036 246,274 295,433 Number of Employees Completing Labor Service Training Courses 65 100 156 Integrity Index (External criteria) Average Best Best Customer Satisfaction Level (Points) 85.5 93.4 95.5 0% Frozen 0% Frozen Employee Cost Increase rate 6.8% Cut (Increase Included) (Increase Excluded) Number of Industrial Accidents 0 0 0 56 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Status of Labor Union KAC guarantees its employees the three labor rights stipulated in the Constitution of the Republic of Korea: the right to association, to collective bargaining, and to collective action. As of June 2011, 1,023 employees are unionized, representing 61.3% of the total workforce (non-unionized employees include team leaders of level 2 or above, private police, and personnel engaged in HR, labor management or auditing or undertaking secretarial duties). Communications with Employees Online and Offline Communications Channels KAC is enhancing its labor-management relationship by sharing Communications Channel 2010 information regarding its management decisions and activities On-site visits by and discussions with the CEO 45 times with its employees and developing communications channels Informal discussions between labor and management 23 times for advanced labor-management relations. In 2009, we made a Mentoring and special lectures by executives 45 times thorough revision of outmoded parts of the collective agreement. “Sky Board” 6 times In 2010, additional revisions were made to it, bringing the revision Complaints Resolution Committee Meetings 2 times rate to 100%. Within KAC, there are no work areas in which “Sky-Net” Frequently freedom of association and collective bargaining are likely to be CEO’s Mailbox 2 times critically infringed upon. Agora for discussion and shouts 390 cases Self-reporting system Frequently KAC Voice Bell 35 cases Proposal and Knowledge Plaza 30 cases Improving Concentration at Work by Resolving Complaints HR Career Market 275 cases 자기신고시스템 수시ㅋ If Not Resolved Complaints Resolution Committee at Head Office 100% Complaints Complaints resolution of LaborRegional airport-specific Resolution Regional Resolution complaints Complaint Management evaluation results reflected Committee airport Committee based on received Consultative at regional employee at regional Complaints Resolution multi-level Group airports airports Committee at regional main system offices by area Appropriateness of complaints Resolutions evaluated Fast and Accurate Feedback Joint Labor-Management Programs Organization Major Results Employment Stability Committee Discussed personnel reductions, plans to avoid dismissals, and employee selection methods. Personnel Policy Improvement Consultative Group Agreed on revision of regulations, such as encouraging voluntary retirements. Initiated labor-management discussion channel to prepare for the approval of multiple labor unions and Policy Improvement Committee possible prohibition of salary supports for full-time union officials. Employee Benefits Fund Consultative Group Decided on issues related to the fund and maed contributions to program to create jobs for the socially marginalized. Initiated discussions on the establishment of integrated compensation-related regulations in response to Annual Salary Consultative Group the adoption of an annual salary system. Discussed the composition of training sessions, consultative groups, and workshops aimed at resolving Working-Level Labor-Management Consultative Group management issues. Complaints Resolution Committee Maintained the complaints processing official (CPO) policy to handle individual complaints. 57 AVIATION INDUSTRY COOPERATIVE SYSTEM CHANGE Number of Complaints Resolved Number of Complaints Received Number of Complaints Resolved 35 26 30 15 19 9 2008 2009 2010 In order to enhance the execution capabilities of its CPOs, KAC has upgraded Complaints Resolution through Other their position from the middle manager level to that of senior vice president. To Programs ensure the complainant’s privacy, they have been instructed to use only private email addresses while dealing with employee grievances. CPOs are responsible Number of People Seeking Legal Advice for bringing complaints to a conclusion. Typical grievance items include transfers, promotions, disciplinary actions, sexual harassment, child-rearing beneﬁts, worker 2008 11 seniority, inter-personal disputes, family affairs, policies affecting female employees, 2009 22 and ofﬁce conﬂicts. CPOs also offer legal advice. 2010 54 Aviation Industry Cooperative System for Mutually Beneﬁcial Growth Establishing a Cooperative System for Mutually Beneﬁcial Growth KAC is committed to mutually beneficial growth in partnership with on-site agencies, business partners and their employees, airlines, on-the-ground ﬁrms, and commercial tenants. We exchange opinions with them and provide supports, including appropriate business environment. In addition, we are working to enhance the competitiveness of our partners through an On-Site Customer VOC Committee, informal discussions, and an ICAO-certiﬁed Aviation Security Training Center. Mutually Beneﬁcial Relationship Management System Conclusion of Informal Practice of agreement on Resolution Analyzing issues Discussions and Integrity and Ethical integrity and ethical of employee through interviews Education and Management management complaints with employees Training practices Joint Growth with Business Partners Ensuring that partners practice integrity and Dealing with employee complaints Listening to opinions from employees of our partners ethical management s $EALING WITH UNFAIR INSTRUCTIONS FROM SUPERVISORS s #OLLECTING OPINIONS THROUGH CLOSED INTERVIEWS s 0UBLICIZING +!#S PRACTICE OF ETHICAL MANAGEMENT or partners s )DENTIFYING CAUSES OF UNJUST PRACTICES AND MAKING s %NCOURAGING PARTNERS INVOLVEMENT s 'IVING #OUNSELING ON UNFAIR PRACTICES improvements 58 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Partners Activities Support Communications Channels Composition of Partners Airlines Using airport • Reduction in airport • On-Site Customer VOC facilities usage fees Committee • Joint marketing • Surveys and informal KAC’s major partners include business partgatherings ners, on-site agencies, commercial tenants, On-Site Customs, • Satisfaction survey on • On-Site Customer VOC and airlines. Commercial tenants using the Agencies immigration, working environment Committee quarantines, • Customer service and • Surveys and informal company’s airport facilities are classified etc. security training gatherings as rent-paying businesses. They comprise Commercial Restaurants, • Satisfaction survey on • Surveys 36% of KAC’s partners. This is followed by Tenants shops, etc. working environment • Informal gatherings business partners providing maintenance • Customer service and security training and equipment services (at 24%) and on-site Business Parking, • Better environment in • Surveys agencies (at 23%). Airlines account for anPartners cleaning, guard, waiting rooms • Informal gatherings other 17%. Working relationships and areas security, etc. • Compensation for good performers of support between KAC and its partners are • Financial help to described below. attend fitness classes ent Surveys KAC holds regular discussions with representatives of its business partners and onCommitment to Joint Growth site employees to gather their opinions on needed improvements and discuss past changes and their results. As part of its contract system, KAC obliges its business partners to sign an integrity agreement when they sign new agreements. Service level criteria were agreed between KAC and the business partners. Based on them, performance capability evaluation is conducted and the results are shared. Efforts to Assist in the Development of Local Communities In order to contribute to the economic development of local communities and assist the growth of SMEs, KAC joins with local construction companies in development projects worth KRW 5 billion or less. In addition, we specify that tenders for goods and supplies can only be made by local companies. As part of its efforts to enhance the welfare of its business partners’ workers, KAC Enhancing the Welfare of Business expanded and/or made improvements to the waiting rooms (21 sites at 14 airports Partners’ Workers as of 2008) used by them. In 2009, KAC revised its criteria for selecting its service providers to ensure that their employees enjoy safe and healthy working conditions. Business Partner Satisfaction Survey As a result, several new criteria were added. They include whether the firms pay 66.6 points adequate wages, abide by all labor laws, give their employees retirement pay, and 2009 provide all the insurance plans mandated by the central government. 72.8 points 2010 KAC is striving to enhance the level of its services by operating an integrated service KAC-Business Partners Joint Efforts for quality management system in collaboration with on-site agencies and airlines. Service Quality Management Our efforts included in this regard included installing an automated immigration inspection system, providing customer training courses to on-site agencies’ employees, and implementing a One-Pass Boarding system offering travelers faster and more convenient boarding services. KAC has established a number of monitoring systems to measure the satisfaction Communications Channels levels of its business partners. They include a survey of their employees’ satisfaction level with their work environment and informal meetings with our business partners. Through a conflict resolution desk, we address their complaints and listen to their suggestions for improvement. 59 SECTION. 04 ! '//$ 7!9 &/2 !. ORGANIZATION TO RAISE ITS 6!,5% )3 4/ #!2% &/2 4(% 7%,, %).' /& )43 34!+%(/,$%23 !.$ FULFILL ALL ITS OBLIGATIONS. 60 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY As one of Korea’s leading public corporations, a prominent member of the local communities, and a caring and concerned corporate citizen that wishes to play a central role in conserving the earth’s environment, we are working our hardest to make the world a happier and healthier place for everyone. 61 AIRCRAFT NOISE ABATEMENT RESPONSIBILITY Reinforcing Measures to Reduce Noise Pollution and Support Local Communities Measures to Reduce Noise Levels Korea’s Aircraft Noise Prevention and Noise Prevention Support Act went into effect in September 2010. As a result, KAC began taking immediate measures to reduce noise levels in areas affected by aircraft operations. Our main goals were to ensure that people living in districts other than those designated as noise-affected areas did not suffer from aircraft noise, and to lower the indoor noise level for regions designated for noise abatement measures to below 60 WECPNL. (By point of comparison, the standard for undertaking noise abatement measures at Narita International Airport in Japan is 65 WECPNL). KAC is committed to reducing the number of people suffering from aircraft noise, resolving their complaints about it, boosting their well-being and incomes, and promoting rational land use. We are also taking steps to ensure the effectiveness of our noise reduction activities and provide fair and equitable supports for noise-affected areas. Our 2010 budget for noise reduction activities was KRW 38 billion. WECPNL stands for Weighted Equivalent Continuous Perceived Noise Level. This is the highest level of aircraft noise with the number of ﬂights during day, evening, and night weighted. The advantage of this measurement is that the results are close to the actual level of noise experienced by local residents. 60 WECPNL is equivalent to 65 to 70 dB in the normal listening level, which means there are no problems in studying or watching television. Main Aircraft Noise Reduction Activities Operating an automatic noise measurement network s Implementing low-noise aircraft operations Measures to Reduce Noise at its Source procedures s Limiting the operation of louder-than-ordinary airplanes Noise Impact Survey Conducted every ﬁve years Land Management Land-use zoning and installation of noise reduction facilities Financing and Budget Allocations Implementing noise prevention programs based on stable funding and annual budgeting Monitoring Noises In order to minimize noise pollution, KAC is installing an automatic noise measuring system that provides results on a regular basis. The number of such system in Gimhae Airport will be raised up to three within this year. This will encourage the low-volume operation of airplanes, and ensure that people living in non-affected areas will not be disrupted by aircraft noise. Noise Reduction Results at Gimpo Airport Noise Number of 637 Flights Number of 325 Flights 81.0 WECPNL 75.6 WECPNL 2000 2010 Noise Monitoring and Measuring Station Noise Monitoring and Represenation of 3D Images 62 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Supports for Areas Suffering from Noise Pollution People living in areas whose noise level was 95WECPNL or above were moved to new places. In addition, KAC has implemented a wide range of support programs for other areas that are less affected. They include installing soundproofing and cooling facilities in houses and schools, and offering subsidies for public service broadcasting reception costs. Schools and people who are receiving public assistance to deal with their basic living costs are provided with cooling systems and subsidies for their electricity costs. Supports for Noise Abatement Support 2009 2010 Soundproofing Facilities for Residents 1,857 Houses 2,653 Houses Broadcasting Reception Fee Subsidy 1,006 Families Soundproofing Facilities for Schools 7 Schools 20 Schools Cooling Systems for Schools 16 Schools 1 School 자기신고시스템 수시ㅋ Support for High-Performance Sports Teams Kids Invited to Airport Experience Programs and Tours of Jeju-do The Yangcheon-gu Office works in tandem with KAC in dealing with noise issues. Yangcheon-gu is directly affected by airplane noise from Gimpo Airport; in fact, it accounts for 78% of all the area’s noise problems. We participate in KAC’s Noise Management Committee in order to give local residents a voice in its deliberations and decisions. In 2010, we established our own Noise Management Consultation Group to make our thoughts known more actively. KAC seems to do its best to reflect the opinions delivered through those channels to the extent possible. However, tangible results are still insufficient. Therefore, KAC’s Noise Management Committee, which only meets twice a year currently, should meet on at least a quarterly basis. This would allow the public’s opinions to be delivered more effectively, and INTERVIEW should result in improvements to the situation. WITH Jin-deok Kang, Team Leader, Clean Environment Department, Yangcheon-gu Office STAKEHOLDER 63 AIRCRAFT NOISE ABATEMENT RESPONSIBILITY During the second half of every year, KAC conducts a survey of about 200 Residential Soundprooﬁng System households in areas that are affected by airplane noise. This allows us to gauge the Satisfaction Survey residents’ satisfaction levels with their home soundprooﬁng facilities. In 2010, 91% of the respondents said that they were “satisﬁed” or “more than satisﬁed.” Share of Residents Saying They Were “More Than Satisﬁed” 2008 90% 2009 90% 2010 91% KAC gives priority to people living in areas that are affected by noise when Job Priority for People Living in Noise hiring new employees. For example, the Gimpo International Airport Office held Mitigation Areas consultations with ﬁve social service organizations operating in noise abatement areas, and signed a series of Job Creation Compacts with them in May 2009. As a result, a number of local residents were given jobs as helpers for the disabled or airport operations assistants. The Gimpo Airport Noise Management Committee has been representing local residents for the past fifteen years, and KAC is committed to forging a mutually-beneficial and cooperative relationship with them. Some of the steps that we have taken include installing sound-proof windows, providing free meals for the elderly, and operating scholarship programs. Despite this, the actual work that KAC have done to curtail airplane noise has been insufficient. Although local residents are suffering both financial losses and physical damage (such as hearing problems and tinnitus), there are as yet no concrete and practical solutions in place. Japan has a compensation system to deal with areas that are affected by aircraft noise, and residents of those areas are entitled compensation without even having to ﬁle a complaint. If we want to establish a fairer and sounder relationship with residents living near airports in this country, we need to adopt a similar program. As for KAC’s social contributions activities, local residents are telling us that they would like to see more resources channeled into areas that that are more closely related to their everyday lives. Educational initiatives, such as the provision of textbooks, support for afterschool activities, and scholarships would be examples of this. KAC is also committed to strengthening local economies. Recently, it broke ground to build public golf courses near Gimpo Airport. Unfortunately, the beneﬁts that should ﬂow from such projects, like more jobs and healthier local economies, aren’t realized equally everywhere. Some areas proﬁt from our actions, while others don’t. This is another look that INTERVIEW we need to take a closer look at. WITH Kyung-ja Gweon, President, Gimpo Airport Noise Management Committee STAKEHOLDER 64 ENERGY MANAGEMENT KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KAC’s Energy Management Activities to Cope with Climate Change Establishing an Energy Management System Energy controls are an important element of KAC’s management activities. For example, we have established a company-wide Energy Management System (EMS) to ensure the systematic use of energy at each of our airports. Its objectives are to set targets and guidelines for energy savings and to improve the mindsets of all our employees. As part of this process, a wide variety of plans and practical measures have been put in place throughout the entire organization. KAC’s Energy Management System The Management’s Will/Devising an Energy Policy/Strategic Planning Energy-Side Analysis Legal and Other Requirements Setting Goals and Sub-Goals Monitoring and Measuring • Establishing an Energy • Energy-Conscious Management Committee Purchasing and Designs Energy Management Projects • Designating a Chief Energy • Equipment, Facility, and Officer Performance Management Process Controls • Forming an Implementation • Managing Monitoring and Team Internal Reviews and Compliance Measuring Devices Correcting and Preventing Non-Complying ActivitiesActivities Management Review Resources, Roles, Responsibilities, and Authority / Appropriateness, Training, and Awareness / Communications / Documentation / Records Management EMS e-Bulletin 65 ENERGY MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY Reducing Energy Consumption KAC has taken a number of steps to manage the amount of energy it needs to operate its facilities and equipment. They include installing new and renewable energy equipment and high-efﬁciency LED lamps, and accessing clean energy sources. In addition, we signed MOUs with the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs and the Korea Energy Management Corporation to verify our emissions reductions in accordance with the UN’s Convention on Climate Change. We also launched an energy targeting scheme in accordance with the central government’s energy use rationalization policy for public institutions. As a result, we were able to lower our energy consumption level by 10.5% in 2010. Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption Type 2008 2009 2010 Fuel (Direct Energy) 5,063 4,805 4,590 Electricity (Indirect Energy) 22,852 22,349 22,569 Total Consumption (toe) 27,915 27,154 27,159 TOE stands for tonnage of oil equivalent. This is a unit for measuring the volume of energy sources needed to generate 10 million kcal which would be produced by burning one ton (7.41 barrel) of crude oil. 1.55 tons of coal or 1,150 cubic meters of natural gas equals to one ton of crude oil. (1 terajoules: 23.8846 toe) Amount Reduced Type Cost Fuel 687 toe KRW 602 Million Electricity 2,492 toe KRW 1,089 Million Total: KRW 1,691 Million Replacement Rate of LED Lamps 13% 5% 2009 2010 Electric Vehicle Charging Station at Jeju Airport High-Efﬁciency Transformer at Jeju Airport LED Lighting Systems in Arrival Area at Jeju Airport LED Lighting Systems in Departure Area at Jeju Airport 66 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Installing New and Renewable Energy Facilities KAC is committed to increasing its use of new and renewable energy sources, such as solar photovoltaic, solar thermal, and geothermal power. In accordance with our energy optimization plan for indoor facilities, all our employees have pledged themselves to recycling and saving resources. In addition, our provision of training and guidelines on energy savings and energy efficiency is being strengthened throughout the organization. We are also taking practical measures to meet the central government’s guidelines on energy savings and emission reductions. In addition to the introduction of a geothermal energy system at Gimpo Airport and Jeju Airport in 2010, we are planning to install an 8m2 solar thermal system in the Booan VHF omnidirectional range/tactical air navigation system and a 25kw solar PV power station at Gimpo Airport. Further steps will be taken to increase the use of green energy in the future. Fuel Reductions Solar Thermal System Supplementary Heaters and Coolers and Water Boilers Geothermal System Substituting for Absorption-Based Heatingand Cooling System High-Efficiency Equipment Using High-Efficiency Equipment, including Refrigerators High-Efficiency Motors Enhanced Insulation Enhanced Insulation for Windows and Roofs Electricity Reductions Lamps (LED) High-Efficiency LED Lamps Solar PV System Daytime Lighting Sources Wind Farms Long-Term Reviews, including Measuring Wind Speeds GHG Reductions Conversion of Energy Sources Conversion of Energy Sources Geothermal Systems at Jeju Airport Solar PV Systems at Gimpo Airport Solar Thermal Systems at Booan VOR/TAC Efforts to Reduce Emissions After establishing our greenhouse gas inventory, we began to analyze our emissions trends. Our levels of emissions were forecast on a business as usual (BAU) basis after analyzing the characteristics of each source, and appropriate reductions technologies were selected following a multi-faceted review. As a result of this process, we set targets based on the anticipated benefits of our reduction activities. First we divided our airports into three categories: regional main offices, mid-sized airports, and small-sized ones. Then we reviewed multiple directions for each category, and developed our emissions reduction strategies. In order to cope with climate change in a positive and proactive manner, we set a midto long-term target that will constitute a 0.7% reduction in terms of the 2005 baseline by the year 2015. In 2010, we recorded a 6.4% reduction in direct and indirect emissions on a BAU basis. GHG Emissions Year 2008 2009 2010 Total Emissions (Unit: tCO2) 60,902 60,240 60,517 67 ENERGY MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY KAC’s employees are very involved in the company’s energy saving campaign. Saving Energy in the Workplace For example, “Green Footprints” is a set of changes in everyday workplace habits that can result in dramatic energy use reductions. All our employees are making changes in the way they work, such as using their own mugs, turning off office lighting during lunch-times, turning off computers when they’re not being used, maintaining moderate office temperatures, and using fewer supplies for special occasions. Some results are shown in the table below. Type “Green Footprints” (2009) “Green Footprints” (2010) Doing Using personal mugs (producing disposable cups costs 11g of Using a fan (this helps to meet the central government’s target CO2 emissions) of a 10% reduction in energy consumption at public enterprises) Turning Off s 4URNING OFF OFlCE LIGHTING DURING LUNCH TIMES s 4URNING OFF OFlCE LIGHTING DURING LUNCH TIMES s 4URNING OFF COMPUTERS WHEN NOT IN USE  HOURS OF COMPUTER s 4URNING OFF COMPUTERS WHEN NOT IN USE  HOURS OF COMPUTER usage emits 9,000g of CO2) usage emits 9,000g of CO2) Maintaining s Maintaining moderate office temperatures (above 27℃ in s Maintaining a moderate office temperature (above 27℃ in summer, below 19℃ in winter) summer and below 19℃ in winter) s Using carpools or public transportation s Pooling cars or using public transportation s Setting the default direction of copy paper in horizontal s Setting the default direction of copy paper in horizontal direction direction s Using fewer supplies for special occasions (refraining from s Using fewer supplies for special occasions (refraining from using disposable supplies, banners, etc., as well as simplifying using disposable supplies, banners, etc., as well as simplifying ceremonies) ceremonies) s Purchasing high-efficiency products s Purchasing high-efficiency products s Not wearing ties in summer and wearing innerwear in winter s Not wearing ties in summer and wearing innerwear in winter s Turning off the tap while brushing teeth s Saving tap water s Banning the use of personal heaters s Doing more during work-hours to reduce overtime s Using e-documents rather than paper ones s 5SING THE STAIRS TO GO FOUR FLOORS OR FEWER Results of Energy Savings Behavioral Changes Energy Savings Using Personal Mugs 3 each (daily use of paper cups) x 11g of carbon emissions x 1,551 people = 13 tCO2 per year Turning Off Lamps 233KW of electricity consumption x 262 working days x 0.000448 = 27 tCO2 per year Powering Off Standby electricity x 12 hours x number of computers in operation = 80 tCO2 per year Promoting the Use of a Fan Green Footprints Poster On-Site Inspection into Green Management Practices 68 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Social Contribution Activities Goals of KAC’s Social Contributions Activities KAC’s goal is to be a world-class enterprise fulfilling its corporate responsibilities and sharing with the communities in which it operates as a caring and concerned corporate citizen. The projects in which the company participates are categorized into three main areas: social services, education and culture, and the environment. Their results are assessed and used as a basis for setting new policies. KAC’s Social Contributions Management Program Vision A World-Class Airports Corporation Creating Biz & Life Social Contributions Goal Fulfilling our Corporate Social Responsibilities Strategies Linking Social Contributions with Management Strategies Encouraging a Spirit of Volunteerism and Developing a Wide Range of Programs Strengthening KAC’s Image through Employee Engagement Areas of Major Projects Establishing Partnerships with Non-Profit Organizations and NGOs Social Welfare Education and Culture The Environment Winning Social Contribution Award 2010 69 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION ACTIVITIES RESPONSIBILITY Social Contributions Organization KAC’s social contributions organization is headed by the CEO and composed of 24 groups: four in the Head Office, seven in the regional main ofﬁces, eleven in regional airports, one in the Area Control Center, and one in the Civil Aviation Training Center. In 2010, they engaged in community service activities 3.8 times a month on average. Group leaders meet twice a year to assess the results of their activities and set future directions. Head Deputy Volunteer Directly Controlled Group, Strategic Planning Division, Corporate Management Head Ofﬁce (4) Head Groups Division, Airside Operations and Safety Division [CEO] [Executive [24] Regional Main Ofﬁces (7) Seoul (3), Busan (2), Jeju (2) Vice Daegu, Ulsan, Cheongju, Muan, Gwangju, Yeosu, Pohang, Yangyang, Sacheon, President] Regional Airports (11) Gunsan, and Wonju Centers (2) Area Control Center and Civil Aviation Training Center Annual Meeting of Leaders in the First Half of 2010_01 Annual Meeting of Leaders in the First Half of 2010_02 Major Results KAC is an active participant in the Korean government’s drive to achieve a warm, welcoming, and equitable society. KAC won a Social Contributions Corporate Award in November 2010. KAC helps multicultural families make visits to their home countries. To facilitate Helping Multicultural Families Visit Their this program, we signed an MOU with the Korean Red Cross. Families who are Home Countries recommended by foreign missions, the Korean Red Cross, or social service organizations are given round-trip airline tickets and an allowance to cover their stay. Through this program, 341 people from 109 low-income multicultural families living in noise-affected areas or agricultural or fishing villages visited six home countries in 2010. The Fifth Support for Multicultural Family Members The Sixth Support for Multicultural Family Members to Visit Their Home Countries to Visit Their Home Countries 70 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Major Achievements by Area in 2010 Area Major Achievements Specialized Social • Helping multicultural families visit their home countries Contribution • Signing an MOU for the above-mentioned program Programs • Social contributions activities in collaboration with airlines Programs in Three • Social contributions activities in noise-affected areas Major Areas • Support for relief activities in areas affected by flooding (e.g., (Social Services, Gangseo-gu and Yangcheon-gu in Seoul) Education and • Management participation Culture, and the • Joint wedding ceremonies for low-income families and donations Environment) to festivals for North Korean refugees • Holding mini-concerts, photo exhibits, and other cultural events in airport waiting rooms Festivals for North Korean Refugees • Participation in environmental cleanup activities (oceans, rivers, and streams) Helping • Providing services to villages in rural areas Relationships with • Purchasing agricultural products from villages in rural areas Villages • Donations to schools in Taean damaged by oil spills Public Relations • MBC broadcast of “A Rainbow to Share Hope” • Photo exhibits of social contributions activities • Publishing first issue of “Sharing in Blue” webzine Awards for Social • Social Contributions Corporate Award Contributions • Citations of excellence for groups and individuals by local Kimchi Making for the Needy Activities governments The Environment ● Social Services 111 Cases Support for multicultural families’ visits to their home countries 10.2% Focusing resources on noise-affected areas Management participation Education and Culture Social Services Support for relief activities in areas affected by floods 323 Cases 656 Cases Social contributions corporate award 29.6% 60.2% ● Education and Culture Total Inviting kids to airport experience programs and tours of Jeju-do 1,090 Cases English language camps for kids Donations to elementary and middle school sports teams ● The Environment Closer ties with villages in rural areas Purchasing agricultural products from villages In rural areas Conducting environmental cleanups Major Results of KAC’s Social Contribution Activities Type 2007 2008 2009 2010 Support for Local Communities (Cases) 957 1,154 1,169 1,090 Volunteer Activities (Hours) 29,047 27,290 28,340 25,470 Donations (KRW 100 Million) 1.17 1.94 11.01 13.32 KAC has formed helping relationships with seventeen rural villages located near its Forming Helping Relationships with airports across the nation. We help them by purchasing agricultural products from Villages in Rural Areas them, helping the farmers during their busy seasons, and holding feasts for senior citizens. In addition, students and the elderly are provided with medical assistance and invited to cultural events at airports. In 2010, twenty-nine employees from the Gimpo International Airport Office worked with farmers living in Ponae 2-ri, Wolgotmyeon, Gimpo-si to sow potatoes. Later, they harvested the potatoes and distributed them to the needy. 71 SECTION. 05 KAC’S SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM IS !3%$ /. )43 342%.5/53 EFFORTS TO MAKE ALL INTERNAL OPERATIONAL FACTORS WORK IN (!2-/.9 !.$ 4/ %&&%#4)6%,9 2%30/.$ 4/ %84%2.!, #(!.'%3 !.$ #(!,,%.'%3 72 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT B A L A N C E Our sustainability management program is based on effective crisis management, a transparent governance structure, an advanced organizational management structure, AND A STATE OF THE ART SAFETY AND SECURITY SYSTEM When all of these factors work in harmony, they enable us to benefi t all our stakeholders benefi ting society, and caring for the environment. 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BALANCE Corporate Governance Shareholder Structure Established in March 2002 under the Korea Airports Corporation Act, KAC holds all the properties, rights, and duties formerly vested in the Korea Airports Authority, in accordance with Addenda Article 5 of the Korea Airports Corporation Act. KAC’s shares are 100% owned and managed by the Korean government. As of 2010, paid-in capital was worth KRW 2,091,371 million. Voting rights on issues regarding changes to the Articles of Incorporation, the appointment of executives, and the approval of account settlements are vested in the Korean government. Composition and Activities of the Board of Directors (BOD) The Board of Directors is KAC’s highest decision-making body. It makes decisions on all major corporate functions, except auditing. Based on Korean law and its own Articles of Incorporation, KAC exercises the right to decide on such issues as its management objectives and budget. The BOD is composed of six Executive Directors (including the President) and seven Non-Executive Directors. Non-Executive Directors account for 54% of the BOD’s membership. In order to ensure a fairer decision-making process, the Chair of the Board is elected from among the Non-Executive Directors. This enables non-executive members to participate in management activities in a more responsible and independent manner. To facilitate the BOD’s activities, KAC establishes an annual operating plan and notiﬁes the Board of agenda items in advance. It does not decide on any issues through resolution by written agreement without convening a BOD meeting. In an effort to prevent conﬂicts of interest between the BOD members and the company, members of the BOD who have a special interest in any item or items on the agenda are not allowed to participate in any discussions regarding it or them. In 2010, the BOD held thirteen meetings and dealt with seventyfour agenda items. Compensation for the President, Auditors, and Executive Directors includes their basic salaries, performance-based compensation, and retirement pay, all of which are decided at a General Shareholders’ Meeting and by resolution of the BOD. A summary of the personal records of KAC’s Executive and Non-Executive Directors and copies of BOD resolutions may be found at the company’s website. BOD Six Executive Directors Seven Non-Executive Directors (Chair Elected from Among Them) Commission of Auditors Executive Recommendation Committee Management Strategy Committee Budget and Settlement Committee s 4WO .ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS AND s &OUR .ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS AND s 4HREE .ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS AND s 4HREE .ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTORS AND one Executive Director three external members two external members two external members s #HAIRED BY .ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR s #HAIRED BY .ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR s #HAIRED BY .ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR s #HAIRED BY .ON %XECUTIVE $IRECTOR s -ONITORS INTERNAL CONTROLS AUDITS s 2ECOMMENDS CANDIDATES FOR s $ELIBERATES ON ISSUES REGARDING s $ELIBERATES ON BUDGET ISSUES AND accounting, and reports results to President and Executive and Noncorporate vision and management the settlement of accounts the BOD Executive Directors strategies Operating Rules of the Commission Operating Rules of the Executive Operating Rules of the Board’s Operating Rules of the Board’s of Auditors Recommendation Committee Committees Committees Enacted on November 10, 2008 Enacted on January 22, 2008 Enacted on February 22, 2010 Enacted on February 22, 2010 74 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Process for Appointing Directors Position Process President By recommendation of the Executive Recommendation Committee and request of the Minister of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs, the President of KAC is appointed by the President of the Republic of Korea after deliberation and resolution at the Public Institution Operation Commission and a resolution at a General Shareholders’ Meeting. Corporate Auditor By recommendation of the Executive Recommendation Committee and a request from the Minister of Strategy and Finance, the Corporate Auditor is appointed by the President of the Republic of Korea after deliberation and resolution at the Public Institution Operation Commission and a resolution at a General Shareholders’ Meeting. Executive Directors Executive Directors are appointed by the President of KAC pursuant to a resolution at a General Shareholders’ Meeting. Non-Executive Directors By recommendation of the Executive Recommendation Committee and a request from the Minister of Strategy and Finance, Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the President of the Republic of Korea after deliberation and resolution at the Public Institution Operation Commission and a resolution at a General Shareholders’ Meeting.  Number of BOD Meetings (Times)  Agenda Resolutions (Cases) 32 29 23 17 17 13 2008 2009 2010 Prevention-Oriented Internal Auditing System KAC has established an independent audit commission to strengthen its internal monitoring functions. It meets on a monthly basis. In addition, the company has been operating a real-time auditing system called eMAS since 2009 that allows it to conduct audits in a more systematic manner. If the system detects deviations in risk from a standard predetermined range based on function-specific risk scenarios, a warning message is automatically sent to the auditor in charge. This enables the company to monitor its risk levels by detecting warnings in advance. The Commission of Auditors held fourteen meetings in 2010. It also presented its operational results at a “best practices” workshop sponsored by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. e-MIRROR AUDIT SYSTEM ERP Monitoring SMS Reporting Analyzing Causes and Initiating an Audit Auditor Manager in Charge Audit and Inspections Department Results of Internal Audit System  e-MAS Utilization Rate (%)  Satisfaction with Internal Audit (Points) Alarm 28.0 Sounds 22.5 4.9 Monitoring Problems SKY NET 4.7 with Aviation SMS Monitoring Equipment 2009 2010 75 RISK MANAGEMENT BALANCE Risk Management Improving the Company’s Risk Management System KAC has identiﬁed ten potential risk factors that should be managed with special care and has sub-divided them into four categories, based on their type, probability of occurrence, and priority. They include management, disaster, PR, and conﬂict risks. In addition, response manuals have been developed for each crisis scenario. The simulation method is also used to help reduce the possibility of a crisis occurring. Framework of Preventive Audit for Risk Management Area Financial Risk Project Risk Management Risk Target Financial control process Implementation of major projects Decisions regarding corporate policies Means 프로세스 (eMAS) Regular monitoring 재무통제 Auditing 재무통제 of management activities 프로세스 Auditing 재무통제 consulting 프로세스 (regular and ad hoc audits) (Auditing the diagnosis) PostManagement Risks are diagnosed and requests for improvements are made Implementation is monitored Results of risk management are considered by the Commission of Auditors and reported to the BOD Risk Management System Area Financial Risk Project Risk Management Risk Target Fifty-seven corporate ﬁnance items Unnecessary budget spending and Areas selected for improvements are preset for risk control are automatically inefﬁcient project areas are found through inspected and solutions are developed. monitored by eMAS. intensive inspections. Improvements are made afterwards. Means Regular monitoring of ﬁfty-seven items Adjustments ahead of regularlyRisk assessment by area, etc. through eMAS scheduled one Results in 2010 Alarm sounded 257 times and action was 213 adjustments were made (KRW 2,143 In areas determined as needing taken in nine cases. million saved). improvement, fundamental solutions were taken (KRW 5,235 million saved). Internal Control Mechanism and Response to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) In 2007, KAC evaluated the design and operation of its accounting system through an internal control mechanism. Since then, we have been evaluating 412 internal control items and 182 core control items classiﬁed into nine sectors on a semi-annual basis. In 2010, we enhanced our evaluation activities to ensure the credibility of our ﬁnancial statements and strengthen the transparency of our accounting procedures. As a result, twenty ﬁve evaluation items that were subject to changes due to the introduction of the IFRS were enhanced, while forty items relating to the design and overall operation of our accounting system were augmented. In order to better prepare for the introduction of the new reporting standards in 2011, a working-level TF was established, and an IFRS auditor position was created. 76 MANAGEMENT PEFORMANCE TRENDS KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management Performance Trends Management Performance Trends in 2010 (Unit: KRW Million) Year 2008 2009 2010 Revenue 400,885 433,688 485,397 Operating Income 26,472 36,721 62,269 Net Income 43,369 42,595 57,654 (Unit: %) Year 2008 2009 2010 ROE 1.9 1.8 2.4 Operating Income Margin 6.6 8.5 12.8 Debt Ratio 12.4 9.9 9.7 Fixed Assets to Long-Term Capital Ratio 91.8 87.2 88.5 Total Capital Productivity 10.9 11.4 12.6 Revenue Structure ● Air Transport Business ● Concession Business ● Property Rentals and Development ● Overseas Projects ● R&D Business 0.6% 14% 34% 49.5% 5% 2020 2010 13% GOAL 49.9% 34% 77 AVIATION SAFETY SYSTEM / AVIATION SECURITY SYSTEM BALANCE Aviation Safety System Enhancing the Aviation Safety System KAC installed a Barrier Management System at its airports in Jeju-do and Yeosu in 2009 to meet international safety standards. In 2010, we began managing our airport operations certiﬁcations more comprehensively, and developed additional barrier management techniques to ensure that our aviation safety management system was operating as effectively as possible. As a result, we have achieved a 100% pass rate for our ﬂight inspections for seven consecutive years. In order to respond to disasters more quickly and proactively, we began using a Situation Reporting System at all our airports, allowing us to deal with disaster situations on a real-time basis. Other steps that we have taken to enhance our crisis preparedness include simulation exercises, map-based drills for disaster management, and equipment mobilization exercises that are undertaken in tandem with our contractors. Climate Change and Aviation Safety Time Needed for Snow Removal at The Korean peninsula experienced unprecedentedly abnormal weather conditions in Gimpo Airport 2010, such as heavy snowfalls, severe cold, and gale-force winds. In response, KAC added ten winter service vehicles to its ﬂeet, bringing our total number to twenty-four. 30 Minutes We also succeeded in shortening our runway clearance service time by six minutes. As 24 Minutes a result, airplanes at Gimpo Airport can now land and take off in twenty-four minutes, even if there is a 2.5cm accumulation of snow. 2009 2010 Aviation Security System Establishing a Global-Standard Aviation Security System Number of Airport Security Incidents and KAC has been making steady marketing efforts and maintaining a cooperative Terrorist Threats relationship with the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) since the Year 2009 2010 establishment of its Aviation Security Training Center in 2003. As a result, the ICAO Airplane Security Incidents (Cases) certified the Center to serve as its first-ever northeastern Asia aviation security training base. This happened in September 2010, allowing us to play a central role in Airport Security Incidents (Cases) establishing global aviation security standards in Korea. False Terrorist Attacks (Cases) 21 17 자기신고시스템 수시ㅋ National Crisis Management A host of VIPs flew to Gimpo Airport to attend the G20 Business Summit in Seoul in 2010. To ensure their security, KAC drew up an aviation security plan and took rigorous measures to ensure a high level of safety at the airport. As a result, no incidents or accidents occurred during the event. KAC was given a plaque of appreciation by the Presidential Security Service for its role in supporting the meeting. G20 Business Summit Plaque of Appreciation by the Presidential Security Service 78 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Environmental Management System Environmental Principles KAC is committed to environmental conservation and protection, and is continually striving to make its airports more sustainable and environmentally friendly. In addition to taking a series of steps to reduce the incidence of environmental pollution, we abide by all environmentally-related rules and regulations, and have established in-house standards that are even stricter than those mandated by statute. The following are some of the environmental principles to which we adhere. • Minimize negative impacts on the environment by saving resources, and reduce emissions through energy saving. • Make the purchasing of eco-friendly goods a priority, and maximize the use of products that are recyclable and reusable. • Improve the environment by establishing realistic but detailed environment targets. • Minimize atmospheric and water contamination. • Guarantee the transparency of our environment management practices by providing our environmental principles and operational results to stakeholders upon request. Establishing an Environmentally Friendly Airport Operating System KAC acquired an ISO14001 environmental management system certification in December 2000. In 2010, the number of our employees who were working on certification-related matters was four at the Head Office, four at Gimpo Airport, and seven at the airports in Busan and Jeju-do. They made 127 improvements in such areas as the environmentally friendly operation of our airports and ensuring that all rules and regulations pertaining to the environment are being adhered to. The number of requests for improvements from certification institutes was only twenty-four in 2010, down significantly from forty-nine in 2009. DNV Certification for the Head Office and Gimpo Airport Environmental Training for Employees In order to ensure the professionalism and credibility of our environmental management programs, we offer our employees periodic training through outside professional institutions. In addition, we began offering two new in-house ISO14001 inspector courses within the Aviation Technology Training Center to foster the development of environmental specialists. This was done to enable our ISO14001 environmental management system, which we adopted in 2007, to take root. In addition, we have contracted with outside environmental institutions to train our employees in such matters as environmental conflict management, ensuring that our staffers in charge of environmental protection have been provided with up-to-date information and knowledge. Thirty employees completed this program in 2010. KAC’s employees are very involved in the company’s energy saving campaign. Green Purchasing For example, “Green Footprints” is a set of changes in everyday workplace habits that can result in dramatic energy use reductions. All our employees are making Green Purchasing Activities Government Standard: 80% 97.5% changes in the way they work, such as using their own mugs, turning off office lighting during lunch-times, turning off computers when they’re not being used, maintaining moderate office temperatures, and using fewer supplies for special KAC’s Record in 2010 occasions. Some results are shown in the table below. 79 MINIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS BALANCE Minimizing Environmental Impacts Managing Air Pollution KAC’s efforts to minimize air pollution in 2010 were based on the Ministry of Environment’s Comprehensive Air-Quality Index (CAI), which measures air quality based on the health risk of six different categories of air pollutants. Some of the steps that we took in this regard included installing wheel washers, car washes, and dust removal facilities at our construction sites to reduce the incidence of scattered dust. There were no cases of major environmental impacts due to our service or business activities in 2010. Air Pollution Measurement Results in 2010 Pollutants SO2 (ppm) NO2 (ppm) CO (ppm) O3 (ppm) Standard 0.05 or beolw 0.06 or beolw 9 or beolw 0.06 or beolw 2008 0.002 0.03 1.2 0.009 Results 2009 0.004 0.026 1.9 0.016 2010 0.004 0.035 1.867 0.018 Measured at Gimpo Airport Air Quality Measuring Equipment Managing Indoor Air Quality KAC is placing its effort on enhancing air quality in the passenger terminals to enable the pleasant usage of the airport facilities by minimizing particulate particles. To accomplish this, the frequency of changing air ﬁlters within the terminals have been reduced, while greater focus has been placed on interior cleaning of the terminals. Monitoring frequency for particulate matters has been extended from once every year to four times a year. By measuring airside emissions at more airports, the emissions grade was raised to A in 2010 from B in 2009. Particulate Matter Concentration Year 2008 2009 2010 Particulate Matters (Unit: ㎍/㎥) 39.5 32.6 30.4 Criteria for Particulate Matters is below 150 ㎍/㎥ Measuring In-Door Air Quality_01 Measuring In-Door Air Quality_02 80 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Managing Water Quality Everyday wastewater at KAC’s airports is treated in accordance with the central government’s Water Quality and Aquatic Ecosystem Preservation Act and Sewerage Act. To reduce the volume of water pollution at its passenger and cargo terminals and other ancillary facilities and protect water resources, KAC operates wastewater treatment facilities whose capacity varies according to the size of each airport. In addition, three automatic water-quality measurement networks have been installed in the drainage system at Gimpo Airport, meaning that the quality of its water is measured twenty-four hours a day. Outside firms measure the quality of this water at major drainage spots. Based on their objective data, the water at Gimpo is not polluted at all. In addition, the company has established a number of water quality management plans to deal with non-point pollution at such areas as its runways. The volume of pollutant materials in this water is measured regularly by an outside firm on a semi-annual or monthly basis, depending on the airport’s treatment capacity. There have been no reported cases where the pollutant level has exceeded legal standards. Status of Water Resources Management Activities Type 2008 2009 2010 Tap Water 348,765 394,302 369,225 Heavy Water (Recycled Water) 131,563 188,406 183,393 Underground Water 554,363 501,736 645,897 Total Volume (m3) 1,034,691 1,084,444 1,198,515 Results of Water Quality Analyses at Wastewater Gimpo Jeju Treatment Treatment Facilities in 2010 Measurements Airport Airport Criteria pH 7.19 8.4 5.8~8.6 COD(mg/l) 7.2 3.9 130 or below SS(mg/l) 4.4 1.0 120 or below n-H(mg/l) 5 or below T-N(mg/l) 3.36 2.15 60 or below T-P(mg/l) 0.078 0.04 8 or below ABS(mg/l) 0.04 0.05 5 or below Sand Filter at Waste Water Treatment Facility Water Discharge Type 2009 2010 Gimpo Airport (ton) 357 95 Jeju Airport (ton) 40 37 KAC has been operating its own wastewater treatment plants in Gimpo, and Jeju. Managing Waste Materials Waste materials at KAC’s facilities are classified as specific waste materials or general waste materials, depending on how they are managed and handled. Specific waste materials, such as waste water, used deicing/anti-icing fluid, wastewater sludge, and incinerated ash are stored in approved containers and sent to outside contractors for treatment. General waste materials, including recyclable materials such as plastics, are separated and collected to reduce their volume. Volume of Waste Materials Treated Type 2008 2009 2010 Specific Materials 84 338 75 General Materials 2,469 2,805 3,057 Total (Ton) 2,553 3,143 3,132 81 MINIMIZING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS BALANCE Managing Soil Pollution Soil pollution and leakage tests were carried out within the facilities and surrounding areas at some of the airports that manage jet fuel and kerosene storage facilities. The test results showed that KAC’s total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH) level was within allowable limits, and that there was no leakage. KAC’s fuel storage facilities are inspected daily, monthly and annually. Soil pollution tests are carried out periodically Measurement Spot TPH Test Results (mg/kg) Airport depending on the opening year of airports. Thus, airports in Jeju, Daegu, Muan, and Yangyang were Tank Area 32.05 not subject to the test in 2010. Gimpo Airport Pipe Area 32.40 Surrounding Area 32.50 Tank Area 87.50 Gimhae Airport Pipe Area 443.50 Surrounding Area 38.00 Tank Area 10.30 Pohang Airport Pipe Area 10.00 below Surrounding Area 10.00 below Criteria for TPH (㎎/㎏) is below 2,000 Measuring Soil Pollution Level_01 Measuring Soil Pollution Level_02 Activities to Protect Ecosystems Although KAC’s facilities are not located in areas that contain important biological life-forms or wetlands, there are always concerns about birds colliding with airplanes. We are committed to ﬁnding environmentally friendly ways of tackling this problem. In addition, we are continually reviewing the possibility that ecosystems in areas near our airports may be altered due to airplane noise. Our actions include seeking advice from environmental experts. Going forward, we will pay special attention to any factors that could precipitate this change, and focus on ﬁnding measures to deal with them. 82 EMPLOYEE STATUS KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Employee Status Organizational and Human Resources Management KAC manages its organizational and human resources in accordance with the central government’s plan to advance public corporations while rationalizing their management. As part of its efforts to fulfill its social responsibilities, KAC strives both to create jobs and to seek organizational efficiencies through downsizing. Our 2008 to 2011 goals of minimizing the workforce at Yangyang Airport and cutting 305 surplus jobs at all our facilities through outsourcing were achieved in 2010, a year earlier than originally scheduled. We are now taking a variety of steps to remove obstacles to downsizing without having to resort to forced layoffs. For example, workers who opt for voluntary retirement are entitled to a period of up to six months to prepare for their transition to new jobs while being paid their basic salaries. This enables prospective retirees to leave the company whenever they choose. Adhering to Global Standards KAC abides by all regulations set by the International Labor Organization (ILO) prohibiting forced and child labor. In addition, we hold twice-yearly training sessions to educate our employees in gender discrimination and harassment issues. During the period covered by this report, no cases of discrimination based on gender were reported to us. Employee Status Criteria 2008 2009 2010 Employee Status 1,939 Employees 1,773 Employees 1,696 Employees Average Tenure 15.1 Years 16.36 Years 16.84 Years Turnover Rate 3.17% 6.7% 5.0% Number of Female Managers 3 4 4 (of Level Two or Higher) Disabled Workers 43 44 42 Employees under Job 130 122 123 Protection Creating Jobs In order to fulfill its responsibilities as a publicly-owned enterprise, KAC is actively participating in the Korean government’s jobsharing policies. In 2010, we hired ninety-five interns, providing them with the same training opportunities enjoyed by our existing employees. One of them was hired afterwards as a contract employee. If he then applies for a regular position after having worked with us for more than a year, he will be given an extra 10% on the results of his written test. As of March 2011, there were thirty-five interns working at KAC. Twenty-four of them were female, twelve had science and engineering backgrounds, and twenty five came from outside the Seoul Metropolitan Area. Winning the Human Resources Develoment Leader Award 83 EMPLOYEE STATUS BALANCE Creating Public-Interest Jobs In 2010, we hired 338 people as helpers for the disabled through our social services job creation program. In 2007, we abolished all hiring restrictions based on educational level, major at university, and age. In addition, we ensure that our employees are not discriminated against based on their gender or place of birth, either in terms of working conditions, promotions, or pay. Our “Sky Park” and public golf course construction projects created 7,455 jobs. Strategy for Hiring High-Quality Human Resources In order to ensure that it always hires the most qualified and skilled candidates possible, KAC has established a two-part hiring process comprising a written exam and an interview. The interviews are carried out by outside experts to ensure transparency and fairness. After an employee has gone through a step-by-step employment process that ranges from being an intern to being a contract employee to being a regular worker, KAC is able to determine his or her work capabilities extremely accurately. In the case of core positions, an open, competency-based hiring process is carried out through advertisements. Candidates from inside or outside the company can apply. We also have a policy to ensure that female employees, the disabled, and those under employment protection are able to retain their jobs. In addition, we attend Public Corporations Job Fairs and publicize our hiring process as part of our effort to support the government’s goal of realizing a fairer and more harmonious society. Equitable Working Environment In order to encourage the development of a professional female workforce, KAC has enrolled one female employee in a high-level management training course and another in its next-generation leadership development program. In addition, our maternity leave period has been extended from three years to four, while the child-birth leave for new fathers has been increased from two days to three. Other programs to help our female employees stay at their jobs and enjoy enhanced beneﬁts are being developed. This includes a counseling service that helps female employees deal with instances of gender discrimination. We also uphold the central government’s requirement that disabled people and seniors must constitute at least 2% of a workforce, and give priority in hiring to “persons of national merit.” Efforts to Retain Women in the Workforce Area Programs Results Adapting to the Organization Female Mentoring Policy Provided female mentors for interns Placement Management Assigned women to positions considering their needs Fostering Women Employees Fostering Female Managers at Level 2 or Enrolled one in a senior manager course and another as a Above next-generation leader Encouraging Childbirth Maternity Leaves Paid three-day leaves for male employees Leaves for Pregnancy Checks One day off every month Financial Supports for Childbirth Supports for Childcare Childcare Leaves Launched maternity leave policy Financial Supports for Childcare English Language Camps Held once a year for employees’ children 84 MANAGEMENT FOR EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Management for Employee Satisfaction Employee Satisfaction KAC runs a variety of employee benefits programs to enhance their satisfaction levels. One of them is a free annual medical check-up to protect their health. Results of Employee Satisfaction-Oriented Management Indicator 2008 2009 2010 Per-Capita Labor Productivity KRW 1.36 Million KRW 1.44 Million KRW 1.78 Million Job Satisfaction Level 4.08 4.10 Retirement Pension Subscription Rate 35% 90% 91% Employee Benefits Satisfaction Level 3.92 Points 4.11 Points Employee Benefits KAC is committed to following the central government’s guidelines on rationalizing the costs of its various employee benefits programs, with a special emphasis on female workers’ benefits. We conduct surveys of our employees’ level of satisfaction with various items in our employee benefits package, and use the results to make improvements to it. Our workers’ level of satisfaction with our cafeteria services is also surveyed. Suggestions like diversifying the menu are then delivered to the catering firms. Internal Employee Benefits Programs Employees’ Children’s School Tuition Supports Tuition fees for middle and high school-aged children of employees • Interest-free loans for university students Statutory Social Security Programs Health Insurance, National Pension, Employment Insurance, and Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Internal Employee Benefits Fund Supports for family events • Scholarships for university students • Supports for victims of disasters (floods, fires, etc.) • Subsidies for hobby groups • Loans to cover employees’ wedding costs • Loans to cover employees’ house purchases • Flexible benefits card Other Subscription to group non-life insurance policy • Care payments under the Infant Care Act • Supports for childbirth • Year-round operation of recreation center and vacation facilities • Flexible benefits card • Fitness center In order to enhance the well-being of its employees, KAC is encouraging the Promoting Labor-Management Harmony development of improved discussion channels between labor and management. Our to Enhance Employee Well-Being jointly-operated Labor-Management Council is one of the bodies that are tasked with improving the well-being of employees. The areas where such improvements were actually made include employees’ benefit cards, the night shift system, our sports fields, employee cafeterias, and the welfare programs for youth interns. In 2010, KAC increased its number of vacation facilities from seventeen to twenty-two, improved the environment of employee cafeterias, and carried out a remodeling of staff lounges. 85 MANAGEMENT FOR EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION BALANCE In accordance with the Guarantee of Workers' Retirement Benefits Act, KAC Retirement Pension Plan for a Financially initiated a retirement pension policy in 2007. In addition, we strengthened the Secure Old Age program’s foundation by depositing 92% of the pension money that we had collected in outside institutions. This will enable us to provide our pension subscribers with Number of Labor-Management Council Meetings more secure retirements. 2009 29 Year Retirement Pension Subscription Rate 2010 41 2008 35% 2009 90% 2010 91% 자기신고시스템 Employee Health and Safety KAC abides by all of the International Labor Organization’s labor standards and regulations and Korea’s Industrial Health Management Criteria, and attempts to prevent accidents by informing its employees about essential health and safety practices. These efforts enabled us to achieve an accident-free year in 2010. As part of our goal of protecting our workers from the hazardous effects of smoking, we are carrying out an anti-smoking campaign. We also promote the health of our employees by enrolling them in programs in which they can calculate their health in detail and engage in physical training methods to avoid illness and the development of diseases of the muscles and bone. Health and Safety Management System Structure Safety Health Management Administrator Industrial Safety and Health Committee Safety and Health Management Ofﬁce Fire Prevention Management Ofﬁce Fire Prevention Manager Safety Management Group Management Supervision Health Manager Industrial Health Doctor Group Person in Charge of Fire Prevention Legal Nominee Staff Person in Charge of FireFighting Equipment Healthy Diet Day Anti-Smoking Programs Group Sports Therapy_01 Group Sports Therapy_02 86 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDIX Independent Assurance Statement GRI G3 Index Airport Operators Sector Supplement ISO 26000 Checklist United Nations Global Compact Status of Compliance Awards, Memberships, and Certiﬁcations Glossary Questionnaire for Readers 87 APPENDIX Independent Assurance Statement Deloitte Anjin LLC 14Fl., Hanwha Securities Bldg., 23-5 Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-717, Korea Tel: +82 (2) 6676 1000 Fax: +82 (2) 6674 2114 www.deloitteanjin.co.kr Independent Assurance Statement to Korea Airports Corporation Management We have performed to provide independent assurance services over selected aspects of Korea Airports Corporation’s 2011 Sustainability Report (the “Report”). The management of Korea Airports Corporation is responsible for preparing the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited level of assurance engagement on the information presented in the Report and to provide our conclusion. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE3000 (“Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information”) issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). The extent for a ‘limited level’ of assurance is less than that of a ‘reasonable’ assurance engagement and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided for the Report. An engagement is limited primarily to inquiries of company personnel and review procedures applied to the data Korea Airports Corporation provided. The scope of our work was restricted to 2010 performance only. Information relating to the earlier periods has not been subject to our assurance. We conducted assurance work on the following selected information of the Report. s STRUCTURES Customer-Oriented Management: Number One in Terms of Airport Service Quality (pages 25-29) Service Quality Management: Enhancing Customer Value (pages 30-31) s OUR ROLE IN THE ECONOMY Enhancing our Economic Performance and Fair Distribution of Proceeds (pages 36-39) s CHANGE Reinvigorating Regional Airports to Further Balanced National Development (pages 42-45) Creating New Growth Engines for Non-Aeronautical, For-Proﬁt Businesses (pages 45-48) Human Resources Development: The bedrock behind KAC’s Competitiveness (pages 53-55) Promoting Creative and Forward-Looking Labor-Management Relations (pages 56-58) s RESPONSIBILITY Reinforcing Measures to Reduce Noise Pollution and Support Local Communities (pages 62-64) s BALANCE Minimizing Environmental Impacts (pages 80-82) 88 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our work included the following activities. s Interviews with the personnel responsible for aggregation and report of the subject data s An evaluation of the design, existence and operation of the systems and methods used to collect and process the subject data s Review of the subject data through inquiries and analytical procedures s Visit one local airport for a limited testing of the subject data aggregation and preparation s Verify the ﬁnancial data that they were correctly derived from the audited ﬁnancial statements In conclusion, nothing has come to our attention that cause us to believe that the subject data referred to above are not fairly stated, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting principles of Korea Airports Corporation. Partner Se Hwan, Kim Deloitte Anjin LLC Seoul, June 2011 89 APPENDIX GRI G3 Index If applicable, Index indicate the part Reason for Description Reported Page Explanation Number omission not reported Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. ● 8~9 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ● 76 Organizational Proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organization. ● 16~17 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services . ● 16~17 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating ● 16~17 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. ● 16~17 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with 2.5 either major operations or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability issues ● 16~17 covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. ● 16~17 16~17, 21 / Customer as those who utilize Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of KAC’s facilities for air transport or other 2.7 customers / beneﬁciaries). ● airport services. 16~17, 77, 83 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. ● / Number of employees: 1,696. 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. ● 16~17 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. ● 98 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., ﬁscal/calendar year) for information provided. ● C2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). ● C2 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). ● C2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● C2 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content. ● 10~13 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, 3.6 ● C2 suppliers). 3.7 State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. ● C2 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, 3.8 and other entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability from period to period and / or ● C2, 16~17 between organizations. Detailes of calculations and techniques Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Does not are not listed because KAC only followed the 3.9 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of ◐ C2 exist standard method, no unique assumptions the Indicators and other information in the report. or estimations. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 ● C2 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or 3.11 ● C2 measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ● 92 3.13 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ● 88~97 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governance body responsible for speciﬁc tasks, such as setting strategy or ● 74~75 organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive ofﬁcer. ● 74~75 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of 4.3 ● 74~75 the highest governance body that are independent and / or non-executive members. 21, 57, 74 / KAC's shares are 100% owned and managed by the Korean government. There are various communication Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or channels between employees and Does not 4.4 ● direction to the highest governance body. the governance body. Details of the exist communication mechanism are only partially reported due to its minor materiality level. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 4.5 ● 74~75 managers, and executives. 74 / In an effort to prevent conﬂicts of Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure confl icts of interest 4.6 ● interest between the BOD members and are avoided. the company. Process for determining the qualiﬁcations and expertise of the members of the highest 4.7 governance bodyfor guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, ● 74~75 and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their ● 22~24 implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and 4.9 ● 74~75 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, 4.10 ● 74~75 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 90 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ● Reported ○ Not Reported ◐ Partially Reported N/A Not Applicable If applicable, Index indicate the part Reason for Description Reported Page Explanation Number omission not reported Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4.11 ● 74~75 organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other 4.12 ● 97~98 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and / or national / international 4.13 advocacy organizations in which the organization has positions in governance bodies, participates ● 97~98 in projects or committees, provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues, or views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ● 21 11, 21 / KAC identify major issues and 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ● analyze stakeholders in order to select the key stakeholders. 21 / We communicate with major Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by 4.16 ● stakeholders at least once a year type and by stakeholder group. in a number of ways. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, ● 12~13, 21 including through its reporting. Economic Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 42 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating EC1 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, ● 36 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. KAC did not fully pointed out the financial implications for its climate change related EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to ◐ 49~52 Not activities. Throughout its reporting, KAC climate change. available described the risk & opportunities. KAC just needed to quantify its own learnings. KAC is state-owned company. All stateowned companies in Korea follow the same Not EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. ○ 85 retirement plans government employees material pension. Thus it was not necessary to report such details. KAC is 100% owned by the government. Not It does receive subsidy however due to EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ◐ 44 material such unique circumstances, it is partially reported. KAC is state-owened company. It's standard EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at ◐ 83~84 Not entry level wage is set by the law. Thus it is significant locations of operation. material partially reported. Purchasing promotion policy for specific regions will no longer be available as Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations Not EC6 N/A applicable qualifications ○ for bidding are equally applied of operation. through DART (data analysis, retrieval and transfer system). Procedures for local hiring is same as Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the Not EC7 ◐ 64 other hiring procedures, thus it is partially local community at significant locations of operation. material reported. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided EC8 ● 69~71 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent EC9 ● 36~39 of impacts. Environmental Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 49~52, 65~68, 80~82 Not No relevant materials used, KAC is in EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. ○ N/A applicable service business. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ● 80~82 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ● 66 / 192.170 terajoules (2010) Not Renewable vs non renewable primary source is EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. ◐ 66 / 944.903 terajoules (2010) available not yet available (To be reported in 2012). EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ● 65~68 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and ● 65~68 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ● 65~68 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. ● 81 Not Unable to provide the requested data EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ○ N/A available (To be reported in 2012). EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ● 80~82 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Not KAC's facilities are not located in protected EN11 ◐ 82 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. applicable areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Not KAC's facilities are not located in protected EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside ○ N/A applicable areas. protected areas. Not KAC's facilities are not located in protected EN13 Habitats protected or restored. ◐ 82 applicable areas. 91 APPENDIX GRI G3 Index If applicable, Index indicate the part Reason for Description Reported Page Explanation Number omission not reported Environmental Performance EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ● 33, 82 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Not EN15 N/A applicable No relevant species in the opration area. habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. ○ EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ● 67 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions is yet to be counted. However KAC currently Not published 'the carbon report' and it is EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ○ N/A available developing the system to do so.The data shall be available the next year (To be reported in 2012). EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. ● 49~52 Not EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 80 available GHG gas by weight. ◐ EN20 NOx, SOx, and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight. ● 80 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ● 81 Not Disposal method has no uniquess nor high EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ◐ 81 material materiality. Thus it is partially reported. EN23 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills. ● 82 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of ◐ 81 Not KAC has no waste shipped internationally. transported waste shipped internationally. applicable Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats Not KAC has not yet identify details of such EN25 ◐ 80~82 signiﬁcantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. available issues. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of EN26 ● 49~52 impact mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Not EN27 category. ○ N/A applicable KAC is in service business. Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 ● 97 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials Not KAC has not yet identify details of such EN29 ◐ 80~82 used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. available issues. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. ● 49 Labor Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 56~57 KAC partially reported the workforce by employment region as it is less material. It is Not LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. ◐ 83 because due to its business characteristics, material employees work placement changes frequently. KAC partially reported the turnover rate by Not age, group, gender as it is less material. It is LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. ◐ 83 material because turnover rate itself is too low to be speciﬁed. Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partLA3 ● 83 time employees, by major operations. 57 / As of June 2011, 1,023 employees are LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ● unionized, representing 61.3% of the total workforce. KAC's Joint labor-management program Minimum notice period(s) regarding signiﬁcant operational changes, including Not LA5 ◐ 56~59 includes notice periods and related whether it is speciﬁed in collective agreements. material procedures. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker Not The Committees represent the total LA6 health and safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health ◐ 86 material employees who have joined the union. and safety programs. There has been zero serious injury, occupational diseases and work related LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of ◐ 56 Not fatalities. KAC reported partially because work-related fatalities by region. material it is in service business. There is low materiality and extremely low accidents regarding this issue. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to KAC's Health & Safety Management system Not LA8 assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious ◐ 86 includes such data. KAC partially reported material diseases. due to its low materiality. Topics are listed however KAC did not Not LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 86 available specify ◐ which is included in the formal agreements. Instead of training hours, KAC reported size Not LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. ◐ 53~55 and the contents, system of training due to material its great importance. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 ● 53~55 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. % has not been calculated however reported the diagram showing the number Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Not LA12 54 available of ◐ employees receving education versus the reviews. total number of employees (To be reported in 2012). 92 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ● Reported ○ Not Reported ◐ Partially Reported N/A Not Applicable If applicable, Index indicate the part Reason for Description Reported Page Explanation Number omission not reported Labor Performance Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category Not Composition of governance bodies is LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators ◐ 83~84 applicable controlled by the government. of diversity. KAC is state-owened company. It's basic Not LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. ◐ 83~84 salary is set by the law. Thus it is partially material reported. Human Rights Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 53~55 KAC's Ethical Charter include the human HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include ◐ 23~24, 58~59 Not rightc clauses, thus every contract and human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. applicable investments undergoes the screening. KAC's Ethical Charter include the human Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening Not HR2 23~24, 58~59 applicable rightc ◐ clauses, thus every contract and on human rights and actions taken. investments undergoes the screening. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects Instead of training hours, KAC reported size Not HR3 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 24, 54 applicable and ◐ the contents, system of training due to employees trained. its greater importance. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. ● 83~84 57 / Within KAC, there are no work areas Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and in which freedom of association and HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these ● collective bargaining are likely to be rights. critically infringed upon. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 83 / At present, the risk of child labor in HR6 ● measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. KAC is extremely low. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 83 / At present, the risk of forced labor in HR7 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. ● KAC is extremely low. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or Not All employees are educated and trained HR8 ◐ 83 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. material regarding human rights. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and HR9 ● 62~64, 97 / No instances of violation. actions taken. Social Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 22~23, 69 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that evaluate and Establishment and closing of KAC’s business Not SO1 manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, 36~39 applicable units ◐ are determined by government and exiting. policies and managed by the laws. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to 22~24 / KAC administers corruption risk SO2 corruption. ● management in all business units. 24 / All employees of KAC are required to receive training on anticorruption policies Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and SO3 ● and procedures at least once a year. In procedures. 2010, the rate of employees receiving the training stood at 100%. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ● 22~24 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. ● 22~24 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and SO6 ● 22~24 related institutions by country. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 ● 97 / No violation. practices and their outcomes. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for SO8 ● 97 / No violation. non-compliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Performance Disclosure on Management Approach ● 25~33 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services ● 32~33 categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life ● 32~33, 97 cycle, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Not PR3 N/A applicable KAC is in service business. significant products and services subject to such information requirements. ○ Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Not KAC is in service business, no incidents of PR4 ○ N/A concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. applicable non-compliance. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 ● 25~31 customer satisfaction. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to PR6 ● 25~31, 97 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and ● 25, 97 sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy PR8 ● 28 and losses of customer data. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations PR9 ● 25, 97 concerning the provision and use of products and services. 93 APPENDIX Airport Operators Sector Supplement ● Reported ○ Not Reported ◐ Partially Reported N/A Not Applicable Index Number GRI AOSS Index Contents Reporting Level Page ENVIRONMENT AOSS1 Number of wildlife strike overall ● 32~33 AOSS2 Number of wildlife strikes leading to aircraft damage ● 32~33 AOSS3 NO2, SO2 Annual average concentrations ● 80 AOSS4 Number of people residing in areas affected by noise and percentage change ◐ 62~64 AOSS5 Number of people residing in areas affected by noise at night and percentage change ◐ 62~64 AOSS6 Geographical area covered by noise contour ◐ 62~64 AOSS7 Number of noise events above a certain threshold ◐ 62~64 LABOR AOSS8 Number of new cases of noise-induced hearing loss ◐ 62~64 SOCIETY AOSS9 Number of people displaced broken down by gender ● 83~84 AOSS10 Report on compensation paid to displaced persons, and describe what compensation covered ● 83, 86 AOSS11 Describe issues raised through community consultations and grievance mechanisms ● 62~64 AOSS12 Community investment initiatives and ratio of the value of community investments and turnover or net income ● 36~39 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Number of incidents when the airport is completely (or partially) shut down to air trafﬁc longer than 6 hour due to AOSS13 ● 32~33 unplanned events(total hours, percentage of weather related) Recovery time for airports to return to full operation after a complete or partial shutdown to air trafﬁc due to unplanned AOSS14 ○ events AOSS15 Percentage of total airport land developed relative to total area available for development ◐ 48 94 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ISO 26000 Checklist ● Reported ○ Not Reported ◐ Partially Reported N/A Not Applicable Core Subjects Issue Reporting Level Organizational Governance • Decision-making processes and structures ● • Due diligence ◐ • Human rights risk situations ◐ • Avoidance of complicity ◐ • Resolving grievances ● Human Rights • Discrimination and vulnerable groups ● • Civil and political rights ◐ • Economic, social and cultural rights ● • Fundamental principles and rights at work ● • Employment and employment relationships ● • Conditions of work and social protection ● Labour Practices • Social dialogue ● • Health and safety at work ● • Human development and training in the workplace ● • Prevention of pollution ● • Sustainable resource use ● The Environment • Climate change mitigation and action ● • Protection of the environment & biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitat ● • Anti-corruption ● • Responsible political involvement ◐ Fair Operating Practices • Fair competition ● • Promoting social responsibility in the value chain ◐ • Respect for property rights ◐ • Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices ● • Protecting consumers’ health & safety ● • Sustainable consumption ● Consumer Issues • Consumer service, support and complaint and dispute resolution ● • Consumer data protection and privacy ● • Access to essential services ● • Education and awareness ◐ • Community involvement ● • Education and culture ● • Employment creation and skills development ● Community Involvement and • Technology development and access ◐ Development • Wealth and income creation ● • Health ● • Social investment ● 95 APPENDIX United Nations Global Compact KAC joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in October 2007, a global initiative which stipulates corporate social responsibilities. By joining it, we declared our commitment to abide by the Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Through the annual sustainability report, we will report on the results of our implementation of the principles. Areas Principles Implementation Performance Index GRI Page s %MPLOYEE 4RAINING 1. We should support and respect the protection of HR1 HR2 HR3 HR4 Human s (UMAN 2IGHTS 4RAINING %THICAL -ANAGEMENT 4RAINING 53~55 internationally proclaimed human rights; and HR5 HR6 Rights s 3EXUAL (ARASSMENT 0REVENTION 4RAINING 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses s 4OTAL .UMBER OF DISCRIMINATION CASES HR1 HR2 HR3 83~84 3. We should uphold the freedom of association and the s ,ABOR 5NION  ,ABOR 5NION -EMBERSHIP 3TATUS HR5 LA4 LA5 56~57 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; s 7HETHER THERE HAS BEEN LABOR DISPUTES s 7HETHER STANDARD LABOR LAWS ),/ OR COOPERATIVE 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; HR7 56~57 agreements have been abided Labor s 7HETHER STANDARD LABOR LAWS ),/ OR COOPERATIVE 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and HR6 83 agreements have been abided s $ISABLED %MPLOYMENT 2ATE 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment HR4 LA2 LA10 LA13 83~84 s &EMALE %MPLOYMENT 2ATE and occupation. LA14 s %XPANSION OF HIRING FROM OTHER PROVINCES 64 7. We should support a precautionary approach to s .ON lNANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 76 4.11 environmental challenges; s %NVIRONMENT -ANAGEMENT 0RINCIPLES 79 s %NVIRONMENTAL )MPACT %VALUATION s %NVIRONMENTAL )MPACT 2EDUCTION 80~82 EN2 EN5 EN6 EN7 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental The s %NVIRONMENT 1UALITY -ANAGEMENT EN10 EN13 EN14 responsibility; and Environment EN18 EN21 EN22 s %NVIRONMENT 0ERFORMANCE -ANAGEMENT 49~52 s 'REEN (OUSE 'AS 2EDUCTION s %NERGY 3AVINGS !CTIVITIES EN2 EN5 EN6 EN7 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally s %NVIRONMENT )NVESTMENT %XPENSES EN10 EN18 EN26 49~52 friendly technologies EN27 s 'LOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE PREVENTION ACTIVITIES s !DOPTED  CONCLUDED #LEAN #ONTRACT PRINCIPLES Anti10. We should work against corruption in all its forms, including s /PERATE )NTERNAL 2EPORTING 0OLICY SO2 SO3 SO4 22~24 Corruption extortion and bribery s 3TRENGTHEN %THICAL -ANAGEMENT 3ELF 96 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Status of Compliance KAC abides by the UN Global Compact, all the ILO’s Labor Standards, and all laws promulgated by the Republic of Korea. In 2010, none of the following agreements or laws related to the economy, society, or the environment was breached by us. Disabled Employment Promotion and Job Rehabilitation Gas Act Basic Social Security Act Act High-Pressure Gas Safety Management Act Industrial Disaster Compensation Act Basic Low Birth/Aging Society Act Employment Insurance Act Commercial Act Contagious Diseases Prevention Act Framework Act on Employment Policy Income Act Act on Customer Protection in Electronic Transactions Act on Protecting Private Information at Public Special priority to purchase products manufactured by the Fire Act Companies seriously disabled Act on the Management of Fire-Fighting Facilities and Act on the Management of Public Corporations Basic Sustainable Management Act Safety Management Act on Disclosing Public Corporation Information Noise Vibration Restrictions Act Underground Water Act Act on Improving the Management Structure of Special Act on the Improvement of the Air Environment in Basic Disaster and Safety Management Act Public Corporations and Privatization Metropolitan Areas Metropolitan Area New Airport Construction Promotion Public Hygiene-Related Act Act on the Promotion of Purchasing Eco-Friendly Goods Act Act on the Preservation of Water Quality and Water Act on Litigation to Which the State is a Party Soil Environment Preservation Act Ecology Basic National Standards Act Elevator Safety Act Patent Act National Accounting Act Special Act on Obligatory Facilities Safety Management Wastewater Management Act New and Renewable Energy Development, Utilization, Act on the Promotion of Wastewater Treatment Facilities, National Pension Act and Distribution Promotion Act and Support for Surrounding Areas National Audit and Investigations-Related Act Wildlife and Plant Life Preservation Act Act on the Fairness of Expressed Advertising Act on the Promotion of Labor Participation and Outdoor Advertisements Management Act Act on the Fairness of Sub-Contracting Cooperation Act on Equal Employment and Support for Work and Act on Medical Emergencies Sewerage Act Family Reconciliation Trade Union and Labor Relations Adjustment Act Usage and Distribution Promotion Act Korea Airports Corporation Act Public Usage Facilities, such as Indoor Air Quality, Basic Energy Act Aviation Safety and Security Act Management Act Air Environment Preservation Act Energy Usage Rationalization Act Air Transport Business Promotion Act Dangerous Materials Safety Management Act, Act on the Conversion to an Eco-Friendly Industrial Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act Transportation Safety Act Structure Act on the Development and Operation of Distribution Natural Disasters Management Act Facilities Mother and Child Health Act, Corporate Tax Act Natural Environment Preservation Act Act on Subsidy Budgets and their Management Act on Resource Savings and Recycling Promotion Disabled Employment Promotion and Job Rehabilitation Value-Added Tax Act Act Basic Social Security Act Act on Employment Promotion and Vocational Rehabilitation for Disabled Persons 97 APPENDIX Awards, Memberships, and Certiﬁcations Awards Airport Air Navigation Solutions Provider of the Year by Frost & Sullivan New Quality CSR Award by Korea Foundation for Quality Gimpo Airport Named World’s Most Efﬁcient Mid-sized Airport by Air Transport Research Society Grand Prize for 2010 Global Leader by Hankyung Daily Grand Prize at the National Spatial Data Infrastructure KOREA 2010 by the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs Single-Market Company of the Year in Asia by International Business Awards Customer Satisfaction Management Grand Award by Korea Management Association Consulting Human Resources Development Leader by Korea Management Association Consulting The Best Performing Institution Audited by the Land and Maritime Affairs Committee of the National Assembly Third Prize in the Organizational Innovation Best Practices Contest 2010 by the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs Second Prize in the LOHAS Management Awards 2010 in the Service, Finance, and Logistics Category by Korea Green Foundation Social Contribution Award 2010 in the Social Development Category (Support for Non-Korean Families) by Hankyung Daily and Open Management Research Inc. Minister of Gender Equality and Family Prize in Korea Communication Awards 2010 in the Printed Company Magazine Category by the Korean Association of Company Magazines The Best Performing Institution in 2010 in the Integrity and Ethics Category by the Korean Institute of Internal Auditors Memberships General Membership in the UN Global Compact Network Korea Special Membership in the International Contractors Association of Korea General Membership in the Korea Engineering and Consulting Association General Membership in the Korea Information Comm. Contractors Association Special Membership in the Korea Navigation Institute General Membership in the Public Corporations Consultative Group for a Transparent Society Ofﬁcial at the Asia-Paciﬁc Regional Board of Airports Council International General Membership in the Korea Integrated Logistics Association General Membership in the East Asian Airports Alliance Duty and General Membership in the Korea Electric Engineers Association General Membership in the Korea Institute of Construction Engineering and Management Special Institutional Membership in the Aviation Management Society of Korea General Membership in the Korean Society of Public Enterprises General Membership in the Korea Civil Aviation Development Association Certiﬁcations Best Practices Institution in the Customer Satisfaction Survey by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance Head Ofﬁce and Airports in Gimpo, Gimhae, and Jeju Certiﬁed for Best Quality Service in Korea by the Korean Agency for Technology and Standard of the Ministry of Knowledge Economy “Good” Grade in the 2009 Survey of Management by Heads of Institutions by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance “A” Grade in the 2009 Survey of Management by Public Institutions by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance Aviation Security Training Center Certiﬁed by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). Elected to the ICAO Board for Four Consecutive Years “AAA” Grade in the Korean Business Ethics Index Sustainability Management (KoBex SM) survey by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies of the Ministry of Knowledge Economy Gimpo Airport Ranked No 1 in the Airport Service Quality in its Class by the Airports Council International 98 KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Glossary Airport Operations Certification aviation technology. Major bodies within the organization include the General The International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) made it mandatory for all Committee, Board of Directors and Executive Office. The Board of Directors' 190 member countries to acquire government certification to establish safety support commissions include the Air Navigation Commission, the Air Transport management systems at airports that provide international airline services. KAC Commission and the Legal Commission. (www.icao.int) is expanding the certification to all its domestic airports by satisfying airport facility standards and preparing operating procedures. Low Cost Carrier (LCC) LCC refers to airlines offering less in-flight services at lower fares. There are Ubiquitous Airport (u-Airport) currently five such airlines operating domestically. The word ubiquitous means being present everywhere at the same time in Latin. Today, it refers to the information and communication environment where users ONE-PASS Boarding Service can freely connect to network without recognizing the network or computers. In The ONE-PASS Boarding Service provides a swift boarding process using this sense, u-Airport is an airport equipped with advanced automation, intelligent automatic recognition system thereby lessening passenger inconveniences due information technologies that provide passengers with convenient services. to congestion caused by manual identification process. Airport Barrier Management System Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) A comprehensive system that enables an efficient and systematic analysis, Wireless radio-frequency technology used to store and manage individual evaluation and management of barriers in barrier restricted areas based on the identification information in tags with integrated circuit (IC) chips and antennae 3D video information produced through precision measuring of the areas. Upon embedded. KAC established the RFID-based baggage tracking system, with receiving the responsibilities from the government, KAC is going to establish the which RFID tags are attached to passenger baggage and then tracked through management system at its six civilian airports in Gimpo, Jeju, Ulsan, Yangyang, the reader throughout the entire cargo handling process. KAC hopes to lay the Yeosu, and Muan. foundation to create a u-Airport based on the system. AIRSIDE, Movement Area Tactical Air Navigation (TACAN) The Airside includes the areas required for landing and taking-off such as TACAN is a navigational method to find the relative direction and distance runway, landing pad, taxiway, and parking ramp. Public access is restricted. between airplane and ground control. Once the airplane's TACAN system channel is adjusted to ground control's TACAN channel, a radio wave is automatically Common Use Self-service KIOSK (CUSS-KIOSK) sent to ground control from airplane. The response signal from ground control is An automated check-in system that enables passengers to issue their boarding pass used to simultaneously display the direction and distance from ground control themselves. Using the system, they can confirm their online reservations, choose on the navigational instruments of the airplane, enabling the pilot to identify the their seat, make payment on credit card, and scan their passport (In the future, such airplanes location. features as electronics passport and biometric recognition will be added). UN Global Compact Common Use Terminal Equipment (CUTE) The UN Global Compact was initiated at the proposal of the former Secretary A standardized system that allows airlines’ sharing check-in counters (including General of the United Nations, Kofi Anan at the Davos Forum, Switzerland in boarding gates). This is possible by flexibly assigning counters to airlines January 1999. The Compact is a voluntary agreement under the UN, comprised depending on congestion within terminals. New airlines can secure check-in of ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the counters more easily thanks to this system. environment and anti-corruption based the Global Human Rights Declaration, ILO Declaration, Rio Declaration and UN Anti-Corruption Agreement. KAC joined the Distance Measuring Equipment (DME) Compact in October 2007. (www.unglobalcompact.org) A system that continues sending the information on distance between the location of the system to flying aircrafts using frequencies. Weighted Equivalent Continuous Perceived Noise Level (WECPNL) WECPNL is a noise evaluation measurement unit recommended by the ICAO. Doppler VHF Omnidirectional Range (DVOR) The aircraft noise for landing and taking-off is comprehensively evaluated by applying weights according to the flight frequency, time, and maximum noise Equipment that provides flying aircrafts with data on a full 360-degree range from level. WECPNL is calculated by adding the weighted average by time period to the point of the system installed. the average dB of the maximum aircraft noise level every time an airplane. The current aviation law stipulates to classify the areas experiencing the noise level Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) of over 80 WECPNL as potential noise affected areas. Areas experiencing over 90 Based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, GRI is an organization established in WECPNL are considered noise affected areas. In this case, related government 1997 to set internationally accepted guidelines on corporate sustainability agencies should set up and implement measures to move affected households or report. CERES, a US network of environmental organizations and the United prevent noise. Nations Environment Program (UNEP) led the creation of the organization. Since announcing the first guideline in June 1, 2000, the organization set a policy to ISO 26000 revise the guideline every two to three years in accordance to the changing International standard on corporate social responsibility launched by the environment. Accordingly, GRI G2 Guideline was announced in May 2002 and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). It consists of seven G3 Guidelines, in October 2006 (www.globalreporting.org). core subjects (organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) involvement and development) and guidelines on thirty six issues. Although Under the convention on International Civil Aviation (also known as Chicago not legally binding, the standard has become major international criteria for Convention signed in 1944, the ICAO was established as a specialized agency social responsibility. Thus, it is expected to serve as an important yardstick for of the United Nations In 1947. Its objectives are developing the international corporate management. civil aviation transport industry and securing safety; creating an efficient and economical transport industry; and realizing development in airplane design and 99 100 Questionnaire for Readers We wants to hear from our stakeholders with regard to this 2011 Sustainability Report. Your opinions and suggestions will be refl ected in our sustainability management activities. Address: Korea Airports Corporation, Strategic Planning Team, 64 Haneul-gil, Gangseo-gu, Seoul Telephone: 82_2_2660_2527 Fax: 82_2_2660_2240 E-mail: seypark@airport.co.kr Website: www.airport.co.kr 1. What is your category? □ Customer □ Partner □ Government □KAC Employee □ Local Resident □ NGO or Civic Group □ Other ( ) 2. Why did you read this report? (Multiple answers possible) □ To Obtain Information about KAC □ To Assess the Results of KAC’s Sustainability Management Activities □ To Compare and Analyze the Characteristics of the Industrial Category KAC Belongs To □ For Educational Purposes 3. Which part(s) of the report interested you the most? (Multiple answers possible) □ Introduction □ Core Topics in the Report □ Structures □ Our Role in the Economy □ Change □ Responsibility □ Balance 4. If there is any section that requires supplementing, which section is it? (Multiple answers possible) □ Introduction □ Core Topics in the Report □ Structures □ Our Role in the Economy □ Change □ Responsibility □ Balance 5. Please give us your opinions on KAC’s sustainable management activities, and your suggestions regarding the overall structure and content of this report. KOREA AIRPORTS CORPORATION 2011 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 0UBLICATION $ATE s July 2011 Publisher s Korea Airports Corporation Department in Charge s Strategic Planning Team !SSURANCE s Deloitte Anjin LLC Planning and Design s PAOS, INC. 101 Scan the quick response (QR) codes below with your smart phone. You will access the WORLD-CLASS AIRPORTS CORPORATION CREATING BIZ & LIFE information you need to know about us anytime, anywhere. Introduction to KAC (Including Real-time Flight Schedules) KAC Voice Bell KAC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 64 Haneul-gil, Gangseo-gu, Seoul The paper produced through environmentally friendly Tel. 82_2_2660_2527 www.airport.co.kr processes and soybean oil were used to print this report.
