Sustainability is Our Nature... Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 1 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Contents 2 Message from the Chairman of the Board 85 Product Responsibility 4 Message from the CEO 85 Monitoring Reliability, Performance and Quality of 6 Bilim Pharmaceuticals at a Glance our Products 10 About the Report 86 Human/Patient Health and Safety 12 Corporate Profile 87 Our Customers 13 About Bilim Pharmaceuticals 88 Promotion Principles and Ethics 15 Our Management Concept 90 Our Suppliers and Collaborations 20 Our Journey of Excellence 94 Our Community Investment 22 Our Model of Reputation Management 94 Social Awareness 26 Our Ethical Management 95 Projects of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community 27 Our Sustainability Management Volunteers (BPCV) Platform 29 Our Risk Management 102 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment 29 Our Stakeholder Participation Approach 103 Our Environmental Management 32 Our Memberships 108 Our Environmental Targets 33 Our Awards 108 Our Environment-Friendly Approach 34 Our Economic Added Value 104 Our Environmental Investments and Savings 35 Operational and Financial Information 112 Our Energy Consumption 35 Sales Figures 114 Our Waste Management 36 Export Figures 116 Greenhouse Gas Emission and Carbon Footprint 37 Our Investments 116 Biodiversity 38 Our Work on Research and Development 117 Legal Compliance 40 Intellectual Industrial and Commercial Rights 118 GRI Indicators 40 Government Grants 124 UN Global Compact 41 Compliance with Law and Fair Competition Inside Back Cover Glossary 42 Valuing Humans 43 Our Work and Labor Practices and Employee Rights 43 Our Employees 43 Employment Figures 46 Our Human Resources Policies 46 Our Principles on Employee Rights 47 Our Management of Differences 48 Our Recruitment Procedures 50 Our Wage Management System 53 Our Contribution to Employee Development 74 Employee Participation and Representation 79 Occupational Health and Safety 85 Legal Compliance 2 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Message From the Chairman of the Board We, as Bilim Pharmaceuticals, manage our business and production process with the awareness and responsibility of being a “good corporate citizen”. We also think that corporate responsibility efforts are very important for a world which we can leave to future generations, and continue to take pains in this direction. 3 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 My Dear BilimFamily, Friends and Fellows, We, as Bilim Pharmaceuticals, manage our business and production process with the awareness and responsibility In today’s world, where communities have begun to consider of being a “good corporate citizen”. We also think that companies from a different point of view, we are going through corporate responsibility efforts are very important for a world a period in which sustainability is becoming more important which we can leave to future generations, and continue to with each passing day. Communities desire that business and take pains in this direction. production processes are not in contradiction with the concept of corporate responsibility, expecting companies to be “better While contributing to the national economy, we also make corporate citizens”. Undoubtedly, these developments are quite “voluntary” contributions to social life. Through the “Bilim important for companies, who have internalized and carried Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers” platform which we their corporate responsibility understanding into their corporate designed to raise people’s happiness and the community’s cultures. quality of life, was launched in 2005. With this platform, we try to reach children and young people in particular, who are our future. The corporate management guru, Mervyn E. King, made When setting up the Bilim Pharmaceutical Community Volunteers the following definition: “How you make money is social platform, we, together with our employees, aimed to ensure that responsibility”. Research studies indicate that 75% of investors our country and our society reach high quality of life at global pay attention to the company’s awareness of corporate scales and we devoted effort, time and intellectual knowledge responsibility before investing in the company, prioritizing this for this noble ideal. We represented Turkey with great pride at the criterion. Now, as we all know, corporate responsibility efforts Enterprise 2020 event which was held last year by the European are one of the most important elements building up companies’ Corporate Responsibility Association in Brussels with our “Bilim reputation… Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Platform”. Our reputation is our most significant capital… Through our continuous community investment projects, we In today’s business world, transparency is the first condition try to tackle community’s stereotypes to diseases such as to be reliable… Globalization brought along the necessity Schizophrenia and Alzheimer’s. of “being transparent”. It is a natural result of transparency and accountability that companies have to share with their all R&D studies are one of the most important matters for our stakeholders not only their financial achievements, but also the country’s development and sustainable development… We have processes that made them successful. Companies that progress an R&D center at the Bilim Gebze plant, which we built with a based on such principles as transparency, justice, reliability green building approach. At this center, which has 4,500 m2 and responsibility, which all comprise the basis of corporate of laboratory area and 220 different pieces of state-of-the-art governance, gain prestige both in the eyes of investors and the equipment, we develop products for the Turkish pharmaceutical community. industry with the contribution of 110 scientists. We are the leader of the Turkish pharmaceutical industry with our own products. While transparency is now the most important assurance which companies rely on, the community stands closer to Behind all these efforts which we believe to produce added those companies that are transparent and open to people. In value for our country lies our values, which are our most the following times, corporate reputation, social responsibility, trustworthy guide that carries Bilim Pharmaceuticals to the sustainable development, reliability, accountability and future. Our corporate values which we integrated with our transparency will be more important and take their place in individual values have made Bilim Pharmaceuticals today companies’ records. the fastest growing company in its sector and allowed it to turn into an exemplary organization in the field of sustainable I believe that one of the best indicators of transparency is development for the sector and many supra-sectoral Corporate Responsibility Reports. Last year, we published the first corporations. Corporate Responsibility Report of the Turkish pharmaceutical sector. And we shall keep publishing it every year. We will “Be the change you want to see in the world!” says Gandhi. With transparently share with you our economic, environmental our corporate responsibility understanding, we believe that we and social impacts through the report. The report you are now stand for change and are a part of it. Also we invite you to be a reading is another first in the Turkish pharmaceutical sector… part of the major change that takes place in your own companies. Our report was prepared in accordance with the ten provisions We believe that both individual and corporate changes will make set forth in the Global Compact, and internationally recognized our world a more livable place. GRI standards. Hereby, I would like to stress how proud I am to share this report with you. Yours respectfully, ! #$%&'()*))+), Chairman of the Board 4 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Message From the CEO We see sustainability-related efforts as an opportunity for our company: sustainability-related efforts contribute to our corporate development, create business efficiency and reduce the risks resulting from our environmental and social activities. 5 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 My Dear BilimFamily, Business Partners and Customers, We, as Bilim Pharmaceutical, take pains to fulfill our corporate responsibilities through our reputation management model and The rules of today’s business world are changing; today it ethical management understanding. The following topics are on is not enough for companies to focus on profitability to be our agenda at all times while managing our business: human “sustainable” and to be deemed successful. Being aware of rights, occupational health and safety, employee development, their economic, social and environmental responsibilities against equality of opportunity, community investment, product their stakeholders, companies have to show effort to fulfill responsibility, fair competition, ethical trade, environmental these responsibilities. It is not possible to continue conducting protection, energy efficiency, process and product innovation business with former approaches. This is clearly set forth by and legal compliance. business leaders as well, who came together for the Vision 2050 document released by the World Business Council for Sustainable We see sustainability-related efforts as an opportunity for Development: “It is now clear that the making business-as-usual our company: sustainability-related efforts contribute to cannot get us to sustainability or secure economic and social our corporate development, create business efficiency and prosperity these can be achieved only through radical change, reduce the risks resulting from our environmental and social starting now.” activities. Countries, individuals and companies must keep pace with the In 2010, we signed the Global Compact. We published the first changes taking place in the world, and anticipate as responsible Corporate Responsibility Report of the Turkish pharmaceutical citizens that they are a part of the community. industry. We also published our carbon footprint report. These are only the outstanding ones among many other sustainability We, as Bilim Pharmaceuticals, have been aware of this fact for related practices that have been realized. many years. Under the supervision of our Sustainability Board, we carry out efforts that also support the participation of our This year’s report covers our sustainability-related efforts in 2010. stakeholders in order to fulfill our environmental and social This report provides more comprehensive and more detailed responsibilities. information compared to the first report. Reporting allows us to measure and improve our performance and to share our efforts For Bilim Pharmaceuticals the primary sustainability-related with all our stakeholders in a transparent manner. I am proud to matters are people’s happiness, social development and share our Corporate Responsibility Report of 2010 with you. environmental protection. We build up structures that support sustainability practices; monitor developments I invite you to take responsibility both as a corporation and as an through these structures; identify our fields which are open individual for a more livable world. to improvement; make improvement plans; and show effort Yours Faithfully, not only to reach our targets, but also to surpass them. -*.'/*0)%'!)1 We support all our employees with sustainability trainings. We CEO also have various practices to make our suppliers and customers a part of our sustainability journey. We work with a number of different NGOs as our business partners to put our improvement efforts in practice. *Vision 2050 Report, www.wbcsd.org 6 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Bilim Pharmaceuticals at a Glance 48 Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ products are steadily 6.7% Bilim Pharmaceuticals has been prescribed prescribed in 48 countries. in the 6.7 out of every 100 prescription, being the second most prescribed pharmaceutical company of the year. Bilim Pharmaceuticals: The Fastest Growing Company in the Past 5 Years 109th 138th 183rd Bilim Pharmaceuticals has Bilim Pharmaceuticals has Bilim Pharmaceuticals has ranked 109th in the Turkey’s ranked 138th in the Fortune been announced as 183rd Top 500 Large Scale Turkey’s Top 500 ranking in the research conducted Industrial Concern ranking prepared by Fortune, one by the Capital Magazine in prepared by the Istanbul of the most prestigious order to determine the top Chamber of Industry. business magazine of the 500 companies of Turkey. world. Founded in 1953, Bilim started as one of the first domestic Having a firm position in the domestic market, within the last pharmaceutical manufacturers in Turkey. Since then the company decade the company’s strategy has been to gain a firm position has focused on the development, manufacturing and marketing within the international arena as well. Currently, Bilim is present of strong brand equivalents. in 45 countries all over the world and expands its territories every year. Currently with its competitive product portfolio composed of 198 products, state of the art R&D laboratories, modern high Bilim aims to further grow both in the domestic and international capacity manufacturing sites and a sales force of 1,162 medical arena by developing and launching niche products every year. reps; Bilim is one of the top 2 players in the very dynamic and highly competitive domestic market. Having a firm position in the By being a family of 1,844 workers, Bilim has committed itself to domestic market, within the last decade the company’s strategy increase the quality of life. has been to gain a firm position within the international arena as well. Currently, Bilim is present in 48 countries all over the world and expands its territories every year. 7 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Turkmenistan Yemen Vietnam Moldova Azerbaijan Macedonia Georgia Albania Afghanistan Croatia Kazakhstan Bosnia Iraq Malaysia Herzegovina Philippines Kosovo Myanmar Ukraine Indonesia Serbia Singapore Belgium Hong Kong England Cambodia Belarus Libya Kenya Ethiopia Sudan Somalia Tanzania Guatemala Benin Honduras Burkina Faso El Salvador Cameroon Nicaragua Congo Chile Ivory Coast Ecuador Gabon Togo Nigeria Uganda Ghana Thanks to our R&D and licensing competency, 610 of our products were licensed in 48 countries from Far East to Africa in 2010. 8 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Operational and Financial Information Having aimed to create added value to the national economy without compromising ethical values since the day it was founded, Bilim Pharmaceuticals continues to grow steadily. +7.4% Sales (000 TL) 752,000 700,000 574,000 According to the IMS data, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has been the fastest growing company in the past 5 years and increased its sales volume by 7.4% in one year. 2008 2009 2010 +9% Market Share (%) 5.1 4.5 4.7 Bilim Pharmaceuticals has ranked 4th with a market share of 4.5 in 2008 and of 4.7 in 2009. In 2010, it has become 3rd with a market share of 5.1, increasing its market share by 9%. 2008 2009 2010 +6% Social Investment Projects Contribution Amount (TL) 1,946,515 1,835,275 Having been one of the building stones of 343,188 the national economy, Bilim Pharmaceuticals continues to contribute to a sustainable economy. 2008 2009 2010 9 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 FINANCIAL INDICATORS Sales (000 TL) 2008 2009 2010 Target 579,000 694,000 705,000 Achieved 574,000 700,000 752,000 Added Value Created (000 TL) 2008 2009 2010 Target 125,500 145,500 182,665 Achieved 129,519 149,875 Payments Made to the Social Security Institution (000 TL) 2008 2009 2010 Target 11,500 11,500 11,905 Achieved 11,796 11,401 11,971 Tax Paid (000 TL) 2008 2009 2010 Target 18,400 23,000 33,000 Achieved 18,518 23,265 35,147 Social Investment Projects Contribution Amount (TL) 2008 2009 2010 Target 350,000 1,750,000 1,900,000 Achieved 343,188 1,835,275 1,946,515 steady and regular growth 10 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 About The Report The primary sustainability-related matters that are material to us are; the company’s economic business continuity in a sustainability perspective, employee satisfaction and employee rights through our labor practices, to contribute to the community we are in; to protect people’s health and to assure product safety; to manage our relations with our suppliers in an ethical and fair manner; and to reduce our environmental impacts. 11 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 We prepared our Corporate Responsibility Report of 2010 We made use of two internationally-recognized standards when with the intention of sharing our approaches with respect to preparing this report: Global Compact and GRI G3 standard. our economic, social and environmental responsibilities with We prepared the report in accordance with the ten provisions our internal and external stakeholders in a transparent and set forth in the Global Compact, and the GRI indicators. GRI accountable manner, and providing comprehensive information checked and confirmed that Application Level A, the highest regarding our practices. reporting level, has been maintained. (see statement on inside back cover) In the index attached to the back of the report, you This report is Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ second corporate will be able to see the sections where information related to the responsibility report and a summary of sustainability-related profile details and GRI performance indicators is discussed. efforts shown by our company. Report data was collected through focus group meetings The main headings of the report are our corporate management and revised to its final version under the supervision of the approach, economic added value, sensitivity to the ecological Sustainability Board. The opinions of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ environment and the value we attach to people. The report stakeholders have been included in many parts of the report. Data reflects our performance with respect to these matters and our set forth in the report is regularly kept and audited by respective commitments for the future. The primary sustainability-related departments and boards. This report has not undergone an matters that are material to us are; the company’s economic external assurance. We plan to seek external assurance in our business continuity in a sustainability perspective, employee future reports. satisfaction and employee rights through our labor practices, to contribute to the community we are in; to protect people’s Some data is similar to that seen in the 2009 report. The reason health and to assure product safety; to manage our relations for this is that, this is the first report, which was prepared in with our suppliers in an ethical and fair manner; and to accordance with international standards. reduce our environmental impacts. An online version of this report is being prepared. The online In this report, you will find our practices in 2010 in comparison version can be reached on our company’s website at www. with the previous year, our 2011 targets and commitments for bilimilac.com. the future. The report was prepared with the support of Mikado Consulting (www.mikadoconsulting.com), our sustainability consultant. Your opinions concerning our report are very valuable to us. You are welcome to forward your opinions and feedback to 23.'/3*)'4)56*7'8$)9':;'&0$'<=3&)>%)?>#>&@'!:)*9')%9'A:*B:*)&$' Communication Manager of Bilim Pharmaceuticals, who was responsible for the preparation of the report, through the following e-mail address: esra.cakir@bilimilac.com. 12 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile 3 Among rd 300 Corporations Ranked 3rd among 300 corporations in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry at the end of 2010, Bilim Pharmaceuticals continues to grow at a higher rate than the market. 13 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ! #$%& '(')&*+!,)!-.$%/-!(0 Detailed analyses play a key role in the formation of the right product structure. We continuously keep view of the treatment Founded in 1953, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a company with trends applied in the world and in Turkey and analyze the market 100% Turkish capital, which conducts production and marketing and our rivals. All relevant permanently monitored data are set activities in the strategically important pharmaceutical industry. forth within the framework of the “Strategic Plan and Annual The company’s headquarters is based in Maslak, Istanbul. Planned Budget Current Situation Analysis”. Molecular and Ranked 3rd among 300 corporations in the Turkish pharmaceutical treatment fields are identified through market analyses performed industry at the end of 2010, Bilim Pharmaceuticals continues to at segment and molecular levels; these data are matched with grow at a higher rate than the market. treatment trends and supported with prescription analyses. In this context, major and growing products are identified. We also Bilim Pharmaceuticals aims to reach the highest export identify significant products and fields of treatment for our rivals volume of any domestic pharmaceutical company by the end through competition analysis and evaluate them in conjunction of 2014. Bilim Pharmaceuticals currently exports to 48 countries. with market analysis data. Products determined through all of Bilim Pharmaceuticals exports to Asia, Europe, Africa, the Far these analyses are provided by our Business Development East, Latin America and the Commonwealth of Independent Department and developed at and offered to the market by our States. R&D Center, which is one of the few R&D centers in Turkey. More than 300 companies operate in the Turkish Changes in the Turkish Health System and Practices pharmaceutical industry. In this market of extensive of Bilim Pharmaceuticals competition, Bilim Pharmaceuticals ranked 3rd with a 5.1% market share, 2nd with a 6.4% share in terms of total number Some changes have taken place in the Turkish health sector of boxes and 2nd with a 6.7% share as per total number of through renewed applications. Launched in 2007, the “Family prescriptions. Practice” was put in practice in Turkey as of 2010. With this system, one physician is assigned to each Turkish citizen. Bilim Pharmaceuticals offers products in 67 of a total of 445 subsegments in the market. The total value of these sub-segments Occupational trainings were and are given to Family Physicians comprises 46% of the total market. We have 67 products in 198 by Bilim Pharmaceuticals in cities where the practice is being different forms in the market. We produce drugs used in acute exercised. In addition to trainings aimed at respective branches, treatment fields (such as antibiotics, pain killers, anti-influenza we also organize training programs that aim at all branches. drugs, digestion system drugs, muscle relaxants, dermatological drugs, etc.) and drugs used in chronic treatment fields (such as diabetes, asthma, COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), cardiology, and central nervous system disorders). 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Turkish 6,644,325,407 6,954,458,432 8,908,577,303 9,835,347,644 9,560,142,253 9,825,332,223 Pharmaceutical Industry ($) Bilim 286,406,757 313,299,377 412,388,834 443,490,372 452,404,287 499,920,626 Pharmaceuticals ($) Rank in Industry 7 6 6 5 4 3 Share (%) 4.3 4.5 4.6 4.5 4.7 5.1 14 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile Our training programs are not only restricted to Family Our Field of Work Physicians, but cover trainings aimed at the other branches in which we operate… Examples are the applied operation studies There are two primary categories of drugs in the pharmaceutical performed on fresh cadavers and “malpractice” trainings. industry: “original” and “equivalent” drugs. An original drug Moreover, we carry out routine practices like congresses and refers to drugs that were proven to have positive impact on a distribution of literature and scientific publications so as to cover specific disease as set forth by long researches and clinical physicians’ needs. trials. Also, “original drug” is a term used for new drugs, whose foundations are based on a patented molecule and for which no We strive to raise awareness on sustainability in all these similar drugs exist. Original drugs are protected for a specific time activities, even in the selection of promotion materials. For in many countries around the world under comprehensive laws instance, we concentrated on the use of recyclable materials and patent and data protection rights. During this time period, within the framework of our cooperation with the WWF and drew no other drug company is allowed to manufacture a similar drug. attention to global warming through the WWF concept, raising Thus, original drug manufacturers cover their R&D investments physicians’ sensitivity on this matter. and create resources for new researches. As legal protection period of an original drug expires, pharmaceutical companies Awareness raising activities on sustainability are not restricted may offer similar drugs to the market. These drugs are named as to physicians or pharmacists; all employees are being provided “equivalent drugs”. Companies that produce equivalent drugs trainings and are encouraged to take active part in sustainabilityhave to abide by some rules to offer these drugs to the market: related activities. C'D%'$E=>F)#$%&'9*=G'H=3&'I:%&)>%'&0$'3)H$')H:=%&':;'&0$'3)H$' active substance as the original drug. >Global, European and Turkish C'D%' $E=>F)#$%&' 9*=G' H=3&' 0)F$' &0$' 3)H$' ;:*H=#)&>:%' )%9' pharmaceutical features. Pharmaceutical Markets C'D%' $E=>F)#$%&' 9*=GJ3' ?>:$E=>F)#$%I$' K>&0' &0$' :*>G>%)#' 9*=G' The global market grew by 8% in 2009 to reach a size of US$ must have been proven. 820 billion. 30% of this growth came from emerging markets. The IMS estimates that the market grew by 5% in 2009 to reach With these features, an equivalent drug has the same quality, US$ 820 billion effectiveness and reliability as the original drug. Since research expenditures are less, an equivalent drug is more economic than Pharmemerging markets: Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, the original drug. Mexico, Russia and Turkey The pharmaceutical sector needs both original and equivalent The global medicine sector recorded an annual average rate drugs to raise people’s quality of life. There is no facility in of growth of 10% each year between 2000 and 2007 to reach Turkey which produces original drugs; only equivalent drugs US$ 712 billion by the end of 2007 and US$ 820 billion in 2009. are designed and produced. Our company’s field of work is the The Turkish pharmaceutical industry grew by nearly 30% in the production and marketing of equivalent drugs. same period. With this rapid growth trend, the industry reached a turnover of US$ 10 billion in 2009. (Source: IMS) All stages between the production and the sale of an equivalent Turkey is Europe’s 6th biggest medicine market in terms of drug are the same as for reference products. The only difference turnover. Growing more rapidly than the global medicine sector, is that clinical and preclinical studies, which were originally the Turkish pharmaceutical industry reached a turnover of US$ conducted by reference drug manufacturers on living creatures, 14.8 billion by the end of 2009. There are 43 production facilities are not repeated. in Turkey, 14 of which are owned by foreign capital, while 28 are For equivalent drugs, all analysis and research deemed necessary owned by the Turkish capital… by medical authorities are performed and their equivalence, Today, growth in the pharmaceutical industry has shifted from i.e. the fact whether they perform the same treatment with the developed countries to developing countries. In this aspect, reference product, is proven through scientific studies. the Turkish pharmaceutical industry is growing more rapidly than the global pharmaceutical industry. According to 2009 data released by the IMS, Turkey is the 6th biggest medicine market in Europe and 12th biggest in the world in terms of turnover. While rates of growth have recently dropped in the USA, Europe and Japan, which are the biggest pharmaceutical markets of the world, emerging markets including Turkey have continued to grow rapidly. 15 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Licensing Requirements Reference Equivalent whose basic molecular patent protection expire. The high-tech General Information on Company L L Research and Development Center has been equipped with 220 Product Features (prospectus, L L machines and items of apparatus. labeling and package) Unrivalled in the pharmaceutical sector with the fully Expert Report L L automatic warehouse system… The Fully Automatic Composition of the Medicine L L Warehouse Management System, located at Bilim Gebze, is Good Manufacturing Practices L L a fully automatic warehouse, 38 meters high and with a capacity (GMP) to hold 11,400 pallets. It is the largest warehouse in Turkey to Control of Raw Materials L L operate with this technology. All pallets are managed by means Control of End-Product L L of fully automatic robots, cranes and conveyors. Efficiency Stability Tests (active substance and L L and speed have increased by means of the Fully Automatic end-product) Unmanned Warehouse Management System. As per GMP, the Comparison of the Equivalent Drug --L system also aims to prevent the risk of using wrong materials with the Reference Drug and to eliminate occupational accidents which frequently take Preclinical Study L --place in conventional warehouses. Clinical Study L --Bioequivalence L L OUR MANAGEMENT CONCEPT Our Vision As it can be seen in the table above, the difference between original drugs and equivalent drugs is that preclinical and clinical To be one the top two companies in the Turkish pharmaceutical studies are not performed during the production of equivalent market and to achieve the highest level of exports of any domestic drugs. Equivalent drugs are just as safe as reference drugs. producer of medicines by the end of 2014. Equivalent drugs contain the same active substance with Our Mission reference drugs and have the same pharmacological effect. The benefits and risks of an equivalent drug which has been proved Bilim Pharmaceuticals develops drugs that maintain human health for bioequivalence are the same with the reference drug. and provide treatment. The company produces these drugs at Our Processing Facilities its modern and high-tech facilities at international standards. With its center at the Maslak Headquarters Building, Bilim By actualizing the publicity and marketing of its drugs in Pharmaceuticals executes production in two different facilities. domestic and foreign markets with focus on the client, the company enables availability of medicines along with customer With building expenses as high as €120 million, Bilim Gebze is satisfaction at the highest level. the biggest drug production facility in Turkey in terms of various production forms in the Gebze Organized Industry Zone. Bilim It achieves fertile, profitable and sustainable growth through the Gebze has an annual production capacity of 250 million boxes experience it gained as a rooted corporation which has adopted and the capacity to produce 17% of Turkey’s medicines. It is the the idea of quality of life as a life philosophy, and the value it biggest drug production plant in Turkey and among one of places on people and human life, as well as its collaborations the largest pharmaceutical plants in Europe. The center has maintained through development and its dedication to change. been designed and built in compliance with the US Food and The highest possible level is attained in employee commitment Drug Administration (FDA) standards. and satisfaction through innovative human resources Bilim Çerkezköy, approved by the German Ministry of Health, systems and an organizational structure open to learning with has been in operation at Çerkezköy Organized Industry Zone the awareness that competent employees will be a driving force since 1998 and is one of the most important penicillin production in competition. facilities in Turkey. It protects natural resources and the environment with its The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Research and Development Center is awareness of social responsibility, places importance on one the biggest research and development centers in the Turkish ethical values, and contributes to the social and economic pharmaceutical sector with its 4,500 m2 laboratory… We conduct development of society. our projects in our 4,500 m2 Research and Development Center Our Values equipped with state-of-the-art technology, including high-tech C'8=H)%'0)BB>%$33 and sensitive equipment, laboratory information automation and C'M$3B$I&';:*'&0$';=&=*$'G$%$*)&>:%3 an R&D pilot processing center which meets FDA standards. C'/&0>I)#'H)%)G$H$%& Established with a US$ 15 million investment, the Research C'A0)%G$ and Development Center has one of the largest research and C'N)33>:%';:*'<=II$33 development centers in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. At C'O=*'O*G)%>P)&>:%)#'<&*=I&=*$ the center, where 110 scientists work, we demonstrate efforts to provide the market with equivalent drugs for reference drugs 16 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile General Manager Resource Quality Marketing Marketing HR Planning Director Director I. Director II. Director Director (Gebze) Budgeting & National QC Cost HR Sales Managers Accounting Manager Manager (Gebze) Manager Sales Field Force Training Manager Supervisor Accounting Market Industrial QA Manager Analy.&Dev. Relations Managers Manager Manager (Gebze) Area Product Coordination Manager Manager Marketing QC Purchasing Events Managers Manager Manager (Ç.Köy) Medical Area Manager Manager Production Planning QA Supervisor Managers (Ç.Köy) Senior SR SR 17 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Organizational Structure The organizational structure which functions in integration with the business procedures of Bilim Pharmaceuticals has been designed in a simple matrix that supports the company’s business targets. The organizational structure is reviewed every year. Specific competency and responsibility levels have been identified in order to assure the effective management of decision making processes. Positions that allow flexibility in the reporting system and career development have been layered up to a maximum of 6 layers. Scientific Plant Plant External Business Div. Director Director Director Markets Development (Gebze) (Ç.Köy) (Gebze) Director Director R&D Production Production Business Export Manager Manager Manager Development Manager (Gebze) (Ç.Köy) (Gebze) Manager Medical & Technical Technical Regulatory Ser. Ser. Affairs Manager Manager Manager (Ç.Köy) (Gebze) Finance Manager IT Manager Corporate Communication Supervisor 18 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile Our Board of Directors business targets are a result of basic performance indicators of all primary processes (including the Sustainability Management Holding more than 97% of the shares in Bilim Pharmaceuticals, process). Bilfar Holding forms the company’s board of directors and performs distribution of work among board members within the Rate of realization of strategies: framework of corporate management principles. Bilfar Holding’s Board of Directors has managerial impact on the group C'QRRS' TRR.UQV companies. C'QRRW' XX.UUV Four of Bilfar Holding’s Board members are independent. 3 out C'QRRX' XX.TRV of 4 board members are non-executive.. There has been no change in size, infrastructure, property and The president of the highest governance body has no executive ownership of the company within the reporting period. power. The CEO is the person responsible for executive work. Our Boards Shareholders may advise the highest governance body, but have no power to give orders. In our company, we have set up a number of boards, which are the starting point of many important applications, in line Bilfar Holding, the biggest shareholder of Bilim Pharmaceuticals, with our strategy of increasing participation. By means of directly shares its expectations and suggestions to the these boards, it is possible that our employees become a management of Bilim Pharmaceuticals at the board meetings part of administrative decisions, a situation which supports and results are evaluated at the board meetings, accordingly. teamwork. Methods and procedures with respect to the receipt of the expectations of shareholders and other stakeholders are defined Our boards, where the medium and long term expectations in detail within the framework of the “Strategic Plan (SP) and and creative and innovative thoughts of our employees are Annual Plan and Budget (APB) Approach”. discussed, are evaluated by board directors at Quality Execution Board meetings every quarter. Each board has a sponsor, who All performance indicators, which were defined at the time of our is commissioned in the senior management. Strategic decisions foundation, are monitored and evaluated in line with “Evaluation, taken at boards are put on the agenda of the Board of Directors Review and Improvement Approach”. The performance of the through sponsors. highest governance body is monitored and evaluated in the light of which extent the primary business targets are reached and by The number of team members is increased and changes are means of the “Performance Indicator with Respect to the Rate made in team memberships every year so as to encourage, of Realization of Strategies”. This way, the highest governance support and stimulate participation of our employees. There are body is able to evaluate its own economic, environmental and a total of 32 boards in our company as of 2010. social performance, since performance indicators of the primary 19 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Boards Energy Bilim Management Pharmaceuticals Board Community (Çerkezköy) Volunteers Board Quality Executive Career Leadership Board Board Disciplinary Development Board Board Human Resources Work Quality Board Of Board Assessment Board Executive Board Directors Blue-Collar Social And Communication Sports Board Activity Board CEO Education Awards Board Collaborations Board Board Quality Sustainability Improvement Board Board Field End of Year (Çerkezköy) Meeting New Consultancy Products Board Board Energy Source Planning Management Product And Evaluation Board (Gebze) Launch Environment Board Board Management Corporate Board (Çerkezköy) Communication (Gebze) Technology Board Management Occupational Board Health And Quality Ethics Management Safety Board Board Systems Board (Çerkezköy) (Gebze) (Çerkezköy) Information (Gebze) Quality Systems Improvement Board Board (Gebze) 20 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile Our Quality Management As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we consider ‘the human, the quality >Our Quality Policy and the future’ as crucial factors. We place importance on the We are pressing forward on our journey towards excellence following points when considering the drugs we make available with determination by adopting and popularizing the EFQM to clients and make sure to take all precautions to assure that: Excellence Model, identifying approaches and targets in this C'Y0$'9*=G3')*$'I:HB#>)%&'K>&0'&0$'>9$%&>;>$9'E=)#>&@'3&)%9)*9. sense and develop by reviewing at all times. C'Y0$'9*=G3')*$'=3$9'3);$#@. We utilize the ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems, ISO C'Y0$'9*=G3')*$'B*:F$%'&:'?$'$;;$I&>F$.' 14001 Environmental Management Systems and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety at Work Management Our management and all of our employees help us reach Systems as a result of our principles of continuous development these targets with an awareness and responsibility of providing and our customer-oriented approach in managing processes. competent services in view of human health. The quality system applied in our corporation is based on In line with our sector, we ensure continuous compatibility international standards and has been established on current with all Ministry of Health laws and regulations and all current regulations and guidelines (Good Manufacturing Practices Good Manufacturing Practices in relation to the development, (GMP), Good Laboratory Practices (GLP), Good Clinical production and presentation of products. Practices (GCP), etc) as well as current Quality Management We are continuously improving our system and applying the Systems (ISO 9001). principles of Quality Assurance Systems in order to produce The main constituents of our Quality Management Systems have products that are as specified by their licensing and for their been explained in the ‘Quality Policies’ document published by purpose of use as well as taking precautions to abandon all our company. risk that could occur with relation to quality and effectiveness. We see it as a responsibility of the management to reach Moreover, due to the importance our corporation places on the this target and ensure that all our employees and suppliers environment, health and continuous development as a result comply with the systems. of its approach towards contemporary quality standards and customer-oriented, it undertakes the following actions: We understand the expectations of our customers clearly to provide them with satisfaction and make efforts to exceed C'Y0$')9:B&>:%':;'&0$'B*>%I>B#$3':;'Y:&)#'Z=)#>&@'=%9$*'&0$'/[Z2' these expectations and make sure that they feel valuable. (European Foundation for Quality Management) Excellence Model since 1998. We conduct frequent and planned training sessions to ensure C' A:HB#>)%I$' K>&0' \<O' XRRT' Z=)#>&@' 2)%)G$H$%&' <@3&$H3' that our Quality Policies are adopted by all our employees standards since 2004. and that they understand the concepts and principles of our Quality Systems to the best possible extent. C'A:HB#>)%I$'K>&0'T]RRT'/%F>*:%H$%&)#'2)%)G$H$%&'<@3&$H3' standards since 2004. Our Journey of Excellence C' O8<D<' TWRRT' OII=B)&>:%)#' 8$)#&0' )%9' <);$&@' )&' ^:*5' Management Systems standards since 2004. We are positioned in a difficult and sensitive sector which is directly related to human health. Product quality is paramount As All Quality and Management Systems applied in our corporation Bilim Pharmaceuticals, being aware of this fact, we have always are audited and reviewed regularly, which allows for competency, prioritized quality and adopted it as a life philosophy ever since suitability and effectiveness to be continuously assessed and our foundation. improved. Successful companies are those that have the ability We work in order to exceed all our clients’ expectations with to create and to continue creating extraordinarily good the high-quality products we produce under the warranty of results for their stakeholders (shareholders, employees, Quality Systems. customers, suppliers and the community). However in such a world, in which global competition is gradually becoming tougher, with rapid technological developments taking place, business processes continuously changing and rapid transformation in economic, social and customer masses, it is now much harder to keep achieving successful results. The launch of the Total Quality Management practice was a result of asking one question: “In a world of rapid changes, can we continue to exist with our current business-making habits?”The launch of the Total Quality Management practice was a result 21 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 of asking one question: “In a world of rapid changes, can we education plans, which every employee is required to join continue to exist with our current business-making habits?” within short time of starting to work at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. In addition to these opportunities in education plans, it is specified We launched a mobilization initiative to adapt to change. In in the annual communication and participation plan that how, 1998, we adopted the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality when and by whom approaches concerning the model would be Management) Excellency Model to get the results that will make shared with employees. all our stakeholders and the community happy and to pioneer the journey of quality in our sector. We have been carrying out our All our employees are encouraged and supported through efforts since then within the framework of this model. “communication and participation activities” to participate in the EFQM Excellence Model both on an individual and team As a result of successfully implemented efforts, Bilim basis. This is necessary for our management approach, which Pharmaceuticals was deemed worthy of the EFQM Competency is based on the EFQM Excellence Model, to improve with the Approval in Excellence in 2004, as well as “The National Quality participation of all our employees. Moreover, the participation Grand Prize” in 2006 and “Award of Continuity in Excellence” of employees is managed throughout the year by means of >%' QRTR7' K0>I0' )*$' G>F$%' ?@' Y_<`D-' aY=*5>30' \%9=3&*>)#>3&3J' activities conducted with the strategy of “increasing employees’ and Businessmen’s Association) and KalDer (Turkish Society participation”. Examples of these activities are as follows: for Quality). These awards are the first and only awards ever ensuring the engagement of employee representatives at all obtained in the Turkish pharmaceutical sector. levels at the boards, as well as the Individual Recommendation In 2009 Bilim Pharmaceuticals applied for the European Quality System, Quality Improvement Project and Quality Circle efforts. Award given by EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Our Customers and the EFQM Excellence Model Management) and deserved to take its place among EFQM European Quality Award Finalists, a success which no The basis of the EFQM Excellence Model is to determine the pharmaceutical companies have achieved before. expectations and requirements of stakeholders and to set up processes so as to cover them. Since our customers are among In a sensitive sector which is directly related to human health, our prioritized stakeholders, they have direct and significant place Bilim Pharmaceuticals prioritizes quality and adopts respect for within our strategies. To evaluate our customers’ expectations future generations as a corporate value. and requirements, we have a number of instruments like the Bilim Pharmaceuticals received the Continuity of Excellence Satisfaction Survey, Focus Group Studies, Consultancy Boards Award, the most prestigious award of the EFQM, at the 19th etc.; however, perhaps, the most important instruments are b)&>:%)#'Z=)#>&@'A:%G*$33':*G)%>P$9'?@'Y_<`D-'aY=*5>30'\%9=3&*@' visits made by our Medical Promotion Officials to physicians and Business Association) and KalDer (Quality Association of and pharmacists. Feedback received through these instruments Turkey). is directly reflected in our corporation’s Strategic Plan and is of key importance. By means of activities which are included in Bilim received its award at the Award Ceremony that was held on our Strategic Plan, we provide our customers with products and the last day of the Congress. It was the first time a pharmaceutical services which cover their expectations. company was deemed worthy of the Continuity of Excellence Award. We have been implementing the Customer Satisfaction Survey since 2001. With approaches and applications fitting the Including employees... Excellence Model, the level of customer satisfaction that we The EFQM Excellence Model which we have been applying reached in 2009 was over 96%. This level of satisfaction is a at Bilim Pharmaceuticals is deemed one of the fundamental significant indicator in terms of the contribution of the model. competencies that each of our employees must have in Our Suppliers and the EFQM Excellence Model developing the corporate culture. For this reason, a Standard Occupational Development Program was included in our The basis of our procurement and collaboration policy is the following approach: “we establish and develop continuous reassuring relations with various organizations by securing mutual success in order to produce added value for our customers and other stakeholders”. Within the framework of this approach, there are many practices defined in our regulations to determine the necessary competence criteria for the selection of suppliers, to evaluate suppliers after cooperation begins, to ensure their development in order to increase their performance and to establish long-term cooperation with them. During the “Business Partners Summit”, which we organize to build up cultural harmony with suppliers, we share our mission, vision, corporate values and strategies with our suppliers and perform focus group studies in specific matters. Planned controls are 22 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile performed on suppliers and training programs are held for more livable world, is the Sustainability Board. The fact that them in order to increase the effectiveness of the harmony sustainability-related policies and processes complying with between CGMP (current Good Manufacturing Practices) and international standards are defined at Bilim Pharmaceuticals is the IMS (Integrated Management System). The performance of one of the factors that make the greatest contribution to the our suppliers is measured, monitored and awarded according corporate reputation. to success criteria in line with our evaluation-commendation systematic approach. Also, research studies are conducted Our company management, which complies with the principles to gauge the level of our suppliers’ satisfaction as well as their of corporate governance and our Ethics Board, which was perceptions. structured in line with our business ethics and principles are important elements in the effective management of our corporate As a result of this approach and these practices, efficiency is reputation. What lies behind all these efforts is the fact that we increased mutually; long-term cooperation opportunity arises; have built our company’s corporate values together with our and positive impact is observed on general business results. employees and the integration of all our values to our employees and processes within the framework of our BI’L Leadership The place of the model within the corporate culture Model. The EFQM Excellence Model is an important part of the corporate Our Company has set up a vision aiming to base its corporate culture as a management approach that today helps Bilim values related to its corporate reputation, as its “most valuable Pharmaceuticals reach its vision by realizing its mission. First capital”, into its all policies and processes. A long-term action plan of all, all our leaders successfully apply business processes by was implemented, which would embrace all Bilim stakeholders adhering to the model with an attitude and behavior that is based and turn Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ corporate reputation before its on our values and stand as examples to our employees to keep stakeholders into “trust” by means of social sensitivity. the model alive at all times. Moreover, continuous improvement is one of the fundamental approaches for our company to Acting upon the fact that any of our employees, whatever their successfully apply the method of change. For this reason, we duty and status, represent our company’s reputation, we aimed put the necessary improvements in practice by reviewing our to raise awareness of all our employees on the management of activities every year at evaluation and review meetings where all the corporate reputation. our business processes are discussed. For this purpose, our employees were classified under various We seek to improve and expand this positive atmosphere which categories as “internal stakeholders”, just like our “external we created within our organization, to be example for other stakeholders”, and unique awareness-raising activities were companies in and outside our sector, to act as a guide for the designed for each stakeholder group. sector and to realize our mission in this way. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Reputation Management Model Our Model of Reputation Management Within this framework, firstly a platform of Reputation Ambassadors, Corporate Reputation is not just an important issue for that are chosen from employees who have high power within the Bilim Pharmaceuticals but also a general issue for the entire company, was set up. Reputation Ambassadors became experts pharmaceutical industry. The stakeholder researches that we within years (by means of training programs, workshops, source conduct also support this fact. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we documents, etc). The Reputation Ambassadors Platform, which manage corporate reputation effectively among all sectors not currently comprises of 62 people, primarily aims to address all only in the pharmaceutical industry; and give place to the goal of leaders included within the BI’L Leadership Model and then to being pointed out as a “benchmark” company in our business make every employee a Reputation Ambassador. model. Corporate We began to apply the corporate reputation management model in late 2006. However, the origin of corporate reputation efforts goes back much further. In a continuous effort of development, particularly since 1998, our company envisages corporate reputation as part of our strategy of change. The agenda of n io respect for the management of corporate reputation did not or at Cu come into existence at once. Corporate reputation created its rp nd Su ltu Co eB sta own agenda as part of our long-term growth strategy. ra ina re ye bil Reputation Ambassadors, which we have established to plo ity raise awareness of corporate reputation within the company, Em Corporate constitute a platform that is comparable with all companies. Code & On the other hand, the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community principles Volunteers platform, which we put in practice within the framework of volunteering management and which has today Corporate Governance become a brand, has spread throughout Turkey. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, which adopted business strategies based Employees on sustainable development, this issue is of key importance Culture & Values Society in our strategic planning. Another benchmark practice applied at Bilim Pharmaceuticals, which assumes responsibility for a Reputation Atmosphere 23 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 What is a Reputation Ambassador? The Goals of Adding Value in Layers A Reputation Ambassador is a person who increases the C' A:%&*>?=&>%G' &:' &0$' *$B=&)&>:%' :;' $HB#:@$$3' )%9' !>#>H' reputation of the corporation they work for in their work and social Pharmaceuticals. environments and who is also sensitive about their own reputation. C' A*$)&>%G' $HB#:@$$3J' )K)*$%$33' :;' >%9>F>9=)#' *$B=&)&>:%' )%9' The reputation ambassador is also a stakeholder representative corporate reputation and helping them understand that reputation on behalf of the company, and of all the ethical values recognized can be managed. by society and the stakeholders of the corporation. The reputation ambassador is the voice of the corporation, and who can \' C' \%;:*H>%G' $F$*@' $HB#:@$$' :;' &0$' >HB:*&)%I$' :;' I:*B:*)&$' represent the company they work for as well the other employees reputation and what is demanded of them with regard to this they work parallel to company principles and goals and can subject and increase susceptibility. contribute to all the improvement/restructuring undertakings C' /%3=*>%G' &0)&' $)I0' )%9' $F$*@' $HB#:@$$' >3' )' cM$B=&)&>:%' with their knowledge and experience. Ambassador’. Adding Value in Layers C'DI&=)#>P>%G'3=3&)>%)?#$'B*:d$I&3'?@'=&>#>P>%G'$HB#:@$$3J'F>$K3' Within the framework of reputation-related efforts; a contest entitled on the management of reputation which has a structure that “Adding Value in Layers” Reputation Project was developed and supports processes rather than results. launched as part of the platform entitled “Add Value in Layers”, which aims to raise awareness of corporate reputation among all Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees. first think about every piece of work and behavior, as well as about how others’ perception will be at the end of such works and behaviors, and then take action, accordingly. Awareness is important; I believe that we must do our business by living and experiencing what we do. For this reason, I believe that 1234567&89:.('1 risks will be minimized by internalizing all matters affecting our Reputation Ambassador reputation and making them a part of our life philosophy. Quality Control Manager Because I studied Pharmacy at Istanbul University, one I began my career at Bilim Pharmaceuticals on December of my lecturers from my university years told me that they 14th, 1993 as a Quality Control Manager. I consider myself a plan to prepare an education program with respect to the reputation ambassador for Bilim Pharmaceuticals since I have manufacturing and control of drugs and they would like to first started working for it Yet the official duty as a Reputation launch this program first at Bilim Pharmaceuticals and asked Ambassador was added to my title since the establishment of us to submit our opinions on Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ approach the Reputation Ambassadors Platform in 2007. in this matter. Each individual would like to serve in a company which she As a result of the assessment process, we decided to take part is proud to work for. When she begins to play a role in the in this program because it fitted our social responsibility identity protection and further improvement of the reputation of the and corporate responsibilities. company she works for, she sees herself as a part of this big We planned a one-day education program at Bilim family and feels proud for working in such a company. Pharmaceuticals in cooperation with university lecturers and a I am aware of my responsibilities and the fact that I serve in an group of 6 students, who target to work in a pharmaceutical important position of a leading firm, which is ranked among company after graduation. the top in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. I also recognize Through this and similar successful training programs in a variety that I must act in compliance with the mission and ethics of of topics, including the promotion of Bilim Pharmaceuticals, my company, as necessitated by my duty in the company and as well as GMP and practices in the industry, our Company’s in the sector. Being aware of the fact that personal behaviors personnel capability, technological level and innovative strongly affect the company’s reputation as much as they do approach, employment of pharmacy faculty graduates in the individuals’ reputation, I set up policies related to my job in a sector, etc, we strengthened lecturers’ and students’ interest way that I raise the company’s reputation before all internal and in the pharmaceutical industry and raised their knowledge on external customers. Bilim Pharmaceuticals. We work at a very intensive tempo during the day. Time is not I think that it is a source of pride for scientists at the Istanbul enough for any piece of work; in this age of intensive tempo University, Faculty of Pharmacy, who prepared me for this and lack of time, those who act fast and who make the right occupation, to see one of their students as the Quality Control decisions become successful... All our behaviors in this Manager at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. environment bear some risks as well. I believe that we must 24 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile technical troubles related to quality and processes. Feedback, as necessitated by participation, is gained in an objective manner. As a result, the company’s market value is positively affected. We need to recognize that very simple events or problems Oktay SELÇUK which we may always encounter during the day can take use Reputation Ambassador to irreversible points. Remaining insensitive about a simple Regional Coordination Manager-Istanbul customer complaint may lead to damages, which you can A Reputation Ambassador is such a person who is aware of the never think of. Similarly, your attitude towards a physician, a importance of individual and corporate reputation, who merges supplier or a pharmacist, may lead to unpredictable problems, corporate reputation into his own at a joint platform by having as it concerns the whole company. For this reason, you must adopted the corporate culture, who shares the importance of adopt a general behavior model, which includes being sensitive reputation with those around him and who makes warnings, if about any tiny obstacle which you may personally encounter necessary… A Reputation Ambassador is also the spokesman and not neglecting any problems or obstacles believing that of the working and social environments where he is in… nothing will happen. I spend most of my time in field. In other words, I am the Each employee must remember that he is responsible for the company’s face looking at the customers and also one of its reputation of the company, as much as for his own reputation. representatives, who are in one-to-one contact with customers. I have been a Reputation Ambassador for four years. The For this reason, while on one side I am directly responsible for number of Medical Promotion Representatives, who were our Regional Directors’ and Medical Promotion Representatives’ newly appointed to our region within the last one year, is point of view towards reputation management, I am responsible quite high (33% of the whole region). As a manager, it is for our corporation’s reputation before our customers, on the one of my responsibilities to ensure that Medical Promotion other. Representatives, who have almost no sectoral experience, Moreover, I am liable to accurately reflect our corporate values act harmoniously with the corporate culture, own a common to our customers and also to provide in my field works all sense of belonging, and fill their emotional bank accounts. my colleagues under my responsibility with feedback on the Besides the responsibility of being a director, as per the mission importance of reputation, what it brings and what it may cause imposed on me by my duty as a Reputation Ambassador, us to lose. I share my insights with my new colleagues to raise their A company with high reputation first secures employee loyalty awareness. If each of them becomes a conscious employee, and continuity. This positively affects efficiency. It minimizes this will make positive contribution both to the business results problems that may stem from employees particularly with of Bilim Pharmaceuticals and to the personal development of respect to crisis and risk management. It also minimizes representatives and even Regional Directors. The Strategy for Adding Value in Layers As we see our company’s corporate values as the backbone of our reputation, we have set for the association of all project As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we designed Adding Value in Layers applications with our values as a main constituent. as a platform, where employees can share their projects and ideas on increasing corporate reputation and get their voices As a result of this, we have also seen this project as a significant heard, as a vehicle of internalizing reputation in our employees. tool in managing ‘Internal Corporate Communications’ strategically. 25 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 The Reward for Add Value in Layers DK)*9$9'<I0::#e'(:%)5#6'r$0>&'/*'()H>#'D#5)%'/#$H$%&)*@'<I0::#' >%'l9$H>17'\PH>* We chose jury members from our stakeholders. We promised project owners, who presented the “best” projects with Little hands reach out for Bilim regard to increasing the reputation of Bilim Pharmaceuticals, an award that would “last for generations”. N*:d$I&'Y>&#$e'f!>#>H$'sP)%)%'( , 5'/##$*h'aj>&&#$'8)%93'M$)I0>%G' out for Bilim) The award was building IT/computer laboratories in village schools (which applicants would choose) that would carry N*:d$I&' OK%$*e' 8)3)%' 4)#615)%7' /qB$*&' 2$9>I)#' N*:H:&>:%' the names of the top three applicants and the project which Official from the Antalya Region received the Jury’s Special Prize. In this way, their names would DK)*9$9' <I0::#e' !)%96*H)' D&)& *5' /#$H$%&)*@' <I0::#' >%' live forever. The installation of all the equipment for the computer !)#65$3>* labs including the general layout of the classroom will be taken on board by Community Volunteers who add increasing value to Services moved to the ‘Center’ Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ reputation. N*:d$I&'Y>&#$e'f4)+*6'2$*5$P>h'aA)##'A$%&$*k List of Awarded Projects: N*:d$I&'OK%$*e'lP#$H'`5?)#'r$%@=F)';*:H'&0$'D%5)*)'M$G>:%)#' Ardahan’a “Hayat Verdiler” Directorate They “Gave Life” to Ardahan DK)*9$9'<I0::#e'r6*%)5'`9>#'!$%$*'A:*9)%'/#$H$%&)*@'<I0::# N*:d$I&'Y>&#$e'f-:+)@)'8)@)&'g$*h'ai>F$'j>;$'&:'&0$'b)&=*$k N*:d$I&'OK%$*e'8)I6'-)17'!)*61'i %9:+9=7'lPG *'A)F)17'A$H>#' >Corporate Reputation and 4>#$57'2$3=&'!)56*')%9'<>?$#'()@):+#=';*:H'i$?P$'N#)%&' Research on Perception DK)*9$9'<I0::#e'D*9)0)%min#$'oR'/@# #'p`!O'/#$H$%&)*@'<I0::# We began to work with an independent research company Physicians will compete for Bilim to carry out research on local communities living in Gebze, Çerkezköy and Maslak, neighbor companies, media [>%)#>3&' N*:d$I&e' fY *5>@$' !>#>H' `,>%' p)*616@:*h' aY=*5$@' A:HB$&$3' representatives, local opinion leaders. The first research study for Bilim) was made in 2003. Because perceptions on reputation do not N*:d$I&'OK%$*e'<$,5>%'!)&&)#7'/qB$*&'2$9>I)#'N*:H:&>:%'O;;>I>)#' change rapidly, we have decided to conduct this research from the Izmir Region study every two years. 2009 KITA General Results (%) Bilim Target 100 90 80 96.50% We have been conducting corporate image and perception research on the local communities and neighbor 70 companies in Gebze, Çerkezköy and Maslak, press members and opinion leaders. Our 2011 target result has been determined as 96.50%. 60 2005 2006 2007 2009 2011 2005 2006 2007 2009 2011 Achieved 93.67 94.28 94.76 95.54 Target 93.50 94.25 94.88 95.45 96.50 26 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile >Our Ethical Management Our Work Ethics Principles: in this part, all our business governance principles consisting of all our employees’ C' Our values are the fundamental resource that asserts our responsibilities to the company are stated clearly. business making style at Bilim Pharmaceuticals; and Ethical 1. CREATING ENVIRONMENT FOR FAIR COMPETITION Management is one of our most important values. 2. RESPECTING THE PRIVACY OF COMPANY C'Our Ethical Management approach is based on our corporate INFORMATION values and business principles while we have been resuming our activities successfully for many years. Our Work Ethics 3. GUARDING THE BALANCE OF INTERESTS Principles not only protect our corporation and employees but also serve as a guide that helps us see the way in the light of 3.1 Not Taking Part in Relationships of Interest all our decisions and activities beyond laws, regulations and 3.2 Utilizing Duties and Authority Properly procedures. 3.3 Using Corporate Sources Properly C'Our Work Ethics Principles are constituted of 2 parts; Work Ethics Guidelines and Principles. These rules play an important 3.4 Establishing Proper Relationships with Stakeholders role in protecting and strengthening the relationship of trust between our corporation and the stakeholders and the third 3.5 Being Conscientious in Press Relationships parties it works with. 3.6 Representing the Corporation Properly Our Work Ethics Principles summarize the values that we will protect wherever we operate and our responsibilities against 4. CREATING A CONTEMPORARY AND FAIR our stakeholders. ENVIRONMENT OF BUSINESS 1. HONESTY AND INTEGRITY 5. GIFT GIVING AND ACCEPTING PRINCIPLES 2. ENSURING THE PRIVACY OF DOCUMENTS C' O=*' =%9$*3&)%9>%G' :;' /&0>I)#' 2)%)G$H$%&' >%I#=9$3' all members of management and all employees as well 3. AVOIDING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST as members of the Board of Directors. All members of management are responsible for ensuring adherence to the 4. FULFILLING OUR RESPONSIBILITIES TO OUR work ethic guidelines and principles. The Ethics Board is STAKEHOLDERS organized in order to ensure the healthy application of work 4.1 Our Legal Responsibilities ethics by the Chairman of the Board. Problems faced by employees regarding ethical guidelines in day to day business, 4.2 Our Responsibilities to Our Employees all information and complaints delivered by employees, suppliers and clients on ethical issues are shared with the 4.3 Our Responsibilities to Our Clients Ethics Board. The Ethics Board reports all its decisions after 4.4 Our Responsibilities to Our Shareholders considering Work Ethics Guidelines and Principles, laws, societal values and corporate values, to the Chairman of the 4.5 Our Responsibilities to Our Suppliers and Collaborations Board. The decisions are then applied after the Chairman of the Board has approved them. 4.6 Our Responsibilities to Our Competitors C'\%'QRTR7'K$')BB#>$9'&*)>%>%G'B*:G*)H3':%'/&0>I)#'2)%)G$H$%&' 4.7 Our Responsibilities to Society, Environment and Humanity to all employees and prepared and distributed the Ethical 4.8 Our Responsibilities That Root from Representing Bilim Management Guide to them. Moreover, we published it on Pharmaceuticals BilimportaL and our website, which is accessible by all our stakeholders. C A total of 4,190 hours of ethical training was applied to employees in 2010. 27 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 a result of information. Reputation is the perception of a group of people about the company, provided that these people have information about the company and make any judgment with respect to that company’s ideal position. Reputation must be measured and effectively managed. Prof. Dr. Metin ÇAKMAKÇI In a sector where there is no direct bridge between Chairman of Ethics and Reputation manufacturers and consumers, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is the Society (TEID) manufacturer of a quite sensitive product as it directly concerns TEID was founded on May 7th, 2010 with Bilim Pharmaceuticals human health… However, we know that sensitivity shown being one of our founding corporate members. Among our first during manufacturing becomes more important and more founding members, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has added and necessary during marketing. In the pharmaceutical industry, the continues to add strength to our association not only due to chain extending from production to consumption is long, every the fact that it is one of the leading companies in its sector, but ring of which was securely clinched. Trust and reputation are also with its experience with respect to ethics and reputation fed by each other, while one is the output of the other. For this management. reason, one who draws attention to a single matter is actually not attaching enough value to the other rings of this chain. Bilim The simplest definition for ethics is that it is the conscience Pharmaceuticals’ value does not lie in its machine park, but which allows us to prefer acting properly in line with universal within its reputation. facts, though we are not legally obliged to do. Reputation, on the other hand, is the emerging result when an ethicallyEspecially the fact that reputation management has been made managed company fulfills its liabilities against not only its a part of the corporate culture and the Company’s adaptation shareholders, but against all its stakeholders, and manages all of this concept as one of its corporate risk management its administrative functions in an accountable and transparent methods move Bilim Pharmaceuticals ahead of many Turkish manner. Reputation does no refer to recognition. Appreciation companies. is what exists in reputation. Appreciation, on the other hand, is Our Sustainability Management It is our primary target to build our sustainability approach within our corporate culture. On this journey, we attach importance to We as Bilim Pharmaceuticals laid down the foundation of our the participation and development of all our stakeholders, putting sustainability efforts in 1998. We have been implementing priority on our employees, customers and suppliers. the EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management) Excellence Model since 1998. In the light of these efforts, we Transparency and accountability lie behind our sustainability have been measuring our economic, environmental and social efforts. By determining the fields that are open to impacts and preparing improvement plans to reach our long improvement, we find and question the problem in its source term dream. before making any improvement plans. It is very important for us that improvement plans are permanent, applicable and We have been implementing the reputation management model since the end of 2006. In this manner, “sustainability” able to foster change. became one our corporate strategies. We even have a Board We keep a close view on the development in Turkey and in of Sustainability supported by our Company’s CEO, which is the world; we participate in trainings and subscribe to related comprised of executives from all departments, who have the magazines and online websites. We join in the activities of NGOs right to take decision on behalf of our Company. that we are a member of and take pains to create opportunities to closely analyze and compare the best practices. In order to integrate the sustainability approach into business strategies, the Sustainability Board drafts strategic plans, We are an active member of the Business Council for Sustainable determines targets and monitors and evaluates practices. Development of Turkey, Ethics and Reputation Society, Corporate By considering the performance indicators of boards and Social Responsibility Association of Turkey and Corporate directorships who are effective in Company’s management in Volunteer Association. junction with their sustainability-related indicators, the Board is We defined our target as being a pioneer in our own sector and in able to monitor the performances of boards and directorships the Turkish business world by means of our sustainability efforts. and the developments in this field. In 2010, we became the first pharmaceutical company in Turkey For Bilim Pharmaceuticals, which is a responsible citizen, the to sign the Global Compact. priority issues in sustainability are the happiness of people, social development and environmental protection. We seek to develop We measure our carbon footprints every year in order to ourselves in these matters and produce innovative practices, assess our environmental impact and to make the necessary which may be an example for others. improvements. We broke further ground in the pharmaceutical industry; we published the sector’s first carbon footprint report in 2010. 28 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile We launched many new initiatives in 2010 with respect to our economic, social and environmental responsibilities: >Our Sustainability Policy C' ^$' B=?#>30$9' :=*' /&0>I)#' !$0)F>:*' i=>9$.' ^$' ?$G)%' &:' Being aware of our social, environmental and economic provide all our employees with training on ethics. impacts and responsibilities towards our stakeholders, it is a part of our understanding of business and corporate culture to C' ^$' K$*$' 9$$H$9' K:*&0@' :;' &0$' /%F>*:%H$%&' DK)*9' ?@' &0$' serve sustainability with an ethical, transparent and accountable Kocaeli Chamber of Industry with 100 out of 100 points. This corporate management approach. award motivated us to receive the European Environment Award. Beyond full adaptation to all legal obligations, we specify human health and happiness, community development and C'^$';:I=3$9':=*')&&$%&>:%':%'&$#$I:%;$*$%I$3'&:'H>%>H>P$'&0$' environmental protection as our primary matters for a livable use of vehicles. We invested significantly in our information world and design benchmark practices for all organizations. technology infrastructure. We seek the participation and watch for the development of C'^$'?$G)%'&:'B*:9=I$'B0)*H)I@'?)G3':;'?>:9$G*)9)?#$')%9' all our stakeholders during the planning and execution of all reusable materials. practices. C'^$')*$')'H$H?$*':;'^^['Y=*5$@t'K$':*G)%>P$')K)*$%$33m Following in the footsteps of these basic guidelines in our raising trainings to physicians regarding the global climate activities, we change. ;& Undertake commercial activities without swerving from our C'^$'I:%3>9$*':=*'3=BB#>$*37'K0:'K$'0)F$'?$$%'K:*5>%G'K>&0' ethical values; more than three years, as our “business partners”. By means of the Business Partners Summit, first of which was organized ;& Respect human rights; stand against all kinds of by us in 2010, we share our environment-friendly practices, discrimination; encourage equality of opportunity; aiming to raise our business partners’ sensitivity with respect ;&Ensure the protection of ecological environment being aware to the environment. of our environmental impacts; C' 8:#9>%G' )%' \<O' T]RRT' I$*&>;>I)&$' )%9' I:HB#>)%I$' K>&0' &0$' ;& See it as our duty to protect and enhance the health and provisions set forth in the Global Compact are the two safety of all our stakeholders; criteria, which we take into account when evaluating our suppliers and business partners. This way, we inspire our ;& Undertake our responsibility for the development of the suppliers and business partners to carry out environmentsociety and towards the fulfillment of the needs of future related efforts for a “more livable world”. generations by means of community investments in the fields of health, art and culture, education and environment; C' ^$' I:%9=I&' !>#>H' N0)*H)I$=&>I)#3' A:HH=%>&@' g:#=%&$$*3' activities with 748 volunteers. In 2010, we received the CSR ;& Enter into cooperation with NGOs; attach value to their Europe award. expertise and support their activities; C'^$'I)**@':=&'>HB*:F$H$%&')I&>F>&>$3'K>&0>%'&0$';*)H$K:*5':;' ;&Encourage our employees and all other stakeholders to play sustainability indicators. a key role in the settlement of social problems and promote their participation in related activities. Our Strategic Sustainability Targets in 2011 ;&/<=7>42=5<>&=?7&@A@=25<2B5C5=6&2DD4E2F?&5<=E&=?7&FE4DE42=7& culture ;& /<@=5CC5<>& @A@=25<2B5C5=6& FE<@F57<F7& B6& @=47<>=?7<5<>& stakeholder dialogue ;&/GD4EH7G7<=&2F=5H5=57@ ;&(72374@?5D&5<&@A@=25<2B5C5=6 ;&-E<=5<AEA@&GE<5=E45<>I7H2CA2=5E< We will launch a significant number of practices throughout 2011 in order to reach these targets. 29 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Risk Management In 2010, when preparing the “strategic risks identification and rating table”, in addition to all departments, the sustainability In our company, our risk management approach and respective board began to contribute with its opinions with respect to procedures are based on the concept of sustainability. All possible risks and to make its own rating. This way, the works risks defined by departments and the sustainability board, are and evaluations that will be made if sustainability-related risks examined during evaluation and action taking all economic, occur can be included in the risk management plan. social and environmental dimensions into account, as referred to in the risk management procedure. The involvement of the Our Stakeholder Participation Approach sustainability board in preliminary studies in which all evaluation and risk priorities are determined allows each risk category to be Our Stakeholders evaluated within the framework of this basic approach. Therefore, Stakeholders are those people, groups and/or corporations our risk management requires all preemptive measures are taken which are directly or indirectly affected by our activities or with respect to such matters as business continuity, reputation which directly or indirectly affect our activities. Our stakeholders management, climate change, occupational and social health are our employees, customers, business partners/suppliers, and safety, product reliability, employee happiness, etc. shareholders, public institutions, local opinion leaders, nonBased on the concept of sustainability, evaluation and governmental organizations, universities, the community and the prioritization of risks defined by respective departments are media. Our primary stakeholders are our employees, customers, performed by means of “strategic risks identification and rating business partners, shareholders and the community. table”. This table is a fundamental instrument, which is prepared Our Employees in accordance with the company’s risk management procedure, which indicates the likelihood of possible risks identified by all We began to form policies and strategies regarding Human departments and their impacts in the event of actualization of Resources in 1998 for the first time by means of the EFQM these risks and which directs the company’s risk management Excellence Model and set up our HR department in 1999. During approaches and practices. Evaluation of the likelihood and the the same period, our company’s vision and mission were revised impact of all risks, which are defined by departments, are based in accordance with our strategies. on the rating, which is calculated by multiplying the score out of “10” given for each of these two categories. As a result of this Due to the nature of our sector, our company serves human multiplication, if the rating is over “25”, risks are described as health and is determined to move on the path of development “strategic risks” according to the Risk Management procedure of employees’ competencies and improvement of business and a risk management plan is prepared after the determination processes by turning this approach into the corporate culture. of measures that will be taken if such strategic risks come true. Within this framework, it is the basic approach of our HR As per the company’s basic risk management approach, the risk management to hire candidates with superior qualifications management plan is presented to the approval of the board of and competency, to cover these employees’ expectations and directors; thus, the company’s senior management shall own a needs of improvement, and to contribute to employee happiness roadmap, which includes appointed executives and action plans, through the created “loyal” employee profile. with respect to the management of strategic risks. 30 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile Number of Employees Achieved Target 2,400 2,000 1,600 1,200 800 400 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 1,502 1,726 1,683 1,696 1,844 Target 1,605 1,898 1,744 1,822 1,773 1,999 Our Customers: The most important factor that makes the as per regulations, pharmaceutical companies cannot contact pharmaceutical sector different from others sectors is the patients and promote their products through advertisements definition of “the customer”. Different from other sectors, and similar instruments. Under these circumstances, since although end-users of our products are patients, they cannot physicians determine the most appropriate treatment and drugs decide on their preferences as they cannot diagnose their for their patients, physicians are deemed as main customers in disease and determine the appropriate treatment. Moreover, the pharmaceutical industry. 31 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 A patient, who receives his prescription from his physician, goes carrying out efforts for a sustainable future, we put community to the pharmacy and receives his medicine from the pharmacy investment projects into practice to raise the quality of life in based on the principles of repayment as determined by the our community and to fulfill our responsibilities towards our Social Security Institution (SSI). Pharmacists have the right, employees and their families, as well as our other stakeholders. which is defined by the law, to change the drugs stated in the We take pains to ensure that these projects, which we support to prescription with more economic equivalent drugs. For this leave a more livable country to future generations, are enduring reason, pharmacists, who are in the position to directly affect the and produce social and permanent benefits, while investing decision of purchase and who provide incoming patients with in valuable initiatives in the field of education, culture, art and information on the use of medicine, constitute our 2nd group of health which can be bequeathed to the community. Our Bilim customers. Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers platform having a huge group of volunteers, the number of which reached 748 as of Although physicians and pharmacists comprise a group of end-2010, supports local development, while our employees customers who make the decision of purchase, no direct sale voluntarily get involved in projects for solving the problems of is performed to either of these groups. As per regulations, our the local community. The spirit of volunteerism adopted by our products are sold to medical storage units and delivered to employees adds value to our company. drugstores through this channel. For this reason, communication between pharmacists and our corporation is by means of Our Shareholders: The biggest shareholder of our company is medical storage units. Medical storage units constitute a group Bilfar Holding which holds 97.19% share. Majority shares of Bilfar of customers which we make direct sale to and are deemed both 8:#9>%G'?$#:%G'&:'&0$'()*))+),'[)H>#@. as customers and a delivery channel. Participation of Stakeholders Business Partners: As set forth in our “Collaborations Policy”, We believe that it is important to ensure participation of our we establish and develop continuous confidence-based stakeholders and to set up effective communication with them relations with various institutions to assure mutual success in for a sustainable future. We inform our employees on our order to produce added value for our stakeholders. We establish company’s targets, leading to continuous development with cooperation with a number of institutions, which can be grouped respect to ensuring their participation in processes. under 3 main headings, to manufacture and market the products that constitute the core of our business and to apply the primary We try to understand our stakeholders’ expectations, reflect them strategies that are set forth in our strategic plan. “Our Suppliers” to our business strategies and shape our activities to provide are those companies, with which we set up a business relation mutual benefits. of less than 3 years and from which we buy the materials, products and services that are necessary to perform our primary We set up clear, transparent and reliable relationships with all business. “Collaboration”, on the other hand, is a project-based our stakeholders in line with our values on “ethical management” cooperation which produces value for or adds value to both and “respect for future generations”. parties . The following table shows all our stakeholders, the effective The Community: While we continue our activities that fit the communication channels that we establish with them and the new “responsible” business model of the business world by methods of ensuring their participation in processes. 32 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Profile Stakeholders’ Participation Methods Stakeholders Communication Channels Objective Employees Notice Boards, Bilim Portal, Electronic Communication, Quality To raise our employees’ competency, Day, CEO Information Meetings, Marketing End Period Meetings, to contribute to their development, to Open Door Meetings, Acquaintance Cocktails, “Welcome to ensure their participation in business the Club!” Dinner, Meetings with Special Agenda, Social-Sports processes and to keep their motivation Events, BilimFamily Activities, BilimFamily Magazine, Period and loyalty at a high level Meetings, HR Regional Visits, Employee Satisfaction Surveys, Communication Surveys, Subject-Based Surveys, Focus Group Negotiations, Competence Evaluation System, Performance Negotiations, Individual Suggestion System, Boards, Guest of the Month, Department Meetings, Bilim Portal E-Bulletin, Reputation Management E-Bulletin, Leadership E-Bulletin, Motivation Practices, Marketing-HR Coordination Meetings, Employee Clubs, Quality Circle and Quality Improvement Projects, Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Platform, Reputation Ambassadors Platform, Orientation Program, Exit Interview, Phase Trainings Customers Medical Promotion Representative Visits, Factory Visits, Customer To understand our customers’ Visits, Scientific Meetings, Congresses / Panels / Conferences, expectations and requirements Customer Satisfaction Survey, Customer Focus Group Research, accurately by establishing Pharmacy Consultancy Board, Physician Consultancy Board, bidirectional, sustainable and qualified Foreign Market Partner Meetings, Phone Calls, Complaints communication channels and to apply our processes in this direction Suppliers and Supplier Visits, Factory Visits, Supplier Satisfaction Survey, Supplier To carry our ethical trade with our Collaborations Evaluation Survey, Business Partners Summit, Supplier Controls, suppliers through collaborations and to Phone Calls and Visits create awareness on sustainability Shareholders Board of Directors Meetings, Annual Reports, Annual Plan Budget To raise the level of satisfaction of Meetings, Strategic Plan Meetings shareholders and to strengthen their investment motivation Public Institutions, Project Partnerships, Membership, Participation at Meetings, To inform about the sector, to ensure Sectoral Comparison Studies full compliance with the laws and Associations regulations, to make suggestions with respect to new draft laws and regulations in order to contribute to sectoral development NonProject Partnerships, Corporate Reputation and Perception Survey, To contribute to the development of Governmental Memberships NGOs and to benefit from their expertise Organizations Media Press Meetings, Press Bulletins, Interviews, Factory Visits, Corporate To strengthen our corporate reputation, Reputation and Research on Perception to ensure transparency and to inform the community Community Awareness Raising Activities, Factory Visits (students), Corporate To be sensitive and respectful towards Reputation and Perception Survey, Bilim Pharmaceuticals community’s needs and to contribute to Community Volunteers Platform social and cultural development OUR MEMBERSHIPS C'Y(<<-'aA:*B:*)&$'<:I>)#'M$3B:%3>?>#>&@'D33:I>)&>:%':;'Y=*5$@k7' 2010 C'i#:?)#'A:HB)I&7'DB*>#'QRTR C'!=3>%$33'A:=%I>#';:*'<=3&)>%)?#$'-$F$#:BH$%&':;'Y=*5$@7'QRRW C'N/Mplb'aY=*5>30'N$*3:%%$#'2)%)G$H$%&'D33:I>)&>:%k7'QRTR C'Y(p-'aA:*B:*)&$'i:F$*%)%I$'D33:I>)&>:%':;'Y=*5$@k7'QRRW C'^^['a^:*#9'^>#9'[=%9k7'QRTR C'iO<!'ai$?P$'O*G)%>P$9'\%9=3&*>)#'u:%$k7'QRRv C' Y/2D' aY=*5>30' [:=%9)&>:%' ;:*' A:H?)&>%G' <:>#' /*:3>:%7' ;:*' Forestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats), 2010 C'l<i-'aA:*B:*)&$'g:#=%&$$*'D33:I>)&>:%k7'QRRU C'Y/\-'a/&0>I3')%9'M$B=&)&>:%'<:I>$&@':;'Y=*5$@k7'QRTR' C'4O<!'a4$*5$P5n@'O*G)%>P$9'\%9=3&*>)#'u:%$k7'TXX] C' \/\<' aN0)*H)I$=&>I)#' 2)%=;)I&=*$*3' D33:I>)&>:%' :;' Y=*5$@k7' 1972 33 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 OUR AWARDS ;2008 Respect for Humanity Award received from Kariyer.net ;1999 Ministry of Environment – Certificate for Good for the pharmaceutical sector category Environmental Practices ;&QRRW'A:*B:*)&$'g:#=%&$$*3'D33:I>)&>:%')%9'N/Mplb' ;2000 Istanbul Chamber of Industry – Sectoral Environmental DK)*93';*:H'&0$'8$)*&7'N/Mplb'<B$I>)#'N*>P$ Initiative Award ;&QRRW'N/Mplb'8=H)%'2)%)G$H$%&'DK)*93'm'fY*)>%>%G')%9' ;2003 Çerkezköy Chamber of Industry and Commerce – Development/Talent Management” Award and “Applications Environmental Award that make a difference” Finalist ;2004 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety ;&2009 Respect for Humanity Award received from Kariyer.net Management Systems Certification for the pharmaceutical sector category ;2004 ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems ;&2009 Corporate Volunteers Association – The Most Successful Certification Voluntary Program Award ;2004 ISO 9001 Quality Management Systems Certification ;& 2009 CSR Turkey Association and CSR Europe “CSR ;2004 EFQM Competence in Excellence Approval A first in Solutions Winner Award” the pharmaceutical sector ;&2009 Finalist in EFQM European Quality Award ;2006 National Quality Grand Prize A first in the pharmaceutical ;& 2009 UK Ministry of Health Drug Assessment Foundation sector (MHRA) Approval ;2006 “Standard of Excellence” Award received from Web ;& JKLK& 1EF27C5& -?2GB74& EM& /<3A@=46& N& O.<H54E<G7<=& Marketing Association’s International Web Award competition, Award” in the category of the pharmaceutical sector ;& JKLK& .A4ED72<& A@5<7@@& !P243& O,AB2<& 3Q+E<<7A4& ;2007 Çerkezköy Chamber of Industry and Commerce Special Award” Prize ;&JKLK&0.R.S.R&TS73742=5E<&EM&/<3A@=452C&!@@EF52=5E<@U& ;2007 Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone Directorship ‘500 2<3& %V0'!RI02B2<FW& $<5H74@5=6& -EGD7=5=5E<& SE4AG& N& Big Companies’ Thank You Placard “Most Competitive Company of the Year Award” ;2007 Respect for Humanity Award received from Kariyer.net ;&JKLK&%V0'!RI12CR74&N&O-E<=5<A5=6&5<&.XF7CC7<F7Y&!P243 for the pharmaceutical sector category ;& JKLK& O,7@D7F=& ME4& +AG2<5=6& !P243Y& 47F75H73& M4EG& ;J007 Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone Directorship Kariyer.net for the pharmaceutical sector category Special Prize 34 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Economic Added Value The Fastest Growing Company According to lMS data, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is the fastest growing pharmaceutical company in the last five years. 35 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION 9th on TL basis in 2002, Bilim Pharmaceuticals ranked 7th in 2003, 6th in 2004 and 2005 with a 4.3% market share, 5th in 2006 with Sales Figures a 4.5% market share, 4th in 2008 with a 4.6% market share, 4th in According to lMS data, Bilim Pharmaceuticals is the fastest 2008 with a 4.5% market share, 4th in 2009 with a 4.7% market growing pharmaceutical company in the last five years. Ranked share and 3rd in 2010 with a 5.1% market share. IMS sales (000,000 TL) Bilim Target 800 700 600 500 400 +7.4% 300 With a 7.4% increase in sales volume in 2009-2010, Bilim Pharmaceuticals aims 200 to achieve 810 million TL sales in 2011. 100 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 IMS sales 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 448 536 574 700 752 Target 445 553 570 694 705 810 Bilim Pharmaceuticals is Turkey’s Most Competitive The 6th Competition Congress was held in November 4, 2010 Company at the Istanbul Congress Center. The theme of this year’s Congress was “Competitive Power in the Conception of Future”. Bilim Pharmaceuticals received “The Most Competitive Company “Competition Power” award was given for the first time with the of the Year Award” at the 6th Competition Congress organized aim of increasing competitive power and encouraging other ?@' </-/[/-' a<$I&:*)#' D33:I>)&>:%3' [$9$*)&>:%k' )%9' Y_<`D-m companies. <)?)%I6's%>F$*3>&@'A:HB$&>&>:%'[:*=H.' 36 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Economic Added Value Bilim Pharmaceuticals represented Turkey at European to Africa in 2010. Business Awards and was rewarded the Ruban d’Honneur Firstly, we attached importance to the recognition of the Bilim Prize. brand as a well-known name by sharing our marketing knowledge Bilim Pharmaceuticals, being the fastest growing company in the in domestic market to our partners abroad. Each country was past 5 years of the pharmaceuticals industry, represented Turkey evaluated according to its own dynamics and strategies are at European Business Awards and was rewarded the Ruban determined, accordingly. d’Honneur Prize. When we observe the period between 1998 and 2010, Bilim 3500 most successful companies participated in the European Pharmaceuticals’ steady and regular growth success is clear in Business Awards. Bilim Pharmaceuticals competed with 10 terms of foreign markets. European countries such as France, England, Germany and According to the data announced by IMMIB (General Secretariat Italy at the first round and was deemed worthy of the Ruban of Istanbul Mineral and Metal Exporters’ Association), which d’Honneur Award at the “Business of the Year” category. pharmaceuticals and chemical exporters are bound to, pharmacy The European Business Awards are granted to support exports rose by 9.3% in 2010. However, Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ companies that are innovative, successful in business terms and exports grew by 13% during the same period. As a result, the that behave responsibly. The Awards comprises 10 categories: share that Bilim Pharmaceuticals gets from the pharmaceuticals Business of The Year, Corporate Sustainability, Customer Focused exports has reached 5.6% in total. Company of the Year, Employer of The Year, Environmental As a result of these figures, thanks to our performance in the Awareness, Scaling Up Strategy of the Year, Entrepreneur of the Export of Pharmaceuticals product category among IMMIB Year, Innovation and Selection of the President Prizes. members, Bilim Pharmaceuticals was given a certificate Export Figures indicating that it is “7th company making the highest amount of exports”. Launched in 1998, foreign market activities were included for the first time in the 2002-2004 strategic plan. In line with this plan, According to the Turkey’s largest exporters listing published by Turkey’s neighbors were initially targeted and market analyses the Turkish Exporters Assembly (TIM), Bilim Pharmaceuticals were performed with respect to these countries. By the year rose from 864th place in 2008 to 632nd place by the end of 2009. 2010, Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ products are steadily prescribed The number of countries we export to rose from 42 to 48 in 2010. in 48 countries. Thanks to our R&D and licensing competency, 610 of our products were licensed in 48 countries from Far East Our Exports ($) Export Value 40,000 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 +15% 15,000 According to the IMMIB data, there has been an increase of 9.3% in the export 10,000 of pharmaceutical products in 2010. At the same year, Bilim Pharmaceuticals 5,000 recorded a 15% exports growth. 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Export Value 11,935 15,055 19,433 22,962 26,418 37 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 OUR INVESTMENTS Created Added Value Added value that an organization produces for the national economy is measured by means of a research entitled “500 Biggest Industrial Corporations Survey”, which is performed by Istanbul Chamber of Industry (ISO). Added Value Created (TL 000) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target 83,500 98,860 125,500 145,500 182,665 228,900 Achieved 84,031 100,541 129,519 149,875 * * The figures concerned were not published at the time the report was prepared. Tax Paid Tax (TL 000) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target 19,500 20,500 18,400 23,000 33,000 40,500 Achieved 19,720 20,620 18,518 23,265 35,147 Payments Made to the Social Security Institution SSK (TL 000) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Target 9,300 11,000 11,500 11,500 11,905 13,487 Achieved 9,496 11,532 11,796 11,401 11,971 Our Company makes all payments and deductions to respective Our Environmental Investments institutions on time as per the conditions envisaged by the law. Bilim Pharmaceuticals invests in environmental protection and Our Company made the following payments, which are shown in carries out environment-friendly and energy-efficient practices the following table and which increase on a yearly basis, to the to reduce its environmental impacts. These investments are Social Security Institution and to the Unemployment Insurance. discussed in the section entitled “Our Sensitivity towards The increase in social security premiums stems from the Ecological Environment”. increasing number of our employees and the increasing amount of employee salaries subject to the insurance premium on a Our Contribution to the Community yearly basis. Bilim Pharmaceuticals develops and executes community Our Infrastructure Investments investment projects aiming to raise social awareness. Investments In the section entitled “Our Production Plants” in the report, made in these projects are given in the following table: our Bilim Gebze plant, the medical storage unit and the R&D laboratory investments are referred to. You can find the building equipment specifications of the Gebze plant and information with respect to our infrastructure investments in the section entitled “Our Sensitivity towards Ecological Environment” in this report. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Social Investment Projects Target 215,000 300,000 350,000 1,750,000 1,900,000 2,300,000 Amount of Contribution (TL) Achieved 225,000 340,057 343,188 1,835,275 1,946,515 38 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Economic Added Value Our Work on Research and Development >R&D investment in the global and Turkish pharmaceuticals sectors The pharmaceuticals industry is one of the most popular sectors in the world. High added value created by the pharmaceuticals industry, as well as innovative R&D activities plays a key role in this. Health needs increase parallel to increasing and aging world population each passing day, which, in turn, raises demand for better health services. Rising medical expenditures parallel to increasing demand bring along control of costs and search for new molecules and efficiency in the sector. R&D in the pharmaceutical industry is classified under two headings: R&D activities conducted by originator companies for the discovery of new molecules and R&D activities conducted by equivalent drug companies for the development of equivalent drugs. R&D activities conducted by originator companies aim to prove clinical effectiveness of new molecules. Efforts to develop equivalent drugs cover activities for the development of equivalent versions of products, which were offered to the market by originator companies and whose clinical effectiveness has been proven. In the global pharmaceutical industry, R&D investments are directly related to the economic status of countries. According to the report entitled “Pharmaceutical Industry in Turkey and in the World: Development Potentials”, which was published by Deloitte Turkey in 2010 and which discusses development tendency of the Turkish and the global pharmaceutical sectors, 45% of total R&D spending in the global entire industry is made by USA. USA is followed by Europe and Japan. In Europe, Germany, UK, France, Italy and Spain are considered as “five important markets”. Although Turkey is one of the 15 most important pharmaceutical markets in the world, development of the pharmaceutical industry is not yet at the desired level. In order for the sector to realize its growth potential and to have a competitive edge in international markets, one of the key elements of the development of the pharmaceutical industry, the number of R&D activities must be increased. And, this necessitates R&D activities to be supported. It is of vital importance that our country has a very advanced equivalent drug industry in terms of production standards, technology and installed capacity. Within this framework, as production and use of equivalent drugs is supported, Turkey will become a leading equivalent drug manufacturing country in the world; in this aspect, improvement of Turkey’s export potential seems a more reasonable approach. We believe that the only way to reduce Turkey’s dependency on imports, particularly imported drugs, and to increase its exports is that Turkey invests in the pharmaceutical industry in an increasing manner. There are two types of investment in question: to invest in production facilities in a traditional way and to invest in R&D activities. R&D activities to be performed in Turkey will undoubtedly make positive contribution to the development of the scientific infrastructure and knowledge in our country. In order for the funds which are transferred to R&D activities to increase, both the public and the private sectors must assume important responsibilities. We think that an increase in R&D activities through cooperation between the pharmaceutical industry and universities in particular would allow the sector to take further steps. Today, Turkey owns one of the leading pharmaceutical markets in the world that exports to developed countries with its high production capacity and qualified human resource. There is also adequate infrastructure to support R&D activities. By means of policies that support new discoveries and R&D activities, effective cooperation can be created between universities, the pharmaceutical sector and the government, which, in turn, will make it possible to make more investments in R&D activities and high technology, and to move Turkey to higher positions in the global pharmaceutical industry in terms of R&D investments. Bilim Pharmaceuticals and Research & Development As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we increase research and Our Research and Development projects are at the center of development activities in an planned way within the framework of our exportation to 48 countries and the volume of our exports our strategic planning practices. Acting upon these determined doubles each passing year with the new products that we receive strategies, we have created a well organized environment of the license for. research and development; with a self-consistent understanding The underlying factor in our increasing sales targets as Bilim of management, a scientific logic and technical approaches that Pharmaceuticals is concentration on technology-based are cooperative, contemporary, encouraging and responsive R&D activities and continuously rising budget allocated for to the needs of society. Thanks to our R&D activities which these activities. Our Research and Department Center has develop continuously through this understanding, we are the been equipped with 220 high-tech machines, apparatus and leader of the Turkish pharmaceutical market with more than 150 equipments. products, which were all developed in our own R&D laboratories and which we hold the license of. When evaluated from this Our investments should not be anticipated as only buildings stance, our corporation is the biggest local equivalent drug or equipments. We also make large investments in competent producer in the national pharmaceutical markets’ genuine drug human resources in our company. Researchers (such as sales. In order to protect our position, we continue to focus our Pharmaceutical Chemistry Experts, Pharmaceutical Technology attention increasingly on Research and Development projects. Experts, Patent Proxies, Pharmacologists, Analytical Chemists, etc), who have scientific competence, are involved in project 39 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 teams that are commissioned in our R&D department. Our Another important role of our Research and Development Center Research and Development team currently consists of 110 is that it is spreading out and integrating the innovation culture people. throughout the corporation. Our new product development Our more than 150 products which are in solid, semi-solid processes are improved through innovative studies, while our and liquid dosage forms were developed in our own R&D profitability increases by putting efficiency-increasing and costlaboratories. Thanks to the understanding of sharing information reducing efforts in practice. and transferring it to future generations, which was adopted in Our products in international markets our Research and Development Center, the knowledge that we 90% of the products that we hold a license for were developed gain during the production of each product is carried over to the through our R&D activities. Thanks to our license files, which next project. As a result of our R&D activities, which are carried comply with international regulation in order to respond to out from this perspective, product combinations that contain two customer and market demands, as well as our R&D plant and or more molecules and controlled release products that aim to production quality at high standards, we are able to offer our reduce the side effects of drugs by increasing patient compliance drug portfolio to international markets. are added to the product spectrum of Bilim Pharmaceuticals. We have a cardiovascular product approved by the UK Ministry Two of our drugs were licensed in Western Europe. It is a part of Health and an antidiabetic drug approved by the German of our strategic plan to export drugs to Europe and USA in Ministry of Health. In near future, our products will begin to be the following days from our two production plants, which were sold in Europe, too. In addition, as of end-2010, our products approved by UK and Germany. are sold in 48 different countries from Far East to Latin America, Our R&D budget, which has been incrementally increased Africa to Middle East, while Bilim Pharmaceuticals proves its for long years, was increased even in 2009 and 2010 when existence and quality in global markets by reaching 610 license economic measures had to be taken by making significant cuts files. in drug sale prices, and maintained at 5% of our net sales. Even Our R&D related targets during the times of crisis, R&D investments were not ceased at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Our company aims to further increase Our Bilim Gebze Plant with its 51,500 m2 indoor area, which its investments in the coming periods and to allocate 8% of its became operational in 2008, has been approved by UK. With an net sales to R&D projects every year, in addition to the fixed annual production capacity of 250 million boxes, this plant has investments that have to be made. the power to produce 17% of Turkey’s medicines. In our coming investment plan, our target is to be the leader of the domestic Our Research and Development Center pharmaceutical sector and to share our share and reinforce our With its building expenses as high as €120 million, our Research position in global markets like the European market parallel to and Development Center is the largest R&D center of the Turkish the development of our R&D activities. In this context, we plan pharmaceutical industry with a total of 4,500 m2 laboratory field. to develop equivalent products aiming at the segments that are An investment of US$ 15 million was made in our R&D center different from existing ones and to expand the range of products located within our Bilim Gebze plant, which is the biggest drug that are used in the treatment of chronic diseases. manufacturing plant in the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. Our targets: We keep making additional investments worth US$ 5 million in average every year. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ R&D budget was C'Y:'I:%I$%&*)&$':%'$;;:*&3'&:'9$F$#:B'I:%&*:##$9'*$#$)3$'&)?#$&37' increased by 275% in the last three years only. which increase patient compliance and reduce drugs’ side effect profile, in addition to widely used traditional dosage forms like Bilim Pharmaceuticals deserved to receive R&D Center tablets; Certification on February 17th, 2009. C' Y:' >%I*$)3$' &0$' %=H?$*' :;' *$3$)*I0$3' :%' B)&>$%&m;*>$%9#@' Our Research and Development Center comprises of analytical products that include two or more molecules as they reduce the development laboratories (instrumental analysis laboratories, number of administrated drugs; wet laboratories), formulation laboratories, pilot production and stability zones. C'Y:'9$F$#:B'B*:9=I&3';:*'H)*5$&3'>%'K0>I0'K$'I=**$%&#@'9:'%:&' operate; Our Research and Development Center at Bilim Pharmaceuticals is constituted of groups dealing with patent-related works, active C' Y:' 9$3>G%' )%9' 9$F$#:B' B*:9=I&3' ;:*' $qB:*&)&>:%' &:' G#:?)#' substances, formulation and analytical method development for markets, including European and US markets; and new products, clinical researches, product improvement, and C' Y:' $qB#:>&' :BB:*&=%>&>$3' )*>3>%G' ;*:H' ?>:$E=>F)#$%&' )%9' stability and technology for new products. In our Research and nanotechnology-based products, which become popular each Development centre, patent scanning and evaluation studies, passing day in the pharmaceutical industry and which are active substance assessment, analysis and works, formulation gradually used by an increasing number of customers, as part and analytical method development, laboratory and small scale our long-term strategies; development of equivalent drugs is only pilot productions, process and analytical method validations, possible through making contribution to a number of disciplines clinical studies, product improvement studies, new product such as pharmaceutics, chemistry, chemical engineering, stability studies and the preparation of authorization files in biology, etc. CTD format are managed with the concept of Quality By Design (QbD). 40 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Economic Added Value Warm welcome by the BilimFamily had really positive impact on me during my recruitment to a new job in a new country. I find Bilim Pharmaceuticals quite successful particularly due to its Leadership practices, Excellence Model approaches and compliance with the requirements of the pharmaceutical industry. Chandrashekhar MAINDE By making contribution to Turkey not only economically, but Scientific Department Director also in terms of social aspects, Bilim Pharmaceuticals adds I joined the Bilim Pharmaceuticals family in 2010. I was through significant value to every job, thanks to its approach which is delicate and meticulous recruitment processes that apply to environment-friendly and which prioritizes quality. I am very the hiring of foreigners in Turkey. I was really impressed by HR happy to be here, to use my experience and knowledge to practices during this time period. contribute to the company, and to improve myself with what I have learned here. After the successful completion of these processes, I began to feel that my country and Turkey mostly share cultures that are close to each other, a situation that accelerated my adaptation. %V '%!1&*4EZ7F=@ We assess patents for the medicines to be able to be provided in the markets in Turkey and abroad, ensure the transport Y_!`YD(' m' -$B)*&H$%&' :;' Y$I0%:#:G@' )%9' \%%:F)&>:%' [=%9>%G' of medicines into the markets without violating patents and Programs Directorate has been established with the aim of follow legal procedures and necessary processes. speeding up the process of turning technology into societal benefit and supporting the research-technology development We make applications for newly developed ideas within the and innovation activities of industrial corporations in our country. scope of research and development projects and follow up on their status. Thus, the target is to increase the skills of our country’s corporations in research and technology and the increase of We collaborate with the Patent Institute of Turkey and universities to innovative culture and the competitive capacity. Department continue our work with ethical principles. of Technology and Innovation Funding Programs Directorate For new inventions to be created information and technology designs and manages support programs in view of the have to be renewed/improved and shared. One of the aforementioned. most important steps in achieving this is patenting. Patenting As of end-2010, we have completed a total of 7 projects at documents are written products where information on research Bilim Pharmaceuticals. In addition, the number of ongoing and development is provided, identifying the technology of projects rose to 7 with new projects launched in 2010. When it is industrial products or methods that require patent protection, considered that the budget of each project is approximately US$ and explain them in detail while being the criteria for Research 1 million, it can be said that Bilim Pharmaceuticals would create and Development projects. Our corporation knows the a R&D volume of nearly US$ 20 million with a total of 14 projects. importance of patenting and therefore has established a department for patenting as a first step. For other intellectual INTELLECTUAL INDUSTRIAL AND and industrial rights our corporation also acquires external COMMERCIAL COPYRIGHTS support. Patents; one of the most important characteristics of Intellectual We also observe the intellectual and industrial property rights of Industrial and Commercial Copyrights, are tools that provide companies that we work with as business partners. legal protection for inventions developed by companies and individuals. In order to encourage inventions and to enable [#\.,]).]%&[,!]%0&%!1.]& ^& '(')& technical, economic and social developments in the application PHARMACEUTICALS of inventions into industry, the protection of inventions through R&D INCENTIVES AND GRANTS patents and useful model certifications has been taken under protection in our country under law 551 “Legislative Decree We have met all provisions set forth in the law no. 5746 “Law on About The Protection of Patent Rights”. Supporting Research and Development Activities” and received a R&D Center certification for a period of 2 years being effective As Bilim Pharmaceuticals we stay true to our values in view of as of 18.02.2009. these laws and act lawfully in respect of industrial property rights protected by laws. Grants received through this certification: C'M$3$)*I0')%9'-$F$#:BH$%&'9$9=I&>:%3 41 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 For R&D and innovation activities carried out at the Research The medicines first have to be licensed before they are provided and Development Center, Bilim Pharmaceuticals benefits from in the markets of many countries and in Turkey. Then if desired R&D deductions by 100% in the section of deductions on the they have to be made a part of the refunding system. Corporate Tax account. The formal authority for licensing medicines in Turkey is C'\%I:H$'K>&00:#9>%G'&)q'>%I$%&>F$7 the General Directorate for Pharmaceuticals and Pharmacy managed by the Ministry of Health. C'\%3=*)%I$'B*$H>=H'3=BB:*&7 The formal authority for the refunding of drugs in Turkey is the C'<&)HB'9=&@'$qI$B&>:%7 Social Security Institution managed by the Ministry of Labor and C'N*:d$I&m?)3$9'I)30'3=BB:*&'aY_!`YD(k Social Security. INVESTMENT DEDUCTION PRACTICE We get licenses for all our products in Turkey and abroad in An incentive certificate was obtained from the Undersecretariat compliance with related laws and regulations. After licensing we of Treasury with the beginning of our Gebze investment. Our make sure to conduct all follow-up stages. incentive certificate will expire in April 2011. We manage all our relationships with universities and all formal health institutions such as government hospitals, community We benefited from VAT exception and KKDF (Resource health centers and private health institutions, pharmacies Utilization Support Fund) exception in items determined by the as well as our relationships with doctors, dentists and Undersecretariat of Treasury in investment expenditures which pharmacists working in the aforementioned environments are made with this certificate. or independently according to the regulations and ethical principles of the Ministry of Health and the IEIS which we We also benefited from 100% investment deduction in corporate are a member of. tax account. We carry out all our legal responsibilities fully and within The investment deduction was repealed beginning by the time frame given and manage correspondences and 01.01.2006. It was put back in practice on 18.02.2009 under the communication environments according to our company title “deductible corporate tax”. mission, vision and values while considering the expectations of all our stakeholders and in concordance with all state To benefit from this, an Incentive certificate has to be obtained institutions’ and organizations’ laws, decree, regulations and from the Undersecretariat of Treasury. declarations. We have not faced any legal actions for antiIn expenditure items subject to this certificate, VAT and KKDF competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices. exceptions are applied. We decided to receive this certificate in Bribery and Impropriety 2011. We carry out all our activities concerning our organization in VAT REFUND accordance with laws, regulations and other rules of laws, as In the pharmaceuticals industry, the VAT rate applied to sales well as internationally recognized rules of law. We execute our is 8% whereas the VAT rate applied to purchase in 18%. As a relations with organizations and institution, which regulate, apply result of this, VAT is deferred and there is no VAT to be paid. The and audit laws and rules of law, in a manner which is right, deferred VAT is collected in cash from the government through consistent and coherent with these rules. procedures that comply with the legislation. Bilim Pharmaceuticals prohibits giving anything or making any INTERNATIONAL VAT REFUND payments to anybody to gain advantage in the purchase or sales of goods or services or to benefit improperly with the help of Although some improvements were made in EU countries with official authorities. respect to VAT refund, since member countries still have a set of their own regulations, we have to pay taxes at various rates We pay special attention to bribery and impropriety during concerning expenses that are related to business travels to and our activities. Due to the nature of our sector, we make use of participation at fairs in many countries. Although it varies from knowledge and services of medical employees and scientists. country to country, we ask refund of the tax that we pay, which We conduct our services without neglecting the fact that most of is sometimes as high as 25%, from the tax offices of respective these people work for public institutions or are public authorities. countries. It is our principle not to make any payment or to give any COMPLIANCE WITH LAW AND FAIR COMPETITION presents or services to public officials with the intent to affect their decisions or in a way which may be anticipated so. We comply with all the legal obligations set out by our government and make all our engagements clearly available. Bilim Pharmaceuticals prohibits direct or indirect involvement of its employees, consultants, agencies and other representatives As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we pay our tax on time and in full in commercial bribery. contributing to the economy of our country. 42 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Our Most Valuable Asset Bilim Pharmaceuticals regards its “Employees to be the Most Valuable Asset,” it presents them with a healthy, dependable and productive working environment. 43 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 OUR WORK AND LABOR PRACTICES Employment Figures We consider our employees as our prioritized stakeholders. It is Number of Employees in 2010 amongst our responsibilities to ensure their loyalty, to contribute White Collar Blue Collar Total towards their personal and professional development, t o present them with equal opportunities, t o improve their work D@)P)+) 192 5 197 environments, as well as to increase their levels of satisfaction. Çerkezköy 58 58 116 Gebze 189 213 402 Our Employees Field 1,129 0 1,129 We determine and implement the most appropriate and Total 1,844 effective human resources policies in order to take our rightful place amongst “The Most Desirable Firms to Work For.” While Total labor force by region Bilim Pharmaceuticals regards its “Employees to be the Most Valuable Asset,” it presents them with a healthy, dependable and ENTERPRISE 31.12.2010 productive working environment. In this regard; D@)P)+)'/%&$*B*>3$ 553 Çerkezköy Plant 116 C'\&' I:HH>&3' &:' I)**@' :=&' >&3' #$G)#' :?#>G)&>:%3' &:K)*93' )##' :;' >&3' Gebze Plant 424 employees. Adana Regional Directorate 45 C' \&' B*)I&>I$3' 3I>$%&>;>I' H$&0:93' 3=I0' )3' E=)#>&>$37' I:HB$&$%I@' Ankara Regional Directorate 44 and performance when dealing with human resources work Antalya Regional Directorate 44 procedures regarding hiring, promotion and assignment changes by taking into account the principles of equal opportunity Bolu Liaison Office 45 Bursa Liaison Office 46 C'D3';:*'>&3'0=H)%'*$3:=*I$3'B*)I&>I$3'*$G)*9>%G'>&3'$HB#:@$$37' Denizli Liaison Office 45 the company does not discriminate on the basis of religion, language, gender, race, physical disabilities or age. ->@)*?)56*'j>)>3:%'O;;>I$ 45 Erzurum Liaison Office 45 C' A:%;>9$%&>)#':*'%:%mI:%;>9$%&>)#' >%;:*H)&>:%' 0$#9'>%'I0)*)I&$*' /35>1$0>*'j>)>3:%'O;;>I$ 45 files belonging to employees is kept concealed whereas the Gaziantep Liaison Office 47 company does not interfere in the private lives of its employees. `PH>*'j>)>3:%'O;;>I$ 48 C' Y0$' I:HB)%@' :*G)%>P$3' &*)>%>%G' )%9' 3$#;m>HB*:F$H$%&' Kayseri Liaison Office 39 activities on matters that ensure the occupational and personal (6*655)#$'j>)>3:%'O;;>I$ 46 development of its employees as well as preparing the environment to assist their career planning. Konya Liaison Office 43 Samsun Liaison Office 44 C'Y0$' I:HB)%@' $%3=*$3' &0$' B*)I&>I$' :;' ?)#)%I$3' )%9' ;)>*' B)@' Y$5>*9)+'j>)>3:%'O;;>I$ 35 and benefits rights by taking pains to develop the quality and standards of its employees’ lifestyles in correlation to the firm’s Trabzon Liaison Office 45 possibilities. Total 1,844 C'Y0$'I:HB)%@'&)5$3'&0$'%$I$33)*@'H$)3=*$3'>%':*9$*'&:'B*:&$I&' job safety and the health of its employees. C'Y0$'I:HB)%@')33>G%$9')'B0:%$'#>%$')%9')%'$mH)>#')99*$33'&:' the Ethics Board to ensure that its employees apply at the Board in the fastest and easiest way possible. Moreover, to protect the balance between its employees’ business and private lives, the company C'?$G)%'&:':;;$*';#$q>?#$'K:*5>%G'0:=*3t C'>%&*:9=I$9')'H:&0$*3J'*::H'&:'>HB*:F$'&0$'K:*5>%G'I:%9>&>:%3' of those employees who have children or who will have children; and C' $3&)?#>30$9' &0$' j$G)#' A:%3=#&)%I@' s%>&7' &0$' \%3=*)%I$' Consultancy Unit and the Psychological Consultancy Center. 44 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans > Bilim Pharmaceuticals, first company to receive the “Respect for Humans Award” three times in a row in its sector. Bilim Pharmaceuticals was deemed worthy of the “Respect for Humans Award”, one of the most prestigious awards of the HR world, by kariyer.net for the third time. The award was a result of the right approach Bilim has regarding informing the applicants. The award is given to companies that show a human-focused approach in their HR policies. Bilim Pharmaceuticals has succeeded to receive the award three times in a row. Improving its HR practices each year, Bilim Pharmaceuticals responded to applicants 100 percent and become a company that hires the biggest number of people. It has also received biggest number of job applications. The HR Director Aykut Bora stated that they are very proud of having been awarded and stressed that the real success lies in the sustainability of success which they proved by receiving the award for the third time. Total Labor Force by Employment Contract !62_2`2 Gebze Çerkezköy Field Total Employment Contract of Indefinite Duration 196 400 116 1,129 1,841 Fixed Term Employment Contract 0 2 0 0 2 Part Time Employment Contract 1 0 0 0 1 TOTAL 197 402 116 1,129 1,844 We pay particular attention to the recruitment of people from the local community and fair wage policies in domestic and foreign communities of our presence. Demographic Data of our Employees Average Blue White Gender Median Term Of 31.12.2010 (%) Top-Level (%) Collar (%) Collar (%) Age Service Gender Executives Female 30 4 355 19.2 1 11 15 5 340 22.0 Male 32 4 1,489 80.8 8 89 261 95 1,228 78.0 Total 1,844 100 9 100 276 100 1,568 100 45 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Age Group Breakdown of our Employees As the above chart shows, we have a young and dynamic workforce. This workforce helps adapt HR systems to the expectations of new generations, particularly in training & development and career processes. This young employee 18-30 structure also gives us a competitive edge in our creative and innovative practices. 30-50 50 and over To improve their qualifications, we encourage employees who are High School or Vocational College graduates, to enroll in education faculties or to universities that offer flexible education hours. Moreover, we allocate time form working hours and/or financial support to those employees, who would like to have post graduate education or to take doctorate. The Gender Breakdown of our Employees (%) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Female 18 21 19 19 20 Male 82 79 81 81 80 Education % Breakdown of our Employees In 2008, we hired a high number of female workers at our Gebze facility, especially in our Quality and R & D division; hence the Number Of noticeable rise in the percentage of women hired during that Employees As Of particular year. Education 31.12.2010 % Ratio Post-Graduate 125 6.8 We aim to increase the proportion of our female employees on University 1,212 65.7 an annual basis, whereby our target for 2011 is 20%. Moreover, Vocational College 152 8.2 information regarding the proportion of female applicants has been shared in the “Hiring Practices” section. Vocational High School 190 10.3 High School 126 6.8 For all our practices, we design systems that ensure equality of Elementary School 39 2.1 opportunity and ensure that they are properly applied within the Total Personnel 1,844 framework of our principle of managing differences. Examples of such systems are our evaluation and development center and wage management system. Moreover, we have indirect practices, such as mothers’ room practice and giving positive response to the requests of leave of future mothers following maternity leave within the scope of the law. Number of Disabled Personnel 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Achieved 23 21 16 18 30 Target 25 34 22 29 30 Female-Male Breakdown at Managerial Level !62_2`2 Çerkezköy Gebze Field % of Total Female Female Female Female Female Overall Total Employees Male Total Male Total Male Total Male Total General Manager 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 Director 1 4 5 0 0 0 0 3 3 0 0 0 8 13 Manager 4 22 26 0 2 2 2 2 4 0 12 12 44 14 Administrator 11 18 29 2 5 7 14 12 26 4 103 107 169 18 Total 16 45 61 2 7 9 16 17 33 4 115 119 222 17 46 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans >Our Human Resources Policy We consider all our employees to be skilled We consider each of our employees to be a skilled leader The Human Resources management is one of our most important of her/his job, whereby we formulate a participative work processes helping us achieve our vision and carry out our mission. environment that will reveal and develop their potential In this context, our defined HR policy acts as a guide in all our by means of preparing opportunities for their individual workforce practices. development. With the purpose of creating a corporate culture that relies We encourage our employees to exhibit their finest on our values, we aim at maintaining the highest possible level performance of loyalty and satisfaction among our employees and we aim at While we encourage our employees to exhibit higher levels implementing innovative human resources systems to ensure that of performance, we evaluate their performance fairly and our company’s targets based on strategic planning are reached objectively, and ensure that their personal goals are in line with those of our company. We hire workers that have the potential to shape our future We uphold the principle of equal opportunities in hiring job We encourage participation and communication and candidates who are focused on team spirit and values, celebrate the contributions of our employees in unison. and who are competent, who possess knowledge and We encourage our employees to get involved in all types of development potential to carry our company into the future. innovative and creative undertakings as well as having them make contribution in studies based on individual and team We prepare opportunities for training and development improvement. Moreover, we organize in-house corporate We ensure that the current and future competency requirements communications activities in order to foster dialogue between of our company are met by preparing opportunities for our company and our employees as well as honoring improvement that will develop the competencies of our contributions in unison. employees by means of our concepts regarding constant training, innovation and improvement. We get strength from our families We consider our families to be as much an inseparable part of our organization as our employees who are the determining factor in successfully achieving our company’s targets. Our Principles on Employee Rights Moreover, queries and complaints submitted by our employees who The principle of treating our employees with fairness and respect is believe there are discrepancies between the laws and practices they the fundamental reason for our company’s high standing in the industry. encounter in the workplace and our policies and principles can be This principle is assured with our Employees’ Rights Principles. notified to the Top-Level Management, Directors, Human Resources Division and the Board of Ethics without being pressured and with a In this context, our principles we consider as our primary sense of assuring themselves. principles are; Child Labor and Forced Labor C'b:';:*I$9'#)?:* While there is no room for forced labor or child labor practices in C'b:'I0>#9'#)?:* our company, it is one of our rules that the same applies to our suppliers and collaborations. C'b:'9>3I*>H>%)&>:% C'N*:F>9>%G'd:?'3);$&@')%9'3$I=*>&@ C'/%3=*>%G'B*:B$*'K:*5>%G'I:%9>&>:%3'&0)&'I:HB#@'K>&0'#$G>3#)&>:% Ensuring proper working hours and wages. The company complies fully with these principles.* *HR Department data 47 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 The Ratio of Overtime to the Total Working Hours Bilim Target 6.00 5.00 4.00 3.00 2.00 1.00 0.00 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 C' We try to understand and cover, if possible, different needs and expectations of our employees to produce solutions for Achieved 5.33 5.37 3.37 4.30 business-related problems. Target 5.00 5.00 3.50 4.00 3.50 Overtime is planned by our employees and put in practice upon C'We hire competent people who fit our vision and mission within the approval of our directors. Overtime wages are paid after the framework of our selection and recruitment processes; we the total overtime hours of our employees are recorded in their do not discriminate against schools, regions, gender, religion, payrolls in the related month based on the ratios determined by language, race, socioeconomic past, ethnical roots, etc. the law. C'We take pains to offer opportunities of improvement that will allow our employees to enhance their competencies and to Moreover, within the framework of employee rights, we do not increase their contributions to their jobs in an increasing manner. apply any limitation on our employees’ right of unionization. C'Within the framework of our career management system, we Management of Differences define criteria for horizontal and vertical promotion to different positions throughout our company for each available position The concept known as management of differences refers to the and ensure that evaluations are made fairly and within the scope understanding, revealing and supporting differences, as well as of equality of opportunity. turning them into opportunity for Bilim Pharmaceuticals. C' We carry out activities to enhance diversity and cultural We believe that different points of view and the opinions of differences by means of social and sports activities, boards, our employees with different personalities contribute to our teams and clubs. company. We value differences, because we know that the only way to produce ideas which will guide us to our targets C'We see management of differences as a strategic opportunity is to unveil and support the differences that exist between us. and consider the differences among our employees as the infrastructure for developing our organization’s perspective and For this reason, approaching business-related problems with innovative and creative methods. C' Management of differences is a primary topic that Bilim Pharmaceuticals deals with for all its stakeholders, including C'Management of Differences at Bilim Pharmaceuticals allows all employees, customers, shareholders and the community. stakeholders to produce added value not only by acting fairly but also by expressing and exploiting opportunities. C'We respect different experiences, cultural pasts and business and lifestyles that would add value to our business. 48 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Our Recruitment Procedures “Qualities & Competencies Catalogue” is among our basic instruments used in our recruitment process. By using these We hire workers that have the potential to shape our future instruments, we do not reach decisions based on discrimination One of our priorities at Bilim Pharmaceuticals in our recruitment such as school, region, gender, sexual preferences, religion, process is to create equal opportunities for everyone. In line language, race, etc in line with our principle of equality of with this priority, it is the fundamental principle of our candidate opportunity. selection and recruitment process to hire creative, multiThe reason for the low proportion of the women workforce seen directional and participative people, who can rapidly adapt in the aforementioned worker breakdown chart is the heavy themselves to change, who have a global point of view and travel schedule experienced in working in the field as well as who continuously improve themselves and those around them, the wideness of the geographical dispersion. The percentage of based on the principle of equality of opportunity and without female applicants for job positions available in the field is much discrimination, as stressed in our HR policy. lower than male applicants 2010 Female and Male Applicant Ratios (%) Female and Male Applicant Ratios for Field Positions (%) Male Female Male 61.8% 100 Female 38.2% 50 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 Female (%) 40.1 38.2 Male (%) 59.9 61.8 We benefit from the Qualities & Competencies Catalogue, which Application Methods is comprised separately of each position in the description of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals is equally close to all candidates and employee profile which shall provide the organizational structure allows candidates to make job applications from a number of pertaining to the requirements of our company, that is, its values, sources. its mission, its vision and strategies. Recruitment sources are: Candidates who comply with the Qualities catalogue are subject to a preliminary interview with our HR department, whereby those C'^$?m?)3$9'*$I*=>&H$%&'3>&$3 who are deemed positive are directed to the pertinent department C'->*$I&'I)%9>9)&$3'a!>#>H'N0)*H)I$=&>I)#3'A)%9>9)&$'-)&)?)3$k heads. In these evaluations, an oral interview based on pertinent competencies related to the open job positions is conducted in a C' \%m0:=3$' I)%9>9)&$3' a3=GG$3&' )' I)%9>9)&$7' )99' F)#=$' w' manner described in detail in the Competencies Catalogue, with candidates holding a reference) skills tests, personality inventory, information tests; evaluation center applications also applied. The “Evaluation Center” C'\%&$*%)#')9F$*&>3>%G practice aims to determine the development areas and levels C'A:%3=#&)%I@'I:HB)%>$3 of requirements of people, who are candidates for strategically important positions, in line with some specific competencies and to assist in deciding whether the candidate fits that position. 49 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Evaluation of Competencies different instruments are used to evaluate the competencies of At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, defined competencies are one of the candidates the most accurate and objective way. Elements that important instruments with respect to the creation of equality constitute competencies and the instruments that are used to of opportunity during the recruitment process. A number of measure them are given in the following table: Evaluation of Competencies Occupational personality Talent Tests Talent Personality inventory ;&-EGD7=7<F6I 2@73&/<=74H57P ;&%4235=5E<2C&/<=74H57P Skill/ ;&)E=5H2=5E<&/<H7<=E46 Motivation ;&1<EPC73>7&%7@= Knowledge/ ;&/<H7<=E46&EM&/<=747@= ;&SE475><&(2<>A2>7&*C2F7G7<=& /Interest ;&-EGD7=7<F6I 2@73&/<=74H57P Experience Test Prior to the job offer, candidates who successfully pass these lasts between 2 and 6 weeks. A separate, “Management applications go through a reference check as per the job Orientation Program”, which offers personnel the opportunity application information. Candidates who are not included to get acquainted with their colleagues and have one-to-one in the job hiring process or are not positively evaluated are meetings, is applied for those employees who are starting their notified via the career portal, e-mail or a telephone call. Bilim jobs in management and executive positions. Besides this Pharmaceuticals has hired the great majority of its job applicants formal process, newly-hired employees are assigned “Buddies”, coming from outside the company through the human resources who facilitate the creation of a closer social atmosphere within internet referral website www.kariyer.net, winning its “Respect for the company and who convey the unwritten and informal People Award” for the past three years. dimensions of our corporate culture. “Buddies” work in the same This award is presented based on the following criteria: time that departments as the newly-hired employees and are the last staff passes between job application and responding to candidates members who started work in a department and have completed and the ratio of responded candidates. the orientation process. Newly-hired personnel participate in an “Orientation Program” and are introduced to the values required to become a part of the BilimFamily. Employees are initiated through the HR Orientation Training, followed by a Department Orientation Program, which Buddy me very much to get to know the company and particularly to save myself from the first day excitement. I am now the buddy :;'`3H)>#'D5)*. The fellowship practice allowed me to establish communication with my colleagues in short time. In my opinion, the biggest contribution of this system is that it provides harmony between !C5&-'\!] employees and allows us to work with peaceful minds. By Packaging Employee means of this practice, the Company allows newly hired people feel good. Also, newly hired employees can adapt to Fellowship is a system, which is implemented in our company the business more quickly. It is also useful to get to know the for us to get used to our colleagues and newly hired employees Company and to obtain information about it in shorter time. as strongly and quickly as possible. When I began working at Moreover, employees feel that they are cared and attached Bilim Pharmaceuticals, Aykut Kaya was my buddy. He helped value to. 50 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Internship Program Employment of the Local Community In recruitment, we support local employment by allowing our As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we consider efficient and active employees to be candidates from places where they are born organization of internship programs aimed at students attending or where they live. We prioritize job applications from local universities and high schools, not only as an in-house-practice, community in our hiring process and we compose our employee but also a social responsibility. In our company, a “Post-Internship profile taking into account local community employment. Recruitment System” is applied to ensure that students see in practice the theoretical information they receive at school and Our Wage Management System that they get to know the business life closely. This system also We have a fair and transparent wage policy at Bilim reflects the fact that qualified human resource requirements Pharmaceuticals, which is not affected by age, gender and can bet met with cooperation between universities and the criteria that encompasses other discrimination. industry sector. Students, who have shown good and positive performance in this process, are favoured to be recruited after We pay attention to maintain competitive wage levels for our the internship. employees. Within this framework, the number of interns that we employed While determining our salary policy, we have benefited from the each year is as follows: salary research conducted by the accredited HAY Job Evaluation 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 and Grading Systematic as well as Tower Watson, Poyraz Consultancy and Mercer Human Resources. Bilim 87 33 52 62 90 125 138 Beyond the legal requirements aimed at raising employee Moreover, a “Trip to Bilim Gebze” is organized in a way to support satisfaction and loyalty and going beyond these necessities, our internship program and particularly in line with the requests we have planned and are currently implementing non-salary coming from schools in order to ensure that junior and senior supplementary benefits, resources and services. Bilim year (6th form) students know the pharmaceutical industry better Pharmaceuticals ensures that wage management is monitored and to contribute to their occupational preference in the future by based on legal records and within the legal framework. Nobody allowing them to visit a drug production plant. is working informally, and there have been no incidents of nonNumber of payment at the company. Date University Students In taking into account salary research, legal increases and 01/07/2009 Marmara University Faculty Of 40 economic indicators, our Performance Management System Pharmacy conducts salary raise practices every year. 02/03/2010 Ege University 40 04/08/2010 Erciyes University Faculty Of 30 In the framework of the government’s retirement requirements, Pharmacy Bilim Pharmacuiticals pays the legally defined retirement 04/09/2010 35 premium for its employees fully. Yeditepe University Faculty Of Pharmacy Wage Increases by Year 01/26/2011 Anadolu University Faculty Of 30 The rates of wage increases are higher than inflation rates every Pharmacy year. Despite the crisis faced by the pharmaceutical industry 08/03/2010 Tikrit University 20 in 2009, a wage increase which was close to the inflation rate 11/08/2010 02B2<FW&$<5H74@5=6 35 was applied to our employees’ wages to protect their standards of living. The increase rates applied to our blue-collar *These figures indicate approximate number of visitors. employees’ wages are higher than those of white-collar employees, to foster a positive difference with respect to the blue-collar workers. Our grades within the scope of our Wage Management System are not only based on salary; we also offer fringe benefits apart from the base salaries. Special fringe benefits have been defined for grade-based positions. 51 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Support Practices Our Company Provides Its Employees Start-up Year Coverage Overtime Pay to All Employees Since its foundation Legal Rights Fuel, Maternity, Death, Religious Holiday, Annual Leave and Matrimony Assistance to All Employees Transport Opportunities for Overtime Workers Non-Salary Vehicle Allocation for Company Top-Level Management and Field Employees Supplementary <0=&&#$'[#$$&'<$*F>I$';:*'/HB#:@$$3'^:*5>%G')&'D@)P)+)7'4$*5$P5n@')%9'i$?P$ Possibilities Bi-Annual Clothing Allowance for Field Employees Bonus System for Field Employees Quarterly Premium for All Employees Evening Meal for Overtime Employees Lunch Per Diem Payment for Employees Working outside Their Normal Province Individual Accident Insurance for All Employees 2001 Allocation of GSM Line, Blackberry and Notebook Computers to Marketing Depart2001/2005/2010 ment/Field Advance Payment to Employees in Need 2003 Credit Card Allocation to Field Employees 2005 Morning Breakfast Delivery Service 2005 Private Health Insurance for All White-Collar Staff 2004/2006 Mothers’ Room Practice for Our Employees at the Headquarters and at our Plants 2010 Psychological Consultancy Unit 2005 Insurance Consultancy Unit 2010 Legal Consultancy Unit 2009 When the balance between wages, supplementary rights and management systems. During each performance evaluation promotions is taken into account, there is no discrimination period, a comparison is made between the existing between our female and male employees. qualities/competencies and the targeted qualities/ competencies, whereas the areas deemed necessary for The fact that our company has never been subject to penalties improvement are determined, where a basis for training needs during inspections conducted by legal institutions and analysis studies is implemented. corporations in connection with labor law is a direct result of the sensitivity we show in honoring our commitment to legal The Performance Management System (PMS) is applied requirements. based on determined measurement and performance criteria to evaluate employees in a fair, equal and timely manner in Our Contribution to the Development of Our Employees order to ensure that Bilim Pharmaceuticals reaches its strategic targets as its employees realize their own individual targets. The Career Development of Employees The PMS also makes it possible that the competencies and performance of employees are improved in line with targets We support our employees to ensure they demonstrate their through the feedback they receive during the working period, as best performance. well as by means of continuous dialogue. PMS also lets collect With the purpose of facilitating adaptation amongst the objective information for wage and career-related decisions; and requirements of our company and our employees’ knowledge recognizes achievements and performances of employees and and competencies, the qualities and competencies determined enables their rewarding. for every position are measured by utilizing evaluation centre applications in the hiring processes, and development centre applications in the training & development and career 52 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Performance When employees who demonstrate a high performance are Supportive evaluated within the framework of the talent management system, Evaluation Source Weight Practices development activities are planned for those who demonstrate Elements Competencies Corporate 20% Development lower performance. The “Performance Improvement Pool” Competencies Center, QMS system was put in practice to support our field staff who achieved (Basic, Instruments, lower business results than expectations due to various reasons, Function and Competency and to raise the level of their success to the expected level. Field Managerial) Trainings, 360° staff are supported through extensive “field coaching”, while their CES (Competency areas of improvement and the results they achieve in these areas Evaluation System), are analyzed on a monthly basis. Coaching System, C' N/' :=&B=&3' I:%3&>&=&$' )' ?)3>3' ;:*' 9*)K>%G' =B' >%9>F>9=)#' Field Coaching development plans by means of training requirement analysis Business Strategic Plan 80% Continuous and of career planning that would ensure development as well Targets (SP), Annual Occupational as for the wage management and recognition-appreciation Budget Plan Development systems. (ABP), Job Program, Standardized leadership targets are determined for all our Descriptions, Occupational employees in director, manager and administrator positions to Processes and Personal support and develop a joint leadership approach. The rates of Development realization of these targets are also measures providing output Trainings, Learning for our managers’ individual development plans. Reports with Vehicles, Field respect to standardized targets are delivered to our managers Coaching, and directors on a personal basis in terms of providing output for Performance the “performance negotiations” held at the end of the year. Improvement Pool 360-DEGREE COMPETENCY EVALUATION SYSTEM Performance Evaluation (PE) Elements and their Contents The “360° Competency Evaluation System” is applied to make As per our Strategic Plan (SP) and Annual Budget Plan (ABP) contribution to the personal development of our personnel who preparation processes, SPand ABP-related tasks are performed are in managerial or higher positions by giving feedback on their with wide participation (directors, managers, administrators and strong sides and sides that are open to improvement. personnel) at all stages, except the determination of primary business targets and primary strategies. All performance This system is based on the principle of the evaluation of targets are determined with consensus in order to reach primary managers’ basic and managerial competencies by a number business targets. Business targets set forth in the ABP are written of different evaluators, such as their executive senior managers, on performance evaluation forms as annual or period-based their subordinates who directly report to them, their functional performance evaluation targets after a consensus is reached superiors and subordinates, as well as themselves. at the end of the negotiations that are carried out between all Moreover, the “360° Competency Evaluation System” provides white-collar and blue-collar employees and their managers every objective evaluation as there are a number of evaluators involved, January. raising the effectiveness of interpersonal communication and PE negotiations are performed at the end of each year for every directly contributing to organizational development. employee who has completed one year of service at the company; In the evaluation form, behavioral expressions are defined moreover, targets are reviewed and areas where measures need with respect to “Basic and Managerial Competencies”; they to be taken are identified by means of mid-term evaluations that are monitored and measured to what extent these behavioral are carried out semi-annually. Before the PE negotiation period, indicators are covered by our managers. all our employees and managers participate in “Performance Evaluation and Feedback” training, where they are supported to By means of mass data received from the system, our company’s make objective and development-based evaluations. “Leadership Photo” can be taken by measuring the managerial capabilities of our personnel who are in managerial positions at Development programs are set up by determining the difficulties Bilim Pharmaceuticals. With these results, the “Bilim Leadership encountered by our employees while realizing their targets Model” is created and each leader is informed by means of and their competencies, which are identified at the end of the feedbacks on which part of the model they are on. Moreover, the evaluation process and which need to be improved for our results of the measurement provide significant input for other HR employees to demonstrate better performance. processes and systems, such as Quality Management System, PE (Personal Evaluation) and Education. 53 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Contribution to Employee Development opportunities by preparing individual development facilities and by establishing a participative working environment Our Talent Management System where they can reveal and develop their potential. Our “We consider all our employees to be skilled…” systems operate as a guide or an advisor in every step that our At the Human Resources Department, we consider all our personnel take in their careers. employees to be skilled and allow them to exploit career t Ta l e n t Righ the d ing Di in F ;&,7 sc o F4A5 <@ &*C2 ve ;&+, &P5=?& rin 5E<@ E42= ersities g CC2B 74 th ;&-E Univ 7<=74 < <= 2=5E nt & 7 =5E< G7<= A ale =& H2C < 2CA2 F7 7< eT ;&.H <3&*C2 D G F7&. 2=5E Business Targets CE < CA <=&2 H7 4G2 &.H2 =G7 7 c t i n g t h e Ta l e n t Business Results R E C ;& 74M <=52 * ;& E=7 * ;&*EC5F57@&=E&-472=7&2& 42<3&EM& ;& Employees ;&.Sa) ;& ;&,7DA=2=5E<&)2<2>7G7<= En cE4 b ;&0A@=25<2B5C5=6&*42F=5F7@ ;&* viro 5<> n & ;& 24=5 me -E< F n Attra 5 ;&C5G D2 5 t 35= 5E< ;& ;&( E G S2 =5E< G5 & @&2 Gain in G 2 ;&%42 2Fb&AD 72 A C6 <3 <3 37 < &.G & 4@? 5=6&\ &* DE 5<5<> E &*4E C2<@& 5D& C P7 )E A<=7 4G gL 37 74@ 7< ;&-2 > C &* = 42G oy ; C2= 4774 a &,EA &0=24@&% @ ME4 G lty =7@&2 72G of <3&* t C2<@ he l nt Ta Improvin t en gt h e Ta le 54 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans For us, “Talent Management” has become one of the most who are candidates for strategic positions as per some specific important approaches that must be considered in all our competencies, and to ensure that a decision can be made based processes. Factors like corporate reputation, sustainability on the position requested by an employee and whether he or she and employee brand, carried out under the supervision of the fits that position. top level management; increase the value of our company and The “Performance Evaluation” system aims to evaluate the move us to the top of the list of companies in terms of candidate job performances of employees and to plan their areas of preference. development by identifying their strong sides. Finding and discovering the right talent Within the framework of the “Potential Evaluation” system, Discovering the right talent and recruiting not only today’s meetings are held among departments to evaluate employees’ talents but also the talent of the future are among the critically sustainable performances as well as their current and future important success factors we take into account when shaping potentials and to identify and improve their talents. At the end of our human resources plans. these meetings, individual development needs of our employees are determined based on the Potential/Performance matrix. In order to reach this target, we act within the framework of two basic approaches in our selection and recruitment system. First The Potential Evaluation Meeting aims to of these approaches is to set up systems that will reveal the C' $%3=*$' B*:B$*' H)%)G$H$%&' :;' :=*' $HB#:@$$3J' I)*$$*' talents of our candidates. The second, is to perform this action expectations; on the basis of our company’s needs. C'>9$%&>;@'&0:3$'$HB#:@$$3'&0)&'H)5$')'9>;;$*$%I$t In order to discover the talents in our company, we act within the framework of two basic approaches. The first of these is to C'>9$%&>;@':=*'$HB#:@$$3J'B:&$%&>)#t set up systems that will reveal and improve the talents of our C' 9>*$I&' $)I0' $HB#:@$$' &:' 9>;;$*$%&' 9$F$#:BH$%&' B*:G*)H3' employees, while the second is to perform this action on the based on their potential and sustainable performance; basis of our company’s needs. C'>9$%&>;@'#$)9$*3':;'&0$';=&=*$'a3&)*'$HB#:@$$3kt The instruments that we benefit to discover the talents of our employees are our “Development Centre”, “Performance C' 9$3>G%x>HB#$H$%&' 9>;;$*$%&' )BB#>I)&>:%3' )%9' >%3&*=H$%&3' Evaluation” and “Potential Evaluation” systems. taking our employees’ development potential into account when designing development programs. The “Development Centre” aims to specify the areas of development and the levels of requirement of our employees, The process comprises of the following stages: Receiving the Career Expectations of Employees Feedback from Employee’s Potential Evaluation Manager Regarding Their Meeting Targets 55 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 At the potential evaluation meeting, our employees’ expectations Because we honour the concept of being a big team, and thoughts with regard to their career targets with a form entitled comprised not only of employees, but also of families; there “My career is under my control.” These forms are evaluated with is a separate heading on Our Families in our human resources managers at the Potential Evaluation Meetings. Each manager is policy. In this context, we have implemented the BilimFamily expected to prepare a development plan for their employees and Platform (2005) with the purpose of; to give them feedback, so they can improve their target in parallel C'I:%&*>?=&>%G'>%'&0$'B$*3:%)#')%9'3:I>)#'9$F$#:BH$%&':;':=*' with the company’s development targets. employees’ families, Another method we use to discover the right talent is in C'G$&&>%G':=*'$HB#:@$$3')%9';)H>#>$3'G$&'&:'5%:K'$)I0':&0$*' collaborations which we set up with universities. These better, collaborations may comprise of standardized activities like offering internship opportunities or participating in career days or C'H)>%&)>%>%G'I:*9>)#'I:HH=%>I)&>:%3'K>&0>%'&0$'I:HB)%@7' customized practices specific to our company like “My Career Is C'H)q>H>P>%G'$HB#:@$$' 0)BB>%$33' )%9' #:@)#&@.' Under My Control” congress. We have classified the project into two categories as Gaining Loyalty of the Talent “BilimFamily” and “Bilim Children’s World” due to differences We get strength from our families in children’s fields of interest and wishes and to take account of our employees’ feedback. Thus, we began to plan and We carry out a series of activities to support our employees implement special activities in a more detailed and systematic and their families in order to ensure the balance between their manner for these 2 groups, whose contribution we highly business and private lives. This is very important in terms of recognize. gaining the loyalty of our employees. Sample Activities for the Bilim Children’s World Sample Activities for BilimFamily 2006 Painting Contest BilimFamily Magazine Chocolate Course Dalin Baby Care Set Distribution Creative Drama Course Concert & Playhouse Organizations 2007 Stationery Campaign Welcome to Summer Picnic Visit to the Toy Museum Çekül Birthday Card Practice Space Camp General Manager Promotion Celebrations 2008 April 23rd Festival Dalin Baby Care Basket & Baby Care Book distribution Book & DVD Sending to Houses Photography Course National Geographic Kids Subscription Birth Photographer Painting Contest “Bilim’s Tastes” Cookbook 2009 Ping-Pong Summer School Photograph Exhibition Çekül Birthday Card Practice Marital Communication Training Wooden Toy Painting Workshop with Grandfather Theo Boyner Discount Card Implementation 2010 Central Istanbul Workshops Concert and theatre organizations Bugs Bunny Basket Show Family communication education Bilim Children’s World Semester Activities Release Mothers’ and Fathers’ day presents 56 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans BilimFamily I believe that events and activities that are held within the framework of BilimFamily are incomparable to other companies. Theater plays, stand-ups and performances were very nice. We got the chance to have fun with our colleagues and to have good time outside the company. The most special event for me was the one on the Father’s Ahmet ATASOY Day of 2010. It made me very happy to get my first Father’s Validation Expert Day present from Bilim Pharmaceuticals. I will always keep the cufflinks which I received that day… I have been working as a Validation Expert at Bilim Pharmaceuticals since May 2007. I currently serve in the field of laboratory equipment validation/calibration at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. BilimFamily I have three children.). I and my wife still keep the ÇEKÜL birthday cards given by Bilim to me on the dates of birth of my daughter and sons. My children should know that there are trees planted on their behalf. The events that we participated at were really gorgeous. They were organized so professionally that I and my family began to await the next event with great '@G25C&:!1)!1 excitement. Expert Calibration Technician My daughter’s excitement at the events held within the framework of the Bilim Children’s World, makes me and I have been working as an Expert Calibration Technician at my wife very happy. Her smile while telling the activities she Bilim Pharmaceuticals since 2008. However, my relationship participates is irreplaceable. The works which I have witnessed with Bilim Pharmaceuticals goes back to 1980s. I have been in the activities that were held for children in the recent Bilim using sweetener since my childhood as I have Type 1 Diabetes. Gebze Family Trip were stunning. Organization of handicraft Homemade desserts used to be made of sweeteners, which we events accompanied by teachers, as well as contests and currently manufacture. In other words, Bilim Pharmaceuticals games played with Bilimini (mascot), were educative and fun. In has always been a place that flavored my childhood… this visit, our spouses saw and became aware of under which conditions the drugs that they use at home are manufactured. Right now, as a Bilim Pharmaceuticals employee, I enjoy my Moreover, our wives who did not have the chance to know each job and keep view of organizations with great excitement and other before got acquainted and had conversation. Thanks to curiosity. Particularly, events that we join as BilimFamily add a the events that are held within the framework of BilimFamily and different color to our lives. Bilim Children’s World, the bonds between employees and their families have strengthened. In other words, we became a real family… 57 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Moreover, the basic approach lying behind our other practices We measure our unique practices and approaches that (such as Legal and Insurance Consultancy Units, Bilim provide employee satisfaction and loyalty through “Employee Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers (BITG) platform, Satisfaction Surveys” (ESS) that we conduct on an annual Social and Sports Activity Teams (SOSAK), additional facilities basis, and implement improvement plans for areas in need of and benefits provided by the company, as well as the “Wage development, accordingly. Management System” and “Supplementary Benefits System”, Within the framework of ESS, employee satisfaction is measured “Honouring & Rewarding and Management of Rewarding”, with respect to the facilities and services (particularly food service “Premium System”, etc) is to gain the loyalty of the talent and to and quality, organization of social and sports activities, personnel raise employee satisfaction. transportation service and resting areas) provided to employees. Also, the level of satisfaction is questioned by means of topicbased surveys and improvements are made, accordingly. Results of the Employee Satisfaction Survey Achieved Target 90 80 70 79.2% Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ steadily increasing employee 60 satisfaction results reached 79.2% in 2010. 50 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ESS General Level of Satisfaction Targets (%) 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Achieved 66.4 73.6 73.5 72.5 75.04 77.5 79.2 Target 66 70 75 75 75 77 79 58 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Examples of ESS Improvement Applications 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Job descriptions Catering D@)P)+)' Guest of the Çerkezköy Gebze Psychological Food & beverage Development Centre updated company Psychological Month Psychological Consultancy Centre vending practice for all changed Consultancy Consultancy machines appointments Centre Centre Career Management Open-door Performance Widespread use Çerkezköy Focus Motivation Practices Body Mass Index Field computers renewed System meetings System for Blueof intra-advert Group studies Systematic measurement and standardized Collar workers systematic 360° Leadership Vacant Intra-company Performance Document Café Mola training The Shuttle and Blackberry phones Abilities Survey for position ininternal trainer Evaluation Management halls, Parking Lot, Catering films allocated to marketing Management Staff house advert pool formed results System Meeting rooms, all changed at managers incorporated in organized at the Çerkezköy training D@)P)+)';)I>#>&@ Honor and Reward Private Health Priority given to Star Team Widespread use Several social and Internet room at Enriched content of System Insurance candidates on the selection criteria of Bilim Portal sports area at Bilim Gebze information sharing Stars Team determined Gebze facility platform at Bilim portal “Quality rings” and General HR Development Survey Dining survey held All management White-collar Limits of individual improvement teams manager Centre applied conducted and added to the staff given coaching technician accident insurance )&'D@)P)+)')%9' briefings regarding Improvement Plan and feedback & engineer increased Çerkezköy hygiene training to increase appointment added to the effectiveness criteria Improvement of Performance Plan Evaluation Meetings All employees SOSAK teams Coaching system Shuttle Bus survey Personal Development Fitness centre and covered by were set up applied added to the Development Centre for cafeteria opened at individual accident Improvement Plan Plans for leaders recommended Çerkezköy and outdoor insurance according to the candidates resting area rearranged results of the for Stars Team 360° Competency implemented Evaluation System Every Friday is Gebze Library Survey organized Number of seats at the casual attire day regarding Maslak outdoor resting workplace health area increased services Potential Evaluation Standard Tea vending machines Meetings Occupational replaced Development plans prepared Evaluation Meal menus determined Development Centre by employees for positions open for appointment and hiring made commonplace Communication Research initiated requirements for recommendation identified systematic and by applying innovation project Corporate Internal Communications survey Leadership Model More resources allocated to the training budget than in 2009 Mothers’ Room at Gebze, 4$*5$P5n@')%9'D@)P)+)' plants Transportation Vehicles Regulation revised; decision taken for the replacement of vehicles every 4 years Number of subscriptions in periodicals increased 59 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 the most important element in employee loyalty. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ HR practices, on the other hand, are visionary and one step forward at all times. Bilim has carried out various practices regarding human resources that put humans in the center, see each employee as a talent and a potential carrier, and support personal and professional !6d7>eC&%/f(/&%.1'] development with an understanding of responsibility. Human Resources Manager BilimFamily and Bilim Children’s World activities are such practices that make a difference particularly in terms of making our families an inseparable part of our achievements. Carrying I joined the Bilim Pharmaceuticals family in 2006. I have out projects within the scope of Corporate Responsibility, the considered Bilim Pharmaceuticals as part of my family from Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers platform, which the very moment I began working for here. This perception is allows our understanding of responsibility to grow and spread supported by Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ corporate culture, peoplethroughout the company, is one of the most important and oriented management approach, strong teams that move fast successful volunteering platforms in Turkey. The BI’L Model, towards the company’s goals, employees in teams caring each which expresses the leadership within our souls, is the most other, as well as by an honest and sincere working environment. important indicator of and an important practice concerning our All these elements are felt by newly hired employees from the effective, honest and transparent management and leadership very first day they start working for the company. I think this approach. culture is one of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ strongest sides and is Improving The Talent our company, and implement simple and dynamic processes, We create opportunities for training and development which are required to reach determined targets. Employees’ knowledge and competencies are of great Our employees’ career standards are determined through importance as per the specifications of the sector that we are “Career Roadmaps”. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, “Career in. The dynamics of the pharmaceutical industry necessitate Management System” and “Career Roadmaps” of all positions recruitment of competent employees with high potential and are supported with vertical or horizontal career moves, whose effective implementation of systems that would ensure continuous sphere of influence is wider. Promotion criteria for each position development of employees. In this context, we direct all of our are defined. Our employees are held subject to evaluation every employees in line with our vision, support their achievements, year for the positions situated in their own career roadmaps. motivate them, provide that competent employees are loyal to Percentage of Employees Who are Subject to Career Development Evaluation (%) 88.0 86.0 84.0 82.0 80.0 81% 78.0 In 2010, 81% of Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees 76.0 received career development 74.0 evaluation services. 72.0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Achieved 78 82 81 60 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Stars Team Development Programs: Team take part in leadership and/or functional development programs, which are prepared taking into account the career We established the “Talent Pool” to train the leaders of the future. targets of Stars Team members. Different programs are specified We call it the “Stars Team”, where employees with high potential by taking the level, positions and development needs of each take part. The “Talent Pool” is comprised of 4 sub-groups. group into consideration. Classified as Blue, Green, Red and Yellow, members of the Stars Stars Team Development Programs ;&07<5E4&(7H7C&)2<2>74& ;&)735AG&(7H7C&)2<2>74& Candidates Candidates Red Group Green Group ;&&,73&[4EAD&(72374@?5D& ;&[477<&[4EAD&(72374@?5D& Development Program Development Program ;&SA<F=5E<2CC6&%24>7=73&-2<3532=7@ ;&S54@=&(7H7C&)2<2>74&-2<3532=7@ ;&/<=74<2C&%425<74&R7H7CEDG7<=& ;& CA7&[4EAD&(72374@?5D& Blue Group Yellow Group Program Development Program ;&^7CCEP&[4EAD&(72374@?5D& Development Program Sample Development Programs for the Stars Team Each program continues for one complete year. In the program that begins with a cocktail, participants participate in trainings When determining the number of people who will join the Stars and simulations working in cooperation with development Team each year, we pay attention to a number of criteria and consultants; they prepare development action plans, manage plans, such as back-up plans, mobility plans, rate of compliance community investment projects and present the results of the with the determined target profiles of candidate employees, etc. projects they manage to the career board at the end of the program. 61 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Participant of the Stars Team-Green The Leadership Development Program was launched in April Group 2010. During this period, I got the chance to participate at training programs that contribute to my professional development, such as Practical Leadership, Emotional Intelligence, Internalization of Change, Corporate Profitability, etc. I have also got the chance to take part in social responsibility projects, which Serdar TEMEL allowed me to look at life from different points of view, such as Senior Product Manager Dreams Academy and Alternative Camps. Especially, these two organizations helped our disabled friends to come one step I joined the Bilim Pharmaceuticals family in February 2006. I closer to their non-handicapped living dreams. currently work as a Senior Product Manager in my 6th year in the Company. It was a hot June day of 2009 when I learned that Finally, in August 2010, I participated at the Development I was nominated to the Stars Team by my department manager. Center Practice, which is more comprehensive than the practice, in which our strong sides and areas of development As far as I have learned from written and spoken explanations were determined during participation at the Stars Team. In this on the subject, Bilim Pharmaceuticals hit the road with the practice, I got the chance to look at myself in the mirror from purpose of “raising leaders of the future within the Bilim every angle. As a result of the feedback sent to me in October, Pharmaceuticals’ Career Management System”. It made me I chose three areas of development for myself and made proud to take part in a practice which aims at this target. planning, accordingly. During my transition from nomination to Stars Team primary When I turn back and look at the past, despite the intensive membership, a “Stars Team Candidate Assessment Project” business tempo caused by marketing dynamics, I see that I was conducted, in which our strong sides and areas of have utilized various opportunities introduced by my company. development are defined with an objective point of view and Opportunities offered to the Stars Team are an indication which aims to provide the support that we will need during our of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ investments in humans. As these development. At the end of this project, which was conducted investments and opportunities increase, employees with high in cooperation with a consultancy firm, detailed feedback which loyalty to the Company will be raised… support our personal development were given to us and our managers. Moreover, members who will join the Stars Team As for me, I can say that I had many benefits from this program. were chosen from the nominees, who participated in this Moreover, the Leadership Development Program is a nonproject. Consequently, I was one of the lucky candidates. ending program. It must be continued for the whole life. I will adopt this process as much as I can and take pains to develop it and share with others. 62 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Participant of the Stars Team-Blue improve ourselves in such criteria as building up and managing Group teams, budget management, motivation strength, etc. One of the biggest contributions of this project was the smiling faces of needy people, who we made really happy. The fact that my company gives place to its own employees in +2bbW&!f!, such an elite organization and hosted participants in a number Senior Representative of Leadership Summits is the proof that it is a primary actor in terms of “Making Investment in Humans”. Maybe, we are lucky I have been participating at “Effective Human Management” to have an HR management which breaks records in terms of trainings within the framework of the Stars Team program since ‘employee development’. As a company that ‘makes others April 15th, 2010. I made my final presentation and received my follow its footprints” in the pharmaceutical industry which is certificate on March 8th, 2011. currently through a difficult time, Bilim Pharmaceuticals does not just open a career door for its employees, but also offers its In this program, I definitely experienced the most educative employees the chance to improve their capabilities, knowledge period of my 6-year adventure at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. and managerial capacities by giving all necessary trainings. We predominantly received training on “Leadership” in this This investment in ‘humans and knowledge’ in this period in program, which was open to special employees, who were which the sector is fluctuating offered me many advantages. chosen from all regions, held subject to the “Development The biggest development that I saw in myself was to determine Center” practice and deemed to be highly compliant with the my ‘deficiencies’ and to overcome them. Practical trainings “Bilim Pharmaceuticals Leadership Profile”. that were provided to us in terms of managerial capability All sessions were interactive and educative. We received a and creativity allowed me to look at even the most ordinary number of trainings in practice even from differences between events with a different point of view. These leadership training Coaching and Leadership to the question “How an effective programs, which are provided by Bilim Pharmaceuticals – a project is created, applied and presented.” Through the “natural born leader” – to its family members, show that our “social responsibility project leadership”, which I define as the company will give direction to the leadership concept in the ‘graduation thesis” of the Stars Team, we got the chance to future as well. things in terms of achieving a strategic point of view, improving my communication and effective listening talents and being solution-oriented. Moreover, within the framework of the Stars Team program, I am the leader of a social responsibility project, entitled Mustafa Murat ARDA “Smiling Eyes”. In this project, we conduct various social and Production Planning Expert sports activities with our 60 children at the Kartal Emrullah Y=*)%#6'(>%9$*G)*&$%7'K0>I0'>3'>%&$*#>%5$9'&:'&0$'<:I>$&@';:*'&0$' I have been serving at Bilim Pharmaceuticals for 6 years. I Protection of Children, aiming to ensure that they get involved began my duty at the company as a Planning Engineer and I in the social life. With our children, we have gone to Euroleague have been appointed as an Expert in 2008. basketball game, children’s theater, and dolphin shows, made birthday celebrations and established the multimedia room As my managers nominated me in 2009, I took my first step into which will contribute to their education and allow them to have the Stars Team. As I became successful in the tests performed fun. In the coming days, we will also plant saplings in the by the HR Department, I joined the Stars Team. garden of the kindergarten. With this project, while I improve my I participated at various training programs throughout 2010, leadership capabilities, I also increased my motivation with the including Effective Human Management, Project Management energy stemming from doing good things. I and my colleagues and Leadership within the framework of the Stars Team who were involved in this project feel happy and proud for program. I was involved in a numerous practices in these making contribution to the community. trainings to recognize and improve my talents. I learned many 63 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 They demonstrate their leadership capabilities in voluntary A total of 25 different voluntary projects were conducted within projects. the framework of the Stars Team in 2010. Our employees are given the opportunity to improve their When an appointment is going to be made within the framework leadership capabilities, which they acquire from training, by of the Back-up Plan and Mobility Plan, those employees who getting involved in voluntary projects. In these projects, they have successfully completed the Stars Team Development voluntarily develop a community investment project, create their Program are held subject to the development centre practice teams from voluntary employees and make their team members for appointment within the scope of the “Appointment Evaluation work voluntarily to reach the pre-determined targets. System”. In-House Promotion Percentage (%) 100 80 60 40 94.6% Bilim Pharmaceuticals which raises its own employees 20 for managerial posts, had an in-house promotion rate of 94.6% in 2010. 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Achieved 62.1 74.2 90.4 74.1 90.6 90.1 94.6 For appointment within the framework of the appointment with 19 students and 13 mentors within the framework of the first evaluation system, those employees who meet position pilot practice, continued to grow to reach 26 mentors and 26 compliance criteria at expected levels during the “Development students, which were identified in line with quotas. Today, there Centre” practice are appointed to target positions. are 32 mentors and 32 students within the system. Coaching System Our “In-House Coaching System” aims to create a culture in which each manager has adopted the “coaching style” The “In-House Coaching System”, which is applied by many management and each student seeks to become a mentor in successful organizations throughout the world, is one of the future. the strongest instruments applied to transfer of knowledge, experience and culture within a company from one generation As in all our HR applications, we began to work to reach a to another by use of in-house resources and thus to establish a management model in which this culture is well integrated. As “learning” organization structure. At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the new mentors are trained, we are now planning to disseminate “In-House Coaching System” was launched in December 2005, our efforts in the coming years to all our employees in a way to playing an important role in our history as one of our successful create equality of opportunity practices. Our “In-House Coaching” system, which initially began 64 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Participant of the Stars Team-Yellow This program allows employees, who have been raised with Group Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ values and adopted and reflected these values to the business life, to produce additional value in higher positions. After I got involved in this program during 2007-2008, I received Cem TOZAR necessary trainings according to the training schedule Senior Product Manager announced by Human Resources. During this time period, I continued my current duty as sales representative. After my education was completed, I prepared a project and made a Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ MT Program is a program in which pitch on its preparations. I completed the project, thanks to the employees who fit our marketing formation and have training programs I participated at, and was appointed as an development potential are taken to the “development pool” and MT following the evaluation process. prepared through training programs to raise them as “Product Managers”. The performance that they demonstrate in sales The program made significant contribution to my personal teams is the key factor in the determination of employees for development. As a Product Manager, I think that I demonstrated this position. a harmonious performance with added value through my loyalty to the firm, my working style and my domination on our corporate values. Leadership Development Program LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM BI’L Model Trainings applied within the framework of the Leadership Concept: Today those companies which lack a strong leadership strategy myself: cannot maintain sustainable success. Having necessary C'\%9>F>9=)#'j$)9$*30>B leadership qualifications, we are aware of the importance of C'A:*B:*)&$'A=#&=*$')%9'g)#=$3 leadership in this competitive environment of the new world C'/&0>I3 order.. C'A:)I0>%G As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we pay maximum attention to using C'/m!::5 our leadership capability at the maximum level to reach our Leader of my business: vision. In order to possess a stronger leadership strategy as C'<&)%9)*9'OII=B)&>:%)#'-$F$#:BH$%&'N#)% well as to ensure that all our leaders act with a joint leadership C'/m2!D approach, we began to implement the Bilim Pharmaceuticals C'!=3>%$33'<>H=#)&>:%3 Leadership Model “BI’L Model”. Leader of my team: C'j$)9$*30>B'-$F$#:BH$%&'N*:G*)H Within the framework of the BI’L Model, leadership is classified C'<>&=)&>:%)#'j$)9$*30>B into 3 categories, adding strength to each of us. C'A:)I0>%G')%9'[$$9?)I5 C'2$%&:*30>B 1. First, We Are Leaders of Ourselves, because C'j$)9$*30>B'<=HH>& C'j$)9$*30>B'/m!=##$&>% We believe that a leader should first know how to manage his/ C'i=$3&'j$)9$*3 her own attitude and behavior. C'/m2)G)P>%$ 2. Then, We Are Leaders of our Businesses, because C'g:#=%&)*@'N*:d$I&3 Talent Development Programs We believe that those who do their business well are as imporC'!#=$'<&)*3'Y$)H'-$F$#:BH$%&'N*:G*)H3 tant as leaders who manage teams. C'i*$$%'<&)*3'Y$)H'-$F$#:BH$%&'N*:G*)H3 C'M$9'<&)*3'Y$)H'-$F$#:BH$%&'N*:G*)H3' 3. Finally, We Are Leaders of our Teams, because C'p$##:K'<&)*3'Y$)H'-$F$#:BH$%&'N*:G*)H3' We believe that we can be successful only by encouraging C'g:#=%&)*@'N*:d$I&3 employees working under our managerial responsibility to First Step Towards work together for shared targets. For this purpose, we have written down how we feel and made commitments to our employees through the “BI’L Manifest”. 65 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Leadership Summits Training and development targets allow our employees gain the necessary competencies and qualifications, which are The “BI’L Model” was launched at the Leadership Summit that was determined in line with our company’s requirements. Thus, held for the first time in April 2010. At the 2nd Leadership Summit, all training and development targets aim to ensure that our we concentrated on the “I Am the Leader of Me” concept of the employees acquire one or more than one behavioral indicator or BI’L Model. We then decided to deal with the primary elements of qualification under the competency and qualification catalogue. the BI’L Model one by one at each leadership summit. The individual development needs of our employees are Leadership Bulletins identified within the framework of our performance evaluation and We issue our Leadership Bulletin throughout the company potential evaluation systems. During the performance evaluation every quarter. In this bulletin, we give place to topics within the period, the required areas of development are determined by framework of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ BI’L Leadership Model. comparing existing qualifications/competencies of employees to the targeted qualifications/competencies, which, in turn, provide With respect to the content of the bulletin, we seek the opinions of input for the training requirement analysis. our Board of Directors, the Leadership Development Board and the Sustainability Board and prepare the bulletin, accordingly. By using the development centre practices for determined qualifications and competencies of those employees who In the bulletin, we include the remarks and opinions of any deserved to get on the talent pool (Stars Team), the individual leader of our company with respect to a matter, which is closely needs of employees before the development program as well related to the corporate culture or agenda, such as leadership, as effectiveness of the training after the program, are measured. sustainability, corporate responsibility, etc in the section entitled “Bu Sese Kulak Ver” (Listen to this Voice) and to personal points Our employees who participate in training outside the company of view concerning leadership and leadership development organize information sharing training sessions with the goal of regarding out Leadership Model in the section entitled “Haberin enhancing interactivity amongst employees and sharing to become Olsun” (Be Informed). We deal with the current matters of the a part of the corporate culture, as well as having the training ?=3>%$33'K:*#9'>%'&0$'3$I&>:%3'$%&>&#$9'f($%9>%>'i$#>1&>*h'a-$F$#:B' become commonplace within the company. p:=*3$#;k' )%9' f2$3)d6%' g)*h' ap:=JF$' i:&' )' 2$33)G$k.' ^$' G>F$' In addition to training, a number of mediums and concepts also include comics related to the business world in the section have been developed with the goal of formulating learning at $%&>&#$9'f/+#$%I$#>h'a[=%k. the individual level, at the team level and as an overall company. Employee Training Examples of these mediums and concepts are Guest of the Month, the Coaching System, Business Simulations, the When describing our training and development targets, we aim Development Projects & Development Consultancy, the Field to create an employee profile which shall provide the organizational Coaching System, Seminars and Conferences, Graduate Study structure pertaining to the requirements of our company, that is, its and the Virtual Learning Environment. values, its mission, its vision, its strategic plan and strategies. Number of Employees Whose Masters Studies are Supported by Bilim Pharmaceuticals 40 35 30 25 20 31 15 As of 2011, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has 10 supported the masters studies 5 of its 38 employees. 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Achieved 6 8 13 20 29 31 66 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Percentage of Training by Area of Development (personal Training Time per Employee (Hours) development, occupational development, IMS-Integrated 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Management System) Achieved 43.74 50.1 52.4 55.4 Total Target 45 50 52 53 56 2010 Man/Hour Hours Occupational Development Training 5.06 8801.63 Personal Development Training 37.2 64857.02 Integrated Management Systems Training 8.36 14540.39 gradually gains importance. Particularly nowadays when workplace loyalty has gradually decreased, one of the things that keep a person loyal to his job is his family’s opinions. For this reason, “My Family” trainings are organized as a !<WC&!R!]!(/ meeting of sharing where employees particularly feel that they Instructor and their families are cared about. During this sharing process, Adisa Consultancy family members get to chance to know and understand Bilim Pharmaceuticals more closely and to get acquainted with other I have been giving “Individual Leadership” trainings to Bilim employees; and they gain some recognition ability to be more Pharmaceuticals since 2003 within the framework of Individual satisfied and happier within the family. Some couples that have Leadership and Domestic Relations-My Family Programs, as not yet become a family and some unmarried employees also well as the volunteering project entitled “I Have the Control of participate at these meetings, making contribution to their own My Career”. development as preparation for the future. Trainings, which have been provided on domestic relations with The Human Resources team plays a big role in the preparation the theme “My Family – BilimFamily”, were highly admired. and implementation of these training programs. Sometimes, it is not possible to see the direct reflection of such trainings As much as our colleagues who work in field or who are on business or to achieve concrete results. In time, we aim to involved in the sales teams in particular, their spouses also form a corporate culture, to create a common language and to actively participate at these trainings. ensure that our employees feel full loyalty to the company as a This training project is actually a reflection of family happiness real family. to the business life and a reflection of happiness in business As an instructor, I get acquainted with many new precious life to home. families in every place I visit. I learn many things from all of them The contemporary business life has to see individuals not as as well. I also make use of different cultures, different tradition employees but as social entities. And, anticipation of family and numerous examples in terms of working and living under members towards the jobs and the workplaces of each other the same roof. 67 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Another issue that caught my attention is that one or more than one person from Human Resources was available at the training, observing and assisting the participants. Another difference of Bilim Pharmaceuticals is that it has standardized training programs each passing year and [eC@e<&[V,0.( continued to give the same trainings to new participants Founder of Bellatris, an Education, every year. The training programs that we offer to Bilim Consultancy and Coaching Company, Pharmaceuticals, as well as assessment processes have been I am the founder of the education, consultancy and coaching all standardized. In my opinion, another positive issue is the company entitled “Bellatris”, which has been providing training gradation of trainings. For instance, separate training programs programs and evaluation studies for Bilim Pharmaceuticals were structured for MTs, Junior Product Managers, Senior since 2006. The feature that drew my attention in my works with Product Managers, etc. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is that there is a very comprehensive and Working with Bilim Pharmaceuticals gave me the pride and detailed preparation and preliminary briefing stage before the happiness with a professionally acting partner. Moreover, I training. In 2006, in which our company began to offer training went to universities in the eastern part of Turkey as a voluntary programs to Bilim Pharmaceuticals, before the Innovative instructor with some people from Bilim and was involved in Product Directorship training, we held meetings first with the delightful activities. Here, I got the chance to see closely the Human Resources department, then with the board constituted modest attitudes of Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees, who are of department managers and finally with the managers from the self-sacrificing, who work for the community and who make Human Resources department again and carried out efforts for difference. the adaptation of the training program to Bilim Pharmaceuticals. In-House Training Providing at least 8 hours of in-house training was added to standard performance targets so as to support our managers Importance is given to “on-the-job training” in standard share their experience with other employees. Moreover, the occupational development plans which also cover the “orientation “field coaching” practice is also carried out to raise the business period”, in order to support employees’ development. Like experience of the field employees. orientation training, training programs such as “on-the-job training” or “technical training”, which aim to teach the job to Employees’ Volunteer Work employees while they are on the job, are provided by in-house “Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers” was established instructors and sales training managers to all employees within in 2004. In 2005 it became a platform comprised of our volunteer the framework of our company’s training plan. employees who were willing to devote their time, their individual In-House Training Time in 2010 (Hours) talents, their intellectual knowledge, their labor and their Total Hours of Personal Development In-House 23,210.14 experience to share with people in need “in order to become a Training part of the solution”. As of 2010, the platform is operating with Total Hours of Occupational Development In14,682.27 20 teams comprised of 748 active members from 11 provinces House Training of Turkey. Number of In-House Instructors 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Approved number of in-house instructors 7 16 40 40 39 68 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Organization Scheme Bilim Pharmaceuticals Management/Representation/ Community Volunteers Coordination Leader Representatives Head of Project Leaders Team Leaders from Bilim and Supreme Board Coordination NGOs Ankara Adana Antalya Bursa Çerkezköy R5624B2bW4 Gebze '@=2<BAC '_G54 123Wbg6 Konya Maslak Teams, Team Leaders and Project Responsibles Samsun Trabzon Erzurum Van Denizli Trakya Zonguldak Sivas 69 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Organization Projects that are approved by the supreme board, which is Scheme comprised of team leaders, are then implemented through the voluntary support of our voluntary employees, our families and Every year, our volunteers develop projects in line with “Bilim our stakeholders. Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Mission and Principles”. Mission Statement of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers To ensure that our employees, our families and our stakeholders share their knowledge, time, talents, resources and experiences with an understanding of social responsibility and with a voluntary approach for the benefit of individuals, who are not members of our families in order to become a part of the solution. Principles of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Su Eff sta ici ina en bil cy ity Teamwork Volunteerism Planning g hip ar rs in de Sh Lea 70 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans They have the means to plan during working hours and Volunteers is to identify the scope of projects to be applied economic and logistic support while taking active part in these and to check whether they comply with our principles. Our projects. Our CEO and our HR Director are among our volunteers principles guide us during identification, evaluation, application representing Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Our supreme board (which and reporting of our projects. Compliance of projects with consists of 20 team leaders) meets every year to plan, apply, and our principles is checked by our BPCV board. We revise our review projects as well as making improvements in the direction principles each year at our BPCV board meeting in light of what of ‘Volunteering Principles’. Project results are shared with all we have experienced and learned and determine our targets for our employees, stakeholders and families utilizing all internal the next year. communication channels and special activity films. Our Means of Communication Employee Volunteering Model It is our target to generalize volunteerism among all our Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers (BPCV) Platform is stakeholders and to raise the number of our volunteers. managed with the decision of the BPCV Board. Perception management and our means of communication are key factors of success for us in reaching this target. Our BPCV Board consists of 20 team leaders, 8 project leaders, 1 Coordination Executive, Bilim Pharmaceuticals representative It is our duty to deliver the support and the contribution that (General Manager, HR Director, Corporate Communication our employees, our company and our stakeholders provided Director) and NGO representatives. us to the right cause and to communicate the outcomes with them. For this reason, we visually record each and every project The BPCV board is chaired by the Leader of Bilim Pharmaceuticals from beginning to end and share it with all our colleagues and Community Volunteers. The most important duty of our BPCV stakeholders through a variety of communication means. board and the Leader of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Outlook and Newsletters and Portal and Website the BilimFamily Special Meetings Films Magazine Support of the Top Management leave every week, as well as vehicle allocation, transportation, accommodation, etc. Our General Manager is a member of the Our top management stresses the support and the importance Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Top Management. it attaches to volunteerism at the headquarters and production He participates at the meetings, offers his support and states his plants’ information meetings, which are held every six months; opinions. as well as at periodic meetings in which all field staff come together; and recommends all employees to join the platform. In Our HR Director is involved in our projects as a sponsor, Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ annual budget, an amount approved by presenting his opinions and suggestions to the top management the Board of Directors is allocated to each team according to the participating at each meeting; and directs and supervises projects prepared and recommended by volunteers. In addition the budget, decision and approval mechanisms during the to this amount, we offer such opportunities as 2-hour paid structuring of projects. 71 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Number of Active Volunteers Achieved Target 800 700 600 500 400 748 300 The number Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community 200 Volunteers has reached 748 as 100 of 2010. 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 7 126 206 333 653 748 Target 200 300 450 700 800 Number of Projects Achieved Target 9 8 7 8 6 5 4 According to the annual 3 data of 2010, 8 projects 2 have been realized. 1 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 1 2 2 7 7 8 Target 1 1 2 7 7 8 9 72 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Number of Activities Achieved Target 60 50 184 40 30 184 activities were realized 20 between 2005-2011. 10 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 8 15 18 40 47 56 Target 8 15 17 20 40 50 60 Time Allocated from Working Hours Achieved 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 19,015 3,000 Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees have allocated 2,000 19,015 working hours for 1,000 volunteering in community projects between 2005-2011. 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 58 784 2,201 2,487 5,883 7,602 73 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Number of People Reached Achieved Target 12,000 10,000 24,118 8,000 6,000 Our volunteers touched the 4,000 lives of 24,118 children and youngsters. 2,000 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 102 2,056 2,140 3,355 5,362 11,103 Target 2,000 2,100 2,500 3,500 5,500 12,000 Stakeholders Methods of Popularizing Volunteer Work Employees · Different projects for different fields of interest · Creating agenda for general and private meetings · Remaining on the agenda by utilizing internal communication tools · Announcement through our webpage and Bilim Portal · Appearing on the press · Positioning it as a development instrument · Integration with the Career Management system · Honouring · Support of the top management Families · Different projects for different fields of interest · Announcement through our webpage and Bilim Portal · Honouring Customers · Different projects for different fields of interest · Project collaborations · Opportunity to take part in projects voluntarily · Announcement through our webpage and Bilim Portal · Honouring Suppliers · Different projects for different fields of interest · Project collaborations · Opportunity to take part in projects voluntarily · Announcement through our webpage and Bilim Portal · Honouring Private sector institutions · Sharing of knowledge and application examples through volunteering trainings and comparisons · Project collaborations · Opportunity to take part in projects voluntarily · Announcement through our webpage and Bilim Portal Non-Governmental · Reaching a number of NGOs through various working fields Organizations · Project collaborations · Appearing on the press · Honouring *Detailed information on projects is presented in the “Our Community Investment” section of this report. 74 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans 2010 Fellows of Bilim “at the Theatre” Project 2009 2008 Save Life Seeds to Project Saplings, 2007 Saplings to “I Have the Trees Project Control of 2006 My Career” Fellows of Bilim Project Project C'Fellows of Bilim at School Project CFellows of Bilim “Curious Books, Creative Reading” 2005 Project Employee Participation and Representation *Remove the CFellows of Bilim A variety of communication and participation instruments and Barriers Project “Tooth Friend” Project activities are widely used within our company to get employees recognized, as well as to encourage, stimulate and support their participation. All these practices, which are carried out within the framework of the strategy “Raising Employees’ Participation”, are notified to >Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees each year through “Communication and Participation represented Turkey at Plans. CSR Europe’s Enterprise Communication and Participation Participants 2020 Event Instruments Bilim Portal All employees Notice Boards All employees More than 400 participants from multinational companies, E-bulletins All employees business networks, EU institutions and all around the work All employees and their gathered in Brussels on the 28th of October 2010. Bilim BilimFamily Magazine families Pharmaceuticals participated at interactive representing Motivation Practices Systematic All employees its Community Volunteers Platform. This year’s topics at Boards Board members CSR Europe included the Enterprise 2020 vision, innovative Electronic Communication business initiatives to tackle environmental problems, initiation All office employees (e-mail) of collaborations among companies and discussion of the Employee Satisfaction Survey All employees today’s and tomorrow’s of corporate responsibility. Communication Survey All employees All employees Focus Group Meetings (excluding field staff) Subject-based surveys All employees Subject-based contests All employees Personal Suggestion System Blue-collar employees Quality Improvement Programs/Quality All employees Circles Marketing HR Coordination Meeting Marketing employees Office Communicator All office employees 75 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Number of Projects Suggested by Employees 800 700 600 500 400 714 300 Employees’ participation to the operational process is 200 guarenteed by asking for 100 and evaluating their project suggestions. 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Bilim 183 220 236 261 527 714 Boards and Working Team Boards are teams that are established to ensure that employees become a part of decision-making processes and to support teamwork. Midand long-term expectations as well as creative and innovative ideas of employees are received by chairmen of related boards and evaluated at Quality Execution Board meetings every quarter. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Employees Target 50 80 95 120 125 participating at Achieved 55 92 109 143 Boards Improvement teams are composed of Quality Improvement Plan, Quality Circle, Continuous Improvement and Continuous Improvement of Quality teams. Improvement teams and employees are trained to develop their teamwork capabilities, as well as to get them acquainted with teamwork and to use various statistical techniques. Number of 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 improvement Target Achieved Target Achieved Target Achieved Target Achieved Target Achieved projects that were 15 15 14 16 35 36 26 27 30 32 put in practice QIT 9 9 1 1 3 3 5 5 0 0 QC 6 6 1 1 4 4 0 0 0 0 0'. 7 9 8 9 17 18 24 25 10'. 5 5 20 20 4 4 6 7 Project teams include those groups that are formed through the team-based structuring of the organizational system due to the way of their collaboration with defined project groups that are comprised of employees from different departments, who come together to develop applications and methods. Organization-based groups are those groups that work as a holistic team when carrying out their activities and conduct performance evaluations including business results on a team basis. 76 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Participation at Teamwork (%) 60.00 50.00 55.92% 40.00 30.00 At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, 20.00 employees of different departments realize 10.00 teamwork in certain periods in order to develop new practices and methods. 0.00 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Bilim 25.60 33.42 31.63 43.14 53.81 55.92 Blue Collar It is a board that meets every quarter, where Open-Door Meetings Communication communication related matters of in-house These represent a communication medium that provides oneBoard blue-collar employees are discussed. to-one communication between the top management and To increase the speed of information access employees and allows employees to share transparently any by our blue-collar colleagues issues that matter to them with the top management. Every To determine employees’ satisfaction with Wednesday afternoon in the second week of each month, Targets of the respect to in-house communication means employees come together with managers through making Blue Collar To determine expectations with respect to rendez-vous. The top management is always available on this Communication in-house communication means precise day for possible requests for communication. Board To encourage and support employees to participate at in-house communication activiSuggestion systems ties Personal Suggestion System (PSS) Creative Idea Platform The Personal Suggestion System (PSS) is a system that allows our blue-collar employees to share their remarks with respect The Creative Idea Platform is a platform which was set up to improvement activities, supports their innovative and creative to generate ideas and encourage rising levels of values and initiatives, evaluates incoming suggestions and implements the performances through continuous and systematic innovation by suggestions deemed appropriate. In line with our company’s making use of our employees’ creativity in order to design new or purpose, targets and policies, and with the support of our improved products, services, processes and social interactions. blue-collar employees, the suggestion system aims to collect suggestions particularly with respect to such matters as efficiency We aim to open the creative idea platform, which is already open increase, improvement of quality, cost-efficiency, improvement to all our employees, to the use of all our stakeholders in 2011. of the working environment, increasing customer satisfaction, occupational health and safety, social development and environmental impacts, as well as to evaluate and implement, if deemed appropriate, the suggestions based 77 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 on objective criteria and thus, to provide further participation of The number of suggestions forwarded with the scope of the our employees and to increase permanently the number of our Individual Suggestion System since 2006 is given in the following company’s achievements. Owners of the suggestions that are diagram: deemed appropriate and put in practice are rewarded parallel to the benefit achieved through what is suggested and announced to all other employees throughout our organization. Total Number of Suggestions 900 800 700 825 600 500 400 Main target of Bilim 300 Pharmaceuticals is to collect 200 the suggestions that will bring benefit to the company and 100 reward the employees in the 0 ratio of the benefits. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Bilim 442 217 136 484 790 825 Internal Communication Activities Moreover, various benchmarking studies are carried out. By comparing in-house communication efforts of various In line with our strategy of “increasing communication among organizations, we learn new practices, which are discussed at employees”, the most important feedback resources that we the Corporate Communication Board. use to identify communication needs and expectations are the Employee Satisfaction Survey (point of contact), Communication All information collected from Communication Survey, focus Survey and Focus Group studies. group studies and Employees Satisfaction Surveys (under By means of communication surveys, the effectiveness of sub-section entitled “Communication”), as well as the results existing communication means and expectations regarding of performance-measuring and benchmarking activities is new communication means are questioned. In order to analyse evaluated at the Corporate Communication Board. evaluations of our employees, who are in various positions and Corporate Communication Board functions, on communication means and methods in detail, focus group studies are conducted in coordination between It is a board sponsored by the General Manager and chaired Corporate Communication Department and Human Resources by the Corporate Communication Manager, which meets every Department. quarter and where internal and external communication matters are discussed. 78 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans > Corporate Communication Policy We consider communication as the most important factor supporting our participative management approach. We are engaged in regular and bi-direction information exchange with our internal and external stakeholders that we are in touch with, within the framework of our principles such as honesty, transparency, ethics, understandability, sustainability and accountability. We present our company’s vision, mission, values, policies and strategies first for the information of our employees then our other stakeholders. We support activities that aim to internalize our vision. Moreover, we aim to make sure that our company’s mission, corporate culture and values are effectively used by our employees in their daily lives, particularly during “business making, decision making, implementation and evaluation”. Regarding all our stakeholders, we aim to ensure that information is accurately shared based on the principle of transparency and trust. We share transparently our performance in our corporate responsibility reports in order to meet our stakeholders’ basic expectations. Based on our employees’ communication needs and expectations, we plan our internal communications strategy and policies and design communication channels accordingly. In order to ensure that our company’s mission, vision, values and purposes are well understood, we inform our employees and provide their participation in related processes. We create means of communication, which would allow our employees to adopt our corporate values and popularize our corporate culture. We provide information flow that contributes to the personal development of our employees and we enable the coordination of produced information. We keep a continuous view of latest technologies to make sure that our employees have easy access to information and take any precautions that would ensure the effectiveness of our communication. We establish sustainable and transparent relationships with corporations, which we are in cooperation with, based on mutual trust and respect. We set up widespread relationship networks that would ease determination of possible collaborations. We determine shortand long-term communication needs jointly with our customers and take pains to meet them. We respond rapidly and effectively to our customers’ feedbacks. We make suggestions to our customers to use our products and services responsibly. We establish communication with the media and the public based on the principles of accuracy and transparency. We pay attention to ensure that media members receive the right information from the source and at the right time. 79 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 General Level of Satisfaction with respect to Internal Communication Means (%)-2010 Achieved 100 Target 80 60 40 85% Bilim Pharmaceuticals plans its internal communications strategy and policies by taking 20 into account the communication needs and expectations of its employees. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 80 82 85 Target 80 83 84 86 Occupational Health and Safety The Occupational Health and Safety Management System has been structured in Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ OHS policy and risk Occupational Health and Safety Management analysis foundation. Risk analysis studies are repeated annually We, at Bilim Pharmaceuticals, apply the IMS (Integrated by the OHSAS 18001 Study Teams in departments throughout the Management System) which integrated the Quality, Environment, corporation. Hazards stemming from our activities within the Occupational Health and Safety standards within a single study content, as well as risks are ascertained by evaluating framework. Our system is based on the cGMP, ISO 9001 Quality the possibility of their occurrence and severity. A business plan Management System, ISO 14001 Environment Management is formulated by taking the degree of risk into account. The System as well as the OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and business plan is administered and executed within the scope of Safety Management System standards. the OHS targets and OHS Management Programs. Our Çerkezköy Production Facility has held IMS Certification Natural disasters which may adversely affect business continuality since 2004. As our Gebze Production Facility was certified and operational emergencies are also regarded as part of the risk in 2010, the scope of the certification was expanded so as to analysis. We conduct emergency drills with emergency crews cover our entire company. and the participation of all our employees in our operations twice a year. We also provide training on occupational health and safety and the environment to newly hired employees within the framework of orientation programs. 80 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans C' [>%9>%G3' )%9' M$I:HH$%9)&>:%3' N*$3$%&$9' ?@' /HB#:@$$' Representatives and Other Board Members >Our OHS Policy C' y:?' DII>9$%&37' DII>9$%&' M>357' cA#:3$' A)##J' DII>9$%&' )%9' We make use of the most appropriate technology and take Occupational Sickness Bulletins protective and preventive measures aimed at reducing the hazards that may arise as a result of our company’s operations C'Y*)>%>%G'DI&>F>&>$3 and its stakeholders. C'N*$B)*)&>:%3';:*'b)&=*)#'->3)3&$*3')%9'/H$*G$%I@'<>&=)&>:%3 In addition to the current GMP (Good Manufacturing Practices) standards with the Ministry of Health’s laws and regulations of C' D33$33H$%&' )%9' *$F>$K' :;' &0$' B*:G*$33' 9$*>F>%G' ;*:H' &0$' activities executed in our company, we also ensure adaptation Current Status Analysis to the valid Job Law Legislation and local requirements. C'D33$33H$%&')%9'*$F>$K':;'#$G)#')H$%9H$%&3'aK0$%'%$I$33)*@k Risks pertaining to Job Health and Safety hazards, which originate from the activities of our company are identified C'2:%&0#@')33$33H$%&':;'B$*;:*H)%I$'>%9>I)&:*3'*$#)&$9'&:'O8< whereas we keep these risks under control by bringing them C'D33$33H$%&')%9'*$F>$K':;'>%%:F)&>F$')%9'I*$)&>F$'>9$)3')%9' down to acceptable levels. learning data (when necessary) We organize training activities deemed necessary for the dissemination of our Occupational Health and Safety C'D33$33H$%&')%9'*$F>$K':;'O8<'B:#>I@'a)&'&0$'#)3&'E=)*&$*k Management System by the employees of our company and OHS Study Teams our sub-contractors. The teams are comprised of managers and specialists determined OHSAS 18001 ensures the continuation of the Occupational Health and Safety Management System, continually improves it by the management of each department. The essential purpose by means of revisions and periodically defined targets, whereas of these teams is to continually increase the dissemination and we are committed to prevent job-related injuries and illnesses. application effectiveness. They meet on a monthly basis and more often, if deemed necessary, to conduct risk analysis within The OHS Board the Training Management Systems context, to conduct revisions in accordance with experiences gleaned from the practice of In addition to the members who are defined in regards to the OHS, SOP and instructions, to ensure compliance with safe job requirements of the Occupational Health and Safety Board’s rules in the departments they represent, to participate in internal Regulations, it is also comprised of department representatives at the management and specialist level. The board meets at inspection activities, to evaluate OHS bulletins, as well as to plan least once a month and conducts an Evaluation and Revision and execute activities for IAA’s (areas open to development). with the following agenda in addition to the standard agenda: C' M>35' D%)#@3>3' M$3=#&37' O8<' Y)*G$&37' O8<' 2)%)G$H$%&' Program C' \%&$*%)#' )%9' /q&$*%)#' \%3B$I&>:%' [>%9>%G37' A:**$I&>F$' )%9' Preventative Activities and Improvement Plans 81 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Member of the ISO 14001 Work Team matter. I pay too much attention to occupational health and safety both in my business and private lives. Even, when I look at other companies and firms, I can instantly recognize those .G7C&.,%!]/h& rules related to occupational health & safety and environment Expert Microbiology Analyst at Gebze which are not watched out for; and sometimes, I cannot hold Plant myself and warn people. I have been guiding occupational health I take pains to raise people’s awareness on occupational and safety procedures for about five health & safety and environment by giving trainings about these years. I have also been a member of the ISO 14001 working matters in our department. I believe that raising awareness on team for two years. the matter provides protection against job accidents, as well as environmental protection. Before being a guide and a member of the working team, I was not informed of occupational health & safety and environment. Right now, however, I think I have too much knowledge on the Member of the OHSAS 18000 Work concerning occupational health and safety in your department Team and to raise awareness of employees on these subjects. The environment dimension of our team is a matter that must !3<2<&1!^! !h(/ be taken very seriously for a sustainable future. The fact that Liquid Medicine and Pomade our company pioneers this approach and we take part in these Manufacturing and Packaging Manager efforts as members of this team makes very positive contribution at the Gebze Plant to the environment and to our community, accordingly. I have been a member of the OHS/Environment Team since Because our efforts as a team are shared with other employees 2009. Being a team member means to be actively involved and even with our families, we are able to create a common in efforts conducted with respect to occupational health and platform of participation, thus reaching much better results safety. Moreover, it necessitates you to keep view of activities each passing day. 82 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans OHS Targets in 2011 The OHS Management Program is implemented in order to guarantee the realization of the OHS targets. The Gebze Plant 2011 OHS Management Program Programmed Year : 2011 Enterprise No Goal Target Related Hazard Activities Responsible Term Cost Name C'-$F$#:B>%G' an ergonomics management program and C'-$F$#:B>%G'$*G:%:H>I3'B*:G*)H' informing C'/3&)?#>30>%G')%'$*G:%:H>I3'>HB*:F$H$%&'&$)H THM/ employees Ergonomic hazard C'M>G0&'#>;&>%G7'I)**@>%G')%9'B*:&$I&>:%':;'&0$'?)I5' Enterprise 3Q 8,500 TL program Directorship C'Y:'*$9=I$'&0$' C'8$)#&0@'<I*$$%'^:*5>%G'Y$)H weight rate of jobrelated accidents to 0.01 C'N*:I=*$H$%&':;'0)%9'#>;&';:*')>*'I:%9>&>:%>%G'3&)&>:%3' C'/3&)?#>30>%G'3>9$'K)#5';)I>#>&@')%9'0)%9*)>#';:*'3&)>*3' to prevent slippage at the outdoor employee entrance C'/3&)?#>30H$%&':;'B)%>I{?)*'H$I0)%>3H'&:' emergency doors that open to outdoor, changing improper doors C'2)5>%G')'K)##')%I0:*)G$'3@3&$H'&:'$q&$*>:*'&:'$)3$' Determining the window cleaning occupational health C'N*:I=*$H$%&':;'#>;&$*3'&:'B=&'B$*;:*)&:*'?:q$3':%' and safety risks related the shelves to our establishment’s C'Y:'H)5$'3=*$'&0)&' C'Y:'H)5$')'B#)&;:*H3';:*'8]RTm'y'oTRm['oTRm[ooTm activities; keeping the OHS improvement Job-related accidents F332-E-116-C410-B411-B412-B413-B414-B415risks at acceptable activities are Emergency situations THM/ B416-B417 shafts levels completed 100% az*$7'$qB#:3>:%7' Enterprise C'/3&)?#>30>%G'K)#5>%G'B)&03'>%'-')%9'['?#:I' earthquake, chemical Directorship 3Q 69,900 TL 1 Gebze suspended ceilings Using the right C'Y:'*$9=I$'&0$' leakage, sabotage /Production C'D9)B&>%G'&0$'3&)>*3'=3$9')&'H)%=;)I&=*>%G')%9' technology and taking weight rate of joband terrorist incidents Management packaging to OHS standards precautions in order related accidents etc.) C'N*:I=*$H$%&':;'3);$'?:q'I=&&$*3' to reduce the risks to 0.01 C'N*:I=*$H$%&':;'I)**>)G$')BB)*)&=3'&:'3);$#@'I)**@' our stakeholders are solvent materials from level 100 to level 300 subjected to as a result C'2)5>%G')'B#)&;:*H';:*'A:##$&&$'oRR'B#)&;:*H'&:' of our activities prevent accidents at discharging C'2)5>%G')'K>%9:K'&:'&0$'9::*'&0)&':B$%3'&:'&0$' canteen C'/3&)?#>30H$%&':;'#>;&>%G'$E=>BH$%&'&:'mX';#::*'&:'I)**@' the chlorine barrels when necessary C'2)5>%G')'B#)&;:*H':%'&:B':;'&0$'*)K'K)&$*'9$B:&' entrance C'Y:'*$9=I$'&0$' weight rate of jobrelated accidents to 0.01 C'N*:F>3>:%':;'&*)>%>%G3':%'B*$B)*>%G'>%3&*=I&>:%3')?:=&' Enterprise C'Y:'B*:F>9$')&'#$)3&' Hazards related to electrical hazards Directorship/ 4Q 5,000 TL 4 hours training to electricity C'N*:I=*$H$%&':;'$E=>BH$%&3':%'#)?$#>%Gm#:I5>%G' THM our employees and system to sub-contactors to internalize OHS management system C'Y:'*$9=I$'&0$' weight rate of jobMaking our OHS related accidents C'!$0)F>:*3'?)3$9'3);$&@'H)%)G$H$%& Management System to 0.01 C'N*:F>3>:%':;'?$0)F>:*3'?)3$9'3);$&@'H)%)G$H$%&' HR/ adopted by our -managers Enterprise Will be assessed in 2 employees and the Gebze Job-related accidents 3Q C'N*:F>3>:%':;' C'N*:F>3>:%':;'?$0)F>:*3'?)3$9'3);$&@'H)%)G$H$%&' Directorship / the scope of PDM employees of our at least 4 hours -employees THM subcontractors and trainings to our C'N*:F>3>:%':;'3&*$33'H)%)G$H$%&'&*)>%>%G3 training them employees and to subcontractors 83 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 The OHS Management Program is implemented in order to guarantee the realization of the OHS targets. The Gebze Plant 2011 OHS Management Program Programmed Year : 2011 Enterprise No Goal Target Related Hazard Activities Responsible Term Cost Name C'/HB#:@$$3' taking preventive measures for C'/3&)?#>30H$%&':;'G)3'*$I:G%>&>:%')%9'$q&>%I&>:%' emergency system to solvent depot situations and C'/3&)?#>30H$%&':;'G)3'*$I:G%>&>:%')%9'$q&>%I&>:%' making emergency Emergency situations system to Quality and R&D labs case practices at az*$7'$qB#:3>:%7' C'N*:I=*$H$%&':;'H:?>#$'z*$'$q&>%G=>30$*')%9' least 2 times in Enterprise earthquake, chemical establishment of an emergency situation cabinet to Determining the the scope of legal Directorship / 3Q 95,200 TL leakage, sabotage Quality control department occupational health legislation THM and terrorist incidents C'/3&)?#>30H$%&':;'$H$*G$%I@'3>&=)&>:%'3&)&>:%3';:*' and safety risks related etc.) labs, manufacturing and technical units 3 to our establishment’s Gebze C'Y:'H)5$'3=*$' C'M$%$K>%G'&0$'z*3&m)>9'B*)I&>&>:%$*3'I$*&>zI)&$3' activities; keeping the that Emergency C'Y:'>%3&)##'&0$'?:9@'30:K$*'&:'&0$'b'?#:I'K)3&$' risks at acceptable situations solvent and chemical materials depot at a reachable levels intervention team place in cases consists of 96 people C'2)5>%G'H)I0>%$'*>35')33$33H$%&3'?$&&>%G' C'Y:'*$9=I$'&0$' consultancy weight rate of jobEnterprise Hazards deriving from C'/3&)?#>30H$%&':;'H)I0>%$'*>35')33$33H$%&'&$)H' related accidents Directorship / 2Q 2,000 TL work equipments C'Y)5>%G'&*)>%>%G3'aK:*5'&$)H to 0.01 THM C'2)5>%G')'#>3&':;'H)I0>%$3 C'N*$B)*)&>:%':;'&0$'9:I=H$%&':%'N*:&$I&>:%';*:H' Emergency situations Explosion Complying with the C'Y:'*$9=I$'&0$' az*$7'$qB#:3>:%7' HR/ C'/3&)?#>30H$%&':;')'K:*5'&$)H' current labor law Gebze/ weight rate of jobearthquake, chemical Enterprise 4 C'2)5>%G')'#>3&':;'$qB#:3>:%'#>H>&3':;'&0$'I0$H>I)#3' 4Q 5,000 TL regulations and local Çerkezköy related accidents leakage, sabotage Directorship / I#)33>z$9')3'$qB#:3>F$3' requirements to 0.01 and terrorist incidents THM C'2)5>%G')%'$qB#:3>:%'*>35'H)B':;')##')*$)3' etc.) C'N*:F>3>:%':;'&*)>%>%G3 Determining the occupational health and safety risks related to our establishment’s activities; keeping the risks at acceptable C'Y:'*$9=I$'&0$' levels Working alone Procurement of an oxygen measuring device to Enterprise Gebze/ weight rate of job5 Working in closed monitor oxygen levels Directorship / 2Q 3,000 TL Çerkezköy related accidents Using the right areas THM to 0.01 technology and taking precautions in order to reduce the risks our stakeholders are subjected to as a result of our activities Enterprise To reduce exposure Directorship / to personal noise Noise CY)5>%G'>%&:')II:=%&'B$*3:%)#'$qB:3=*$'#$F$#3'&:'%:>3$ THM/ 3Q 3,000 TL higher that 87 dBA Production to 1 person Improving our system Management with regular controls To reduce illness C'2)5>%G'0$)#&0'I:%&*:#3'>%'3I:B$':;')%%=)#'K:*5' Work illnesses HR 4Q 6 and thus preventing Gebze levels to 0.5% program injuries and industrial To realize 2,330 diseases Work illnesses C'M$)#>P)&>:%'>%'&0$'3I:B$':;'O8<'K:*5'B#)% HR 4Q health inspections To reduce C'\%I*$)3>%G'$HB#:@$$'3=BB:*&'B*:G*)H37'*$9=I>%G' absenteeism to Work loss HR 4Q logistical problems 0.5% 84 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Job-Related Accidents and Efforts to Prevent Accidents the weight rate of job-related injuries covers accidents, which result in the loss of more than three working days, it indicates At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the basic performance of applications how many hours were lost in correlation to every 100 hours of related to occupational health and safety is evaluated by means actual working time during a calendar year. of the KOA (Accident Weight Rate) performance indicator. While Weight Rate of Job-Related Accidents Achieved Target 0.60 0.50 0.01 0.40 0.30 Putting great emphasis on 0.20 occupational health and safety of its employees, Bilim Pharmaceuticals has 0.10 determined the 2011 target of industrial accidents as 0.01. 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 0.57 0.18 0.30 0.02 0.01 Target 0.50 0.50 0.35 0.25 0.10 0.01 The OHS procedure has formulated instruction and action audiometric measurements, respiratory tests, etc. Participation plans with the goal of keeping the risks that emerge from the is open to all employees who request to do so, not only those in risk analysis under control. The dissemination and application the risk group.. effectiveness is evaluated and revised in the light of feedback Medical training include scanning procedures that are such as “close call” accidents, internal and external inspection compulsory as per the law and carried out under the supervision findings and employee accident risk, personal exposure level and instruction of our office doctor, but also those scanning measurements, occupational illness risks, accidents and procedures which are needed at the end of risk evaluation. With incidents, as well as final risk analysis results. We take the this practice, we aim to reduce the rate of absence and illnesses “procedure and instruction revisions” of areas open to improvement by supporting our employees beyond the legal framework. a`DDk7'f)BB#>I)&>:% methods and inspection,” “working environment Regular medical check-ups of our field employees, on the other and facilities” and “training” courses. hand, are carried out within the framework of “private health Regular medical training is performed to protect the health of insurance” as they are at a distance from our medical unit in our employees. Beyond legal requirements, the scope of scanning company. covers measurement of the body-mass index, eye health, Rates of Absence Rates of Illness and Absence (%) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Target Achieved Target Achieved Target Achieved Target Achieved Target Achieved Illness Rate 0.50 0.41 0.50 0.45 0.50 0.57 0.50 0.77 0.50 0.78 Absence 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.55 0.50 0.53 0.50 0.63 0.50 0.73 Rate When we analyzed the increase in the rates of illnesses and absence in 2009 and 2010, we saw that the reason for this situation was the maternity leave used by our female employees during this period. 85 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 OHS Trainings Legal Compliance One of the performance indicators through which the effectiveness Launched in the second half of 2009 at the Gebze Plant that of our company’s occupational health and safety practices is became operational in 2008, the IMS (Integrated Management evaluated is “training provided within the scope of OHS”. An System) Certification Project was completed in the first quarter of average of at least 4 hours of OHS training is organized for each 2010. Thus, our entire company, including our Çerkezköy Plant employee each year. These include significant training such and its headquarters, which had already been certified, have as driving techniques, ergonomics, behavior-oriented safety received ISO 9001 Quality, ISO 14001 Environment and OHSAS management, personal protection, intervention in emergency, 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Standards protection against explosions, etc. certification. We are fully complying with all regulations related to work and labor practices. There is no incidence of any violation Total Training Hours on Occupational Health case at our company. and Safety in 2010 3,747.03 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Training Topics on Occupational Health and Safety Risk Evaluation Monitoring Safety, Performance and Quality of our Products Results of Risk Evaluation Safe Driving Techniques Within the framework of our sustainability performance, we do Work Permits not perform or execute any action which we cannot answer for. Priority of this policy is patient safety. Working with Equipment Having a Screen OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Management System Due to the nature of the sector we serve, our establishment Safety in LPG Tubes and Equipment operates in compliance with cGMP (current Good Manufacturing Health-Safety in Manual Handling Works Practices) quality management standards, an issue which is set Machinery Safety Covers forth in legislations as per regulations. GMP regulations and the Safe Use of Forklifts quality system are not confined to the production processes, but Basic First Aid Training apply to all processes from purchase to delivery, which affect Occupational Diseases and their Reasons product and production quality. Reasons of Job-Related Accidents and Related Risks Following the certification process, we evaluate to what extent Information on Labour Acts our products, which we offer to the use of our consumers, are General Rules of Occupational Health and Safety effective and reliable and whether they are easy-to-apply; we pay Chemical-Physical-Biological Risks attention to the feedback we receive and effect improvements Hygiene and Order where necessary. We keep close view of publications and Thermal Comfort Conditions evaluations that include scientific developments regarding our Ergonomics products and try to provide patients/users, health care providers Electricity-Related Dangers and public authorities with up-to-date and qualified information Impacts of Noise on Health on risks and benefits of our products. Safe Use of Work Equipment Body & Eye Shower We do not limit the safety profile of our products to the preEmergency Patient Transfer Systematic certification period; our monitoring continues even after we Job Descriptions of the Members of the Occupational Health release these products to the market and we continue to perform and Safety Board necessary improvement, development and notifications. We try Internal Regulation regarding Occupational Health and Safety to collect as much information as possible about our products. First Aid Practicing For this purpose, we have commissioned “medical sales Controls on Office Health representatives”, whom our stakeholders -primarily patients Personal Protection Equipment and health professionalscan reach in the first plan, as well Principle of Protection against Accidents, Injuries and Illnesses as assistants, safety and call centre employees. This way, as Safe Lifting and Carrying Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we inform our employees through our specialized instructors about what they have to do when they Swine Flu receive feedback concerning the safety, quality or performance Firefighting of our products. In line with our policies, as well as the law Safe Working at Height and regulations, we monitor all feedback related to the quality, Protection against Explosions and Document Training safety and effectiveness of our products and notify respective authorities where necessary. 86 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans We respond to feedback concerning product quality by requirements set forth in regulations and instructions in effect performing required analysis and evaluations, responding in Turkey and with the requirements and provisions set forth by immediately and effect improvements after obtaining legally the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products required permits. (EMEA) as part of the EU harmonization period and in line with our exportation efforts, as well as the requirements of the Food We continuously carry out development efforts in order to raise and Drug Administration (FDA) in the USA, the health authorities the level of safety and quality of our products. of the countries we export to, the International Conference on Harmonization (ICH), the World Health Organization (WHO), Human/Patient Health and Safety and Local and Central Ethics Boards. In line with the legislation Licensing and Pharmacovigilance published by these organizations and the amendments in instructions, we need to update and restructure our efforts in a To ensure health care providers recommend our products way that they cover these newly defined requirements as per the confidently to consumers, we continuously check and evaluate scope of the amendments in question. reliability and effectiveness of all products that we hold a license for and regularly report to official authorities. These regulations and instructions define the matters that must be paid attention to during the development of new products and If necessary, after obtaining official approval, we send information guide us in giving direction to our efforts. letters to health care providers, organize meetings with them and inform them through our staff in the headquarters and in field under the management of our Marketing Department. >Counterfeit Products The safety of our medical products for human use is constantly In the pharmaceutical industry, drug manufacturers and monitored by our “Product Safety Executives,” who are distributors collaborate with the Ministry of Health and take and physicians and pharmacists under the Pharmacovigilance apply preventive measures to stop counterfeit products. Administration that we have set up under our Medical Support Within this framework, our company switched to the “Drug and Licensing Department. All kinds of information concerning Monitoring System” practice at the beginning of 2010. the effectiveness and safety of our products are continuously Within this system, at the first stage, we print a 2-d barcode investigated from domestic and international sources. and serial numbers on drug containers and then confirm By means of in-house training, we inform personnel at each printing. Verified information of products, each of which has level, particularly our employees in marketing headquarters and a unique serial number, is held subject to quality assurance in field, with respect to how they will deal, manage and monitor approval on serial number/lot basis and then forwarded to the the matters concerning the safety of our products, which may be Ministry of Health’s Drug Monitoring System (DMS) server as forwarded by consumers or health professionals. “production notification”. For the second stage of the project, we went through various technologies and invested in high After they receive feedback concerning the safety of our products, tech equipment to have high 2-d barcode printing quality and our executives conduct the necessary initial evaluations, receive to ensure that 2-d barcode printing is easily read at the outlets. additional information if necessary from the person/people who The numbers of 2-d barcodes that we print our products are submit the feedback and report to official authorities within submitted to the Ministry of Health and counterfeiting is thus a maximum of 15 days depending on the emergency and the averted by preventing the sale of products that do not carry importance of the situation/matter. If there is any additional these barcodes. precaution that has to be taken in the company, we notify the respective department(s) and closely follow the subject. Furthermore, we validate the production processes of our products through our quality assurance approach and always Training with respect to product safety, a matter which we always carry out our production activities at the same quality through prioritize in our way of business making, is completed within the validated production processes. We also ensure the quality orientation periods of newly hired personnel in our company. We of our products is verified through in-process control and repeat these training sessions at specific intervals. We evaluate quality control checks that are performed at specific stages of the results of the trainings as a criterion when measuring the manufacturing. performance of our marketing personnel who are in continuous With the second phase of the Drug Monitoring System which contact with our customer group. we recently put in practice, we are moving one step forward Regulations and taking further action to fight against counterfeit products: to submit a series of notifications including sales notifications In order to release drugs and medical products intended for to the server of the Ministry of Health, in addition to production human use to the Turkish market, first of all licensing procedures notifications. This way, any action to imitate our products will must be approved by the General Directorate for Pharmaceuticals be fixed and evaluated by the Ministry during the period that and Pharmacy under the Ministry of Health. During the extends from production to the presentation of the product to development of new products, which marks the beginning of the end-user. the licensing stage, we go to great lengths to comply with the 87 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Number of Drugs Recalled from the Market Our Customers A series of the product entitled “Antepsin Süspansiyon” was Customer Satisfaction recalled from the market in 2010 upon the Ministry of Health’s request as it has lost its suspension feature. An important concept we use to learn about the expectations and perceptions of our customers is the Customer Satisfaction The recall of “Antepsin Süspansiyon” in 2010 is a “second class Survey (CSS). – level B” recall. We have incorporated the use of our CSS with the assistance of First class recalls point out such situations, in which serious an external establishment with doctors since 2001 as well as with or vital health problems arise or in which there are reasonable pharmacies and pharmaceutical warehouses since 2004. evidence for this. Second class recalls are situations in which temporary and treatable health problems arise or there is such The questionnaire forms used in this survey are prepared in a possibility. Third class recalls are situations in which use of the accordance with international standards and the EFQM Model product does not harm human health. of Excellency, together with PD employees and the support of the external establishment. We update the questions on the Level A refers to the consumer level; first class recalls are made at survey in light of the current demands and expectations of this level. Level B refers to the retailer level (drugstores, hospital our customers. drugstores, institutions, etc); second class recalls are made at this level. Level C, on the other hand, refers to the pharmaceutical The questionnaire forms consist of three sections, the first of which warehouses; third class recalls are defined at this level. covers expectations, the second examines their perceptions, whereas the third section helps us learn customers’ other suggestions and needs through the aid of a series of openended questions. We use the “GAP Analysis” in analyzing the measurements and results of the level of satisfaction. Customer Satisfaction Rates by Years (%) Achieved Target 100 80 60 40 96.31% According to the Customer Satisfaction Surveys conducted 20 by Bilim Pharmaceuticals in 2009, our customers’ satisfaction was determined as 96.31%. 0 2007 2009 2011 2007 2009 2011 Achieved 95.73 96.31 Target 94.50 96.00 96.50 88 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Among the company’s primary activities are to import or manufacture all pharmacological agents that are necessary to raise patients’ life quality and to offer these agents to the service of physicians. Moreover, it conducts research and development activities despite quite dramatic financial burdens. It sponsors congresses to ensure equal distribution of information among Prof. Dr. Oktay KADAYIFÇI physicians, and organizes scientific meetings throughout Physician Turkey with experts of the subjects to deliver a new piece of information to all physicians. In addition, it creates the As a corporation that we are all proud of, Bilim Pharmaceuticals environment which will improve friendship and information has been serving in the Turkish medicine sector for nearly sharing between doctors. 60 years, has its own scientific research and development laboratory, has proven itself to the whole world and currently Corporate responsibility awareness is a brand new concept for exports to nearly 50 countries. Almost everyone from Bilim, the Turkish pharmaceutical industry and Bilim Pharmaceuticals from its senior management to the youngest employee, is able is the first and probably the only company that has interest in to establish discreet relationship with physicians within ethical this subject. For this purpose, the company tries to fulfill its and deontological rules and to inform wisely all health service own liabilities in terms of social, environmental, economic and providers of new improvements. Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ market ethical concepts. As far as I know, through social responsibility share has been among the first three in recent years. This projects that it has carried out throughout the country with more shows us how much trust of physicians it has gained. than 1,800 employees, it aims to serve not only the people of today, but also future generations. Informing Customers information and not misleading. For this reason, in the event Sharing of Product-Related Information and Experiences of any change in current information (or if such a possibility arises), we rapidly complete all legal procedures, ensuring that Bilim Pharmaceuticals carefully monitors the benefit and risk information is always up-to-date and shared with the public in a profiles of all its licensed products on a regular basis, ensuring timely manner. their protection. We have not received any fines for non-compliance with Within the limits permitted by the existing law and regulations, we regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service pay maximum attention to forward product-related information information and labeling to users (and/or appliers), health care providers and public authorities. Marketing Communications and Ethics All the concerned people, both in Turkey and in countries we We plan and implement all marketing communications activities export to, are informed with regard to a variety of features such as that aim our customer groups within the framework of relevant the use and safety of our products, situations in which they must regulations, rules and instructions of the Ministry of Health and not be used, usage in special conditions such as pregnancy and the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Turkey (IEIS), lactation, and the side effects. which we are a member of. Within the framework of the relevant law and regulations, this We instruct all our personnel, who are responsible for marketing, information is presented through the following channels: on marketing communications principles during the orientation period and conduct reminder trainings on a regular basis. We C'-:I=H$%&3'>%3>9$'&0$'B)I5)G$3'3=I0')3'B*:3B$I&=3':*'=3)G$' pass all kinds of materials and activities aiming at the promotion instructions; of our products through a series of checkpoints within the C'j$&&$*3'$%&>&#$9'f-$)*'8$)#&0'A)*$'N*:F>9$*3h'3$%&'&:'B0@3>I>)%37' marketing team and confirm them. If needed, and in order to pharmacists and other health care providers; receive feedback internally, we are also supported by a unit which is completely independent from our marketing team. In C'\%;:*H)&>F$')%9x:*'B*>%&$9'B*:H:&>:%'H)&$*>)#3t the event of any concerns that the marketing communications C' N*$3$%&)&>:%3' H)9$' ?@' :=*' *$B*$3$%&)&>F$3' #>5$' :=*' H$9>I)#' principles have been violated by our company or other firms, we promotion executives; take pains to solve the problem first by mutual negotiations, thus C' <0)*>%G' :;' *$#$F)%&' 3I>$%&>;>I' B=?#>I)&>:%3' aH$9>I)#' #>&$*)&=*$7' allowing a self-test mechanism to settle within the sector. congress information, etc); As a license holder, we prioritize patient safety and keep close C' M$B:*&3' B*$3$%&$9' &:' :;;>I>)#' )=&0:*>&>$3' aN0)*H)I:F>G>#)%I$' view of all developments regarding our products. We have reports, stability results, etc.) organized a separate unit, which is comprised of our product safety executives, in order to view the side effects that may arise The shared information must be consistent with scientific due to the use of our products and to take extra measures, if 89 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 necessary. We provide personnel, who will be responsible for sustainability to opinion leaders” through our regional managers the promotion of our products, with related trainings during and apply it with success. the period while they are still candidates, aiming to raise social Under the guidance of the Sustainability Board, the following awareness on this matter as well. were delivered to opinion leaders by our Regional Directors: We provide all our employees with comprehensive trainings and C'D'H)G)P>%$'$%&>&#$9'/(O\Z7 request a letter of undertaking on ethics from each of them in line with our Ethical Management approach. The Ethics Board C'D'?::5'$%&>&#$9'f`3&)%?=#'8)556%9)'8$*'r$@h'a/F$*@&0>%G')?:=&' examines all types of violation of ethics which are forwarded to Istanbul), the Board and independently takes all necessary measures after C'D'?::5'$%&>&#$9'f/5:#:d>5'u$5)h'a/I:#:G>I)#'\%&$##>G$%I$k7 reporting the situation to the senior management. C'<:)B'B*:9=I$9'?@'#:I)#';)H>#>$3'#>F>%G'>%'2)*9>%7'K0>I0'K$*$' When carrying out our activities, we ensure that we act in delivered in cooperation with the Foundation for the Support of accordance with the provisions and instructions of the Ministry of Women’s Work, and Health’s Marketing Communications Regulation, IEIS Marketing C'A-3':;'N:#@B0:%>I'[:#5'<:%G3. Communications Guidance or Bilim Pharmaceuticals Business Ethics Principles, whichever is more restricting, and repeat our There is no incidence of non-compliance with regulations internal training on these matters on a regular basis. and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, Our Efforts Aimed at Opinion Leaders including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Our marketing department is responsible for the promotion of Customer privacy our company’s products before physicians and pharmacists. Our customer database is maintained by a CRM software For this purpose, 10 separate teams and nearly 1,200 people company; Bilim Pharmaceuticals does not keep a record or have work in coordination. In addition to their management and access to its customers’ personal information. organization functions, the regional managers of our field staff (which is comprised of nearly 120 people) include in their own Customer Complaints Ratio % working programs communication with the doctors, who have 2010 2011 the qualification to be opinions leaders. Regional managers Domestic Export Domestic Export submit messages to this group of opinion leaders personally in Market Market Market Market their monthly visits. Target 0.0007 0.0008 0.00073 0.0007 During the period in which we launched our sustainability efforts, Achieved 0.0133 0.0007 we have adopted the principles of “communicating messages on to different regions of Turkey and from the feedbacks of our branch employees in field. I believe, the fact that employee satisfaction is at a very high level and employees have achieved to be a team with a team spirit provide the Company to rapidly Mehmet SANCAK progress towards its targets. Hedef Ecza The fact that Bilim Pharmaceuticals sees Hedef Group not Assistant General Manager Responsible only as a logistics company or a distributor, but as a business for Trade partners allows us to keep our cooperation at the highest level We can see that the Turkish pharmaceutical industry has been possible. I think that such cooperation between two important through rapid change and development in the recent years. players, who have a sacred mission like delivering drugs to Particularly, the fact that it is a growing market and that it end-users, is very important and necessary for the Turkish preserves this potential despite all kinds of negativity, makes pharmaceutical industry. the Turkish pharmaceutical industry to be a center of attraction I see very clearly that the Company has quite modern facilities among global markets. I can say that Bilim Pharmaceuticals at GMP standards and continuously improves itself in this field has made great contribution to the development of the Turkish and I watch its quality awards and certifications with great pharmaceutical industry. admiration as a member of the Turkish pharmaceutical industry. I think that its long years of experience and the importance it It will be a very honorary thing for the Turkish pharmaceutical attaches to its personnel are the two most important factors in industry if this expertise and knowledge in production is not the growth of the Company. We can see very clearly how heartily only limited to Turkey and its neighbors, but also heads for Bilim’s field employees work, in particular, both during our visits American and European markets. 90 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Bilim Pharmaceuticals has products which have been known for many years and which have gained rooted place in the memory of the public. I think, the fact that Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ products are predominantly prescribed by doctors indicates that doctors have a high level of trust in Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Hamit ER Pharmacist Moreover, Bilim Pharmaceuticals achieved environmental “Er” Drugstore / AYDIN awards. However, the most important factor which made me prefer Bilim Pharmaceuticals is that it is a company which has I have been working with Bilim Pharmaceuticals for 12 years. adopted quality as a principle. I know that with this feature, the Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a pharmaceutical company having the Company was deemed worthy of the National Quality Award. I largest number of molecules in the market and its personnel care about quality and the value attached to people, because, working in field always demonstrate the necessary responsibility as a principle, I would not like to give my patients a drug, which and self-sacrifice. I can say that Bilim Pharmaceuticals has a I do not trust and do not give to my own child. For this reason, I position in the sector, which attaches value to its customers and wish to give drugs that I know for sure. I am always sure of Bilim takes pains to rapidly solve the problems even during crises. Pharmaceuticals’ quality today as I was yesterday. Ratio of Settled Customer Complaints (%) Management of Collaborations Domestic Market Export Market Target 0.95 100 Achieved 0.97 100 >Our collaboration policy We establish and foster trustful relations that address continuity Patient confidentiality with various companies that assure mutual success in order to Some of our activities may necessitate review and evaluation of create added value for our customers and other stakeholders. the medical records or personal medical information of patients. Patient-related information that we obtain or is delivered to us We act with the awareness that collaboration depends on during our activities is kept confidential. Unless required by working together in the long term and sustainable value creation. the law and regulations or without the patient’s consent, this While defining our strategic and operational collaboration, we information is not used and shared with others. base them on corporate and strategic needs, as well as each other’s complimentary strong aspects and skills. All of our employees, suppliers and companies working with Bilim Pharmaceuticals go to great lengths to maintain confidentiality In order to achieve common goals and acquire mutual benefits and provide the safety of this information which is entrusted to with our collaborative companies, we put together and develop us. structures that support each other from the standpoint of accumulative knowledge, resources and specialization. #A4&0ADDC574@&N&-ECC2BE42=5E<@ We defined our collaborations based on our business We establish sustainable relations with our collaborative relationships: companies that are based on mutual trust, respect and openness. We execute our relationships within a framework of Supplier: Refers to a business relationship of less than 3 years ethical principles and manage them in accordance to the laws with companies from which we buy materials, products and/or and regulations within the scope of consistency and integrity. services that are required for our primary business. While conducting activities with our collaborative companies, Collaborations: Refers to a business relationship of more than we expect them to abide by matters dealing with human rights 3 years and with which we work at least for 6 times a year, which and working conditions that are defined in global principle produces value for both parties. agreements. Project-based Collaborations: Refers to a projectbased business relationship between our company and the We formulate approaches with our collaborative companies so organizations it cooperates with, which produces value for or that they may partake in innovation and brainstorming activities. adds value to both parties. While we develop processes aimed at measuring and Strategic Collaborations: Refers to collaborations that are assessing the performance of collaborative relationships, we highly important in terms of implementing our company’s get a clear picture as to the shortand long-term expectations strategies and that have a direct impact on providing business and manage the perceptions of our collaborating companies. continuity by means of joining forces that may contribute exponentially to Infrastructure Operation Services. 91 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Collecting Feedback on Stakeholders’ Expectations and Needs Stakeholder Expectations, Period Receipt Evaluation Needs and Feedback Responsible Stakeholders Source Short Medium Long Freq. Department / Medium Freq. Person Department Meetings, Board of Collaborations, Supplier Resource once a Supplier Satisfaction once a Satisfaction X x x Planning year Surveys, Improvement year Survey (SSS) Department Plan Determination Meeting Collaborations Related Board of Collaborations every 3 and supplier x x always Department Meetings months meetings Quality Department, every 3 Supplier checks X x always Resource Department Meetings months Planning Suppliers and Department Collaborations Resource Department Meetings, Phone calls and every 3 X always Planning Board of Collaborations visits months Department Meetings Related Department’s Receipt of Related every 3 X always Meeting Board of complaints Department months Collaborations Meetings Resource Suppliers’ once a Department Meetings, once a x x Planning summit year Board of Collaborations year Department Focus group Related Department’s studies on once a Related once a X x x Meeting Board of collaborations year Department year Collaborations and suppliers Selection of Collaborations at least 60% of the competency criteria set forth in the SCSPE are selected. The related procedure is launched upon the approval of Competency criteria are prepared and presented to the the concerning director and the COL B is informed accordingly. Collaborations Board (COL B) by the related process owners This procedure is not applied to monopolies or official/semiin line with stakeholder expectations and related strategies; official institutions. and the Board evaluates and finalizes these criteria. The criteria are reviewed and updated at the COL B each year. A selection The general criteria that are required for all suppliers are outlined of collaborations is performed based on these criteria and by below, and the competencies that are required on a subject means of various forms, particularly the Supplier Collaboration basis are specifically listed. Selection Pre-Evaluation (SCSPE) Form. Corporations that meet 92 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans information sharing, our awareness in this topic was raised, which, in turn, caused us to meet with WWF (World Wide Fund for Nature). We asked ourselves what we can do to stop global climate Sevim KÖKDEN change that rapidly affects our world, to prevent consumption Director of the Medical Department of natural resources, to reduce the impact of our consumption Troy habits on this negative situation, and to change our consumption habits and signed a license agreement with With its 20 years of experience in the promotion sector, our WWF. In consequence, a portion of the revenue generated company titled “Troy” has been providing service to the from environment-friendly, recyclable products is transferred pharmaceutical industry for 19 years without compromising to WWF as financial resource. The joint studies that we have quality. Our long years of collaboration with Bilim been performing with Bilim Pharmaceuticals draw attention of Pharmaceuticals turned into a solution partnership in time and companies in and outside the sector; these special efforts in our ties became stronger. the field of “green marketing” provide us with both support and courage for our significant investments in this field. Troy serves Bilim Pharmaceuticals by preparing promotion materials for the company in line with the marketing We serve a number of pharmaceutical companies in the communications principles, by also taking sectoral dynamics sector. However, having entered into solution partnership into account. In this context, because we work closely with with Bilim Pharmaceuticals, one of the leaders of its sector, the professional staff of Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we have more is really an important privilege for us… Bilim Pharmaceuticals detailed information and experience about the pharmaceutical is different in its sector as a company that is deemed worthy industry. At the meetings that we hold within the framework of such prestigious awards as National Quality Award, Award of our cooperation with Bilim Pharmaceuticals, the Company of Continuity in Excellence, Environmental Award, Award shared with us its point of view on sustainability and has of Respect towards Humans, etc; and as a company that is transferred and continues to transfer us the information that managed by professional staff, it stresses out its difference by it has gained in this area. As a result of sustainability related developing its business partners with the same approach. General criteria Supporting the sharing of expertise, resources and knowledge with collaborated companies C'A:HB#>)%I$'K>&0'&0$'#)K')%9'*$G=#)&>:%3 A contribution is made to continuous improvement by mutually C'8:#9>%G'\<O'XRRT7'\<O'T]RRT')%9'O8<D<'TWRRT'I$*&>;>I)&>:%3 sharing knowledge and experiences between our company and suppliers/collaborators, particularly with respect to the GMP, C' D9:B&>%G' )%' )BB*:)I0' &0)&' ;>&3' &0$' B*:F>3>:%3' 3&)&$9' >%' Quality, Environment, Occupational Health and Safety Standards the Global Compact concerning human rights and working and Management Systems, as well as related technical matters. conditions “Formal Benchmark Collaborations” are established. C'O;;$*>%G')'I:HB$&>&>F$'B*>I$ Innovative and creative ideas forwarded by suppliers and C'N*$3$%&>%G')'#>3&':;'*$;$*$%I$'I:HB)%>$3 collaborators during meetings, which are made on a regular basis or whenever needed, as well as the “Business Partners C'D'3)&>3;)I&:*@'B)3& Summit” and focus group studies, and their feedback received through the SSS (Supplier Satisfaction Survey) are evaluated at C'8)F>%G'&0$')?>#>&@'&:'9$F$#:B'%$K'B*:9=I&3x>%%:F)&>:% the Current Situation Analysis committee. (Please refer to the table titled “Creative Ideas and Innovation.) Moreover, meetings are organized, if necessary, to promote a mutual exchange of ideas, technical support, improvement and sharing of plans, as well as for problem solving, while legal and legislative amendments are shared in written form by related units/departments. 93 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Bilim Pharmaceuticals. Working with Bilim Pharmaceuticals raised our self-confidence with respect to our efforts for green business and green life; it provided us with concrete support, paving the way for canalizing 9eCMe&R'-(.(' towards more comprehensive collaborations. President BZD Publication and Communication Different from many others, Bilim Pharmaceuticals aims to Services make social responsibility sustainable as well. Its primary difference lies within its determination to make sustainability We have been collaborating with Bilim Pharmaceuticals for and eco-friendliness an inseparable part of its own identity more than one year. By regularly delivering a special edition and soul. In every activity, it is responsible towards the nature of the magazine entitled “EKOIQ – Green Business, Green and towards its social stakeholders, including its customers, Life” to its employees, Bilim Pharmaceuticals contributes to employees, suppliers and people/companies that it is in close raising awareness on sustainability and ecology in our country. relationship with. Similarly, Bilim Pharmaceuticals sponsors our books with same themes. For instance, we are really happy for having delivered For us as BZD, there is nothing more beautiful to collaborate the book entitled “Our Choice” which is authored by Al Gore on with corporations that are really harmonious with our values. climate change, to broader masses with the contributions of Short-term Annual Business Plans are also mutually shared at Our suppliers’ expectations, as well as their perception of how the meetings organized with suppliers and collaborators. well their expectations are satisfied are received at supplier Supplier Inspection meetings held on a regular basis and through the Supplier Satisfaction Survey. We set up and apply action plans to improve If one of our suppliers or agencies (if it is a warehouse forwards the Areas Open to Improvement, which are determined by the a request to us to join our List of Approved Suppliers, the above-mentioned instruments. For instance, ordering methods “Amendment Control Process” is launched by the Quality are reviewed and made more effective; special training programs Assurance Department. One of the activities conducted during are applied to our employees who are in direct relationship with this period is the inspection of the company in question. This suppliers; activities that aim to provide special technical support is called pre-inspection, while regular inspections are made to suppliers are carried out; training is given on various topics after the company is accepted to the list of approved suppliers. (such as GMP rules, amendments to regulations, etc); and During pre-inspection and regular inspections, an investigation activities that aim to increase suppliers’ awareness on the EFQM is held into whether the company meets various criteria within excellence model are conducted. We have not received any fines the scope of ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and the Global for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the Compact, such as quality system, environment, occupational provision and use of our products and services. health and safety, employing child workers, working environment conditions, etc. After the findings are evaluated, the company is 2010 Suppliers Summit expected to complete the shortcomings in question in order to be We have provided the participation of our strategic collaborators approved or the company is approved but asked to complete the in particular to the “Business Partners Summit”, which we held shortcomings until the next inspection, depending how critical for the first time in 2010. At this summit, we first communicated these shortcomings are. Within this framework, the company is messages regarding our point of view towards suppliers; guided, explained, suggested and provided information support we explained Bilim’s current position in the sector as well as with respect to how to complete the shortcomings. Thus, we its future targets; and our CEO provided information on the make contribution to the development of the company and to pharmaceutical industry in the world and in Turkey and on raising its awareness on these matters. future trends in his presentation. Also, Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ Results of the Supplier Satisfaction Survey (%) corporate values, mission and vision as well as its strategic plans are shared with business partners. While the theme of the summit was “EFQM Excellence Model”, our consultancy firm that 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 has been guiding our corporation for more than 10 years made Achieved 93.30 93.01 94.87 96.27 awareness raising presentations to the participants. The summit Target 92.50 94.50 96.00 96.50 was completed with a visit to our production facilities equipped with latest technologies and with the honouring of our business partners. The theme of the 2nd “Business Partner Summit”, which will be held in 2011, has been determined as “Sustainability”. 94 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT At these meetings, a physician who is specialized in Asthma and COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) accompanied Social Awareness N*:;.' -*.' 2>59)&' ()96:+#=7' )' b)&=*)#' ->3)3&$*' 3I>$%&>3&' )%9' &0$' The pharmaceutical industry works to its own unique dynamics. Head of the Meteorology Department at Istanbul Technical Moreover, there exists a negative perception in society created University, who participated as a speaker. A total of 4,280 doctors by the merging of drugs (health) and profitability. It is possible who participated at these meetings were informed of the subject to alter this perception through communication based on trust. thanks to this program. Pharmaceutical companies are doing their utmost by means of C'Y0$'!>#>H'M$3B>*)&:*@'&$)H'$F)#=)&$9'$HB#:@$$3J'B*:d$I&3':%' projects they have developed. Numerous firms are attempting to raise public awareness by implementing social responsibility the global climate change and its impacts and has increased the studies. use of environment-friendly recyclable products in all promotion and advertisement materials since 2009. Thanks to the communication activities carried out by pharmaceutical companies, many people are becoming more C' \%' )99>&>:%' &:' B0@3>I>)%' >%;:*H)&>:%' $;;:*&37' vRR' F:#=%&)*@' aware of issues such as illnesses, proper drug usage, family doctors were given subscriptions to the WWF – Turkey medicine, etc. In this context, we can say that the task of membership, aiming that they also participate in the activities of raising public awareness is taken up mainly by pharmaceutical the Bilim Respiratory Team. companies in an open and transparent manner. C'N)*&>I>B)&>:%':;'^^[|Y=*5$@')&']'%)&>:%)#'I:%G*$33$3'aY=*5>30' As a company that conveys and provides information regarding Respiratory Society 2009-2010, Rhinitis-Asthma Congress, sensitive issues such as human health, we are committed to National Allergy Congress) was ensured so that the organization open and honest communication. With this respect, we give great can directly reach and inform doctors. During this period, both emphasis to providing dependable information to the media, as WWF – Turkey’s and Bilim Respiratory’s logos were used on well as our other stakeholders. promotion materials to raise recognition of WWF – Turkey. Social Awareness Studies with respect to Chronic Illnesses C' i$%$*)#>P)&>:%' :;' &0$' $;;:*&3' :;' &0$' !>#>H' M$3B>*)&:*@' Y$)H' throughout Bilim Pharmaceuticals has been continuing since Since chronic illnesses are life-long disorders, it is of great May 2010. importance to inform patients on their own illnesses and the problems they may face throughout their lives. C'Y0$'&$)H'B*:F>9$9'3=BB:*&'&:'&0$'/)*&0'8:=*'B*)I&>I$'K0>I0' people and companies from more than 130 countries around the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Diabetes Team world including Turkey participate in order to draw attention to C' N*$B)*$3' >%;:*H)&>:%' ?::5#$&3' :%' &0$' 9>3$)3$' &:' 30)*$' &0$H' the global climate change. Moreover, health care professionals with patients in polyclinics and doctor examination rooms where were informed on this matter in order to raise social awareness. patients are waiting, as well as posters and informing visual Bilim Pharmaceuticals Central Nervous System Team materials to explain the diabetes to patients in hospitals; “Gerçekler Maskelenmesin Projesi” (“Let Truths Not Be C' <0)*$3' G$%$*)#' >%;:*H)&>:%' )%9' %=&*>&>:%' >%;:*H)&>:%' &$q&3' Masked” Project) through the internet, particularly at the patients section on the website, www.pioglitazon.com. Bilim Pharmaceuticals draws attention to schizophrenia with the B*:d$I&'$%&>&#$9'fi$*,$5#$*'2)35$#$%H$3>%h.'Y0>3'B*:d$I&7'K0>I0' At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, diabetes scanning programs were Bilim joined in 2007, addresses the treatment of the Central developed with other institutions in 2009 and 2010. The Nervous System. Supporting both patients and patient relatives institutions that Bilim was in extensive cooperation with were with its efforts in this field, the Company aims to traditionalize municipalities and state or private hospitals. The starting point these efforts and to make them exemplary activities before the of these programs was to facilitate institutions in diagnosing entire community. diabetes, particularly in patients who do not know that they are diabetic, by drawing attention to the rising diabetes prevalence. The aim of the project, which has been conducted since 2008 with the support of the Federation of Schizophrenia Associations, In cooperation with more than 10 institutions, we sponsored is to introduce schizophrenia and to eliminate the stigma patient scanning programs in 2010 particularly in the city of applied to schizophrenia patients by the community. Within the Istanbul, where 20 million people are living. ;*)H$K:*5' :;' &0$' fi$*,$5#$*' 2)35$#$%H$3>%h' B*:d$I&7' )' 3&:*@' Bilim Pharmaceuticals Respiratory Team contest entitled “From the Place where Ember Falls to: Voices, Faces, Stories” is organized among schizophrenia patients. The C'^>&0>%'&0$';*)H$K:*5':;'I:*B:*)&$'*$3B:%3>?>#>&@')BB*:)I0'&0)&' contest has been organized for 3 years. The jury of the contest we launched in 2008, the team wanted to draw the attention of held in 2010 was constituted of Novelist Mario Levi, Ass. Prof. Dr. physicians firstly. Within this framework, information meetings Haldun Soygür – President of the Federation of Schizophrenia were held on the “Impact of Global Climate Change on D33:I>)&>:%37' -*.' /*0)%' !)1' |' !>##>H' N0)*H)I$=&>I)#3' i$%$*)#' Respiratory System Disorders”… 2)%)G$*7' DI&:*' Y=%I$#' (=*&>P7' 2*.' /*9:+)%' D5&)1' |' /q$I=&>F$' /9>&:*' :;' DYg' b$K37' 2*3.' -$%>P' p I$' !)1)*6*' |' -:+)%' (>&)B' 95 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 i$%$*)#' ->*$I&:*' )%9' 2*3.' `B$5' D#&6%$*' |' Y>@)&*:' ($9>' i$%$*)#' and they are given information about the patient after contacting Coordinator. Contestants who were ranked 1st, 2nd and 3rd were their doctor. given monetary prizes and the right to participate at Mario Levi’s As of March 2011, 834 people had received support from the writer workshop, while stories of the first 10 contestants were Alzheimer’s Call Center, which all Alzheimer’s patients’ families G)&0$*$9' >%' &K:' ?::53' B=?#>30$9' ?@' -:+)%' p)@6%#)*e' Y0$' ;>*3&' and relatives may benefit from and where expert psychologists ?::5'>3'$%&>&#$9'f8)@)&'!)%)'p *$+>%>'D,6@:*h'aj>;$'>3'OB$%>%G'>&3' provide psychological support. Statistics prepared from Heart to Me) and the second book is entitled “Hepimiz Deliyiz” incoming calls to the Alzheimer’s Call Center indicate that the (We Are All Insane). The books are sold at Turkey’s one of the most extensive interest is shown by people living in three big biggest music and book store chain. cities (Istanbul, Izmir and Ankara). Moreover, due to the extensive interest shown in writing activity, Many Alzheimer patients are cared for by their relatives at home. which is a means of rehabilitation, writing academies were Strikingly, 68% of patients’ relatives who get support from the established in the psychiatric hospitals of many cities in Turkey Alzheimer’s Call Center are women.. The breakdown of patient under Mario Levi’s leadership within the framework of the project. relatives in these calls is as follows: 71% are daughters-in-law, In the other leg of the project which carries the most beautiful daughters, sons-in-law and sons, 15% are spouses, 7% are examples of what schizophrenia patients can do when they are grandsons and granddaughters, 5% are the patients themselves, permitted to hold on to life, pianist Davig Helfgott, the world’s and 2% are brothers and caretakers. most famous schizophrenia patient, came to Turkey and Given the recent ageing in the world’s population, it is estimated contributed to the adoption of the project by the community by that the number of people with the Alzheimer’s disease will reach giving concerts within the framework of the project. 115 million by 2050. Also, the increasing number of incoming !(9+.').,& ^!1/](!,/& ^!(]/9& R.f'(& TS!)/(/.0& #S& calls to the Alzheimer’s Call Centre serves as a clear indication PEOPLE WITH ALZHEIMER’S ARE NOT ALONE) Project that the disorder is increasingly recognized by people each Turkey’s First Alzheimer’s Disease Support Line: 0 800 261 passing day. 78 40 Within the framework of the Alzheimer’s Call Centre Project, Alzheimer’s disease, which 35 million people throughout the in addition to phone call support, our infrastructure efforts are world and 300,000-350,000 people in Turkey have to live with, ongoing, to provide support to patients and their relatives at is an incurable disease that changes not only the patient’s life, home, with Istanbul being the pilot area. but the lives of his whole family. Patients’ families have to be Projects of the Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community supported during this difficult period which sometimes reaches Volunteers (BPCV) Platform the limits of emotional trauma. In today’s world, where social problems keep growing, the In order to help patients’ families overcome this period in capacity of natural resources has been contracting as the world the easiest way without compromising their quality of life, population increased and aged. Problems such as violation the “Alzheimer’s Disease Call Centre”, a first in Turkey, was of human rights, health problems, problems in education and launched by the Alzheimer’s Association and the Alzheimer’s transportation, gender inequality and environmental pollution Foundation under Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ leadership. negatively affect the development and the level of welfare of Launched on June 15th, 2009, the pilot project began in 3 cities communities. (Ankara, Istanbul and Izmir) with the patients of 30 doctors. The Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers believe that every call center, where expert psychologists serve between 09:00individual can contribute in solving these problems, and see 17:00 every weekday, began to serve throughout Turkey on being a part of the solution as the responsibility of each of us. September 30th, 2009. Calls incoming out of working hours are recorded and callers are called back by expert psychologists. Being “responsible employees” of Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we Regular follow-up calls are made to patient relatives every month have created “orange hours”… 96 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Orange Hours Volunteers was deemed worthy of the ‘Special Award’ at the Orange hour is a time created for volunteering and for selfHuman Resources Management Awards ceremony, organized ?@'N/Mplb. sacrifice for people and communities in need. Orange hours represent efforts, knowledge, talents, experience and self2009 Most Successful Volunteerism Program: ‘Bilim sacrificing of volunteers. Bilim Pharmaceuticals spares 2 Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Platform’ achieved the hours per week from working hours for employees to be K>%%>%G')K)*9'>%'>&3'I)&$G:*@')&'&0$'fin% #9$%'l9 ##$*'aDK)*93' used in voluntary projects. We carry out 8 big projects in from the Heart) 2009” event, organized by Corporate Volunteer these 2-hour periods. We have conducted 153 activities in D33:I>)&>:%'al<i-k. the scope of these 8 different projects and reached 17,229 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Projects Marketplace children and youngsters by sparing a total of 15,230 voluntary Winning Award: hours. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Platform received With the substantial logistical support it provides, Bilim the grand prize at the “Corporate Social Responsibility Projects Pharmaceuticals is one of the first companies in Turkey to come Market Place 2009” event, which was held by the Corporate to mind when volunteering is in question, thanks to the support Social Responsibility Association of Turkey (KSSD) for the first of its stakeholders and 660 active volunteers. time in Turkey. Awards that we have received with respect to our voluntary 2010 Brussels Corporate Social Responsibility Marketplace activities: Event: Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers Platform 2008 PERYÖN (Personnel Management Association of represented Turkey at the event, which was held in Brussels in Turkey) Special Award: Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community October 2010. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community night, and even at weekends, and continued preparations for Volunteer three months. I must say that it was difficult at the beginning. It was like the first training of a group of amateur soldiers. However, sharing the same emotions removes all these barriers. Alparslan SIRAKAYA At Bilim Pharmaceuticals, not only employees, but also their Regional Manager spouses are volunteers. Spouses of many colleagues in our regions are Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers… When they heard about this activity, they wanted to spare I have been in the pharmaceuticals industry for 10 years. I time and take part in this organization. As participation in the have been working as a Regional Manager for four years at the project is fully based on the principle of volunteering, we had no Central Nervous System team at Bilim Pharmaceuticals. I am difficulty in this aspect. Our families made great contribution to married with two daughters. us in keeping our motivation at the maximum level at all times. I would like to mention that I was very excited when I first heard As a result, actualization of such a project was an unbelievable the “Fellows of Bilim at the Theater” project. It is impossible not experience for us. We made children laugh, which is, in my to be influenced by the project. It is a very good organization opinion, very important. There were children who came to the in which there is education and children…. Can you believe theater for the first time; we made them watch theater plays, that you will make children watch plays at the theater and build too. Thanks to the project, we achieved to build libraries for libraries for needy schools with the books that will be received some needy schools. These are very nice… We are volunteers from the audience in return of theater tickets? It is a splendid and would like to continue organizing events that add value to idea… society. I told myself that I should definitely have a role in such a project. I think that volunteering has significant impacts on personal . Then I found myself on the stage, acting the Aladdin character, development. Effective use of the body language and acting which is also the title of the play… raises my eloquence and presentation talent, in my opinion. I Preparations were long and tiring… Nevertheless, it was fun… became a more recognized person in and outside the company. It was very meaningful that many of my colleagues showed Many of my friends, even my daughters, call me Aladdin from great sacrifice out of working hours, stayed until late hours at time to time. 97 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Projects The other three legs of the project are: Fellows of Bilim “Tooth Friend”, Fellows of Bilim “Curious Books, Creative Reading” and Li&,7GEH7&=?7& 244574@&T.<>7CC745&12C3W4W<U&*4EZ7F= Fellows of Bilim at the “Theater”. These projects aim to support “We are making their dreams come true” children’s personal development and ensure their socialization. As all activities of the project are conducted at the same school, Today, there are 8.5 million handicapped people in our country, children know our volunteers very closely, thus consider these most of whom are children and youngsters. When it is considered people as role models for themselves. that Turkey’s population is nearly 75 million, almost 15% of the population in other words one in of every ten people is 2.2 Fellows of Bilim “Tooth Friend” Project handicapped. However, when we look around us, we do not see This project aims to raise generations with no decayed tooth by any handicapped, because no roads, vehicles or parks are built educating them on dental health through entertaining practices. for them, and there are no activities, which they can get take Volunteers get one full-day practical training in order to be part in. Moreover, when lack of money is also taken into account, involved in this project. They come together with children for two families are forced to imprison their children in domesticity, as hours every month during the one-year course and train children they do not receive the necessary support. Imprisoned at home, by using specially-designed education materials, such as giant the handicapped live with their dreams. We wanted to make these tooth model, posters, toothbrushes and toothpastes. Children 9*$)H3'I:H$'&*=$'&0*:=G0'&0$'f/%G$##$*>'()#96*6%h'B*:d$I&.'^>&0>%' who regularly participate at this activity throughout the year the framework of the project, which we have been conducting adapt to regular tooth care routine. since 2005, we create opportunity for handicapped children and youngsters to: 2.3 Fellows of Bilim “Curious Books, Creative Reading” Project C' /%d:@' )' F)I)&>:%' )&' &0$' fD#&$*%)&>F$' A)HBh7' K0$*$' )##' &0$>*' needs are covered by volunteers; When compared to developed countries, Turkey has a very low average reading rate. However, reading is very important for C' N#)@' fb:' 8)%9>I)B' [::&?)##' 2)&I0h' K>&0' ;)H:=3' ;::&?)##' C' personal development. This project aims to get children love players; reading and make reading a habit for them. Hold a photography exhibition; In this project, we ensure that children experience what they read C' ^)#5' K>&0' I:*&$G$3' )&' %)&>:%)#' 0:#>9)@3' )%9' K)F$' 0)%93' &:' through drama plays. Children who keep reading by playing millions of people at the national TV channels; games, dreaming and discussing altogether begin to love reading and improve their creativity. C'/%d:@';$3&>F)#3')%9'?)##3. 2.4 Fellows of Bilim “at the Theatre” Project Ji&S7CCEP@&EM& 5C5G&T 5C5GQ5<&12437dC745U All actors on stage are our volunteers and their families. We exhibit In this project, we support personal development and personal children’s plays to contribute to their social development and care of children whose families lack money, and we provide them ensure that children whose families are in lack of money watch with education materials. these plays for free. Trained for months, volunteers demonstrate JiL&S7CCEP@&EM& 5C5G&2=&0F?EEC&T 5C5GQ5<&12437dC745&#bAC32U& their plays in different cities, showing performance surpassing Project even professional actors. Adults, who would like to watch the plays, are forced to hand in a children’s book to enter the theatre. Our volunteers carry out a range of activities varying from Thus, libraries are built for schools that do not have one. covering personal needs of children such as stationery, school outfits, shoes, jackets, etc, to establishing important educational areas to their schools such as computer labs and libraries. 98 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans 3. “I Have the Control of My Career” Project (Kariyerimin plans and focus on developing their competencies only in 1E<=4ECe& 7<37U professions that they choose. “Think for one second that you receive your basic skill training All junior and senior students who continue their graduate at your university years… You then begin your business life one education at universities can participate to our congress for step forward! Because you normally receive this kind of training free, which comprises 9/12 different training programs. For 4 which has significant contribution to your achievements in the days, they receive what they want from the training programs, private sector, from professional instructors after your business examples of which are mentioned below, and prepare their life begins. ” career plans and develop vision with the knowledge and skills they receive from professional instructors: In the “I Have the Control of My Career” Project, we aim to contribute to the development of young talents and to ensure that Individual Leadership, Being part of and Managing a Team, they move one step forward. We voluntarily provide education to Modern Leadership, Effective Suggestion Presentation and university students with the efforts of the professional instructors Reporting, Personal Behavior Models, Body Language and of Bilim Pharmaceuticals as well as specialized instructors who Personal Image, Negotiation Techniques, Individual Performance train managers and professionals working at the big companies Management, Career Planning, Competency-Based Interview in the private sector. We help students prepare their own career Techniques, etc. Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community “Non-Handicapped Life One Day a Year” Project. It was one of Volunteers Platform the most meaningful projects I have taken part in. For the first time in Çerkezköy, a company conducted a project on behalf of the disabled. At the Çerkezköy Public Education Center, we tried to create a day in which disabled children can have fun and forget about their disability even for one day. We repeated ]2>5?2<&0.,'] the same event in 2010. Management Assistant I made leadership for the Reading project in 2009. In this study I have been working as a management assistant at the K0>I0' K$' I:%9=I&$9' &:G$&0$*' K>&0' ()B)5#6' i)P>' /#$H$%&)*@' Technical Services Department at Bilim Pharmaceuticals School, we aim accustom children to reading and to enrich since 2006. I have also been a community volunteer of Bilim their imagination. The project received very positive feedbacks Pharmaceuticals for five years. I first joined the team in 2007 at and I will the lead the same project next year. the Respect for the Aged Day events. After that, I took part in many projects: Reading Project, “Non-Handicapped Life One It is great happiness to see the effect of each project we make on Day a Year” Project, Tooth Friend, Stationery Campaign, “A people. Moreover, I get the chance to acquaint with a number of Second Chance” Campaign… people within the framework of these projects. I learned about the voluntary activities of many associations around where I live, As a member of BPCV, you get the chance to make leadership and I am now a member of several community organizations. in a number of projects. I experienced my first leadership at the 99 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 4. Save Life (Hayat Kurtar) Project preventive measures and first aid. Our families, teachers and children will be the significant parts of this awareness raising As Bilim Pharmaceuticals Community Volunteers, we launched initiative, which we believe will grow in waves. the “Save Life” project in memory of our colleagues, who lost their lives in traffic accidents or were forced to break their careers 5. Seeds to Saplings, Saplings to Trees (Tohumlar Fidana, because of their physical disability. Complying with the European S532<C24&!`2F2U&*4EZ7F= Road Safety Charter, this project was deemed as a European The project aims to instill a love of nature in children starting from Union project. We, as BilimFamily, want this project to expand to the elementary school age and to raise social awareness on the Turkey and even throughout the world. environment. For this purpose, by means of “magic tablets” that Approved as the Turkish leg of the European Union’s project we give away to our children and stakeholders, we practically entitled “25,000 lives to save”, our “Save Life” project aims to raise saplings out of seeds and trees out of saplings. Thus, we attach 25,000 people to life every year. help children and even adults understand how much time and effort is needed for a tree to grow. The project is an awareness raising initiative to prevent accidents and to ensure that life-saving measures are taken after accidents Moreover, with this project, we measure our carbon footprint and or disasters occur. The project began to take the attention of learn how much we owe to the nature, and take the responsibility our colleagues, who cover a total of 3 million km per month, on for this on behalf of future generations. Our BPCV Projects with Numbers Total Number Spared Number of Volunteering of People Year Project Activity Hours Volunteers Hours Collaborator Reached BPCV-Fellows “Filling Out Facial Lines with Smiling” Event Social Services and Child Protection 2010 3 5 15 80 of Bilim – Visit to Çorlu Nursing Home Agency (SHÇEK) /3&)?#>30H$%&':;'A:HB=&$*'j)?')&'(:%)5#6' BPCV-Fellows Parent-Teacher Association and School 2010 r$0>*'/*'()H>#'D#5)%'/#$H$%&)*@'<I0::#7' 7 17 119 341 of Bilim Manager l9$H>1 BPCV-Fellows Establishment of Computer Lab at at Parent-Teacher Association and School 2010 8 9 72 314 of Bilim !)%96*H)'D&)& *5'/#$H$%&)*@'<I0::# Manager BPCV-Fellows 2010 Helping Earthquake Victims 7 6 42 Special Administration – Governorship 150 of Bilim BPCV-Fellows f[>*3&'<&$B'>%&:'<I0::#h'N*:d$I&mr)%#6=*;)' b)&>:%)#'/9=I)&>:%'->*$I&:*)&$7'lP$#' 2010 7 12 84 59 of Bilim Karaköprü Elementary School Akademi Chest Diseases Center BPCV-Fellows 2010 Cleaning of the Seferihisar Shore 5 20 100 TURMEPA 30 of Bilim BPCV-Fellows Aid Campaign for the Flood Disaster in 2010 3 28 84 Red Crescent 2,000 of Bilim Pakistan TURMEPA – The Turkish Foundation for BPCV-Fellows fj$&'b:&'O=*'[=&=*$'2$#&hmi P$#@)#6'i>*#3' Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation 2010 1 2 2 133 of Bilim Technical and Occupational High School and the Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA) TURMEPA – The Turkish Foundation for “Let Not Our Future Melt”-Izmir Nene Hatun BPCV-Fellows Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation 2010 Girls Technical and Occupational High 1 2 2 52 of Bilim and the Protection of Natural Habitats School (TEMA) TURMEPA – The Turkish Foundation for BPCV-Fellows “Let Not Our Future Melt”-Izmir Konak Vali Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation 2010 2 2 4 105 of Bilim Vecdi Gönül Anatolian High School and the Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA) TURMEPA – The Turkish Foundation for BPCV-Fellows fj$&'b:&'O=*'[=&=*$'2$#&hm\PH>*'b)H65' Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation 2010 2 2 4 155 of Bilim Kemal High School and the Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA) TURMEPA – The Turkish Foundation for BPCVFellows “Let Not Our Future Melt”-Izmir Selma Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation 2010 2 2 4 155 of Bilim p>+>&)#B'D%)&:#>)%'8>G0'<I0::# and the Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA) Governorship of Samsun, Samsun BPCVFellows Fellows of Bilim at the Theatre – Samsun Metropolis Municipality, General 2010 120 16 1,920 1,000 of Bilim Team Drama Play Directorate of State Opera and Ballet, National Education Directorate 100 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Valuing Humans Total Number Spared Number of Volunteering of People Year Project Activity Hours Volunteers Hours Collaborator Reached Fellows of Bilim at the Theatre – BPCVFellows 2010 /3&)?#>30H$%&':;'#>?*)*@')&'A)%>5'8)I6' 3 14 42 Samsun National Education Directorate 350 of Bilim Naipli Village Elementary School, Samsun Governorship of Samsun, Samsun BPCVFellows Fellows of Bilim at the Theatre – Samsun Metropolis Municipality, General 2010 24 16 384 880 of Bilim Team Drama Play Directorate of State Opera and Ballet, National Education Directorate Fellows of Bilim at the Theatre – BPCVFellows 2010 Establishment of library at Düvecik Village 3 14 42 Samsun National Education Directorate 425 of Bilim Elementary School, Samsun Governorship of Samsun, Municipality BPCVFellows Fellows of Bilim at the Theatre – Samsun of Canik, General Directorate of State 2010 120 16 1,920 1,130 of Bilim Team Drama Play Opera and Ballet, National Education Directorate BPCVFellows 2010 April 23rd Folk Dance Event 8 3 24 4)@6*nP '/#$H$%&)*@'<I0::# 12 of Bilim BPCVFellows 2010 7.47 18 134.5 Çanakkale Seddülbahir Museum 155 of Bilim Çanakkale Project Group Antalya Chamber of Drivers, Orfe Atli BPCVFellows 2010 We Are Different, We Exist Too 1 10 10 Sports Club and Municipality Kepez, 9 of Bilim Antalya BPCVFellows 2010 Stories from the Heart 9.46 11 104 232 of Bilim BPCVFellows Women’s Hands Are Weaving for the Foundation for the Support of Women’s 2010 17 6 102 130 of Bilim Future of Children Work Remo Furniture, Samsun BPCVFellows 2010 Birdhouse 3.75 4 15 `#5)96H'->3&*>I&'b)&>:%)#'/9=I)&>:%' 50 of Bilim Directorate and Mayoralty BPCVFellows Municipality of Kartal, Society for the 2010 Love Wall 1.8 9 16.2 47 of Bilim Protection of Children BPCVFellows !)#65$3>*'[>*9$F3'<)*),:+#='b=*3>%G' 2010 Adopted Child Project 10 7 70 14 of Bilim House BPCVFellows !)0,$#>$F#$*'<:I>$&@';:*'&0$'N*:&$I&>:%':;' 2010 One Day with Gamins 1 5 5 50 of Bilim Children, Ekol Optics BPCVFellows -$+>*H$%#$*'g>##)G$'/#$H$%&)*@'<I0::#'>%' 2010 I Am Repairing My Brother’s School 6 5 30 24 of Bilim the District of Yakutiye in Erzurum BPCVFellows Ünlü Furniture, 2010 I Love Reading 1 3 3 75 of Bilim M$1>&'4=?=5,=:+#='/#$H$%&)*@'<I0::# /P>I>'p)+'<)%)@>'!>:9>P$#'F$'/%$*d>' _*$&>H>'N)P.'j)?:*)&=F)*'8>PH$&#$*>'D.r.7' BPCVFellows Please Do Not Pour” for Respect to Future (Ezici Biodiese), 2010 3.62 8 29 720 of Bilim Generations WWF-Society of Natural Life Protection, <sb'Dr'i\-D7'2$G)'N*:H:3@:%' (Promotion), Barel Makine (Machinery) BPCVFellows u ?$@9$'8)%6H'<:I>$&@';:*'&0$' 2010 What Do Children Want? 3.5 9 31.5 52 of Bilim Protection of Children BPCVFellows National Education Ministry Public 2010 One Step Forward 3.4 5 17.5 25 of Bilim Education Center 101 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Total Number Spared Number of Volunteering of People Year Project Activity Hours Volunteers Hours Collaborator Reached BPCVFellows Transportable Battery Manufacturers 2010 Eco-Scientists 1.4 11 15.4 400 of Bilim (TAP) Association 2=%>I>B)#>&@':;'<)*6@$*7'/%F>*:%H$%&)#' BPCVFellows Protection and Packaging Waste 2010 Do Not Waste Our Future, Recycle It 8.2 6 49 600 of Bilim Recovery and Recycling Trust (ÇEVKO), !$@:+#='M:&)*@'A#=? BPCVFellows 2010 Music Library 2.54 13 33.02 TRT Music 50 of Bilim BPCVFellows 2010 Home Sweet Home, Nursing Home 1.18 11 15.34 Edirne Nursing House 150 of Bilim BPCVFellows 2010 One Drop 5.8 5 29 Cebeci Village Elementary School 62 of Bilim BPCVFellows Polisan Boya, Unilever and Emrullah 2010 Smiling Eyes 3.9 22 85 60 of Bilim Y=*)%#6'(>%9$*G)*&$% 4$*5$P5n@'N:#>I$'8:=3$7'()B)5#6' BPCV-Remove Non-Handicapped Life for 1 Day a Year – 2010 6 12 72 Association of the Disabled, Association 400 the Barriers December 3rd World Disabled Day of Real Estate Agencies BPCV-Remove 2010 Autism School Workshop Project 2 4 8 <)?)0)&'D516*)@'D=&>3H'<I0::#'A$%&*$ 14 the Barriers BPCV-Remove 2010 Remove the Barriers Project 10 3 30 Callpex 10 the Barriers BPCV-Remove Sivas Ahmet Kutsi Tecer School of 2010 World from a Child’s Point of View 0.25 6 1.5 230 the Barriers Educable Children BPCV-Remove 2010 Disabled Children Are Fundamental 4 6 24 7 the Barriers Reading Project OSGD (Corporate Volunteer Association) 2010 BPCV-Reading Implementation of “Curious Books Creative 8 13 104 4)+9)1'-*)H)'-$*%$+>'aA:%&$HB:*)*@' 13 Reading” trainings Drama Association) Ümraniye Istanbul Chamber of Trade /#$H$%&)*@'<I0::#m()965n@'Y$)H' 2010 BPCV-Reading 5 3 15 OSGD (Corporate Volunteer Association) 40 Implementation of “Curious Books Creative Reading” trainings Implementation of “Curious Books Creative Reading” trainings 4$*5$P5n@'p)%65)+6#'g>##)G$'/#$H$%&)*@' 2010 BPCV-Reading School 18.3 8 146.5 OSGD (Corporate Volunteer Association) 87 SHÇEK Çerkezköy 80. YIL Kindergarten ()*))+),'g>##)G$'/#$H$%&)*@'<I0::# 4$*5$P5n@'p)%65)+6#'g>##)G$'/#$H$%&)*@' 2010 BPCV-Reading 3 15 45 OSGD (Corporate Volunteer Association) 200 School Final Event Gebze Fevzi Çakmak Elementary School 2010 BPCV-Reading Implementation of “Curious Books Creative 14 15 210 OSGD (Corporate Volunteer Association) 160 Reading” trainings BPCV-Senior Participation at CSR Europe Enterprise 2010 24.6 6 148 CSR Europe 200 Board 2020 Brussels Final BPCV-I Have Kayseri Erciyes University (with 5 voluntary TMI, PDR Group, Remeda 2010 the Control of 14 10 140 100 instructors) Communication Futureleaders, Adisa My Career BPCV-Seeds to Saplings, Give Life to Nature Team Carbon 2010 2 5 10 GOSB (Gebze Organized Industrial Zone) 150 Saplings to Footprint Measurement Trees 102 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment Environment Friendly Bilim We consider the environmental dimension and impacts of our activities during all stages including design, purchase, manufacturing, packaging, storage, and launch of products on the market and recycling of packages of marketed products in order to minimize ecological impacts; and we carry out our activities taking into consideration and respectful of the protection of natural resources. 103 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Our activities within the scope of ‘Environment-Dimension-Effect Evaluation’ are always assessed numerically according to their We consider the environmental dimension and impacts of environmental dimensions and effects. We have also put together our activities during all stages including design, purchase, a Yearly Environment Management Action and Management manufacturing, packaging, storage, and launch of products on Plan to be able to reduce environmental effects to a minimum the market and recycling of packages of marketed products and to monitor them. in order to minimize ecological impacts; and we carry out our activities taking into consideration and respectful of the protection We have developed important procedures and directives of natural resources. deriving from the results of ‘Environment-Dimension-Effect Evaluation’ to keep environmental effects under control. We take In this context, we prefer to use materials with low environmental ‘Waste Management Procedures’ and ‘Energy Management effects. We organize routine training sessions on environmental Procedures’ as a guide in activities we undertake on the protection to raise awareness of our employees on the importance protection of ecological environments. The dissemination and of ecological environment and our role as a company. application activities are assessed and reviewed through the We have structured our Environment Management System on latest ‘Environment-Dimension-Effect Evaluation’, internal and the basis of ‘Environment-DimensionEffect Evaluation’, Bilim external auditing findings, incidence reporting and the feedback Pharmaceuticals Environmental Policy and in compliance with of employees. ISO 14001 standards encompassed by Integral Management We identify the environmental dimensions and effects of our Systems (IMS). activities and products, their legal and local requirements, the ins and outs of every procedure, their routine and exceptional management circumstances and emergency situations by assessment with our ISO 14001 work teams. 104 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment Sample Environment-Dimension-Effect Evaluation ENVIRONMENT DIMENSION AND IMPACT EVALUATION FORM AREA: STORAGE AREAS DATE OF ACTIVITY: 03.08.2010 BASIC ACTIVITY: WAREHOUSES FOR MATERIALS, PRODUCTS AND SOLVENTS AND ACTIVITY NO: 3 WAREHOUSES FOR PROMOTION MATERIALS PREPARED BY VOLUME MANAGER MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVE / ASSISTANT ! #$%&'()(&*&+,# ,&',-,&*&./0$ &'()(12 , Mutlu Kuzu Cengizhan Nas / Bülent Erol Environmental Impact Criteria Existing DF/F DF/ Dimension Total Level of Precautions / Sub Activity Dimension Effect Legal Restrictions Possible F No A B C D E F Effect Importance Existing Related Activity No Point Procedure Waste Reduction / paper-plastic Waste Regulation on the Goods Consumption 1 (Recoverable/ 2 1 3 1 1 1 10 4 Management Control of Packaging Acceptance of Natural Recyclable Procedure Wastes Resources Waste) Regulation on the Control of Hazardous Wastes, Chemical Waste Regulation on the Goods wastes Water / Soil 2 2 1 3 1 1 1 10 4 Management General Principles of Acceptance (Hazardous Pollution Procedure Waste Management, wastes) Regulation on the Control of Soil Pollution Exhaust emission Regulation on the Goods 3 during when Air Pollution 1 1 2 1 1 1 4 4 Control of Exhaust Acceptance suppliers bring Gas Emissions in materials Use of Picker Reduction / Energy is Regulation on During Energy Consumption monitored through Efficiency Increase 4 2 1 1 1 1 1 6 4 Acceptance of consumption of Natural key performance in Use of Energy and Goods Resources indicators of THM Energy Resources Waste Preparation of Reduction / paper-plastic Regulation on the Process Order Consumption 5 (Recoverable/ 2 1 3 1 1 1 10 4 Control of Packaging and Product of Natural Recyclable Wastes Transportation Resources Waste) Regulation on the Control of Hazardous Wastes, Preparation of Chemical Regulation on the Process Order wastes Water / Soil 6 2 1 3 1 1 1 10 4 General Principles of and Product (Hazardous Pollution Waste Management, Transportation wastes) Regulation on the Control of Soil Pollution Audit by Warehouse Use of Vehicles Management During and recording Exhaust Regulation on the Preparation of exhaust 7 emission Air Pollution 4 3 1 1 3 4 112 3 Control of Exhaust Process Order emission formation Gas Emissions and Product ratings Transportation preventive activities will be launched Warehouse Management will ensure that Use of Vehicles environmentDuring Vehicle related Preparation of tires/Used Water / Soil Regulation on the 4 3 1 1 3 4 112 3 liabilities are Process Order accumulators/ Pollution Control of Used Oils added in and Product Used oils, etc. maintenance Transportation contracts of the company’s vehicles Preparation of Reduction / Regulation on Process Order Energy Consumption Efficiency Increase 8 and Product 2 1 1 1 1 1 6 4 consumption of Natural in Use of Energy and Transportation Resources Energy Resources (Use of Picker) 105 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ENVIRONMENT DIMENSION AND IMPACT EVALUATION FORM AREA: STORAGE AREAS DATE OF ACTIVITY: 03.08.2010 BASIC ACTIVITY: WAREHOUSES FOR MATERIALS, PRODUCTS AND SOLVENTS AND ACTIVITY NO: 3 WAREHOUSES FOR PROMOTION MATERIALS PREPARED BY VOLUME MANAGER MANAGEMENT REPRESENTATIVE / ASSISTANT ! #$%&'()(&*&+,# ,&',-,&*&./0$ &'()(12 , Mutlu Kuzu Cengizhan Nas / Bülent Erol Environmental Impact Criteria Existing DF/F DF/ Dimension Total Level of Precautions / Sub Activity Dimension Effect Legal Restrictions Possible F No A B C D E F Effect Importance Existing Related Activity No Point Procedure Regulation on the Control of Activities Instructions on the Hazardous Wastes, in Solvent Pouring of Control of Pouring Regulation on the Warehouses used solvents Water / Soil 9 3 2 2 1 2 2 36 4 of Chemicals and General Principles of (waste and chemical Pollution their Scattered Waste Management, transferring wastes Substances Regulation on the and sampling) Control of Soil Pollution Regulation on the Control of Activities Gases and Instructions on the Hazardous Wastes, in Solvent steam exposed Control of Pouring Regulation on the Warehouses during pouring 10 Air Pollution 1 2 2 1 2 2 12 4 of Chemicals and General Principles of (waste of used solvents their Scattered Waste Management, transferring and chemical Substances Regulation on the and sampling) wastes Control of Soil Pollution Regulation on the Control of Activities Hazardous Wastes, in Solvent Regulation on the Warehouses Contaminated Water / Soil 11 3 2 2 1 1 2 30 4 General Principles of (waste barrels Pollution Waste Management, transferring Regulation on the and sampling) Control of Soil Pollution Wastes after maintenance of Regulation on the Maintenance of Water / Soil 12 contaminated 2 2 2 1 2 3 36 4 Control of Solid Forklift Pollution forklifts (greasy Wastes fabrics) Regulation on the Maintenance of Used Water / Soil 13 2 2 2 1 2 3 36 4 Control of Solid Forklift accumulators Pollution Wastes Regulation on the Control of Hazardous Wastes, Regulation on the Maintenance of Water / Soil 14 Used oil 2 2 2 1 2 3 36 4 General Principles of Forklift Pollution Waste Management, Regulation on the Control of Soil Pollution Reduction / Consumption Regulation on the 15 Use of Forklift Used tires of Natural 2 2 2 1 2 3 36 4 Control of Worn Out Resources / Tires Soil Pollution Regulation on the Exhaust 16 Use of Forklift Air Pollution 1 1 2 1 1 1 4 4 Control of Exhaust emission Gas Emissions Hydrogen Forklift Regulation on the emission in 17 Accumulator Air Pollution 1 1 2 1 1 1 4 4 Control of Exhaust accumulator Charging Area Gas Emissions charging area Process of Storage and Industrial Labeling Reduction / Recycling of Communiqué on wastes (Al folio, Industrial Consumption Industrial Wastes the Recovery of 18 Al tubes, Al Wastes of Natural Will Be Added to Non-Hazardous Inert covers, Label Released by Resources the Destruction Wastes backsides, etc.) the Warehouse Procedure Form No PR.0.TH.07. Page Number: 1/1 Template No: 01-01 106 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment >Our Environmental Policy >100 out of 100 to EnvironmentWe use appropriate technologies in order to minimize and Friendly Bilim Gebze control potential impacts caused by our activities, related to environment and human health. Bilim Pharmaceuticals has received the Environment Award of the Kocaeli Chamber of Industry(KCI). We comply with the laws and regulations of the Ministry of Health required by the pharmaceutical production sector, the 2>%>3&$*' :;' [:*$3&*@' N*:;.' g$@3$#' /*:+#=' B*$3$%&$9' &0$' rules of current Good Management Practices, Environmental fr)0)?$&&>%'!>#G>3='/%F>*:%H$%&'DK)*9h'&:'&0$'A/O'-*.'/*0)%' Legislations and local requirements. !)1' K>&0' &0$' )>H' :;' ;:3&$*>%G' $%F>*:%H$%&' 3$%3>&>F>&@' )H:%G' We predicate our actions for a sustainable environment through industrial companies. the minimization of loss in the ratio of raw materials, the efficient use of energy, the absolute minimization of waste products and In the speech he made at the ceremony organized by KCI in the increase in support of recycling. 2)@'QS7'QRTR7'A/O'-*.'/*0)%'!)1'3&)&$97'f/%F>*:%H$%&'>3':%$' of most important dimensions on both corporate responsibility We organize training events for our company’s and and sustainability... Investing to the environment is no longer subcontractors’ employees with the aim of raising awareness a trend but a necessity. As Bilim Pharmaceuticals, we comply on protecting the environment. with the environmental standards not only in our corporate We assess and monitor our suppliers and contract responsibility practices but also in business practices. We manufacturers in view of their impacts on the environment. abide to the national and international regulations and are committed to protecting natural resources, using these We ensure the adherence to ISO 14001 Environment Management Systems and review and improve them resources efficiently, source reduction and recycling. through set targets. In this manner, we commit to preventing Bilim Gebze, which was deemed worthy of the Incentive Award environmental pollution. in addition to the Environment Award, was built in compliance We share our environmental policy, with our stakeholders, within with the ISO 14001 Environment Management Standard and our company, making use of our website, Bilim Portal, our annual the “green building” concept. The building provides energy and internal trainings and written documents. natural resource efficiency thanks to its building management system, energy management system, lightening automation, This year, the success of our Environmental Management heat isolation, free-cooling features etc. System has been crowned with the Environment Award granted by the Kocaeli Chamber of Commerce in the category of large Bilim Pharmaceuticals started its sustainability journey in 1998 enterprises. by applying the EFQM Excellence Model and with this award, Our ISO 14001 Environmental Management System and the it is one step closer to receiving the European Quality Awards standards that we applied at our Bilim Gebze Production Plant, as a candidate. which was built based on the green building concept and commissioned in 2008, played key role in these successful results regarding environmental protection. 107 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Environmental Management Model law and regulations, collaborations, technologies, benchmark and training information and findings of internal and external audits. A sustainable ecological environment requires effective If any evaluation came from outside the Company regarding the governance that is in relation with all other processes. Within the Excellence Model throughout the year, the Feedback Report is framework of our sustainability management process, and in line also evaluated at the first subsequent meeting. The EMB may with our strategy of “protecting the environment and reducing meet with a special agenda, if necessary. consumption of natural resources”, we set up the Environmental Management Board, the Energy Management Board and ISO Energy Management Board (EMGB) 14001 Environmental Work Teams, which play active role in such The Energy Management Board consists of the department processes as evaluation of our environmental impacts, planning representatives, who are actively involved in energy procurement, of necessary activities to minimize determined impacts and distribution and consumption processes within our company. reducing consumption of natural resources. The Environmental The Board meets under the presidency of the Technical Services Management process is carried out with the participation of all Manager at the plants, every 3 months with a standard agenda as our employees and in cooperation with other processes. set forth in the board format in line with the strategies of “protecting The Environmental Management Board and the Energy the environment and reducing use of natural resources” and “lower Management Board were established under the roof of the production costs”. It also reviews and assesses short-, midand Sustainability Board to evaluate and review management, long-term improvement plans and employees’ suggestions with planning and implementation processes, while Environmental respect to energy consumption, energy efficiency and saving, Work Teams were established to executive and disseminate as well as related performance indicators during the operating activities in practice. period. At its end-period meetings, the Board determines areas of improvement for the next year by evaluating its energy policy, Environmental Management Board (EMB): stakeholder feedback, status of compliance with the law and Our Environmental Management Board consists of department regulations, collaborations, technologies, benchmark and representatives. The Board meets under the presidency of the training information and findings of internal and external audits, Technical Services Manager of the related plant, every 3 months, providing input for the Current Situation Analysis (CSA). The and evaluates and reviews the standard agenda and other EMGB may meet with a special agenda, if necessary. matters set forth by its members. The standard agenda is as follows: Environmental Work Teams C'DI&>F>&>$3':;'>HB*:F$H$%&'&0)&'9$*>F$';*:H'&0$'A=**$%&'<>&=)&>:%' Environmental Work Teams consist of managers and experts Analysis determined by our process owners. In scope of Environmental Management Systems, these teams come together once C'/%F>*:%H$%&)#'DI&>F>&>$3'3$&';:*&0'&0)&'3$*F$'&0$'f2)%)G$H$%&' a month or more often when needed, to review yearly of Environment in the Annual Budget Plan” environmental dimensions and their effects and to review, C'A:**$I&>F$')%9'B*$F$%&>F$'$%F>*:%H$%&m*$#)&$9'H$)3=*$3 popularize and increase the efficiency of the application of C'M$F>$K')%9'$F)#=)&>:%':;'#$G>3#)&>F$')H$%9H$%&3' procedures and directives in light of the experience acquired and C'<&)5$0:#9$*';$$9?)I53 current legislations, while also to ensure right waste management practices in areas that fall under their responsibility, evaluating At its meeting at the 4th quarter, the Board determines improvement environmental feedback and preparing/managing action plans areas for the next year by considering the environmental policy, for areas of improvement. by conducting the Current Situation Analysis (CSA) and by evaluating stakeholder feedbacks, status of compliance with the 108 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment Occupational health & safety management system is a peopleoriented system. We are a company aware of our social responsibilities, which also has a working system that attaches importance to humans, prioritizes human health and puts Kemal SERT humans in the center. Member of the Environment and OHS Our Company is well aware of the national legislations with (Occupational Health and Safety) Team respect to environment and occupational health & safety and continuously keeps view of its customers’ and subI have been a member of the Occupational Health & Safety and contractors’ compliance with the related rules, aiming to Environment teams for 10 years. Being a member of the OHS prevent environmental pollution or otherwise, to reduce it at its and Environmental Teams is to be a person who can provide source, and to keep risks associated with occupational health safety at the workplace, who can take measures against & safety and environment under control by predicting them. possible accidents and juries and make interventions, who can The fact that our Company placed these targets in its mission take measures to prevent environmental pollution caused by the and policies makes us a leading and exemplary firm. sector that they work for, who have the necessary knowledge and equipments to take preventive measures against air, water, Being a part of such a company makes me proud and makes soil and noise pollution, and who knows how to achieve these me feel that I have privilege against the employees of other targets. companies. Our Environmental Targets OUR ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY APPROACH Some of the activities that we carry out within the framework of >Environmental Targets of our strategy of “protecting the environment and reducing use of natural resources” are as follows: Çerkezköy Plant in 2011 C' We prevent 6,800 trees from being cut every year by To keep electricity consumption at 0.167 kWh/box recycling 400 tons of paper, which emerge during our operations. To keep natural gas consumption at 0.0127 m3/box C'^$'*$F>3$')%9'I0)%G$':=*'B*:9=I&>:%'H$&0:93'a#>5$'3K>&I0>%G' To keep water consumption at 1.00 l/box from solvent-based covering process to water-based covering process) and analysis methods (like generalization of use of To keep process solid waste amount at 0.480 g/box UPLC in analyses which requires less solvents compared to HPLC devices) in order to reduce the amount of solvents used at To keep average loss in production at 1.25% production and laboratory areas in our facilities. To provide each of our employees with at least 4 hours/year of C' s3$9' 3:#F$%&3' )*$' 3$B)*)&$#@' I:##$I&$9' )&' &0$>*' 3:=*I$' )%9' training on ISO 14001 Environmental Management System submitted to companies for recycling, which are licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Forestation. >Environmental Targets of C' D3' )' *$3=#&' :;' &0$' $;;:*&3' K$' I:%9=I&$9' >%' QRRX' &:' *$H:F$' organic solvents from production processes, we prevented the Gebze Plant in 2011 use of 73 tons of organic solvents in total in 2010. To keep electricity consumption at 0.175 kWh/box C'O=*'A:HB)%@'?$G)%'&:'H$)3=*$'>&3'I)*?:%';::&B*>%&'>%'QRRXt'K$' switched to diesel vehicles in order to reduce emissions caused To keep natural gas consumption at 0.0158 m3/box by use of vehicles. Moreover, we concentrate on teleconferences in our meetings in order to use less vehicles. We also make large To keep water consumption at 1.24 l/box investments in our IT infrastructure. To keep process solid waste amount at 0.666 g/box C'^$'0)F$':=*'B0)*H)I@'?)G3'H)%=;)I&=*$9':;'?>:9$G*)9)?#$' and reusable materials. To keep average loss in production at 1.08% C' ^$' )*$' )' H$H?$*' :;' &0$' !=3>%$33' A:=%I>#' ;:*' <=3&)>%)?#$' To provide each of our employees with at least 4 hours/year of Development of Turkey and WWF Turkey; we organize awareness training on ISO 14001 Environmental Management System raising training programs on climate change. 109 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 C'^>&0':=*'F:#=%&)*@'B*:d$I&'$%&>&#$9'fY:0=H#)*'[>9)%)7'[>9)%#)*' We make donation on behalf of our employees to the Foundation D+)I)h'a<$$93'&:'<)B#>%G7'<)B#>%G3'&:'Y*$$3k7'K$'*)>3$')K)*$%$33' for the Promotion and Protection of the Environment and Cultural of our employees and their families on environmental protection. Heritage (ÇEKÜL) on their birthdays. This way, we get trees to be planted in 7 different forests on behalf of our employees. C' We deem our suppliers that we have been working with more than 3 years as our “business partners”. Through the We plant 20,000 new trees every year to balance the negative environmental impact that may occur due to use of 20,000 tons Business Partners Summit that we hold every year, we share of paper, By means of the above-mentioned equipment, use our environment-friendly activities and aim to raise awareness of business partners on environmental protection. One of the of energy per air-conditioned area was reduced by 58% at our criteria that we use to evaluate our suppliers and business Bilim Gebze production facility, which we moved to and began to partners is whether they hold the ISO 14001 certification. Thus, operate in 2008. The additional investments that we have made we encourage our suppliers and business partners to conduct in order to reach these results are summarized in the following activities on “environmental protection for a more sustainable table: world.” Our Environmental Investments and Our Savings Additional Investment to Economic Annual Annual Investment Increase Energy Service Life Return Earnings (TL/ Investment Item Amount Efficiency (YEARS) (%) Year) Building Management System (BMS) 3,860,000 420,000 15 10 325,274 Energy Management System (EMS) 500,000 15 2 65,055 Light Management (Automation) System (LMS) 250,000 15 5 12,887 A-B Blocks Sun Blind (Automatic Venetian Blind System) 67,500 67,500 10 1 2,577 Cooling System – Frequency Inverter Centrifuge Chiller (3x3 601,000 125,000 15 283,707 MW) Cooling System – Closed-Type Cooling Towers 540,000 189,000 15 3-5 141,886 Frequency Inverter Pressurized Air System 209,250 37,665 10 83,922 Economizer Steam Boilers 179,645 30,243 10 2 12,000 Economizer Heating Boilers 70,578 13,149 10 Use of direct drive ‘efficiency 1’ electrical engine with 1,552,500 310,500 12 1,158,325 frequency inverter in air-conditioning stations Heat recovery units in air-conditioning stations 15,000 114,634 Use of frequency inverter in air pressure tanks and pumps 43,000 10 3 228,071 236,250 23,625 15 prevents 386 Extra De-dusting Units with HEPA Filter kg/year dust emission Use of “COVALENT BOND DIVERGING BUSH” in natural gas 20,000 20,000 10 18,586 lines in order to increase burning efficiency and to reduce emissions 4 486,682 kg Switch from gasoline vehicles to diesel vehicles emission saving Recycling of plastic and paper 14,454 SUM OF ADDITIONAL INVESTMENTS TO INCREASE 2,044,682 ENERGY EFFICIENCY Our Gebze plant is the most environmentally friendly drug C'^$'=3$'#)&$3&'&$I0%:#:G>$3'K>&0'0>G0'$%$*G@'$;;>I>$%I@'>%'&0$' manufacturing plant in Turkish Pharmaceuticals sector, heating, cooling and air-conditioning systems. Our cooling thanks to its environment-friendly practices: system is composed of centrifuge chilling groups with frequency inverter whose energy efficiency is 50% higher than its rivals. The C'\%'&0$'3I:B$':;':=*'\%&$G*)&$9'!=>#9>%G'2)%)G$H$%&'<@3&$H' closed-type cooling towers that we have been using are able to (BMS), we set up automatic control functions aiming to reduce cover the plant’s cooling needs at convenient outer environment use of energy. temperatures without operating cooling groups (free-cooling). C' !2<' K:*53' >%' >%&$G*)&>:%' K>&0' $%$*G@' H:%>&:*>%G' 3@3&$H7' C' \%' &0$' ;)%3' :;' :=*' )>*mI:%9>&>:%>%G' 3&)&>:%3' K0>I0' )*$' 3B*$)9' lighting automation, card entrance, CCTV and fire detection throughout the plant, we used “efficiency 1” direct drive engines system. with high efficiency, which are equipped with frequency inverters and convert electricity to mechanical energy. 110 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment C' \%' )99>&>:%7' K$' B*:F>9$9' )%' :B&>H=H' $%$*G@' I:%3=HB&>:%' Environment-Friendly Information Technology Practices profile by using FC in air pressure tanks and pumps and ensuring C' \%' QRTR7' OA<' g>9$:' A:%;$*$%I$' DBB#>I)&>:%' 3:;&K)*$' K)3' that engines are operated based on the system pressure. installed to all employees’ computers; related trainings were C'\%')#H:3&')##')>*mI:%9>&>:%>%G'3&)&>:%37';*$30')>*'>3'=3$9')&'QUV' provided and instruction documents were uploaded to Bilim while returning air is used at 75%, thus enabling us to save from Portal. Audiovisual communication is provided through data heating and cooling energy. In air-conditioning stations that use #>%$3' ?$&K$$%' $HB#:@$$3' K:*5>%G' )&' D@)P)+)7' i$?P$' )%9' returning air and have sufficiency capacity, the need for heating Çerkezköy Plants, as well as Regional Offices, thanks to the OCS fresh air in winter is reduced, thanks to heat recovery exchangers application. This practice saved significantly from our Company’s located in the exhaust air duct. communication, traveling and accommodation costs. C' Y0)%53' &:' $I:%:H>P$*' 3&$)H' )%9' 0$)&>%G' ?:>#$*37' 0$)&' :;' C' /#$I&*:%>I' 9$F>I$3' &0)&' )*$' %:&' =3$9' )&' !>#>H' #:I)&>:%3' K$*$' chimney gas is recovered, increasing boiler efficiency. collected at the headquarters and submitted regularly to a contracted company, which is approved and authorized by C' /%$*G@' $;;>I>$%I@' >3' B*:F>9$9' ?@' I:F$*>%G' B$)5' #:)9' %$$93' the Ministry of Environment and Forestry and which holds ISO at an optimum level with the frequency inverter air compressor, 14001 certification. Electrical and electronic devices, as well as which is used in the pressurized air system. technological waste such as accumulators, batteries, cartridges, C'A:HB:%$%&'$#$H$%&3'K>&0'0>G0'&0$*H)#'>%3=#)&>:%'K$*$'=3$9'>%' cables, etc are delivered to an organization that has recycling the exterior wall, roof and windows of the building. plant. By means of the “Satellite Tracking System” owned by this company, we are able to track the whole process from receipt C'A::#>%G'%$$9'>3'*$9=I$9'>%'3=HH$*3'&0*:=G0')=&:H)&>I'3=%' of electric and electronic wastes from our company to their blinds that are used in offices and laboratories. transportation to the company’s recycling plants. We utilize daylight at a maximum level using glass pyrophyllite in C' N*:F>9>%G' >%B=&' ;:*' 3&=9>$3' &:' >%I*$)3$' B*:9=I&>:%' $;;>I>$%I@7' the external walls of and the “skylight” practice on the roof. the MES (Manufacturing Execution System) allowed us to No pollutant is allowed in the exhausted air, thanks to high nontransfer records on paper, which are monitored throughout the permeable HEPA filters used in air-conditioning exhaust systems. production process, to the electronic environment. With this In dusty production process, air sucked from each room is practice, there is no need to duplicate the copy of the production passed through dust separators that have automatic pneumatic method for each product series, allowing us to save a significant shaking systems. amount of paper. While nearly 150 million of boxes from 6,000 C' <:#>9' K)3&$3' )*$' I:##$I&$9' )%9' 3$B)*)&$9' >%&:' I#)33$3' product series are manufactured each year, the average record (hazardous wastes, recyclable wastes, domestic and industrial is as long as 70 pages (a total of 420,000 pages). We made wastes) at their source in accordance with the solid waste positive contribution to the protection of natural resources by management procedure and submitted to and destroyed reducing use of paper and to the environment by reducing toner at contractors or incinerators, approved by the Ministry of cartridge consumption. Environment, in a way that does not harm the environment. We continuously inform our employees, suppliers, business partners and visitors on this matter. 111 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 C'^>&0'&0$'<DN'-:I=H$%&'2)%)G$H$%&'<@3&$H7'&0$'>%&$##$I&=)#' process to electronic environment, ensuring both information capital of the whole company is transferred to electronic security and version tracking and reducing courier expenses environment, providing data security and a paperless office and use of consumables such as CDs, cartridges, etc in environment. With the SAP-DMS (Document Management communication. System) module, creation, storage and archiving of all documents C' O;;>I>)#' I:**$3B:%9$%I$3' )%9' )G*$$H$%&3' &0)&' K$' H=&=)##@' which are produced within the scope of the Quality System as make with our external stakeholders are carried out through well as execution of the approval mechanism are conducted electronic environment, while legal records are automatically at the electronic environment. Thanks to this practice, there is created as the electronic environment is integrated to the SAP no need to print documents in order to spread out documents system. The correspondences, letters of agreement, etc which for information and usage purposes, thus contributing to the are printed out on paper from the SAP system and sent to our protection of natural resources. suppliers, customers or the banks that we work with are now C' ^$' 0)F$' 3K>&I0$9' &:' &0$' 3@3&$H' F>*&=)#>P)&>:%' &$I0%:#:G@' ?@' automatically submitted via e-mail with improvements made by 2009 in our servers, in which the operating systems and the our IT department. We reduced use of paper and mailing costs database required by new software and different application through this practice. projects are located. Thanks to this technology, we consume less C' ^>&0>%' &0$' ;*)H$K:*5' :;' #$G)#' :?#>G)&>:%3' &0)&' )*$' %:&' @$&' energy since a lower number of servers are purchased and used, enacted but mentioned to be put in practice in the following years, and a lower number of employees is needed for maintenance we made our infrastructure and systems ready for switching and updating processes. As the number of our servers is cut to e-signature in all documents and for the management of down at least by 50% through virtualization, we aim to reduce invoicing (e-invoice) processes between companies through the our energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and to IT systems of Ministries and Bilim. As e-signature and e-invoicing prolong the service life of our servers. become legal obligations in the coming years, they will reduce C'Y0)%53'&:'&0$'$;;:*&3':;':=*'Mw-'#)?:*)&:*>$37'K$'3K>&I0$9'&:' use of natural resources, thus contributing to the national the “thin client” server, which gathers data storage and processor economy. capacities of desktop PCs that lead to higher greenhouse gas MATERIALS USED* emissions by consuming more energy. This practice aims to reduce investment, operating and energy costs. Box 2,175 tonnes Parcel 475 tonnes C'^$'*$B#)I$':#9'9$35&:B'NA3'K>&0'%$K$*'%:&$?::5'NA3t')#3:7' Prospectus 280 tonnes we replace old monitors with LCD screens to reduce the amount Imported package 212.43 tonnes of energy consumed. Local raw materials 505 tonnes C' !=3>%$33' ;#:K' ;:*H3' a*$E=$3&3' ;:*' )%%=)#' #$)F$37' I)*' Imported raw materials 1,920 tonnes accumulators, new tires, etc) with wet signatures on them, which circulate between or within departments in the company, Total package 3,142.4 tonnes were moved to the Bilim Portal platform, eliminating paper Total raw materials 2,425.0 tonnes consumption. C' O*9$*3' G>F$%' &:' B)I5)G>%G' 3=BB#>$*3' )*$' B*:I$33$9' &0*:=G0' Total materials used directly in 5,567.4 tonnes the electronic system instead of CDs. Before 2008, technical production drawings of drug boxes and prospectuses were used to be Materials that are not recycled 2,425.0 tonnes first approved by the managers of different departments in the (Total raw materials) company with their wet signatures on papers and then copied to CDs and finally sent to packaging suppliers for manufacturing. * Except for water and fossil fuels With a new piece of software that we developed, we moved this 112 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment ENERGY CONSUMPTION Electricity Consumption per Box Achieved Target 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 5.04% In 2010, we decreased our electricity consumption per box by 9.5% compared to 2008. We aim to reduce 0.05 our electricity consumption per box by 5.04% in 2011 compared to 2010. 0.00 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 0.0829 0.0883 0.1683 0.1664 0.1523 Target 0.0845 0.0819 0.1987 0.1835 0.1590 0.1447 Natural Gas Consumption per Box Achieved Target 0.018 0.016 0.014 2.82% 0.012 0.010 0.008 In 2010, we decreased our natural gas 0.006 consumption per box by 9.95% compared to 2008. Thanks to our improvement 0.004 activities that will be put in practice in 2011, we aim to reduce our natural gas 0.002 consumption per box by 2.82% compared 0.000 to 2010. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 0.0081 0.0077 0.0146 0.0144 0.0131 Target 0.0085 0.0079 0.0162 0.0145 0.0140 0.0127 113 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Water, besides being a primary input in cleaning, is used as a used in transferring semi-finished products and removable raw material in the production of liquid medicine and pomades, equipment that are contaminated with product dust are washed in our plants The process equipments at the Gebze Plant are and dried up at automatic IBC washing stations that have the fully equipped with WIP (Washing in Place) mechanisms, same technology with WIP. Domestic water consumption, on the which provide effective washing performance with less water other hand, is minimized through use of photocell armatures and and detergent. Raw materials, IBC product containers that are water-limiting valves. Water Consumption per Box Achieved Target 0.0016 0.0014 0.0012 0.0010 0.0008 0.68% 0.0006 We aim to reduce our water consumption per box by 0.68% in 2011 compared to 0.0004 2010. 0.0002 0.0000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 0.00069 0.00062 0.00119 0.00114 0.00100 Target 0.00061 0.00067 0.00134 0.00115 0.00111 0.00099 114 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment WASTE MANAGEMENT With the same approach, we separate the recyclable waste caused by our activities at the source in scope of the Waste We separate the recyclable waste at the source under such Management Procedure, and regain them through collaboration categories as hazardous wastes, industrial wastes, recyclable with accredited firms licensed by the Ministry of Environment and wastes and recoverable wastes in the scope of our Waste Forestry, Management Procedure, and dispose them through collaboration with accredited firms licensed by the Ministry of Environment The amounts of regained packaging waste caused by the and Forestry in a way that does not harm the nature, Produced activities in our facilities in 2009 and 2010 are as stated below: wastes are continuously recorded including their category and Type of Waste 2009 (Kg) 2010 (Kg) their monthly trends are kept view of, One of these trends, which is “amount of hazardous waste per box”, is monitored as Plastic 39,186 61,465 a performance indicator, We continuously keep informing our Paper-Cardboard 277,679 302,576 employees, suppliers, business partners and visitors in order to Glass 3,150 15,681 increase the efficiency of our waste management system, Strong Pallet 4,018 6,634 Recycling Our Scientific Department Directorate launched a project to switch from solvent-based covering to water-based covering Scrap Pallet 59,050 73,800 in wet granulation and tablet film coverings as of end-2008, providing a 70% decline in the use of solvents, The project will Used Water be continued until water-based covering is used in all products, Water used at our headquarters is domestic water and drained Thus, we aim to significantly reduce VOC emissions, directly to the sewage, As the central treatment facility was commissioned at the Gebze Organized Industrial Zone in 2010, Waste Recycling the industrial wastewater treatment and the domestic wastewater In scope of the Regulation on the Control of Packaging Wastes treatment system which are installed at our Gebze Plant and which within the framework of the Environmental Law, we have been both have membrane treatment technology were deactivated; collaborating since 2005 with ÇEVKO, an authorized institution in we began to canalize used water directly to the central treatment recycling activities, for the collection of our packaging wastes at system, At our Çerkezköy Plant, process-based wastewater is a specified quota, processed at our domestic wastewater chemical pre-treatment facility and drained to the Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone Amounts of packages that do not contact the product inside, Biological Treatment Facility, Similarly, domestic wastewater is which we have been offering to the market in the last two years, also drained to the same facility, are given below, The recycling rate, which was 36% in 2009, rose to 37% in 2010, Total amount of water drained to the receiving environments of Gebze and Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zones in 2010: Wastes of packages offered to the market (kg) 2009 2010 Çerkezköy: 10,948 m3 Plastic* 189,840 23,300 Gebze: 17,600 m3 Paper-Cardboard 2,955,158 2,549,000 * There was a significant decline in stretch film materials, which are used to form bonds, during storage and distribution of our products, Moreover, with the standardization of packages, a significant decline was registered in the amounts of packages offered to the market, 115 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 broad vision. The fact that they have adopted a solution-oriented approach makes it possible that decisions are taken quickly. We can clearly state that Bilim Pharmaceuticals employees add value to work teams. Funda YILMAZ Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a company that has a sensitive Gebze Organized Industrial Zone approach with respect to every matter… It is not a mere (GOSB) Environmental Manager spectator on any matter related to GOSB; it always takes pains to be a part of the solution. Bilim Pharmaceuticals is actively involved in Energy Work Teams, Environmental Work Teams and Technology Work Moreover, it keeps view of and is actively involved in current Teams, which were all set up by GOSB. affairs. Its leadership in its sector is the most important indication of this. Members of Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ work teams make great contribution by offering innovative resolutions as they have a Hazardous Wastes and the Ministry of Health check destruction amounts and the reason for such destruction. Following the official compliance If a decision of destruction is taken for material and products letter, the products and materials are destroyed by the authorized which were rejected by our Quality Control and Quality Assurance >%3&>&=&>:%7' \P)@9)17' >%' &0$' B*$3$%I$' :;' &0$' b:&)*@' )%9' :;;>I>)#3' Departments, a destruction form is filled. Based on this form, from the Ministry of Health. products and/or materials are transferred to project inventories, provided that they are kept at the warehouses of rejected Apart from this process, if a material can be delivered to any materials within the SAP system. Later, the related information recycling company, it is sold as scrap. The Ministry of Health is conveyed to the Cost Accounting Department. Meanwhile, is not notified about such products and materials. We have not informing correspondences are sent to the Ministry of Finance encountered any spills caused by our operations. and Ministry of Health; and officials coming from the tax office Amount of Hazardous Waste per Box Achieved Target 1.6000 1.4000 1.2000 1.0000 0.8000 7.11% 0.6000 We decreased our hazardous waste consumption per box by 49.98% in 0.4000 2010 compared to 2009. In 2011, we aim to reduce our hazardous waste 0.2000 consumption per box by 7.11% 0.0000 compared to 2010. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Achieved 1.344 1.280 1.340 1.076 0.538 Target 1.325 1.275 1.350 1.100 0.900 0.500 116 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND OUR Atmospheric emission can be in the form of gas or dust. A variety CARBON FOOTPRINT of technologies can be used to minimize emissions in the form of dust. In addition to applications that minimize dust at its source Use of energy and greenhouse gas emissions caused by the such as laminar airflow units and closed systems, which are used Company’s vehicles, which were calculated in 2009 for the first at our Gebze and Çerkezköy Plants, de-dusting units are also time, were reviewed under the consultancy of an independent used to minimize atmospheric emissions. These units, which institution in the first quarter of 2010. The scope was expanded are used before dust that emerges during production within the to cover other activities throughout the organization. Air miles, manufacturing equipment cabins such as tablet compressing, personnel transportation services, and transportations that are capsule filling, powder filling cabins, etc is expelled by an exhaust outsourced to third companies between our warehouses and fan, are equipped not only with bag filters that only comply with distribution outlets were included as well. legal limits, but also with secondary HEPA filters, which has Greenhouse Gas 99.99% filtration efficiency. Emission Ratio (CO2 kg/ 2009 2010 2010 2011 NOx and SOx emissions caused by natural gas, gas oil and box) (Actual) (Target) (Actual) (Target) LPG usage: Facilities 0.11789 0.11495 0.10793 0.10577 SOx 0,1 tonnes Vehicles 0.06450 0.06289 0.06493 0.06299 NOx 60,0 tonnes TOTAL 0.18240 0.17784 0.17287 0.16876 We aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions caused by our BIODIVERSITY facilities, headquarters and vehicles by 2.5% until the end of Our facilities were established at Organized Industrial Zones 2012 by carrying out the following activities: (OSB). One of the foundation targets of OSBs is to provide waste management and to minimize and keep under control the C'Use of covalent bond diverging bushes which increase burning possible negative impacts on biodiversity. Both facilities were efficiency in steam and heating boilers while reducing emissions, through Environmental Impact Assessment during establishment C'Renting of vehicles which cause less gas emissions, and the negative environmental impacts arising from the activities of these facilities were evaluated. The issued report stated that C'Generalizing the video conference system, our facilities would have no negative impact on flora and fauna. C'Dissemination of e-trainings, We continuously monitor our emissions and discharges with C' Use of technologies throughout the company, which reduce accredited independent organizations, which are licensed by power consumption and increase energy efficiency, Republic of Turkey Ministry of Environment and Forestry. This way, we provide that our emissions and discharges are highly C' Use of UPLC equipments in impurity analyses, which save below the legal limits. energy and reduce solvent consumption. Greenhouse Gas Emission Ratio (t CO2e) 2009 2010 Scope 1 12,107 11,558 Scope 2 10,778 9,680 Scope 3* 2,815 1,954 TOTAL 25,700 23,192 * Scope 3 does not include customers’ share in emissions that result from the production of materials purchased from outside, which are inputs for the manufacturing process. 117 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Industrial Zone (GOSB) Environmental Team and participation of Çerkezköy plant employees at the GOSB Environmental Team’s visit to Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone). Bilim Pharmaceuticals has many outstanding features. Bilim Kadir KARAKAYA Pharmaceuticals is different, particularly with its personnel’s Çerkezköy Organized Industrial Zone interest in their business, as well as their knowledge, politeness Assistant Manager and smiling approaches. The Company paves the way for its personnel by attaching importance to such matters as No one has ever witnessed that Bilim Pharmaceuticals fails to management, environment, and occupational health and comply with the law, legislations and social rules… safety. Bilim Pharmaceuticals operates in continuous sensitivity Bilim Pharmaceuticals is a superior company not only with its towards the environment and occupational health & safety. approaches concerning Environment and OHS, but with all its activities. The Company contributes to environmental studies by sending its personnel. (Participation at the Gebze Organized LEGAL COMPLIANCE \%' QRTR7' K$' *$I$>F$9' &0$' r)0)?$&&>%' !>#G$3 ' /%F>*:%H$%&)#' Grand Prize from the Kocaeli Chamber of Industry. With this Launched in the second half of 2009 at the Gebze Plant that $%F>*:%H$%&')K)*97'K$'0)F$'G:&')'TRV'9>3I:=%&';*:H'\uDp-Dr' became operational in 2008, the IMS (Integrated Management for waste disposal services throughout 2010. System) Certification Project was completed in the first quarter of 2010. Thus, our entire company, including our Çerkezköy Our company received the “Sustainability in Excellence” Plant and the headquarters which were certified before, has DK)*9' ;*:H' Y_<`D-' aY=*5>30' \%9=3&*>)#>3&3J' )%9' !=3>%$33H$%J3' received ISO 9001 Quality, ISO 14001 Environment and OHSAS Association) KalDer (Association of Quality) in 2010 and will 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management Standards apply for the European Environmental Grand Prize in 2011. certification. 118 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 119 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Bilim Pharmaceuticals’ 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report was prepared in compliance with the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Principles and the Global Compact’s Communication in Progress (COP) Reporting. The following table is an integrated indicator index table that brings together the indicators of both standards. Status of reporting concerning all indicators has been specified. Page of the Related GC Scope of GRI Indicators* Reported Part Reported Indicators* Report Part GC continued 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Full *Chairman’s Message *CEO’s Message support statement 2-5 *CEO’s Message *Our Sustainability Management *Our 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Full Risk Management 4-5, 27-29 2.1 Name of the organization. Full *Cover Page 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Full *Corporate Profile / About Bilim Pharmaceuticals 12-15 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, *Corporate Profile / About Bilim Pharmaceuticals Our Full operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Management Approach 15-19 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Full *Corporate Profile / About Bilim Pharmaceuticals 12-15 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of *Corporate Profile / About Bilim Pharmaceuticals *Our countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to Full Economic Added Value / Operational and Financial the sustainability issues covered in the report. Information Export Figures 7, 12-15, 36 *Corporate Profile / About Bilim Pharmaceuticals Our 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Full Board of Directors 18 *Corporate Profile / About Bilim Pharmaceuticals *Our 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, Full Economic Added Value / Operational and Financial and types of customers/beneficiaries). Information Export Figures 12-15, 36 *Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach / Our Stakeholder Participation Approach *Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our Employees *Our 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Full Economic Added Value / Our Sales / IMS Sales * Corporate Profile / About Bilim Pharmaceuticals Our 30, 43-45, Board of Directors 35, 12-15, 18 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, Full *Corporate Profile structure, or ownership. 18 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Full *Corporate Profile / Our Awards 33 3. Reporting Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Full *Cover Page *About the Report 10 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Full May 2010 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc). Full Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Full *About the Report 10 Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content. Full *About the Report 10 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased Full *About the Report facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 10 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Full *About the Report 10 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Full *About the Report comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 10 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to Full *About the Report the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 10 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., Full *About the Report mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 10 120 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Page of the Related GC Scope of GRI Indicators* Reported Part Reported Indicators* Report Part 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Full *About the Report boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 10 GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the Full *GRI and GC Indices report. 118-124 Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Full About the Report assurance for the report. 10 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such Full * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 16-19 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our Full executive officer. Board of Directors 18 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our the number of members of the highest governance body that are Full Board of Directors independent and/or non-executive members. 18 * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Board of Directors Our Boards *Valuing Humans / Our Full recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Work and Labor Practices Employee Participation and Representation 18-19, 74-79 * Corporate Profile / About Bilim Pharmaceuticals 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Our Board of Directors * Corporate Profile / Our governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure Full Management Approach Our Journey of Excellence arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and *Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices Our 18, 20-22, environmental performance). Wage Management System 50-51 * Corporate Profile / About Bilim Pharmaceuticals 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Full Our Board of Directors * Corporate Profile / Our conflicts of interest are avoided. Management Approach Our Journey of Excellence 18, 20-22 *Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices Our 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Recruitment Procedures Our Contribution to Employee members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s Full Development Our Talent Management System * strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach / Our 48-49, 51-57, Risk Management 29 15, 20, 22, 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of *Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach * 26-28, 46-47, conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social Full Our Economic Added Value * Valuing Humans * Our 78, 80, 90, performance and the status of their implementation. Responsibility to the Ecological Environment 103, 106, 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, * Chairman’s Message * Corporate Profile / Our environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and Full Management Approach / Our Risk Management opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 2-3, 29 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own * Corporate Profile / About Bilim Pharmaceuticals performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and Full Our Board of Directors * Corporate Profile / Our social performance. Management Approach Our Journey of Excellence 18, 20-22 Commitment to External Initiatives * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our Risk Management * Valuing Humans / Our Work and 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Labor Practices / Occupational Health and Safety Full principle is addressed by the organization. * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility * Our 29, 79-85, Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / Our 85-94, 103Environmental Management 105 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, * Corporate Profile / Our Memberships * Corporate principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or Full Profile / Our Management Approach Our Sustainability endorses. Management 32, 27-28 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/ or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization Full * Corporate Profile / Our Memberships is involved. 32 121 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Page of the Related GC Scope of GRI Indicators* Reported Part Reported Indicators* Report Part Stakeholder Engagement * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Full Stakeholder Participation Approach 29-32 * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Full Stakeholder Engagement Our Sustainability engage. Management * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility 27-32, 85-94 *Our Stakeholder Participation Approach *Table of Stakeholders’ Engagement *Internal Communication 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Activities *Results of Employee Satisfaction Survey p. Full engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 56 / Improvement Practices? *Employee Volunteering *Employee Participation and Representation 29-32, 57-58, *Management of Collaborations 67-79, 90-93 * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Participation of Stakeholders * Valuing Humans /Our 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Work and Labor Practices / Our Employees Employee engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key Full Satisfaction Occupational Health and Safety * topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility Customer 29-32, 57-58, Satisfaction Supplier Satisfaction * Valuing Humans / 87, 91-93, Our Community Investment 94-101 Economic * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our Quality Management Our Journey of Excellence Management Approach Full Our Reputation Management Model Our Ethical Management Our Sustainability Management -Participation of Stakeholders 15-32 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including * Our Economic Added Value / Operational and revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other Full Financial Information Our Sales Our Exports Our community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Investments Our Work on Research and Development providers and governments. 9, 35-41 * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our Partial EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Risk Management Our Responsibility to the Ecological GC 7 (Not organization’s activities due to climate change. Environment / Our Environment-Friendly Approach Our available) Environmental Investments and Our Savings 29, 109 * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices Our EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Full Wage Management System 50-51, 36 * Our Economic Added Value / Government Grants EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Full Taken by Bilim Pharmaceuticals 40-41 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices GC 1 Full minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Employment Figures 43-45 Partial EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility Our (Not suppliers at significant locations of operation. Suppliers Selection of Collaborations available) 91-92 Partial EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices GC 6 (Not hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. Employment Figures Our Recruitment Procedures available) 48-50 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services * Our Economic Added Value / Operational and provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro Full Financial Information Our Investments bono engagement. 37, 94-101 Partial EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / Our (Not including the extent of impacts. Environmental Investments and Our Savings available) 102-116 Environmental GC * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach -Our Management Approach Environmental Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / Our Commitment Environmental Management 27-28, 103 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. GC 8 Full Materials Used 111 Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. GC 8, GC 9 Full Materials Used 111 * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. GC 8 Full Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Our Carbon Footprint 112, 116 * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. GC 8 Full Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Our Carbon Footprint 112, 116 * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / Our EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. GC 8, GC 9 Full Environmental Investments and Our Savings 112 * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / Our EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based Environment-Friendly Approach Our Environmental products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result GC 8, GC 9 Full Investments and Our Savings Environment-Friendly of these initiatives. Information Technology Practices 108-112 122 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Page of the Related GC Scope of GRI Indicators* Reported Part Reported Indicators* Report Part * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / Our EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Environment-Friendly Approach Our Environmental GC 8, GC 9 Full achieved. Investments and Our Savings Environment-Friendly Information Technology Practices 108-112 * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. GC 8 Full Energy Consumption 113 (Not EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. GC 8 available) (Not EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. GC 8, GC 9 available) EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected GC 8 Full Biodiversity areas. 116 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity GC 8 Full Biodiversity value outside protected areas. 116 *Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN13 Habitats protected or restored. GC 8 Full Biodiversity 116 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / GC 8 Full on biodiversity. Biodiversity 116 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list *Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction GC 8 Full Biodiversity risk. 116 * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. GC 8 Full Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Our Carbon Footprint 116 * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. GC 8 Full Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Carbon Footprint 116 * Corporate Profile / Our Sustainability Management * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / Our EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Environment-Friendly Approach Our EnvironmentGC 7, GC 8, GC 9 Full achieved. Friendly Investments and Our Savings Waste Management Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Our 27-28, 108Carbon Footprint 116 (Not EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. GC 8 available) Partial (Not Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. GC 8 available) Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Our Carbon Footprint 116 * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. GC 8 Full Used Water 114 * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / Partial (Not EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. GC 8 Waste Management Waste Recycling Hazardous available) Wastes 114, 115 * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. GC 8 Full Waste Management / Hazardous Wastes 115 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste (Not deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, GC 8 applicable) III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting GC 8 Full Biodiversity organization’s discharges of water and runoff. 116 * Corporate Profile / Our Sustainability Management * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / Our Environmental Management -Our Environmental Policy Our Environmental Management Model Our EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and GC 7, GC 8, GC 9 Full Environmental Targets Our Environment-Friendly services, and extent of impact mitigation. Approach Our Environmental Investments and Our Savings Energy Consumption Waste Management Waste Recycling Biodiversity Raising Stakeholders’ 27-28, 102Environmental Awareness 116 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Partial (Not * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / GC 8, GC 9 reclaimed by category. available) Waste Recycling 114 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non* Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and GC 8 Full Legal Compliance regulations. 117 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and *Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and GC 8 Full Our Environmental Investments and Our Savings transporting members of the workforce. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Our Carbon Footprint 116 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by * Our Responsibility to the Ecological Environment / Our GC 7, GC 8, GC 9 Full type. Environmental Investments and Our Savings 108-111 123 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Page of the Related GC Scope of GRI Indicators* Reported Part Reported Indicators* Report Part Labor Practices and Decent Work * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach * Management Approach Full Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices 15-33, 43-85 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices Full region. Employment Figures 43-45 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, (Proprietary GC 6 and region. information) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our Full temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Wage Management System 50-51 * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining GC 1, GC 3 Full Human Resources Policy / Our Principles on Employee agreements. Rights 46-47 * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, GC 3 Full Human Resources Policy / Our Principles on Employee including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Rights 46 * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint / Employee Participation and Representation Partial (Not management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and GC 1 Occupational Health and Safety * Our Responsibility available) advise on occupational health and safety programs. to the Ecological Environment / Our Environmental 74-77, 79-83, Management 103 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / GC 1 Full and number of work-related fatalities by region. Occupational Health and Safety 84 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Partial (Not * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or GC 1 available) Occupational Health and Safety community members regarding serious diseases. 79-85 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade (Not GC 1 unions. applicable) LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our Full category. Contribution to the Development of Our Employees 65-67 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing Full Contribution to the Development of Our Employees career endings. The Career Development of Employees 51-67 * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Full Contribution to the Development of Our Employees development reviews. The Career Development of Employees 51-65 * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Employees Employment Figures Management of per category according to gender, age group, minority group GC 1, GC 6 Full Differences Our Recruitment Procedures Our Wage membership, and other indicators of diversity. Management System 43-45, 47-51 * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Employment Figures Management of Differences LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. GC 1, GC 6 Full Our Recruitment Procedures Our Wage Management System 43-45, 47-51 Human Rights * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices Management Approach Full * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility / Our 15-33, 43-85, suppliers-Collaborations” 90-93 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements GC 1, GC 2, GC * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility Our Partial (Not that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights 3, GC 4, GC 5, Suppliers Our Management of Collaborations available) screening. GC 6 Supplier Audit 91-93 GC 1, GC 2, GC * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility Our HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Partial (Not 3, GC 4, GC 5, Suppliers Our Management of Collaborations undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. available) GC 6 Supplier Inspection 91-93 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures GC 1, GC 2, GC * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our Partial (Not concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, 3, GC 4, GC 5, Contribution to the Development of Our Employees available) including the percentage of employees trained. GC 6 Employee Training 65-67 *Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach / Our GC 1, GC 2, GC Partial (Not Ethical Management *Management of Differences *Our HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 3, GC 4, GC 5, available) Recruitment Process *Our Principles on Employee GC 6 Rights 26-27, 46-48 124 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Page of the Related GC Scope of GRI Indicators* Reported Part Reported Indicators* Report Part HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and GC 1, GC 2, GC 3 Full Human Resources Policy / Our Principles on Employee actions taken to support these rights. Rights 46-47 * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Human Resources Policy / Our Principles on Employee GC 1, GC 2, GC 5 Full labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Rights * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility / Our Management of Collaborations Supplier Inspection 46, 91-93 * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach / Our Ethical Management * Valuing Humans / Our HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Work and Labor Practices / Our Human Resources or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of GC 1, GC 2, GC 4 Full Policy / Our Principles on Employee Rights * Valuing forced or compulsory labor. Humans / Product Responsibility / Our Management of 26-27, 46, Collaborations Supplier Inspection 91-93 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s (Not policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are GC 1, GC 2 applicable) relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous (Not GC 1, GC 2 people and actions taken. applicable) Society *Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach / Our Journey of Excellence Our Model of Reputation Management Our Ethical Management Our Sustainability Management * Our Economic Added Management Approach Full Value / Compliance with Law and Fair Competition * Valuing Humans / Our Work and Labor Practices / Our Contribution to the Development of Our Employees 15-33, 41, Employee Volunteering Model 67-78 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices Partial (Not * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Risk that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, available) Management including entering, operating, and exiting. 29 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks Partial (Not * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our GC 10 related to corruption. available) Ethical Management Risk Management 26-27, 29 * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption Ethical Management * Valuing Humans / Our Work and GC 10 Full policies and procedures. Labor Practices / Our Contribution to the Development of Our Employees Employee Training 26-27, 65-67 * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our Ethical Management * Our Economic Added Value / SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. GC 10 Full Compliance with Law and Fair Competition * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility / Our Management of 26-27, 41, Collaborations Supplier Inspection 91-93 GC 1, GC 2, GC SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy 3, GC 4, GC 5, (Not development and lobbying. GC 6, GC 7, GC applicable) 8, GC 9, GC 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, (Not GC 10 politicians, and related institutions by country. applicable) * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, Full Ethical Management * Our Economic Added Value / and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance with Law and Fair Competition 26-27, 41 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non* Our Economic Added Value / Compliance with Law Full monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. and Fair Competition 41 Product Responsibility * Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach Our Quality Management Our Journey of Excellence Our Management Approach Full Ethical Management Our Sustainability Approach * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility 15-33, 85-93 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility Monitoring Partial (Not services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant GC 1 Safety, Performance and Quality of Our Products available) products and services categories subject to such procedures. Human/Patient Health and Safety 85-86 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility Monitoring voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and GC 1 Full Safety, Performance and Quality of Our Products services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Human/Patient Health and Safety 85-89 125 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Page of the Related GC Scope of GRI Indicators* Reported Part Reported Indicators* Report Part PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility Monitoring and percentage of significant products and services subject to such GC 8 Full Safety, Performance and Quality of Our Products information requirements. Human/Patient Health and Safety Informing Customers 85-88 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations * Our Economic Added Value / Compliance with Law and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and GC 8 Full and Fair Competition labeling, by type of outcomes. 41, 85-89 *Corporate Profile / Our Management Approach / Our Journey of Excellence * Valuing Humans / Product PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of Responsibility Monitoring Safety, Performance and Full surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Quality of Our Products Our Customers / Customer Satisfaction Informing Customers Marketing Communications and Ethics 87 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility / Informing related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, Full Customers Marketing Communications and Ethics and sponsorship. 88-89 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility Monitoring voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Full Safety, Performance and Quality of Our Products advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 85-86, 88-89 * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility / Our PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of GC 1 Full Customers / Marketing Communications and Ethics customer privacy and losses of customer data. Customer Privacy & Patient Confidentiality 88-90 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and * Valuing Humans / Product Responsibility / Our Full regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Suppliers / Our Management of Collaborations 91-93 * We have made use of the Practical Guide in the Communication on Progress of the UN Global Compact for the matching of GRI-GC indicators. 126 Bilim Pharmaceuticals Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all bargaining; its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Glossary ABP Annual Budget Plan CSA Current Situation Analysis CSS Customer Satisfaction Survey EDIE Environment-Dimension-Impact Evaluation EFQM European Foundation for Quality Management ESS Employee Satisfaction Survey FDA US Food and Drug Administration GC Global Compact GCP Good Clinical Practices GLP Good Laboratory Practices GMP-cGMP Good Manufacturing/Current Good Manufacturing Practices GRI Global Reporting Initiative IMMIB Istanbul Mineral and Metals Exporters’ Association IMS Integrated Management System ISS Individual Suggestion System MES Manufacturing Execution System OIZ Organized Industrial Zone PMAT Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association of Turkey SSS Supplier Satisfaction Survey This report has been prepared with the support of Mikado Consulting, our consultant on sustainability strategy building. www.mikadoconsulting.com Designed by Tayburn Kurumsal Tel: (90 212) 227 04 36 Fax: (90 212) 227 88 57 www.tayburnkurumsal.com www.bilimilac.com
