GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – SME VERSION Company Name Forster Date 21 March 2011 Unit (if applicable) Address 49 Southwark Street London SE 1 1RU Membership date Country UK Number of employees 35 Contact name Joanna Foy Contact Position Executive Assistant Sector Communications Contact telephone 020 7403 2230 no. Brief description of nature of business Forster is an integrated communications agency based near London Bridge. We focus exclusively on projects that aim to create a positive social change. Our core services are PR, strategic communications, behaviour change communications and brand and design. Statement of support Forster offers continued support for the Global Compact and maintains an ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles, with a view to continued improvement. Signature Jilly Forster Position CEO PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment or Policy Forster delivers all work within our 10 commitments, which underpin everything we do. Two of these commitment apply to this principal and are give below: 8. We encourage the highest standards of environmental protection, social responsibility and respect for human rights from our clients. 9. We will not generate profit or revenue from practices that threaten life or have negative social, ethical or environmental impacts. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Within our own core business there is negligible risk that any human rights violations will take place. However, we do ensure that we only work with clients and suppliers that support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. In order to verify this, we vet all potential suppliers and clients against our 10 commitments and business principals, as indicated above. The decision to work with any client or supplier is ultimately a board decision. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The process outlined above is longstanding within Forster and will be sustained in the future running of our business. In order to ensure that we are up to date with human rights law and legislation, this is regularly checked (approximately every 6 months) by our HR Manager and any policy changes ultimately signed off and implemented by the Chief Executive Officer. Measurable Results or Outcomes Not applicable PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment or Policy As for the previous statement, please see below two of our ten commitments, which underpin all elements of our business, that apply to this statement. 10. We encourage the highest standards of environmental protection, social responsibility and respect for human rights from our clients. 11. We will not generate profit or revenue from practices that threaten life or have negative social, ethical or environmental impacts. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Within our own core business there is negligible risk that any human rights violations will take place. However, we do ensure that we only work with clients and suppliers that support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. In order to verify this, we vet all potential suppliers and clients against our 10 commitments and business principals, as indicated above. The decision to work with any client or supplier is ultimately a board decision. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The process outlined above is longstanding within Forster and will be sustained in the future running of our business. In order to ensure that we are up to date with human rights law and legislation, this is regularly checked (approximately every 6 months) by our HR Manager and any policy changes ultimately signed off and implemented by the Chief Eecutive Officer. Measurable Results or Outcomes Not applicable PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy A brief description of our Processes or Systems Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Measurable Results or Outcomes PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy As for the previous statement, please see below two of our ten commitments, which underpin all elements of our business, that apply to this statement. 12. We encourage the highest standards of environmental protection, social responsibility and respect for human rights from our clients. 13. We will not generate profit or revenue from practices that threaten life or have negative social, ethical or environmental impacts. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Within our own core business there is negligible risk that any human rights violations will take place. However, we do ensure that we only work with clients and suppliers that support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. In order to verify this, we vet all potential suppliers and clients against our 10 commitments and business principals, as indicated above. The decision to work with any client or supplier is ultimately a board decision. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The process outlined above is longstanding within Forster and will be sustained in the future running of our business. In order to ensure that we are up to date with human rights law and legislation, this is regularly checked (approximately every 6 months) by our HR Manager and any policy changes ultimately signed off and implemented by the Chief Executive Officer. Measurable Results or Outcomes Not applicable PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy As for the previous statement, please see below two of our ten commitments, which underpin all elements of our business, that apply to this statement. 14. We encourage the highest standards of environmental protection, social responsibility and respect for human rights from our clients. 15. We will not generate profit or revenue from practices that threaten life or have negative social, ethical or environmental impacts. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Within our own core business there is negligible risk that any human rights violations will take place. However, we do ensure that we only work with clients and suppliers that support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. In order to verify this, we vet all potential suppliers and clients against our 10 commitments and business principals, as indicated above. The decision to work with any client or supplier is ultimately a board decision. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The process outlined above is longstanding within Forster and will be sustained in the future running of our business. In order to ensure that we are up to date with human rights law and legislation, this is regularly checked (approximately every 6 months) by our HR Manager and any policy changes ultimately signed off and implemented by the Chief Executive Officer. Measurable Results or Outcomes Not applicable PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy Forster’s equal opportunities policy is signed off at board level and all employees of Forster are made aware the policy and practices when they join the company, with copies always available to any member of staff through an shared, accessible system. Equal Opportunities & Employee Development Policy Our beliefs We value and encourage diversity and difference within Forster and believe that we are a stronger company as a result • We benefit from the different experiences and backgrounds that our employees bring with • them to work • We welcome diversity amongst our clients, associates and suppliers • We take the training and development of our employees seriously Our policies • To appoint staff on the basis of the skills and enthusiasm that they bring to the company, • regardless of race, colour, religion or belief, ethnic or national origin, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, age, responsibility for dependents and economic or part-time status or trade union membership or non-membership. • To provide all employees with equal access to stimulating employment and to career • advancement • To give each employee a formal appraisal once a year, backed by a review after six • months • To support employee development with agreed training and development activities • To encourage and support employee involvement in voluntary activities • To support job sharing and part-time working wherever possible • To comply with all relevant equal opportunities legislation • To ensure that all our employees comply with our Equal Opportunities Policies at all times In addition, Forster has a formal policy covering harassment: Harassment Policy Statement We are committed to providing a work environment for our employees that is free from embarrassment, intimidation, threats, discrimination or harassment. Harassment, whether racial or sexual or based on sexual orientation, religion or belief, disability, or age or in the form of bullying will not be tolerated under any circumstances. We recognise that such harassment or victimisation can have the effect of embarrassing, humiliating, offending and demeaning or intimidating the employee against whom it is aimed. As a result, the individual concerned will suffer harmful effects and the effectiveness and efficiency of our Company may be damaged. Racial Harassment can take on many forms. It will include any unwanted non-verbal, verbal or physical abuse, which is racially derogatory and potentially insulting. Examples of racial harassment include offensive and insensitive quips and jokes which are related to a person's race, religion, or ethnic origin; the deliberate exclusion and isolation of an individual; threatening or insulting words or behaviour, and the display of abusive writing or pictures. Sexual Harassment (including harassment relating to gender reassignment) consists of unwanted conduct of a sexual nature. It includes verbal, non-verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature, which the harasser knew or should have known, would cause offence to the victim. Such conduct may include (although this is by no means an exhaustive list), unwanted physical conduct of a sexual nature; inappropriate, suggestive or uninvited comments; displays of sexual or sexually aggressive literature and pictures; unwelcome sexual propositions or repeated unwelcome invitations, lewd comments or insensitive jokes, insulting words or behaviour or the deliberate exclusion and isolation of an individual. Harassment based on sexual orientation, religion or belief consists of unwanted conduct based on the individual’s sexual orientation, or religion or belief, which violates the individual’s dignity or creates an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for the individual or the deliberate exclusion and isolation of the individual. Harassment based on disability consists of any offensive or intimidating behaviour towards a person because of his or her disability, which may include an impediment of movement, vision or hearing or other physical or mental impairment. Harassment based on age consists of unwanted conduct based on the individual’s age, which violates the individual’s dignity or creates an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for the individual. Bullying can range from seemingly trivial nit picking to outright abuse against a person. It includes behaviour aimed at creating a humiliating or degrading environment for the individual, aggressive or intimidating conduct towards a person or other actions intended to make the victim’s working life difficult or unbearable. Employees are initially encouraged to resolve any situation of harassment informally by talking directly, politely and unambiguously to the person concerned. It may be sufficient to explain clearly to the person that the behaviour is unacceptable. Where the circumstances are such that it is too difficult to do this, an alternative approach could be to raise the situation informally with a Senior Manager. Forster delivers all work within our 10 commitments, which underpin everything we do. The commitments that apply to this principal and are give below: • We respect and have empathy with the beliefs and aims of all our clients and partners – irrespective of race, gender, sexuality or disability. • We ensure genuine employee participation in the day to day running and overall direction of the company. Every employee has an important 'voice' and is encouraged to use that voice. • We uphold an open, honest and inclusive relationship with all company partners and stakeholders A brief description of our Processes or Systems Our practices We are committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment. We are determined that no employee or potential employee shall unlawfully receive less favourable treatment or be unlawfully discriminated against on the grounds of race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, belief, gender, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, parttime status, age, trade union membership or non-membership. Our approach to recruitment, selection, remuneration, training, development and promotion includes a requirement that no job applicant or employee shall receive unlawful treatment on these grounds. We are committed to the principle that individuals should be selected, promoted and treated on the basis of their relevant aptitudes, skills and abilities. The Management have duties under the policy: • Not to unlawfully discriminate in the course of employment against job applicants, employees, customers, suppliers, or members of the public with whom contact is made; • Not to induce or attempt to induce others to practice unlawful discrimination; • To bring to the attention of employees that failure to adhere to the policy will be regarded as a disciplinary offence, which in the case of a serious offence would amount to gross misconduct. • Employees have duties under the policy: • Not to unlawfully discriminate in the course of their employment against fellow employees, customers, suppliers, or members of the public with whom contact is made; • Not to induce or attempt to induce others to practice unlawful discrimination; • To report any unlawful discrimination to the Management. • The effectiveness of the policy will be kept under review and the responsibility for ensuring that the policy is upheld is with the Management. If an employee considers that he or she is a victim of discrimination he or she should raise the issue through the Company's Grievance Procedure. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year There are no planned amendments to the policy over the next year, however we do ensure that we check (approximately every 6 months) that we are aware of any changes in legislation and adapt our policy as appropriate. Measurable Results or Outcomes No applicable PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy Environmental Policy Statement – summary At Forster, our business is based on our beliefs, encapsulated in our Ten Commitments. As an office-based consultancy whose ‘products’ are largely intellectual, our environmental impacts are relatively low. However, wherever possible we subscribe to a core philosophy of ‘reduce, re-use, recycle’. We also recognise that the activities we undertake or manage on behalf of clients have an impact on the environment and believe that it is our responsibility to minimise this impact. We have an Environmental Policy and an Environmental Management System, both approved at board level. All employees are made aware of policy and systems when they begin working with company and provided with regular updates regarding any changes to amendments to the policy. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Our most significant direct environmental impacts relate to the use of: Fossil fuels for transport; Energy for office heating, lighting and power; Paper and waste disposal; Water in our office kitchens and loos The effects of these impacts are already mitigated through: Use of cycle couriers wherever possible; Staff walking or cycling to work or using public transport Incentivised use of company pool bikes Purchase of 100% renewable electricity; Turning off appliances; Double-sided printing; Use of products with a lower environmental impact (including recycled stationary, Ecover cleaners, energy efficient computers, sustainably sourced office furniture, organic food & beverages and on-site bottled tap water) Separation of plastic, cans, glass, paper (white & coloured), cardboard and print toner cartridges for recycling; Reducing water use via dual flush loos and spray taps Working with suppliers who are committed to environmental sustainability Offsetting unavoidable CO2 emissions through an accredited social responsible environmental project. Monitoring and auditing We will continue to monitor our environmental impacts and will endeavour to progress towards our targets. Our environmental policy will be reviewed regularly to ensure it is still relevant and effective, particularly if there are significant physical or strategic changes to the business. Communication We will actively raise awareness of environmental issues with all our employees on an ongoing basis. Our environmental impacts, practices and process will be communicated internally via induction, regular company meetings, email updates and through the Employee and Office Procedures Handbooks, and externally via our environmental reports and our website. Responsibility Director Jilly Forster is responsible for reviewing the Company’s environmental policies and practices. Jo Foy is our Environmental Officer and she is responsible for the implementation of our environmental policy, and for making sure we have the necessary resources (in terms of time, training and money) to translate policy into practice. All individual employees have a responsibility for meeting the company policy in their areas of work and in their day-to-day office activities. All employees are appraised of their responsibilities under this policy upon induction, and through their work contract and job description. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Our environmental objectives are to: Deliver our Travel Plan, including increasing walking and cycling on commuter journeys and increasing cycling on business travel Reduce material and energy consumption; Use renewable resources where practical, e.g. electricity Continue separating waste for recycling, with the aim of increasing the proportion of recycled material decreasing the proportion of disposed; Comply with relevant regulations and legal requirements, e.g. the Duty of Care in relation to Waste; Uphold conditions of subscription bodies including UN Global Compact Work with clients and suppliers to reduce indirect negative environmental impacts, e.g.impacts of printing suppliers used by us or commissioned on behalf of clients. Establish a best practice water usage policy Maintain the ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard Specific targets relating to these objectives are documented in our annual Stakeholder Impact Report. Our most recent report was published in December 2009. Measurable Results or Outcomes Forster was placed in the top 20 of the Sunday Times Best Green Company in 2010, following an independent assessment by environmental auditors Beuro Veritas: In the last year we have: • Reduced our overall carbon emissions by 3.6% • Reduced our water consumption by 12% (per capita) • Reached our target of 10% of business journeys being taken by cycle • 29% of staff are walking to work, beating our target of 22% • Switched all energy supplies to Good Energy, to mean that 100% of electricity is now purchased from a renewable source • Reduced paper use by 19% (per capita) PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment or Policy Please see above PRINCIPAL 7 – the same policies and commitment apply. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Please see above PRINCIPAL 7 – the same processes and systems apply Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Please see above PRINCIPAL 7 – the same actions and objectives for the next year apply. Measurable Results or Outcomes Please see above PRINCIPAL 7 – the same results and outcomes apply. PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy Please see above PRINCIPAL 7 – the same policies and commitment apply. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Please see above PRINCIPAL 7 – the same processes and systems apply. In addition, we do actively encourage our clients and suppliers to improve their own environmental performance and offer advice, training and support to advance this. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year • Invest the value of carbon offsetting + 25% premium to a local (Southwark) carbon reduction project and to share this with other local SMEs • To work with suppliers to focus on our secondary carbon emitting activities. Measurable Results or Outcomes Please see above PRINCIPAL 7 – the same results and outcomes apply to the principal . PRINCIPLE BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, 10 INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy Forster takes issues of corruption in all its forms very seriously. Any activity that could be interpreted as corruption would involve Gross Misconduct proceedings for the individual involved. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Measurable Results or Outcomes Not applicable How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? We regularly communicate our targets and commitments to stakeholders through our annually produced ethical review. A copy of which can be accessed here: http://www.forster.co.uk/downloads/Forster%20Ethical%20Review%202009.pdf This COP will be communicated through the UN Global Compact website.
