CORPORATE RESPONSIbIlITY REPORT Contents Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 1 Kesko Corporate responsibility report 2010 GENERAL SECTION Themes INDICATORS 2 Contents of the report 25 Impact on society 56 GRI index 4 Kesko in brief 31 Wellbeing at work 61 Economic responsibility 6 Review by the President and CEO 37 Energy solutions 66 Environmental responsibility 8 Events in 2010 43 Responsible purchasing and sales 75 Social responsibility 10 Impacts of Kesko's operations 51 Healthiness 87 Definition of terms 12 Opportunities and risks 88 Independent Assurance Report 14 Responsibility management 90 Contacts 20 Kesko's responsibility programme 22 Materiality assessment of Kesko's corporate responsibility 2 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Contents of the report Contents of the report Since 2000, Kesko has This year, Kesko has divided its Corporate On the basis of the responsibility proannually reported on its Responsibility Report into three sections: the general section, the theme section and the gramme and the materiality assessment, Kesko selected five themes material for Kesko corporate responsibility in GRI indicator section. The contents of the secto this year’s theme section. Pages 25–55 proaccordance with the Global tions are described in the chapter on report structure. vide information on Kesko’s impact on society, wellbeing at work, energy solutions, Reporting Initiative (GRI) A comparison of the report with the GRI responsible purchasing and sales as well as guidelines for reporting on guidelines is provided on pages 56–60. As healthiness. The case examples illustrate the required by the GRI, the comparison includes diversity and extent of Kesko’s operations. sustainable development. Kesko’s self-declaration statement on the In accordance with the GRI guidelines, the This is Kesko's eleventh level of compliance with the GRI guidelines. progress and results of responsible operaThe application level has also been checked tions are, in addition to the general section of Corporate Responsibility by the assurance provider and the parties are the report, presented in more detail in the GRI Report. in agreement that Kesko has followed the A+ indicator section of the report (pages 56–86), application level of the GRI guidelines. divided according to the GRI guidelines. When presenting the results, the most material indicators from the viewpoint of stakeREPORT STRUCTURE holders and Kesko have been used. The general section first provides basic information on Kesko, followed by the review by the President and CEO, and a summary of the FURTHER INFORMATION ON events and achievements in 2010. WEB PAGES Next, the report discusses the impacts, The attachments to the report are published opportunities and risks of Kesko’s responsiat: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. ble operations, concentrating on issues most Information on Kesko as a listed company material to the retailing sector. includes basic ownership data and Kesko’s After describing responsibility manageratings in the most important sustainability ment, the key results of Kesko’s 2008–2012 indexes. More financial information is availresponsibility programme in 2010 are preable at: www.kesko.fi/investors. Kesko’s Corsented. Kesko’s new materiality assessment porate Governance and risk management and the description of its update are preprinciples are discussed in more detail in sented on pages 22–23. Kesko’s Annual Report and on www.kesko.fi pages. Kesko’s responsibility programme for 2008–2012, the corporate responsibility vision and principles as well as the stakeholder analysis are available in full at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Contents of the report Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 3 REPORT SCOPE INFORMATION ON K-RETAILERS GLOBAL COMPACT REPORTING The Kesko Group (hereinafter also Kesko) folKesko’s division parent companies and chains The report describes Kesko’s progress on the lows the principles for reporting boundary act in close cooperation with retailer entreten principles of the Global Compact initiaand disclosure levels defined in the GRI preneurs and other partners. The report tive. Global Compact accepts the use of the Boundary Protocol. presents information on K-stores (for examindicators in the GRI G3 Guidelines as approThe report covers all of Kesko’s operations: ple energy monitoring) when it is integrally priated for this purpose. The GRI index on ■■ Most economic responsibility indicators related to Kesko’s reporting and complements pages 56–60 shows which indicators have have been derived from the consolidated the overall picture of the relations of Kesko been used to evaluate performance in fulfillfinancial statements, whose preparation and K-retailers with society and other stakeing the principles of human rights, labour and representation are governed by the holder groups. In such cases, the report refers standards, the environment and anti-corrupIFRS standards. to them as 'the K-Group'. tion. ■■ The environmental indicators cover the parent company Kesko Corporation’s and its subsidiaries’ operations with REPORT'S STAKEHOLDERS ASSURANCE OF THE REPORT significant environmental impacts in all Kesko’s reporting is very comprehensive, and This report has been published in print the countries of operation. many investors and institutions making susin Finnish and English, and the electronic ■■ The human resources indicators cover tainability assessments use the report as versions can be read at: www.kesko.fi/­ the parent company Kesko Corporation’s their source of information when assessing responsibility. The report contents are not and its subsidiaries’ personnel in all the Kesko’s performance in various areas of updated after the assurance. countries of operation. Some three responsibility. An independent assurance report has been quarters of the Kesko Group employees The most important target groups of the provided for the Finnish language report and work in retailing. The report does not report include shareholders, investors, anathe correspondence of the English language cover the personnel employed by retailer lysts, Kesko personnel and the media. version has been checked. entrepreneurs, unless separately stated in When drawing up the report, we have also The assurance for the 2010 report was carthe text. wanted to take into account Kesko’s other ried out by Kesko’s auditors, Pricewaterhouseimportant stakeholders: customers, suppliers Coopers Oy’s Sustainability & Climate Change Any deviations and limitations in the boundof goods and services, as well as non-governgroup, whose assurance report is available on ary are reported in connection with the indimental and environmental organisations. pages 88–89. cators in question. If changes have been With the help of the theme section and its An independent assurance report has been detected in the indicators, their scope, boundcase examples, we want to give our customers provided for Kesko’s report since 2002. ary, or measurement methods reported previand cooperation partners practical informaThis report covers the progress and results ously, related information is given in connection about Kesko’s responsible operations. of responsibility actions in 2010 with some tion with the indicators. information for January-March 2011. The 2009 Indicator reporting does not cover contracreport was published in May 2010 and the 2011 tors or suppliers of goods and services, unless report will be published in spring 2012. otherwise stated. 4 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Kesko in brief Kesko in brief Kesko is a provider of trading KESKO'S BUSINESS OPERATIONS HOME AND SPECIALITY GOODS TRADE sector services and a listed In 2010, the Kesko Group’s net sales totalled €8,777 million, representing an increase of Kesko’s home and speciality goods trade opercompany domiciled in 3.9% from the previous year. The food trade ates in the clothing, home, sports, leisure, Helsinki, where the main accounted for 44% of the total net sales. The proportion of international operations was home technology, entertainment and furniture product lines. The home and speciality office is also located. Kesko 16.7% (17.0% in 2009). goods trade comprises Anttila and Kodin operates in the food, home At the end of 2010, Kesko had 1,270 Ykkönen, K-citymarket’s home and speciality K-retailer entrepreneurs as well as some 170 goods, Intersport Finland, Indoor’s Asko and and speciality goods, other retailer entrepreneurs in the Asko, Sotka, Musta Pörssi and Kenkäkesko. The total building and home Sotka, Byggmakker and Senukai chains as number of home and speciality goods stores partners. is 427, which operate in 13 chains. Of the improvement, and car and There were some 1,750 retail stores in the stores, 190 are owned by Kesko. machinery trades. Kesko K-Group in Finland with approximately 200 in other countries. In 2010, the K-Group’s manages retail chains and (Kesko’s and the chain stores’) retail and B2B BUILDING AND HOME provides services for the sales (VAT 0%) totalled €10,977 million, of IMPROVEMENT TRADE chains' purchasing logistics, which international operations accounted for €1,789 million. The increase from the previRautakesko is an international service provider which retails building, renovation and network development and ous year was 4.2%. home improvement supplies in Finland, SweIT management. Kesko's den, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and Belarus. Rautakesko manages and chain operations comprise FOOD TRADE develops the K-rauta, Rautia, K-maatalous, some 2,000 stores in eight Kesko Food operates in the Finnish grocery Byggmakker, Senukai and OMA retail chains trade. K-retailers, with whom Kesko Food as well as B2B sales in its operating area. countries: Finland, Sweden, applies the chain business model, are responRautakesko’s main functions include the cenNorway, Estonia, Latvia, sible for the more than 1,000 K-food stores. tralised development of chain selections, Kesko Food manages the K-food store chains, centralised purchasing and logistics, and the Lithuania, Russia, and which are K-citymarket, K-supermarket, development of chain concepts and the store Belarus. K-market and K-extra. Kesko Food’s main network. functions include the centralised purchasing There are 331 building and home improveof products, selection management, logistics, ment stores in eight countries and 88 agriculand the development of chain concepts and tural stores in Finland. All stores in Finland the store site network. Chain operations are owned by retailer entrepreneurs. There ensure the efficiency and competitiveness of are also 96 retailer-owned stores in Norway. the business. Kesko Food’s subsidiary Kespro is a wholesaler in the Finnish HoReCa business. Kesko in brief Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 5 CAR AND MACHINERY TRADE €2,337 million. The total market capitalisation leased by the Kesko Group was 3,908,000 m2. The car and machinery trade division consists of the company was €3,438 million. The total floor area of owned properties was of VV-Auto and Konekesko with their subAt the end of 2010, the number of share615,000 m2 in Finland and 269,000 m2 in sidiaries. holders was 38,258. Foreign shareholders other countries. The total floor area of leased VV-Auto imports and markets Volkswagen, owned 38% of the B shares at the end of the properties was 2,338,000 m2 in Finland and Audi and Seat passenger cars, and Volkswagen year, compared with 30% the previous year. 686,000 m2 in other countries. The majority commercial vehicles in Finland; it also of premises owned or leased in Finland are imports and markets Seat passenger cars in rented to K-retailers. Estonia and Latvia. VV-Auto is also engaged PERSONNEL in car retailing and provides after-sales servIn 2010, the average number of personnel in ices at its own outlets in the Greater Helsinki the Kesko Group was 18,215 (19,200) converted PRODUCT AND SERVICE SUPPLIERS area and Turku. into full-time employees. At the end of 2010, In 2010, Kesko bought products valued at €7.5 Konekesko is a service company specialisthe total number of personnel was 22,124 billion, of which some 69% was from Finnish ing in the import, marketing and after-sales (22,207) of whom 12,720 (12,959) worked in suppliers. The number of active product and services of recreational machinery, construcFinland and 9,404 (9,248) in other countries. service suppliers was some 23,000, of which tion and materials handling machinery, agriCompared to the end of 2009, there was a 12,000 operated in Finland. The Group had cultural machinery, and trucks and buses. decrease of 239 people in Finland and an 7,500 suppliers in its other countries of operKonekesko operates in Finland, Estonia, increase of 156 outside Finland. Approxiation and 3,400 in the rest of the world. The Latvia, Lithuania and Russia. Konekesko mately three quarters of all employees worked main countries from which goods were arranges the manufacture of and sells Yamain retailing. imported into Finland were Holland, Gerrin boats in Finland and exports them to sevmany, Sweden and Denmark and, outside the eral European countries and Russia. EU, China. STORE SITE OPERATIONS A store site network is a strategic competitive KESKO'S SHAREHOLDERS factor for Kesko. It provides opportunities for CUSTOMER GROUPS Kesko Corporation’s shares are listed on the developing business operations and increasRetailer entrepreneurs accounted for 52% of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd Helsinki stock ing sales and customer satisfaction. Kesko’s Kesko’s net sales. K-retailers concentrated exchange. At the end of 2010, the company’s division parent companies are responsible some 92% of their grocery purchases, 95% of share capital was €197,282,584, which is for their own store sites throughout their life their home and speciality goods purchases, divided into A shares and B shares. cycles. The companies plan their own retail and 75% of their building, home improvement A shares accounted for 32.2% of the comnetworks and, on the basis of their network and agricultural supplies purchases in Kesko. pany’s total share capital and 82.6% of all and business plans, make the capital expendK-retailers’ purchases from the local provinvotes. The corresponding percentages for iture in accordance with the Group’s real cial suppliers valued some €537 million. B shares were 67.8% and 17.4%. The company’s estate strategy. Opportunities for cooperation Kesko’s own retailing accounted for 27% ten largest shareholders, calculated by number between the division parent companies are and sales to B2B customers for 21% of Kesko’s of votes, held 34.45% of all votes and 16.51% particularly sought and made use of in shoptotal net sales. of all shares. The market capitalisation of A ping centre projects. shares was €1,101 million and that of B shares At the end of 2010, the total floor area of properties and business premises owned or 6 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Review by the President and CEO Kesko's profitability improvement was excellent throughout 2010. Growth in business operations gained speed towards the end of the year. The food trade and the home and speciality goods trade achieved excellent performance. Kesko's responsibility work continued in all our divisions. Review by the Progress in the actions of the use the K-Group’s online services from planIn autumn 2010, Rautakesko started an responsibility programme ning their purchases to using the product. initiative on energy efficiency in housing, Kesko’s 2008–2012 responsibility programme Kesko is developing its current online focused on providing services that improve sets objectives for combating climate change, stores and services and opening new ones. energy efficiency. energy efficiency, the wellbeing of its employOnline services and social media provide new ees as well as for responsible purchasing and ways of customer communications in the selections. Updating the responsibility proarea of responsibility, too. We look after our employees gramme for 2013–2017 will start in 2011. throughout their career In autumn 2010, we updated the materialWhen baby boomers retire, it is important to ity assessment of Kesko’s corporate responWe combat climate change by ensure that we have a sufficient number of sibility. The indicators identified as the most saving energy competent employees in the trading sector. important included a working community The K-Group has signed the trading sector More attention has to be paid to maintaining that is equal and promotes employee wellbeenergy efficiency agreement and is committhe employees’ working capacity and ability ing, energy efficiency in store operations and ted to saving 65 GWh by the end of 2016 a to work. services, as well as responsible purchasing figure equivalent to the annual energy conKesko is carrying out long-term work to and sales. sumption of 15 K-citymarkets. maintain and improve its employees’ wellbeSince 2008, all new K-food stores’ refriging. Annually, we spend some €6 million to eration equipment has been supplied with enhance wellbeing at work in Finland. The aim is profitable growth lids and doors. The annual energy savings Kesko’s first manager for wellbeing at work Kesko’s key strategic objective is profitable achieved by covering freezers amount to was appointed in October 2010. A joint mangrowth. In addition to Finland, growth is also 13 GWh, which corresponds to the annual agement model and an action plan for wellbesought in nearby areas, particularly in the fast electricity consumption of nearly 600 oneing at work are being developed for the whole developing Russian market. family houses. Kesko Group. The process started towards the When we expand to new market areas, it is LED technology is used in the illuminated end of the year. important to ensure that our responsible signs of all new K-food stores. The resulting operating practices are observed in all operasavings compared with traditional neon and tions. Risks are managed with regular trainfluorescent tube solutions are 60–70%. The Healthy and responsible ing, good business models and guidelines, general lighting of K-supermarket Torpparinselections and by paying special attention on how to mäki, opened in Helsinki in October 2010, Promoting a healthy way of life, eating habits select our business partners. has been implemented with an energy-effiand physical exercise plays a central role in Strategic focuses in all Kesko’s divisions cient LED system, which consumes over 35% our food and sports goods trade in particular. include the development of online commuless energy than the commonly used, energyStores must have good and versatile options nications and e-commerce. The objective is efficient fluorescent lighting. available, both for customers’ wellbeing and that customers, if they wish, will be able to for the environment. Customers have to be Review by the President and CEO Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 7 Kesko's President and CEO Matti Halmesmäki and Pirjo Virtaintorppa, Executive Director of Fairtrade Finland, visited the Oserian flower farm in Kenya in February 2011. The Oserian farm supplies Pirkka Fairtrade roses, carnations, mixed flower bunches and prairie gentians to K-food stores. Matti Halmesmäki also visited the coffee farm and laboratory of C. Dorman Ltd, a business partner of Paulig. President and CEO able to rely on the fact that their responsible trade products in their selections, of which Kesko continued in choices start as soon as they enter the store. nearly 40 are Pirkka Fairtrade products. sustainability indexes K-food stores’ Pirkka range consists of Fairtrade improves the working and living Kesko is included in the most important susnearly 2,000 products, of which some 50 are conditions of small farmers and workers on tainability indexes such as the Dow Jones DJSI organic products and some 80 have environlarger farms as well as the state of the enviWorld and DJSI Europe as well as the FTSEmental labelling. ronment in developing countries. My own 4Good Global and FTSE4Good Europe. In 'The awareness and commitment to Fairtrade Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations of increased further when I visited the Oserian the World' list published in January 2011, Pirkka coffee can be traced flower farm in Kenya in February 2011. The Kesko’s ranking was 26th, compared with 33rd down to the coffee farm farm supplies Pirkka Fairtrade roses, carnaa year before. In the SAM Sustainability YearPirkka Costa Rica coffee, Pirkka Organic coftions, mixed flower bunches and prairie genbook 2011, Kesko’s sustainability work qualifee, Pirkka espresso and the new Pirkka coffee tians to K-food stores. It was great to see the fied in the Silver Class in the Food & Drug launched to the market in September 2010 place and the people who produce Pirkka Retailers sector as in the previous year. are UTZ certified. Customers can visit the Fairtrade flowers. Kesko participates in the UN Global Comwww.pirkka.fi website to trace their UTZ cerThe Fairtrade premium generated from pact initiative and is committed to observe tified Pirkka coffee down to the coffee farm. K-food stores’ sales of flowers to Kenya ten generally accepted principles related to It is very important for Kesko that we can rely totalled €134,000 in 2010. The premium is human rights, labour standards, the environon the fact that our business partners are used to finance all computers, data connecment and anti-corruption in all the countries responsible in their operations. tions and library operations at the Oserian where it operates. In January 2011, we handed out boxes confarm comprehensive school, for instance. I’m proud of the fact that Kesko employees’ taining a pack of the new Pirkka coffee to all Attending school is free for farm workers’ long-term work for responsibility is reflected our employees and major stakeholders to children and the parents receive a grant of up in international comparisons. Responsibility celebrate Kesko’s 70th anniversary. The coffee to 60% of the education costs. across all our operations is very important for boxes were illustrated with sculptor Pekka In spring 2010, all buyers of Pirkka Fairus. Our work continues and we still have Jylhä’s 'Expectation', the sculpture donated trade flower bunches received a bracelet much to do to make our customers better see by Kesko to the City of Helsinki in May 2010. which was hand-made by Kenyan women. the results in our stores. The campaign was a success as all 300,000 I thank all Kesko people, retailers, their bunches containing a bracelet were sold out staff and our business partners for their comFairtrade premium supports in a short time. The campaign will be repeated mitment to our common objectives. a school in Kenya in spring 2011. In 2010, Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen departMatti Halmesmäki ment stores’ Anno Collection was expanded President and CEO with a product family made of Fairtrade cotton. K-food stores now have some 200 Fair8 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Events in 2010 Events in 2010 January–March April–June Kesko was ranked 33rd on The K-Food Kesko's website at: redesigned Kesko granted a total amount of 'The Global Specialist www.kesko.fi €40,000 100 Most training programme designed for K-food store employees was was launched. The new 'Responsibility' section introduced a in scholarships to 24 talented young athletes and art students. Sustainable Kesko took part in launched. series of articles under 'Viewpoints' in which writers from business or non-governmental Kesko sponsored the nationwide CorporaWWF's worldwide organisations express their views and opinions on responsibilityThesis tions Earth Hour related topics. A total of 11 articles were published in 2010. contest for polytechnics. In addition to categories in separate in the World' list, announced at the World Economic Forum 2010 Kesko was included as a member in fields of education, the contest also featured a theme category Annual Meeting in Davos. event by turning off lights for on corporate responsibility. In the SAM Sustainability one hour in office buildings and stores. the FTSEThe Pirkka Fairtrade flower campaign in Yearbook 2010, Kesko's responsibility work K-rauta promoted 4Good K-food stores sold qualified in energy Global and FTSE4Good Europe 300,000 the SAM indexes focusing on responsible saving on investment. bunches, with every buyer receiving a bracelet hand-made Silver Class Kesko's Corporate Responsibility by Kenyan women. in the Food & Drug Retailers sector. Kesko was also awarded a tour Report for 2009 was published in Finnish and English. Kesko Food donated Pirkka products to 5th and 6th grade of K-rauta stores across Finland. the title of SAM Sector Mover. The presentations focused Kesko and K-retailers pupils for use in a special learnThe staff winter event organised by the Kesko on products and services for replacing heating systems in detached houses. donated ing environment aimed at developing working life skills. Staff Club took place at sculptor Pekka Jylhä's 'ExpectaKesko was the main the Sappee Travel Centre tion', depicting an expectant partner of and gathered mother, to the City of Helsinki. 400 Kesko The sculpture is located in Kaivopuisto Park. the 'Your employees. Kesko's Board of Directors granted Move On The fun sports included fun ski a total amount of Tour' relay, slalom skiing, snowshoe football and ice fishing. €1,115,000 tour of events organised by the Young Finland Association and in donations to Finnish universities and polytechnics, among the Finnish Sports Federation for others. 13–19-year olds. The tour encouraged more than 25,000 young people to get moving. Events in 2010 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 9 July–September October–December Kesko was included in the OMX Asko's Insofa became K-food stores particiKesko joined the GES Sustainability Nordic index the first sofa manufacpated in the Cancer supporters of launched by NASDAQ OMX turer in Finland to have Society of Finland’s the allergy Pink Ribbon the Stockholm and GES Investment Services. For the eighth year in succession, Kesko was label campaign by selling Pirkka Pink Ribbon rose bunches in K-food CANEMU stores and Pink Ribbon camproject for carbon neutral selected for when it was granted to the new municipalities. paign bags in K-citymarkets. the Dow Puro sofa. Intersport and Halti Kesko's personnel had the opportunity to contribute to the The K-Team event for retailers, store employees and business Jones launched Pink Ribbon campaign using collection boxes made available partners was held in Tampere. sustainability indexes DJSI World and DJSI Europe. Kesko gained a jacket in the offices at Katajanokka and Hakkila. Kesko's stall at the event highlighted responsibility and featured a competition with a monthe subsector's best scores for its environmental reporting, eco-efficient operations, risk recycling K-supermarket Torpparinmäki where general lighting is proetary prize where participants produced ideas for responsible actions which could be implemanagement, and the corporate code of conduct for preventing campaign vided by energy efficient LED technology was opened in Helsinki. mented in their store or the neighbouring environment. corruption and bribery. in which part of the price of every coat or jacket bought The German oekom research A Rautia truck toured According to the results during the campaign period was assigned Kesko a prime grade of the sustainability surRautia donated to Plan Finland's 'Because I'm a Girl' campaign. The total amount donated by vey commissioned by the Helsingin Sanomat newspaper, of C+. Representatives of Kesko, other stores across Finland promoting Intersport and Halti to Plan importers, non-governmental heat energy solutions. Consumers were presented with different energy alternatives, such as Finland was €22,000. the Pirkka organisations and trade unions discussed responsible purchasground heat pumps, solar water heaters and air heat pumps. The Pirkka brand ing in Helsinki. Kodin Ykkönen and Plan Finland The theme of the Valkeakoski Housing Fair was recycled was considered the third best in sustainability in Finland after Valio and Fazer. launched their cooperation with a special event in all Kodin Ykkönen department stores. energy plastic bag K-food stores joined the international Pampers-UNICEF vaccine Kesko donated made of protective plastic efficiency. wrappings used in Kesko Food's goods transportation was introcampaign. K-food stores helped raise and donated over one mil€35,000 K-rauta and Rautia showcased duced in K-food stores. It lion tetanus inoculations to to the Good Christmas Spirit homes and also provided inforreceived the Recovery Award UNICEF. collection which enabled 15,000 mation at a stall. of the Year in November. vouchers to be distributed to Rautakesko organised a seminar Finnish low-income families with on energy efficient living for children, facing difficult situabusiness partners and specialists tions in life. on the progress of Rautakesko's project for energy efficiency in Intersport Finland ran a camhousing. paign raising €9,900 from plastic bags bought by customers. The Kesko's 2009 Corporate Responamount was donated to the sibility Report ranked second in Young Finland Association for the Corporate Responsibility supporting children's and 2010 competition. youths' physical activities. 10 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Impacts of Kesko's operations What are the impacts of Kesko's operations? illustration: Mikael Eriksson Production ■■ the economic impact of Kesko’s and retailers’ purchases on suppliers of goods and services, e.g. increase in jobs ■■ the impact of local purchases on regional business activities Logistics ■■ working conditions, terms and human ■■ economic benefits from efficient logistics rights in factories and farms ■■ environmental impacts of emissions ■■ environmental impacts of the factory and from transportation and packaging waste production, e.g. impact on climate generated in warehouses, e.g. impact on change, consumption of water climate change ■■ the origin of products and responsibility ■■ the impact of material wastage on climate criteria, e.g. sustainable fishing change and the environmental load caused by production Impacts of Kesko's operations Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 11 The impacts of Kesko's corporate responsibility can be divided into economic, social and environmental impacts. Kesko is a service sector company which, in addition to its own direct impacts, has indirect impacts related to the production, use and recyclability of goods, which play a significant role in the overall picture. The impacts of Kesko's operations on society are illustrated in this diagram, which also includes examples of such indirect impacts. Use of products and services ■■ the traceability of products ■■ product safety ■■ responsible marketing ■■ high-quality and competitively priced products ■■ promoting a healthy way of life ■■ reducing packaging waste and shrinkage with appropriate packaging ■■ reducing the environmental load of STORE consumption by offering proenvironmental products and services, ■■ the impact of salaries, taxes and social ■■ environmental impacts of store site e.g. those improving the energysecurity contributions paid by Kesko and construction, e.g. the environmental efficiency of housing retailers on regional economic wellbeing criteria in construction, land use, and the climate impact of store logistics and ■■ reducing the environmental load of ■■ the impact of Kesko’s and retailers’ shopping traffic traffic, leisure activities and agricultural investment on regional economic production by offering low-emission and wellbeing and the accessibility of ■■ environmental impacts of producing energy-efficient car and machinery products and services energy for stores, e.g. impact on climate products change and acidification of soil and water ■■ the impact of retailers’ economic support, ■■ promoting sustainable cultivation e.g. on local organisational activities ■■ environmental impacts of materials methods in agriculture with the help of usage and waste on the environment, a cultivation programme ■■ the impact of stable employments and e.g. impact on climate change a good working community that provides ■■ promoting waste recovery by offering opportunities for career progress on ■■ possible environmental accidents, recycling points for customers and employee wellbeing and job satisfaction e.g. emissions caused by fire to soil or managing the products and packaging to water be sent for reuse, such as household ■■ shopping safety and security batteries, bottles and cans 12 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Opportunities and risks Opportunities The material aspects of Opportunities inherent The building and home improvement trade in responsibility Kesko’s corporate As a multi-division company, Kesko is able to places an emphasis on eco-efficient construction and energy saving solutions. Read more responsibility are presented offer responsible consumption alternatives on pages 38–41. in the materiality assessment and service solutions to nearly any sector of consumption. Kesko’s selections provide a A guide in sustainable living ('Kestävän asumisen opas') is available from the K-rauta on page 23. Impacts wide range of choices with which Kesko and and Rautia chains to help customers reduce related to these aspects are its customers together can reduce the adverse the impact of living on climate change. effects of consumption and promote sustainHouseholds who open an account with a illustrated on pages 10–11. able development. In such cases, the inherent K-rauta or a Rautia store for home repair purThe objectives of Kesko's responsibility creates significant possibilities chases get a special edition of the guide book to improve competitiveness and increase in energy saving by Jussi Laitinen (“Pieni responsibility programme business. suuri energiakirja”). for 2008–2012 include Maintaining a comprehensive store netThe implementation of the EU’s Integrated work is one of Kesko’s corporate responsibilEnergy and Climate Policy, and the Finnish issues closely connected to ity objectives. Visits in shopping centres and Government’s energy policy will affect future the strategies of Kesko and stores generate some of the environmental energy solutions and may increase energy its divisions, which are impacts of consumption which Kesko aims to help reduce through the location of its prices, adding to energy saving pressures. Kesko wants to support a total solution estimated to create business stores. towards carbon dioxide free production, opportunities and generate The emissions from the production of electrical and heat energy for Kesko’s own properreduce Finland’s dependency on imported energy and enhance the efficiency of the eleccompetitive advantages. ties represent a significant part of the tricity market. To this aim, Kesko is a particiK-Group’s environmental impacts. The pant in the Fennovoima project which aims K-Group’s environmental policy obliges to build a new nuclear power plant in Finland. Kesko’s real estate operations, in cooperation Kesko also examines the use of renewable with its business partners, to develop soluenergy sources, such as soil and water as tions related to the building, repairs, concept sources of heat, which will be a potential changes, maintenance and use of real estate alternative as the technical solutions become properties that reduce the consumption of increasingly sophisticated, in the same way materials and energy during the life cycle of as the condensation heat of the refrigeration these properties. Kesko is a member of Green units in stores is already being recovered. Building Council Finland (FIGBC), an environmental organisation whose goal is to foster the sustainable development perspective as a natural part of all real estate and construction activity. Consideration of sustainable development in construction is an opportunity for Kesko in a competitive situation. Opportunities and risks Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 13 and risks For customers of the K-agricultural trade, Risks significant for The following is a list of risks identified as climate change means a longer growing searesponsibility significant for responsibility. son with increasing numbers of plant disKesko’s risk management is proactive and an Different aspects of responsibility are eases and pests. The changing climate condiintegral part of management and day-to-day increasingly important for customers, and tions require that plant varieties new to Finnactivities. Kesko’s operations are examined possible responsibility failures would weaken ish conditions be tried and current farming in regular risk assessments, which take Kesko’s reputation. Kesko’s challenges in practices modified. The K-Group’s K-maatalaccount of the management of changes necesresponsibility work include communicating ous Experimental Farm carries out such sitated by changes in the business environits responsibility policies to suppliers, retailresearch and development in cooperation ment and climate. ers and customers, and ensuring the ethicalwith Lantmännen SW Seed. The objective of Kesko’s risk management ity of production. Kesko’s direct purchases and purchases is to ensure the implementation of the Group A failure in product safety control or in the outside Finland via other importers account strategy, the delivery of customer promises, quality assurance of the supply chain may for about one third of Kesko’s total purchases. shareholder value, and the continuity of busiresult in financial losses, the loss of customer In 2010, some 82% of imports came from the ness. Efficient risk management is a comconfidence or, in the worst case, a health hazEU area (excluding VV-Auto Group Oy’s petitive advantage for Kesko. ard. imports). The climate change may have an The risk management policy confirmed by Expansion and operations in Russia and impact on the sources and availability of the Board of Directors guides risk manageBelarus involve country risks. The unpredictproducts both in and outside Europe. It is also ment in the Kesko Group. The policy, based ability of officials and sudden changes possible that prices rise in this context. The on the COSO ERM Framework, defines the in legislation and the interpretation and importance of responsible sourcing practices objectives, principles, responsibilities and application of laws, as well as corruption can can be expected to increase and it is necessary key practices of risk management. Kesko complicate operating activities or delay to provide customers with increasingly accudivides risks into strategic, financial, operaexpansion. rate information on the origin and productional and damage/loss risks. Crime is becoming more professional and tion methods of products. Risk management is discussed in more detail an increasing part of crimes are committed Obesity and other health problems have in the 2010 Annual Report, on pages 71–73, through data networks. There is a risk that become increasingly widespread in the devel85–86, 130, and at: www.kesko.fi/investors. controls against such crime are not suffioped countries. Promoting healthy ways of Risks which are significant for Kesko are cient. life and eating habits is a key opportunity and extensively discussed in the Annual Report Non-compliance with legislation, agreea strategic objective for Kesko Food. Different on pages 85–86. Corporate responsibly is ments and Kesko’s responsibility guidelines forms of physical activity play a significant regularly addressed in the Group’s risk assesscan result in fines, compensation for damrole in the product selections of the K-Group’s ment. ages and other financial losses or even a loss sports stores and department stores, as well of confidence and reputation. as Kesko’s cooperation with several organisaThe implementation of strategies and the tions, such as the Young Finland Association. achievement of goals require competent and Read more on page 54. motivated people. There is a risk that the trading sector will not attract the most competent people. 14 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Responsibility management Responsibility Kesko’s corporate Values, strategy, management system (see page 16); further management model and systems responsibility work is Kesko’s present values were introduced in systems based on international standards have also been adopted. integrated in the Group’s 2002. The implementation of these values is The management principles and systems normal management. monitored using a number of corporate responsibility indicators. Some examples of addressing the different dimensions of corporate responsibility are discussed in the GRI Corporate responsibility the indicators used by Kesko are shown in the section of this report. is defined and guided by table on this page. Kesko is active in the food trade, the home the Group’s values and and speciality goods trade, the building and Principles guiding its management system, home improvement trade, and the car and responsibility machinery trade. Kesko’s strategy is built on Kesko’s Corporate Management Board has corporate responsibility customer focus, with both division and chainapproved the Group’s general corporate stakeholder analysis, vision, specific strategies supervised by the division responsibility principles. These principles Boards and Kesko’s Board playing a central define Kesko’s key economic, social and envigeneral principles, as well as part. ronmental promises, and related communithe guide to our code of The key strategic areas are profitable cation principles. Kesko’s commitment to conduct, 'Our Responsible growth, sales and services to consumer-customers, as well as responsible and efficient international declarations and agreements are also included in the principles. The most Working Principles'. operating practices. The strategic objectives important of them are the UN Universal Decare presented on page 15. laration of Human Rights and the UN ConvenKesko’s business models comprise the tion of the Rights of the Child, the ILO conretailer entrepreneurs’ retailing, Kesko’s own vention on the Fundamental Rights and Prinretailing and B2B sales. Further information ciples at Work, the OECD Guidelines for on the business models is available in Kesko’s Multinational Corporations, the ICC Business 2010 Annual Report on page 14. Charter for Sustainable Development and Kesko’s financial reporting and planning principles against corruption and bribery, the are based on the Kesko Group’s management UN Global Compact initiative, and the pursystem. The plans and actions relevant to corchasing principles of the Business Social porate responsibility are integrated in the Compliance Initiative (BSCI). Kesko has used different sections of Kesko’s management the ISO 26000 standard as a guidance docuvalues and performance indicators WE Exceed our we are the best customers' operator in the We create a good we bear our corporate expectations trading sector working community responsibility ■■ Customer satisfaction surveys ■■ Net sales, market share and ■■ Personnel survey ■■ Customer, decision-maker profit performance ■■ Sickness absence and accident and media surveys ■■ Customer surveys statistics ■■ Sustainable development ■■ Investor surveys ■■ Equality and training statistics indexes Responsibility management Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 15 management ment that offers orientation to corporate reputation. All actions pertaining to corpotion on the different dimensions of Kesko’s responsibility. The Board of K-Retailers’ Assorate responsibility play an increasing part in and K-stores’ responsibility. ciation has recommended that Kesko’s prinactive and comprehensive reputation manKesko’s corporate reputation and responciples be also followed by K-stores. agement. sibility were rated at the average level in the Kesko’s corporate responsibility principles In a nationwide youth survey conducted in retail and service sector. On the whole, the can be read at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. 2010, respondents considered Pirkka, K-food sector’s level of reputation was perceived to Kesko’s general corporate responsibility prinstores’ own brand, as the friendliest brand of be quite good, whereas responsibility was ciples are complemented by more detailed all. considered to be at a slightly lower level compolicies, principles, stands and statements. According to the sustainability survey compared to reputation. The overall low level of The main policies and principles followed missioned by the national daily Helsingin reputation probably reflects the fact that by the Kesko Group are listed in the guide Sanomat, Finnish consumers consider Pirkka stakeholders do not have a clear perception 'Our Responsible Working Principles' and at: as the third most responsible brand. Read of corporate responsibility and companies’ www.kesko.fi/responsibility. The guide 'Our more on page 46. efforts for it. Responsible Working Principles' will be The results of the 2010 grocery buyer surAccording to the survey, the absolute drivupdated in 2011. vey conducted by TNS Gallup showed a yearers of Kesko’s performance are high-level on-year improvement in images connected products and services. Kesko’s customer orito the K-food retail chains’ brand promises. entation and competent personnel, coupled Stakeholder process The best ratings given to the K-food store with the accuracy of delivery and service were The assessment of corporate responsibility chains were for food expertise, food ideas, also perceived as strengths. performance takes account of Kesko’s key service counters and special offers. The The dimension of social responsibility stakeholder groups, namely: Kesko shareK-supermarket and K-citymarket chains have proved an important element in Kesko’s repuholders, its personnel, retailers and their succeeded in increasing the share of committation, in which Kesko ranked slightly below staff, consumers, suppliers of goods and servted customers. Pirkka continues to hold its the average in the survey. Kesko sees that this ices, the media, the authorities, non-governstrong and steady position compared to other result proves that communication on Kesko’s mental and environmental organisations and private labels. According to the survey, conextensive and participatory operations in suptrade unions. A stakeholder analysis is sumers are more willing than before to ply chain management, responsible selections included in Kesko’s management system and change their regular shopping place and want and good human resources policies, for examoperating plans. to shop in more stores than before. ple, has been inadequate. Responsibility comWith a growing awareness among stakeTNS Gallup’s 2010 survey of corporate repmunications are increasingly important in holders, responsibility has become an utation and responsibility provides informabuilding and maintaining a good reputation. increasingly important part of corporate Strategic objectives Profitable sales and services for RESPONSIBLE AND EFFICIENT growth consumer-customers OPERATING PRACTICES ■■ Our objective is to grow faster than ■■ We increase the value of our brands ■■ Our operating practices are responsible market ■■ Our customer satisfaction exceeds that of ■■ We efficiently combine retailer ■■ We seek growth in nearby areas, our competitors entrepreneurship and chain operations particularly in Russia ■■ Our competitive asset is the K-retailers ■■ We leverage our economies of scale and ■■ We invest in our store network who know the local customers and their competence for the benefit of customers ■■ We develop e-commerce solutions needs ■■ We automate our routines and processes ■■ We increase our shareholder value ■■ We use loyal customer information efficiently and commit our customers 16 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Responsibility management Kesko has prepared a process description company. Kesko’s Board does not include on corporate responsibility matters, nor does of stakeholder cooperation (see page 17) to employee representatives. Kesko have a separate process for evaluating facilitate the analysis and planning of the The Board of Directors regularly assesses the Board members’ competence in corporate cooperation. Stakeholder groups’ expectaits operations and working practices and carresponsibility. In its decision-making, the tions of Kesko, Kesko’s actions to meet these ries out a related self-assessment once a year. Board relies on the expertise of the Corporate expectations, and indicators measuring Responsibility Advisory Board, as necessary. the performance are described in the stakeThe Board members’ fees are not tied to the holder group analysis of the Group’s responcompany’s corporate responsibility performsibility work (available at: www.kesko.fi/ Rolling ance; they are presented in Kesko’s Annual responsibility). The divisions also use planning and Report, on page 69 and at www.kesko.fi/ risk assessment their specific stakeholder analyses. investors. Kesko is active in many national Q4 financial The Board discusses the CorpoJANUA statements and international organisations ECE M B ER RY rate Responsibility Report as D release and seeks to impact the develBE R FE BR soon as it has been completed, M opments in its business secNO RY and as necessary, also other VE N UA tor. The most significant AT IO Annual report related issues brought out Q3 interim NT g channels of influence can be ER r ti n ME either by the Corporate report VISION Rolling planning CH Monthly repo M AR OCTOB ATEGIC IMPLE read at: www.kesko.fi/ and risk Management Board or the VALUES responsibility. M ont h assessment Corporate Responsibility l y r STRATEGIC FOCUS ep o M Advisory Board. The Board of ER TEMB OPERATING r ti Rolling Directors’ principal funcPRINCIPLES APRIL Corporate ST R E n STRAT GIC PRO planning and Q1 Interim tions are listed in the Annual governance risk assessment S EP report S ES Report, on page 66 and at Kesko’s decision-making and UST g C www.kesko.fi/investors. administration comply with AU AY The Kesko Group has a CorG the Finnish Limited Liability Corporate porate Management Board JULY JUNE Companies Act, regulations conresponsibility chaired by Kesko’s President and cerning publicly traded compareport CEO. The Corporate Management Q2 interim Rolling nies, Kesko Corporation’s Articles of planning and Board has no authority based on legreport em Association, the rules and guidelines risk assessment st islation or the Articles of Association. sy of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd, and the e nt The Corporate Management Board is em Finnish Corporate Governance Code. The a nag responsible for considering Group-wide ’s m Governance Code is available in full at: ro u p development projects and Group-level poliT h e Ke s k o G www.cgfinland.fi. As provided by the Comply cies and practices. In addition, the Corporate or Explain principle of the Code, Kesko Management Board discusses the Group’s and departs from the Board member’s recomIn 2010, the Board met ten times and the the division parent companies’ business mended one-year term of office and applies members’ attendance rate was 100%. plans, profit performance and matters hana three-year term. Read more at: www.kesko.fi/ The Board has an Audit Committee and a dled by Kesko’s Board of Directors, in whose investors. Remuneration Committee, both of which preparation it also participates. The Corporate Kesko’s Board of Directors has seven memhave three members. The committees have Management Board’s members consist of the bers, one of whom is female. All of Kesko’s no autonomous decision-making powers. presidents of the major division parent comBoard members are non-executive directors. Instead, the Board of Directors makes decipanies and senior vice presidents responsible In the latest evaluation carried out on 4 April sions based on the Committees’ preparation. for corporate finance and accounting, human 2011, the Board found all members independIn 2010, the Audit Committee met five times resources as well as corporate communicaent of the company’s significant shareholders and the Remuneration Committee four times. tions and responsibility. In 2010, two of the and the majority of the members also indeFurther information on the Committees’ work members were female. The Corporate Manpendent of the company. Companies controlis available in Kesko’s 2010 Annual Report on agement Board takes a stand on matters led by three Board members (K-retailers) each pages 66–68 and at: www.kesko.fi/investors. brought out by the Corporate Responsibility have a chain agreement with a Kesko Group The Board of Directors has not appointed Advisory Board. The Corporate Management any of its members to concentrate especially Board meets 8–10 times a year. Responsibility management Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 17 risk management ment implementation. Each division has cises will continue to be arranged. The risk Kesko’s risk management is proactive and an appointed a management board member to management function will continue working integral part of management and day-to-day be responsible for coordinating risk managein close cooperation with other Group units, activities. The objective of Kesko’s risk manment, safety and security, providing guideespecially with the internal audit, legal affairs, agement is to ensure the implementation of lines in each respective division and reporthuman resources, accounting, treasury and the Group strategy, the delivery of customer ing on risk management responses. In addiIT functions. This is to ensure the adoption promises, shareholder value and the continution, each of the food trade, the building and of responsible operating practices, to improve ity of business. Efficient risk management is home improvement trade, and the home and personnel safety and to develop risk managea competitive advantage for Kesko. speciality goods trade divisions has a risk ment related to information security and data The risk management policy confirmed by manager, who is responsible, in cooperation protection, for example. the Board of Directors guides risk managewith the business management and support Risk management is discussed further on ment in the Kesko Group. The policy, based functions, for the development and control page 13 and more extensively in Kesko’s 2010 on the COSO ERM Framework, defines the of risk management, safety and security in Annual Report on pages 71–73, 85–86 and objectives, principles, responsibilities and the division. 130. key practices of risk management. Kesko In 2011, Kesko’s risk management will condivides risks into strategic, financial, operatinue to focus on preventing damages and tional and damage/loss risks. malpractice, maintaining and testing contiThe business division and Group unit mannuity plans, and providing cost-efficient agements are responsible for risk manageinsurance services. Management’s crisis exerkesko's stakeholder interaction Planning Data collection Actions and feedback ■■ Stakeholder identification ■■ Viewpoint and importance ■■ Reporting performance ■■ Nature of stakeholder to the company against targets relationship ■■ Viewpoint indicators ■■ Reporting against criteria ■■ Stakeholder expectations ■■ Process scope, target and (GRI, AA1000) ■■ Key values and operating schedule ■■ Assurance principles relevant to ■■ Type of data collection ■■ Stakeholder feedback different stakeholders ■■ Data auditing and analysis, comparison with objectives and indicators Policies, guidelines, methods Documentation 18 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Responsibility management Responsibility organisation in Corporate responsibility The Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board Kesko steering groups is responsible for: Corporate responsibility in Kesko is inteThe Group-level Risk Management Steering ■■ developing the principles that guide the grated in normal, day-to-day work. The manGroup is responsible for: Group’s corporate responsibility agement of each business division is respon■■ considering the operating principles and ■■ steering and coordinating their practical sible for the practical implementation, while key policy definitions concerning risk implementation the Board of Directors and the Corporate Manmanagement, safety and security ■■ setting the objectives for corporate agement Board handle reporting and the key ■■ assessing and monitoring the Group’s responsibility work and monitoring and, principles. Kesko’s Corporate Communicarisks and safety situation, and the as necessary, supporting their tions and Responsibility Unit, assisted by implementation of risk management implementation. steering groups, is responsible for the develresponses. opment, coordination and reporting. kesko's Corporate responsibility vision Corporate responsibility at Kesko is a voluntary but measurable commitment, based on the Group's values, principles, objectives and strategy. Operations in the areas of economic, social and environmental responsibility are developed in accordance with the expectations of the key stakeholder groups. Owners/investors Personnel Suppliers of goods and services Kesko’s general principles for corporate reCompanies that offer good job satisfaction Diverse networks with product and service sponsibility state that good financial perand varied responsibilities and opportunisuppliers and with K-retailers mean that all formance must be achieved in responsible ties for career progress are the most likely to the parties involved accept common values, ways. Kesko wants to be included in signifisucceed in attracting and retaining the best objectives and operating practices. Kesko’s cant sustainability indexes recognised as impeople. aim is that its approach to responsibility is portant impartial indicators of responsible strongly reflected in the K-Group’s consumer operations. brands and is also visible to consumers at the store level. Consumers Cooperation with authorities and Kesko's corporate responsibility Consumer interest in corporate responsibilorganisations vision can be read in full at: ity is continuing to increase, despite the fact Kesko actively monitors and anticipates www.kesko.fi/responsibility. that purchasing decisions are strongly based changes in society in close cooperation with on price. Responsibility is seen as embracing its stakeholders. This is important for preparquality products, the maintenance of services, ing ourselves for emerging issues and maingood human resources policies and wellbetaining a forerunner position. ing at work, high standards of environmental protection, promotion of equality, and improving the working conditions of employees in manufacturing operations. Kesko has a major role in shaping families’ healthy ways of living and overall quality of life. Responsibility management Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 19 The Environmental Steering Group is responThe Steering Group for Responsible PurchasThe division-specific responsibility steering sible for: ing is responsible for: groups, based on the objectives set and infor■■ developing the Group’s environmental ■■ developing the Group’s purchasing and mation distributed by the Group-level steermanagement based on the objectives set sourcing based on the objectives set by ing groups, are responsible for: by the Corporate Responsibility Advisory the Corporate Responsibility Advisory ■■ determining their own responsibility Board Board objectives ■■ promoting the sharing of best practices ■■ promoting the sharing of best practices ■■ implementing them in accordance with within the Group within the Group the characteristics and strategy of the ■■ keeping up with changes in ■■ keeping up with changes in division. environmental and chemical legislation. environmental and chemical legislation pertaining to product purchasing and sourcing. corporate responsibility steering at KESKO Food Home and Building and Car and trade speciality goods home machinery trade improvement trade trade Kesko's Board of Directors Corporate Management Board Risk Management Steering Group President and CEO (Ch.), division representatives Corporate Responsibility Advisory Group SVP for Corporate Communications and Responsibility (Ch.), division representatives Environmental Steering Group Corporate Responsibility Team (Ch.), division specialists Steering Group for Responsible Purchasing Corporate Responsibility Team (Ch.), division specialists Division-specific responsibility steering groups 20 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Kesko's responsibility programme Kesko's responsibility programme 2008–2012 The whole responsibility programme is available at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Here are the key results of the responsibility programme in 2010. More extensive information on the progress in the objectives and performance of the programme can be found in the respective sections of this report. The update of the responsibility programme will start in spring 2011. Objective and actions Year 2010 We actively increase the number of local suppliers and encourage K-retailers to purchase locally ■■ The aim is to increase the amount of local purchases (local purchases ■■ K-retailers’ local purchases were €537 million. totalled €534m in 2007, €569m in 2008, €525m in 2009). We maintain a comprehensive store network in Finland ■■ Compared with Finnish competitors, Kesko Food's store network is the ■■ At year-end, there were 1,007 K-food stores and the store network covered 89% or most comprehensive and households' distance to the nearest food store is 304 out of all 342 Finnish municipalities. the shortest (start value in 2008: 45.5% lived within one kilometre from ■■ 51% of the Finnish population lived within one kilometre of the nearest K-food a K-food store). store. Combating climate change ■■ The K-Group has signed the trading sector energy efficiency agreement ■■ The combined carbon dioxide emissions (CO2 eq.) of electricity and heat used by and made a commitment to save 65 GWh by the end of 2016. the K-Group in Finland were 125,641 tons, up 5.7% from 2009. ■■ Electricity purchased by Kesko to the K-Group is carbon-free. ■■ Electricity purchased by Kesko is carbon-free; it has been produced with nuclear power and renewable energy sources. Increasing energy efficiency (Kesko Food) ■■ Actions include fitting freezers of all new stores with lids, cooling cabinets ■■ There are over 4.3 kilometres of freezers covered with lids and the pilot project of with doors, all new stores' advertising signage with LED lighting only, fitting cooling cabinets with doors was launched. optimising the number of cooling cabinets, and energy classification ■■ LED lighting is used in advertising signage and, for the first time, also in general recommendation 'A' for store equipment. lighting. Transportation ■■ Reducing CO2 emissions calculated per delivered kilo by 10% by the end of ■■ Comparative emissions per delivered kilo were 0.0242 (0.0252 in 2009) CO2 kg, 2012; 2007 is used as baseline (0.0237 CO2 kg per delivered kilo). down 3.98% from the previous year. ■■ Compared with the 2007 level, relative emissions have increased by 0.7%. The objective will be revised in connection with the update of Kesko's responsibility programme. Business travel and company cars ■■ Reporting the CO2 emissions derived from travelling with company cars ■■ In 2010, the average CO2 emissions were 155 g (161 g in 2009) and the new and the average emission level (g CO2/km). Our recommendation is below recommendation was set at 160 g CO2/km. The total CO2 emissions of company 180 g CO2/km. cars were 2,505 tons (2,600 tons in 2009). ■■ Continuing to increase video conference facilities. ■■ In 2010, there were 4,516 hours (2,846 hours in 2009) of video conferences and ■■ Reducing the amount of air travel and reporting the CO2 emissions derived the Office Communicator instant messaging pilot was launched. Emissions from air from air travel. travel were 1,935 (1,971) tons, down 1.8% from 2009. Recovery and material efficiency ■■ Having the recovery rate of some 90% in our warehouse activities. ■■ The development of recycling in warehouses and K-stores continued. Recycling rate Increasing the recovery rate of K-food stores to the same level of 90% by in Kesko Food's logistics was 84%. 2012. ■■ Work to reduce shrinkage continued in warehouses and K-stores by developing sale ■■ Decreasing the K-food stores' shrinkage by some 20% by 2012. management and ordering tools. ■■ Developing the recovery and recycling services offered by K-food stores to ■■ There were 243 recycling points for customers in connection with K-food stores. their customers. Some 278 million cans and 103 million recyclable plastic bottles were returned to K-food stores, which accounted for some 28% of all beverage packages returned in Finland. Kesko's responsibility programme Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 21 Objective and actions Year 2010 Environmental management at stores ■■ Including Anttila Oy's all new department stores in Anttila's ISO 14001 ■■ All Anttila department stores have been certified. certification. ■■ Situation with K-environmental stores: 100% of K-citymarkets, 97% of ■■ All K-citymarket and K-supermarket stores, and 50% of K-market stores are K-supermarkets and 44% of K-markets (there are K-markets in service stations that K-environmental stores. do not yet have the K-environmental store model in their business concept). ■■ In Finland, all K-rauta and Rautia stores are K-environmental stores by the ■■ 100% of K-rauta stores, 93% of Rautia stores and 88% of K-maatalous stores are end of 2009, and all K-maatalous stores by spring 2009. environmental stores. ■■ Kesko Food develops the K-environmental store concept, trainings of new ■■ The update of the content of the K-environmental store concept and the revision of sections by the end of 2010. the set of criteria will be completed in spring 2011. The e-learning training project will start after the new guide has been completed. Responsible purchasing, stands and statements ■■ Kesko has two monitoring officers in China whose target is to make 160 ■■ The monitoring officers made 86 factory visits. The targeted number of visits will be factory visits to the premises of Kesko's suppliers annually. reduced to correspond to the number of unmonitored factories. ■■ The BSCI objective for 2010 is 85 initial audits and 50 re-audits. ■■ In BSCI audits, there were 51 initial audits and 52 re-audits. ■■ Establishing the fish and shellfish statement. ■■ The fish and shellfish statement in use in Kesko's purchases, will be adopted for K-food stores' purchases by 1 May 2011. Responsible product selections ■■ Promoting the sales of biodegradable Pirkka bags and reusable Pirkka bags. ■■ The promotion of biodegradable and reusable bags continued; a non-disposable ■■ New biodegradable packages to the Pirkka product range. Materials of fruit bag was included in K-food store selections. GMO origin are not accepted. ■■ New biodegradable materials have been tested for Pirkka product packaging. ■■ Continuing with the reduction of salt, sugar and fat content of Pirkka ■■ At the end of 2010, there were 81 reformulated Pirkka products. The reduction of products. Having all Pirkka products with high salt, sugar or fat content salt, sugar and fat is long-term work. reformulated by the end of 2010. ■■ A decision was made to end the Nutritioncode service because the number of ■■ Expanding the use of the Nutritioncode service. active users remained too small compared to the objective. ■■ Training 500 specialists in healthy eating for K-stores by the end of 2012. ■■ The training of K-Food Specialists in healthy nutrition started in February 2010; ■■ Kesko Food's objectives include having the largest selection and sales of more than 370 have already been trained. Fairtrade products in Finland. ■■ There were 201 Fairtrade products, of which 37 were Pirkka products. ■■ Developing costand eco-efficient service solutions for construction and ■■ Rautakesko's energy efficiency project of housing started in autumn 2010. living in Rautakesko. ■■ The work of K-maatalous with agricultural practices continued. ■■ The K-maatalous chain continues to focus on promoting sustainable practices in agriculture in Finland. Wellbeing of employees ■■ Supporting employees' recreational and leisure activities annually by some ■■ In 2010, some €1.7 million were used for employees' recreational and leisure €2 million. activities. ■■ The aim in developing employee wellbeing is promoting working capacity ■■ A manager for wellbeing at work was recruited to promote projects and practices and maintaining the ability to work. related to wellbeing at work. ■■ Harmonising the calculation methods of sickness absences. ■■ Sickness absences are recorded in a uniform way in all Finnish companies. ■■ Introducing a new model of early intervention in all divisions to manage ■■ The early intervention model was introduced as planned. sickness absences by 2010. Incorporating the responsibility programme into the brand and marketing strategy work ■■ Strengthening the responsibility image associated by stakeholders to ■■ Kesko's visual appearance will be refreshed in early 2011. Kesko, its division parent companies and the various product brands. ■■ Pirkka is considered the third most responsible brand in Finland (survey made for ■■ Bringing our responsibility work to the attention of customers in the stores. Helsingin Sanomat in 2010). ■■ Responsibility communications increased in all divisions. In the food trade, in particular, the focus was on customers: more information on responsibility provided in stores, marketing, on pirkka.fi and in the Pirkka magazine. 22 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Materiality assessment Materiality assessment of Kesko's corporate responsibility The materiality assessment of Kesko’s corpoholder analysis of the Group’s responsibility holders’ interest in defining the level of conrate responsibility was updated in late 2010. work at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Kesko’s cern, since different stakeholder groups The purpose of the assessment is to identify stakeholder process is also described in this emphasise different aspects. Indeed, Kesko Kesko’s and its stakeholders’ key responsibilreport, on pages 15–17. must strive to find a balance between the levity aspects. In order to assess the level of concern of the els of concern between the different stakeThe updating of the materiality assessment responsibility aspects identified at the previholder groups. was conducted in two stages: an analysis of ous stage, Kesko organised a workshop with The final materiality assessment was disthe operating environment and an assessparticipants from, cussed and approved ment of responsibility aspects. Defining the among others, the objectives, programmes and indicators based human resources, Kesko's key responsibility issues by Kesko’s Corporate Responsibility Advion the materiality assessment can be seen as the third stage. The operating environment analysis finance and accounting and risk management functions, 2010–2011 ■■ energy efficiency sory Board. The materiality assessment has a sigincluded a review and summary of stakeProduct Research, ■■ good working community nificant impact on holder surveys, an analysis of the external real estate mainte■■ responsible purchasing and sales updating Kesko’s operating environment, a benchmark analynance and corporate responsibility prosis and management interviews. Stakeholder communications and gramme to be comviews were identified from the reputation, responsibility units, as well as environmental menced in 2011. The assessment has affected, consumer, employer image and responsibilspecialists from the divisions. for example, the preparation of this report in ity surveys ordered by Kesko and from cusLevels of concern were analysed by assessthat the aspects which emerged as material tomer feedback. ing the impacts of the aspects on Kesko, on in the assessment were chosen as the themes Kesko’s measures to meet stakeholders’ society in a wider sense, and the interest for this report as covered on pages 24–55. The expectations as well as indicators for measurshown by stakeholders in them. It is particurevised report structure enables issues siging the results are described in the stakelarly challenging to take account of the stakenificant for Kesko to be better presented. Kesko's material corporate responsibility aspects are presented in the adjoining matrix. The vertical axis shows the level of concern for the stakeholder groups and the horizontal axis the current or potential impact on Kesko. The level of concern for stakeholders has been assessed as a whole, which is why the weightings of aspects by separate stakeholder groups are not manifest in the matrix. The aspects can be divided into four categories: economic responsibility, environmental responsibility, human resources responsibility, and responsible purchasing and sales. The trends impacting responsibility are listed on the left of the matrix. Materiality assessment Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 23 RESPONSIBILITY TRENDS 1 ■ Climate change 15 10 ■ Ageing population level of stakeholder 5 ■ Emergence of social media concern ■ Increasing health awareness among consumers 14 9 4 2 major 18 13 8 16 7 6 average 17 3 20 12 11 minor 22 19 21 current or potential impact on Kesko minor average major HUMAN RESOURCES RESPONSIBLE ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PURCHASING AND SALES RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY ■ Development of personnel ■ Product safety ■ Profitability of operations ■ Energy efficiency in store competences and versatile ■ Responsible marketing and ■ Good corporate governance operations, products and jobs sales, and responsibility and risk management services ■ Occupational health and communications ■ Comprehensiveness and ■ Efficient logistics safety ■ Promotion of healthy lifeaccessibility of store network ■ Optimisation of packaging ■ Good working community styles and electronic services ■ Environmental management (fair, provides equal ■ Shopping safety ■ Impact on regional business of stores and advice to opportunities and promotes activities customers ■ Origin of products, purchasing employee wellbeing) policy definitions, and ■ Support to non-profit ■ Environmental impacts from ■ Steady employment working conditions and operations production in the purchasing human rights throughout the chain purchasing chain ■ Water consumption in real ■ Product selection (local estate properties suppliers, pro-environmental ■ Promotion of sustainable products and services, agriculture organic, Fairtrade) Impact on society In Kesko's economic responsibility, the most material elements Kesko is a responsible are the financial profitability of operations, listed company good governance and comprehensive risk Kesko Corporation is a Finnish public limited management. The significance of product company in which the duties and responsiselections, local suppliers, pro-environmenbilities of the executive bodies are defined tal products and services, organic products according to the Finnish laws. Kesko’s deciand Fairtrade products is also important. sion-making and corporate governance comply with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, regulations concerning publicly Economic benefits are quoted companies, Kesko’s Articles of Assodistributed to stakeholders ciation, the rules and guidelines of NASDAQ Good management of finances, efficient use OMX Helsinki Ltd, and the Finnish Corporate of resources coupled with a steady, long-term Governance Code. generation of economic benefits create the Kesko’s General Meeting passes resolutions basis for entrepreneurship. on the company’s most significant matters, The operations of Kesko and K-retailers such as the election of Board members, generate economic benefits for shareholders, amendments to the Articles of Association, finance providers, personnel, suppliers of and the distribution of the company assets. goods and services and their employees, as The Annual General Meeting is usually held well as municipalities and states. in March-April. Kesko and retailer entrepreneurs employ At the end of 2010, Kesko had 38,258 sharea total of some 45,000 people in eight counholders. In terms of voting rights, the largest tries. In 2010, Kesko’s salaries and other shareholders are the K-Retailers’ Association, employee benefits in all operating countries Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy and Kruunu­ were €451 million. The Kesko Group’s income vuoren Satama Oy. taxes were €97 million, and pensions and Kesko continually produces correct and upsocial security expenses €65 million. K-retailto-date information for the markets as a basis ers paid a total amount of €353 million in for the formation of Kesko Corporation’s wages and salaries, €36 million in income share price. In its investor communications, taxes, and €82 million in statutory social Kesko follows the principle of impartiality security expenses. and publishes all investor information on its website in Finnish and English. Kesko arranges press conferences for analysts and the media at the time of publishing financial Kesko encourages K-food retailers to complement their selections with local purchases. Retailers' direct statements or other significant news, and purchases from the Finnish regions were valued at a holds Capital Markets Days for analysts on total of €537 million in 2010. various themes one or two times a year. 26 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Impact on society Transparency and openness special credit for a clear and illustrative Towards the end of 2010, Kesko’s legal are Kesko's key corporate description of the company’s corporate govaffairs, risk management and internal audit governance principles ernance model (see the governance model in functions organised a series of value discusKesko complies with the Finnish Corporate the Annual Report on page 64, and on the sions in the Kesko companies in Sweden, Governance Code for listed companies which website at: www.kesko.fi/investors). Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Russia and Belarus. came into force on 1 October 2010. The Code In March 2011, World Finance Magazine Read the case on this page. will harmonise the practices of listed compaawarded Kesko ’the 2011 Best Corporate Govnies as well as the information given to shareernance in Finland’ in terms of corporate holders and other investors. It will also governance development and reporting. Comprehensive store network improve the transparency of administrative Kesko operates in the food trade, the home bodies, decision-making, management remuand speciality goods trade, the building and neration and remuneration policies. Responsible operating home improvement trade, and the car and In June 2009, the Board of the Securities principles adopted in all machinery trade. Kesko has about 2,000 Market Association appointed a working operating countries stores engaged in chain operations in Fingroup to update the Code especially as regards The guide 'Our Responsible land, Sweden, Norway, remuneration. Kesko’s Vice President, General Counsel Anne Leppälä-Nilsson was one of the 11 working group members. Working Principles' provides guidelines to all of the K-Group personnel for 51% Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Belarus and Russia. Kesko has the most “The updated Corporate Governance Code operating in accordance of the Finnish population comprehensive food recommends that the management’s remuwith the joint values and lives less than one kilometre store network in Finland: neration, remuneration principles and related responsible practices. The from the nearest K-food store. 1,007 K-food stores in decision-making be communicated more guide has been published 342 municipalities in openly. Kesko’s corporate governance princiin the languages of all Kesko’s operating 2010. There are 69 K-citymarkets, 181 K-superples pertaining especially to remuneration countries since 2008. The guide will be markets, 489 K-markets and 163 K-extras. were updated in autumn 2010. Even exceedupdated in 2011. K-food stores have about 900,000 customers ing the Code requirements, the remuneration As stated in our responsible operating prinevery day. statement on our website discloses more ciples, Kesko’s attitude to corruption and There are 418 home and speciality goods detailed information on the decision-making other malpractice is absolutely negative. stores in Finland and 9 in the Baltic countries. process, the principles of remuneration of the Kesko is a member of Transparency InternaThe number of building and home improveBoard members, the President and CEO, and tional Finland. ment stores is 267 in Finland, 20 in Sweden, the Corporate Management Board members, 112 in Norway, 9 in Estonia, 9 in Latvia, 17 in and their remuneration,” explains LeppäläLithuania, 12 in Russia and 5 in Belarus. There Nilsson. Rankings of Kesko's operating countries in are 12 car and machinery dealer shops in Finthe Corruption Perceptions Index 2010 from land. Read more in Kesko’s Annual Report on Transparency International pages 18–45. Kesko awarded for corporate Ranking Country Scale 1–10 governance reporting 4 Finland 9.2 A competition for the best corporate govern4 Sweden 9.2 ance reporting was organised for the first 10 Norway 8.6 time in Finland in spring 2010. In addition to 26 Estonia 6.5 choosing category winners, the purpose was 46 Lithuania 5.0 to survey and develop Finnish listed compa59 Latvia 4.3 nies’ corporate governance reporting. 127 Belarus 2.5 The jury placed Kesko among the best in 154 Russia 2.1 the large company category and gave Kesko CASE practices and discussed the chalwith employees just once – they In Sweden and Norway, subjects Value message lenges companies have faced when applying responsible working prinmust be highlighted and discussed on a regular basis. An introduction were widely related to various business areas, while in Russia the focus travelled from ciples in practice. to the guide is part of each new was on challenges related to the country to A total of 60 members of subsidiaries' management boards and employee's job induction. Both the management and superiors are prevention of corruption and malpractice. country other key persons participated in the meetings. In 2011, the value disresponsible for ensuring that all employees are aware of and comply “All our operations are based on compliance with legislation and cussions will continue in Finnish with the principles at their work,” ethical operating principles, and on companies. says Kesko's Chief Audit Executive correct and transparent reporting. In late 2010, Kesko's Legal Affairs, Kesko's responsible practices are Pasi Mäkinen, who has been passOur policy is that bribery and other Risk Management and Internal Audit communicated to employees in the ing on the value message. malpractice are strictly forbidden. organised a series of Value Discus'Our Responsible Working PrinciProblems experienced in the Conversations during the events sions in Sweden, Norway, Estonia, ples' guide, which has been available business environment were openly were rewarding and useful. It is Latvia, Russia and Belarus. for the K-Group's personnel in all discussed at the events. Country important to openly discuss also difRepresentatives of the Group told countries since 2008. management had answered quesficult issues,” says Kesko's General the participants about current “It is not enough to go through tions in advance and brought forCounsel Anne Leppälä-Nilsson. issues related to Kesko's responsible the responsible operating principles ward their concerns for discussion. Impact on society Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 27 Most purchases are made from Finland Most of the economic benefits from Kesko’s operations 85% of Kesko’s net sales – flow to suppliers of goods. In 2010, Kesko’s purchases from suppliers in Finland were valued at €5,174 million and from suppliers in other countries at €2,311 million. Throughout 2010, local food, organic products and local purchases were widely discussed in the print media. Eating domestic food is important for 65% of the Finnish people. More than 80% say they mainly buy Finnish bread, milk, chicken and cold meat cuts. Some 75% of survey respondents said they buy local food products at least occasionally. (Source: “Suomi syö 2010” survey by Taloustutkimus.) Kesko encourages K-food retailers to complement their selections with local purchases. Retailers’ direct purchases from the Finnish regions were valued at a total of €537 million in 2010. E-commerce and online stores complement conventional retailing Customers search for product information and buy products not only from conventional retail stores but from websites and online stores. The development of electronic shopping and online retailing are areas of strategic emphasis in all of Kesko’s business diviPirkka, the K-Group’s customer magazine, In spring 2010, Kesko’s Board of Directors sions. is distributed to every home which has not granted donations to, for example, Aalto UniKesko’s online stores for home and speciality prohibited the distribution of advertisements versity and the Universities of Helsinki, Tamgoods, NetAnttila, Kodin1.com, Konebox.fi, or free newspapers and magazines. The magpere, Turku, Eastern Finland, Jyväskylä, Oulu CM-Store and BudgetSport, have gained a azine’s articles on cooking, interior decoraand Vaasa, and to some polytechnics. The strong position. tion and fashion present Kesko’s environBoard’s donations totalled €1,115,000. Social media is playing an increasingly mentally friendly product selections and For the 23rd time, Kesko’s Board of Direcimportant role in the communication provide tips for an ecological lifestyle. tors granted scholarships to talented young between retail stores and customers. Some athletes and art students in May 2010. The 150 stores in Kesko’s chains have Facebook scholarships totalled €40,000. pages of their own. Social media also enables Donations to institutions of The Good Christmas Spirit collection was customers to give feedback more easily than higher education in 2010 organised jointly by the Mannerheim League before. Kesko primarily participates in sponsorship for Child Welfare, the Finnish Red Cross, the initiatives that benefit the daily lives of famFinnish Broadcasting Company’s YLE Radio ilies with children, promote the quality of Suomi and Morning TV, and Kesko for the K-Plussa is the most extensive living and sustainable development. 14th time. The collection for the benefit of customer loyalty programme On Mother’s Day, Kesko low-income Finnish famin Finland and K-retailers donated Kesko's donations ilies with children in difIn 2010, the K-Group’s customer loyalty prosculptor Pekka Jylhä’s in 2010 totalled ficult situations in life gramme K-Plussa gained over 170,000 new bronze sculpture 'Expecraised €1,034,827. In other members. There are more than 3.6 million K-Plussa customers. tation', depicting an expectant mother, to the €2,300,000 operating countries, donations were mainly K-Plussa benefits are available from more City of Helsinki. The granted to youth work, than 3,000 outlets and over 40 business partsculpture is located in Kaivopuisto Park in sports associations, crisis aid and to support ners. K-Plussa benefits are available to all Helsinki. culture. loyal customers. Each month, hundreds of In spring 2010, Kesko participated in the In 2010, Kesko and its subsidiaries gave topical K-Plussa offers give customers a ben'Your Move On Tour' of the Young Finland Assofinancial support amounting to approxiefit of at least 10% provided at the checkout. ciation in Helsinki, Oulu, Pori, Jyväskylä and mately €2.3 million to various organisations By centralising their purchases in the K-Plussa Turku. The tour encouraged over 25,000 young and institutions. network, customers also receive a benefit of people aged from 12 to 16 to get moving. up to 5%. 28 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Impact on society Cooperation with universities Future K-retailer entrepreneurs are trained Anne Leppälä-Nilsson, for example, is active and polytechnics in the K-retailer trainee programme. More at the EU level as a Board member of UGAL, Kesko and its chain stores offer versatile jobs than 100 K-retailer trainees complete the prothe Union of Groups of Independent Retailers and career choices. Kesko has over 22,000 gramme every year. After completion, the of Europe. employees in eight countries. Ensuring the trainees are ready to start as independent State decorations are annually presented availability of competent people continues to K-retailer entrepreneurs, and 95–99% of them to employees in recognition of their dedicabe of primary importance for the trading sectake the opportunity. tion and distinguished commitment to Kesko. tor in the future. The retailer entrepreneur path, a systemThe President of the Republic of Finland Kesko carries out close cooperation with atic training route for would-be K-retailers, granted state decorations to 36 Kesko employstudents and teachers in different sectors. In has been developed by Kesko Food and polyees on 6 December 2010. 2010, a new programme (“K-Tutuksi”) was technics. The training, adapted to constitute launched to provide teachers with an opporan optional module, is available in 14 polytunity to familiarise themselves with store technics. Kesko employees participate in practices and duties with the help of on-thenational defence operations job training and eLearning. Kesko employees are annually invited to parKesko representatives regularly participate Kesko people are active in ticipate in national and regional defence in recruitment fairs and visit business uniorganisations courses. Defence courses are organised in versities and polytechnics to tell students Kesko representatives are active in several order to present topical security policy issues about the K-Group’s summer jobs and career national and international, especially trading and social emergency preparedness to the key opportunities, the K-trainee and the K-retailersector organisations. people in different fields. trainee programmes, and the retailer entrePresident and CEO Matti Halmesmäki Kesko people also act in voluntary national preneur path arranged with polytechnics. holds several positions of trust: he is the defence operations. The Kesko Reserve OfficThe K-Group’s third K-trainee programme Board Deputy Chair of the Confederation of ers’ Club, established in 1954, annually organwas launched in June 2010. Fifteen university Finnish Industries EK, and Board member of ises a voluntary national defence operation, or polytechnic graduates were selected for the the Federation of Finnish Commerce. The an evening gathering, as well as national programme. After completing the programme, other Corporate Management Board members defence events open to all Kesko employees. the student transfers to the next K-Group are also members of the Boards of trading secposition, usually at the supervisory or spetor organisations and those of their respective cialist level. Read more on page 33. lines of business. Kesko’s General Counsel CASE K-retailers as benefactors Kesko and K-Group stores are engaged in charity in many ways. Every K-retailer makes decisions concerning charity actions of their particular store. Forms of cooperation have been developed by listening to local needs as well as by using creativity. K-market Kuutti in Lappeenranta donates the packaging and advertising materials accumulated in the store to kindergartens and schoolchildren's afternoon clubs. While the effort for the store is small, it brings much joy to the children. For two years in succession, the retailer and her staff have also donated the funds reserved for staff Christmas presents to the children's and young people's ward of the Central Hospital of South Karelia. K-market Ruokapata in Padasjoki donates a baby bag containing necessities for the families of newborns to all new parents in the municipality. K-market Lohtaja in K-Plussa's sponsorship service now participate in the service, in hold-specific K-Plussa purchases of Kajaani organised an angling event encourages and supports retailers which the stores commit to pay to the club supporters from the for the residents of the local old in local charity and sponsorship a local sports club a sponsorship store. people's home in summer 2010. work. Some 100 K-Group stores sum that depends on the houseImpact on society Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 29 CASE CASE K-citymarket Keljo Rautakesko was expanded to participates in become a building a primary shopping centre school in Bangladesh The refurbished Keljo shopping centre in Jyväskylä was opened in April 2010. The K-citymarket, which had Rautakesko is a partner in tooMax-x been operating in Keljo since 1994, GmbH, a purchasing alliance. In was expanded and complemented cooperation with the Steps Towards with 21 speciality stores, most of Development charity organisation, them fashion and clothing stores. the alliance's Eurogroup Charity “The expansion of K-citymarket Fund (ECF), which operates in the Keljo to become a shopping centre Far East, started building the Golbuhas a major impact on consumers' nia Eurogroup primary school to shopping in the Jyväskylä region. Golbunia, Bangladesh in December Diversified shopping opportunities 2009. The target is to establish the and Sunday opening save customsystem of basic education in Bangers' time. Traffic connections to ladesh and, in doing so, contribute Keljo, including public transport, to improving the lives of the chilare good and there are 900 free dren in the area by offering them parking spaces available,” says both education and shelter against Merja Have­rinen, Kesko's Senior the weather. Vice President, Corporate CommuGolbunia is a small village located nications and Responsibility. in the southwestern part of BanglaDuring the construction phase, desh with hard monsoon seasons. the expansion provided work for When the monsoon season hits, the some 60 builders. The new shopping entire village is flooded, causing centre employs about 200 people, damage to many poorly constructed 95 of whom work for K-citymarket. bished to comply with the current “The combined annual savings buildings often leaving hundreds of The colourful look of the shopK-citymarket concept. When new achieved with the new covered villagers homeless. ping centre was designed by archibuildings are constructed and conrefrigeration equipment and LED The school in Golbunia, to be tects Lahdelma & Mahlamäki. The cept reforms made, new solutions signage in Keljo is 364 MWh, which completed in 2011, will be able to wedge-shaped new part allows the are adopted to cut the consumption corresponds to the annual energy take in some 300 students, and shopping centre to house premises of materials and energy during the consumption of 18 electricity-heated because it is being made of brick, it for speciality stores of different sizes entire life-cycle of the properties. one-family houses. The new refrigwill ensure a weather-resilient and that are easily adaptable later on. The In K-citymarket Keljo, aisle aligneration equipment saves some 40% safe learning environment for them. facade of the shopping centre, visible ments were changed, store furnicompared with the old equipment, A water purification system will also for those entering the town by highture was replaced, floors polished while the LED signage saves some be installed to provide clean drinkway, is colourful and well-lit. and walls painted. Open freezers 75% compared with the old technoling water. In connection with the expanwere replaced with new ones covogy,” says Jari Suuronen, Kesko sion, K-citymarket Keljo was refurered with lids. Food's Maintenance Manager. CASE CASE isation's name on them. For each low-income people by distributing K-rauta Sweden product sold, SEK 5 will be donated to the Save the Children organisaOld Estonian food to them. Food Bank collection boxes were supports the Save tion. Money collection boxes have kroons to available at all nine K-rauta stores in the Children also been placed in K-rauta stores and the whole sum donated by cusFood Bank Estonia from autumn 2010 till the end of January 2011. organisation tomers will go to the organisation. In all, K-rauta in Sweden has made The Food Bank initiative started in the United States and has spread a commitment to annually donate Estonia adopted the euro on 1 Janufrom there across the world. The up to SEK 100,000 to the Save the ary 2011. Customers of K-rauta first Food Bank in Estonia was estabK-rauta in Sweden has been coopChildren Emergency Fund during stores in Estonia have been able to lished in March 2010. erating with the Save the Children the cooperation of three years. donate their old kroons to the EstoThere are thousands of people in (Rädda Barnen) organisation since Rädda Barnen is part of the global nian Food Bank. Tallinn in need of food aid. During June 2010. Save the Children organisation – The Estonian Food Bank wants to the first stages of operations, food K-rauta stores in Sweden sell the world’s leading independent increase solidarity and support aid has been given to the north, the water bottles, shopping bags, first children’s rights organisation. those in need. The Food Bank assists poorest part of the city. aid kits and badges with the organWellbeing at work Kesko has 22,124 employees in eight countries. When stores are included, some 45,000 people serve K-Group customers every day. Some 4,000 employees joined Kesko in 2010. Most of Kesko’s employees carry out tasks Orientation is knowing the job Orientation is everything when it comes to getting the best possible start in a new job. It is the supervisor’s job to make sure that newcomers learn about their own duties and also associated with trade but the Group also about Kesko, its principles of responsible employs laboratory staff who work on prodoperation, employment issues and occupauct research, home economics teachers, dealtional safety. ers, physicians, corporate responsibility adviHanna is pleased with the orientation she sors and legal experts. In a big company received: there’s always an opportunity to change jobs: “I was assigned a mentor from the start. My 1,100 Kesko employees transferred to another biggest hurdle was getting to grips with the job within the Group in 2010. new SAP system. Luckily, I was put on a twoTuija Walve has been a store designer at day SAP course soon after I arrived. My menKesko Food for almost a quarter of a century. tor still works here and I can turn to her or During that time, the size of her family has other colleagues if I need help.” grown – she had one child when she started and now has four. She still vividly remembers her emotions on her first few days in the Competences up-to-date autumn of 1986: Today, what you learn at school is not enough. “I was overjoyed!” Tuija Walve, who studied Kesko and the stores develop their employees’ to be a work technology analyst, remembers skills and provide them with training on a the moment she heard that she had been continuous basis. 24,300 people took part in selected for the position of store designer: training programmes offered by the K-insti­ “The job seemed sufficiently challenging as I tuutti in 2010. There were a total of 32,406 got to start by designing K-citymarkets.” days of training. Hanna Kurki, who is a bookkeeper for “Over the years, I’ve taken part in a large building and home improvement and agrinumber of courses at K-instituutti and elsecultural stores, is a more recent Kesko where, and these courses range from public employee. speaking and negotiation skills to computer “I was hired as a bookkeeper by Kesko’s skills and image processing,” says Tuija. associate VTP Oy at the beginning of September 2008. I was very happy to get the job as I had just graduated as a Bachelor of Business Administration and got a permanent job Kesko encourages its employees to engage in physical and cultural activities together. Tuija Walve straight away. The job meant security for the and Hanna Kurki regularly participate in physical future and entering working life after being exercise courses provided by the Kesko Staff Club. a student is a big step,” she says. 32 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Wellbeing at work Employee wellbeing is always “Management is responsible for the wellbe2010 winter event in Sappee near Tampere. a good investment ing of the company, while supervisors are The winter event included various competiA responsible company takes care of its responsible for the wellbeing of their teams. tions such as fun ski relay, slalom, snowshoe employees’ wellbeing and skills. Investing in It is vital for the company to have explicit football and ice fishing. wellbeing is also good for business and pays goals which are monitored and discussed. An The local clubs’ hobby circles offer a wide itself back through lower expenses. In fact, open working community is a good place to selection of activities from weaving to Thai research shows that a euro invested in be as information reaches everyone and flows boxing. Tuija Walve has been an active mememployee wellbeing will bring over four euros freely, the rules of the game are clear and peober of the Nokka club for many years. She now in return. (Source: the Potentiaali method ple work as a team,” Laitasalo continues. leads the yoga circle: developed by Guy Ahonen, Research ProfesKesko wants to further enhance its employ“The varied offering of fitness activities, sor at the Finnish Institute of Occupational ees’ wellbeing. In October 2010, Kesko great facilities and equipment are highly Health). appointed Janna Pirhonen as its first manmotivating. I’ve taken part in a large number The effect of such investments is rarely ager for wellbeing at work. At the same time of courses, including felting and metal wire immediate and takes some time to make a Kesko started work on developing an work, hydro spinning and aqua jogging, difference. Indicators such as personnel suremployee wellbeing management model and Zumba, yoga, ChiBall, guided gym training veys, sickness absences and departure turnooperating plan for the Group as a whole. and kettlebell classes. I also like to visit the ver are tools that management can use to theatre and go on guided tours with the club’s assess the situation. Supervisors can receive cultural circle.” immediate feedback if they take time to ask How about some Zumba, simple questions, such as “How are you Pilates or bowling? doing?”, from time to time. In the interest of fostering team spirit, Kesko It’s good to talk Kesko has a long-term approach to mainencourages its employees to exercise and Exercise and a healthy lifestyle are not always taining and improving wellbeing at work. In enjoy arts and culture. In this respect, the enough to ensure our health and wellbeing. 2010, some six million various companies support Our work may be too stressful, life situations euros were used in Kesko In Kesko, some employee activity in the vary and sooner or later we may encounter €6 million to improve employee wellform of clubs, by providing difficulties. At Kesko if an employee or a being in Finland. fitness vouchers or carrysupervisor notices that something is wrong, “We look after our ing out cooperation with there are tools for so-called early intervenemployees throughout were used to improve employee gyms and fitness association. their careers. Though wellbeing in Finland in 2010. tions. “The good old-fashioned advice is that it is employees carry most of Kesko encourages its always good to talk. Various models for bringthe responsibility for their physical, psychoemployees to engage in these activities ing up a subject can be used when there is a logical and social wellbeing, the company can together and in the case of selected major fitneed to talk about sickness absences, peralso make a difference. Productive work ness events, it pays a part of its employees’ formance or work-related conflicts. The prinrequires employees to have the required comparticipation fees. In 2010, 75 employees took ciple behind these models is to bring up the petence and skills, the ability to manage their part in the Naisten Kymppi Fun Run for issues early to keep situations from deterioschedules, and comfortable and safe working women in Helsinki and 40 took part in the rating,” says Janna Pirhonen, Manager for conditions,” says Riitta Laitasalo, Kesko’s Likkojen Lenkki run for women in Tampere. Wellbeing at Work. Senior Vice President, Human Resources. 400 people attended the Kesko Staff Club’s CASE CASE had an equal opportunity to parmore environmentally friendly alterSocial media ticipate and contribute to the common rules. Konekesko natives. The programme also has a longguidelines were Some 100 people accepted the Lietuva launches a term objective – Konekesko Lietuva created in invitation of the web site and actively participated in the discus'We care' project wants to become one of Lithuania's most responsible companies. cooperation sion, while the two workshops had nearly 100 participants from across Managing Director Lina Morkunaite praises her energetic team: at Kesko the Group. Konekesko Lietuva's support oper“Everybody is interested in promotThe guidelines do not provide ations team of six in Lithuania wants ing sustainable development both answers to all questions related to to increase the company's environat work and leisure. Half of our team Kesko has provided guidelines – or social media; rather, they set out mentally responsible approach. The members are also active in volun'netiquette' – on the use of social principles and encourage the use of project was kicked off by preparing tary organisations working for media. social media channels in various a programme called '25 ways responsibility.” The netiquette guidelines were jobs and duties. The guidelines, towards a more responsible “It's a real pleasure to work with created in a unique way by observwhich will be complemented and Konekesko Lietuva', which aims at such enthusiastic people. Our first ing the rules of social media. As all updated as required, are available in progress in small but steady steps. steps consist of actions which prove employees were openly invited to Finnish and English on Keskonet, The programme guides towards that responsibility pays off. Next we take part in a web discussion and Kesko's intranet. more environmentally friendly will draw up long-term plans. Our electronic workshops, everyone thinking and actions. The first steps aim is to commit the whole comtaken were to replace the copy pany to the 'We care' project.” paper used and the plastic shopping bags available for customers with Wellbeing at work Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 33 “The models have been used in situations own work, work load and coping at work. In community. Depending on the division parwhere a person suffering from back problems the 2010 personnel survey, wellbeing at work ent company, they made up between 30% and is repeatedly absent, for instance. By discussreceived an overall score of 3.75 (on a scale of 40% of total costs in 2010. ing the problem we have been able to come 1 to 5) for the Group in general. For more Occupational health care carries out statuup with various solutions, information on the tory duties, such as workplace surveys, health such as acquiring a more The good old-fashioned results of the survey, go checks, surveys of ergonomic aspects, rehaergonomic chair and desk, carrying out an assessment of the need advice to page 79. Key factors for wellbeing at work are a good bilitation guidance and labour protection cooperation. Kesko’s occupational health care also does for care together with is that it is always good to talk. supervisor and working plenty more to promote wellbeing at work. occupational health and community. Tuija and Regular activities include medical checks for days when the employee can work from home Hanna agree: new employees, check-ups for different age and take breaks to go for a walk, for “I have a really good immediate working groups, exercise groups for various health instance.” community and it is the biggest reason why I complaints, supervisor support and therapy Supervisors and employees carry out a perlike it so much here. My supervisor is a great following accidents and crises. Occupational formance and development review one to listener, looks after us and puts our needs and health care also works in close cooperation three times a year. The review evaluates the interests first. A good colleague listens, helps, with the various places of business. attainment of the previous period’s objectives supports, is fair to others and does his or her Tuija Walve and Hanna Kurki work in Kataand personal development goals and includes own job, too,” says Hanna. janokka in Helsinki where occupational discussion about developing the supervisor’s “My immediate working community health care is provided by Kesko itself. They work and the working community. In 2010, includes men and women of different ages, have both had good experiences: 76% of Kesko employees stated in the personwhich is a very good thing. We sit down “The health care centre is close by, appointnel survey that they had had a performance together for coffee during the day and celements are easy to get and in general everyand development review with their supervibrate special days. A good colleague underthing seems to work well,” says Hanna. sor in the previous year. stands, helps and offers support when it’s “I think occupational health care is very needed,” says Tuija. important. I go to the age-group check-ups and I’ve had swine flu and seasonal flu jabs at Personnel survey supports the health centre. Another positive thing is wellbeing at work Occupational health care that the nurse knows me and I don’t have to The annual personnel survey conducted at maintains work ability and explain everything from the beginning whenKesko and its chain stores provides informapromotes wellbeing ever I visit,” Tuija adds. tion on the working community and leaderThe goals of Kesko’s occupational health care ship. It is vital that the results of the survey are ensuring the health and wellbeing of are put to use in different units, development employees, a functioning working commumeasures are agreed upon and improvements nity and a healthy work environment. In addiare made together. tion to the general-practice health care it In the personnel survey, employee wellbeprovides, occupational health care also ing is studied by asking employees to assess invests in activities that maintain work abiltheir motivation, chances of influencing their ity and promote the wellbeing of the working CASE K-trainee Taiju Jaatinen likes the After one year in the programme, K-trainee Taiju world of food retailing: “During the K-trainee prothe K-trainee moves on to the next post – a department manager in a learns about gramme, I've worked in K-market K-citymarket or Anttila department food retailing Ruoholahti, K-supermarket Munkki and K-citymarket Koivukylä. I've store, a project-specific assignment in one of Kesko's chain units, pernoticed how well retailers have suchaps, or some other post with ceeded in selecting and training responsibility either in a retail store The third K-trainee programme their staff. People are motivated and or support operations. started in June 2010. From among enjoy their work, which is also Taiju's plans for the future have over 600 applicants, 15 young peoreflected to the customers.” not yet been finalised: ple with a university or polytechnic Taiju has also noticed that posing “Kesko provides a wide variety of degree, either recently graduated questions is worthwhile. very interesting career opportunior with some experience of working “It has been nice to see how, as a ties. As a K-trainee in the K-market life, were selected for the pronewcomer, I can stimulate the daily chain, I'm naturally most interested gramme. work of more experienced employin opportunities offered by my A central part of the 15-month ers just by being myself and by askchain, but after my three months' K-trainee programme consists of ing loads of questions. Often the training period I'll certainly have a performing various retail duties result is that both parties learn much better idea of what my parwhich acquaint the trainee with something new. I feel that I'm priviticular interests are.” practical work. leged to be able to work with real retail professionals.” 34 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Wellbeing at work CASE Customer service at its best A cheerful and friendly cashier attracts many customers to queue at a particular checkout, even if the queues at other checkouts might be shorter. Such is the popularity enjoyed by cashiers Natalia Marti­ kainen in Kotka and Jama Jama in Tampere. Natalia was selected as Kotka's most positive resident in 2010 and for Jama Jama, his customers set up a Facebook fan group. Cheerful Natalia is the most positive resident of Kotka Flowers and letters were flooding into the staff room of K-citymarket Kotka when it was announced in August that Natalia Martikainen was chosen as the most positive resident of Kotka for 2010. The annual nomination of the “I really like my work, because I Jama Jama has a fan group “I have my heart in my work. A most positive resident of the city is meet lots of people here. They give on Facebook humble attitude takes you a long organised by the Kotka Junior me a lot of energy.” There are very few sales assistants way. And the high number of fans Chamber of Commerce. On the Natalia, who originally comes who are so well-liked that thousands tells me that I've done my work basis of the submitted proposals, from Moldova, has improved her of people express their appreciawell,” says a very pleased Jama. the selection was made by a jury knowledge of Finnish to an exceltion! Customers think Jama is the Jama arrived in Finland at the age which included the Mayor of Kotka lent level just by speaking with peofriendliest sales assistant in Finland of eight with his family who fled the Henry Lindelöf. ple: – a customer service oriented perSomalian Civil War. He was elected The title came as a great surprise “I always wish the customer a nice son beyond comparison. the 'Everyday Hero 2010' by the to Natalia who has worked for K-citday and occasionally someone says The members of the fan group Junior Chambers of Commerce of ymarket Kotka for seven years: that it felt good to hear it. It's so – more than 2,900 in all – agree that Tampere and was chosen second in “I didn't believe that an ordinary nice to see customers leave the Jama Jama, who works at the checkthe 'Tampere Resident of 2011' comcheckout clerk like me could be store with a smile on their faces.” out, masters the fine art of customer petition. Jama Jama worked for chosen!” service. K-citymarket Turtola until April 2011. CASE posed by Occupational Health Docperiod, in which she learnt the comThe rehabilitation of Turunen was Retraining is a way tor Terhi Räihä. The rehabilitation of Marja-Leena Turunen consisted petencies and practical skills required in the job. She was paid a a success story for both parties – the rehabilitation gave her a to a new job of work testing and training perirehabilitation allowance for both chance to continue working despite ods. periods. her illness and Anttila, for its part, Varma Mutual Pension Insurance “We've actively benefitted from avoided disability pension costs. Marja-Leena Turunen worked in Company provided support for this the opportunity of occupational After the vocational rehabilitavarious warehousing duties in Antrehabilitation in the form of a threerehabilitation in case of those tion, she was recruited by the new tila's Central Warehouse in month work testing period, during Anttila employees who have a risk employer and she loves her job in Hämeenkylä, Vantaa for 25 years. which the suitability of the possible of a disability pension to help them the Sinelli shop in Vantaa. “After the expected completion new occupation from the perspeccontinue working. Five work testing “My duties are varied and I meet of Anttila's new logistics centre, my tive of health was assessed. Turunen, periods were started in 2010: two in lots of people. I've had a chance to duties would have expanded and I who had been a needlework and Anttila and three in other compaimplement new ideas and work as a wouldn't have been able to perform handicraft enthusiast for most her nies. Two Anttila employees have leader of craft courses,” says a very them as my shoulder, operated on life, got a job for the testing period received support for their work pleased Marja-Leena Turunen. in 2002, has been causing me trouin the Sinelli hobby shop – a familiar training and likewise, two Anttila ble for a long time,” says Marjaplace where she was at home with employees have also started retrainLeena Turunen, 51. the shop's selections and services. ing with the help of occupational The solution was the statutory The testing period was followed rehabilitation,” says rehabilitation occupational rehabilitation proby a three-month work training specialist Satu Ojala from Varma. Wellbeing at work Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 35 CASE are paid by Kela, the Social Insursalary to the employee for the reha“During our rehabilitation period, Working ance Institution of Finland. They are intended for employees who are bilitation period,” says Pirjo Anttila, Chief Physician of Kesko's we enjoyed a fair amount of various indoor, outdoor and water exercise, capacity from usually aged from 35 to 55 and have Occupational Health Service. participated in occupational therapy rehabilitation symptoms that can be improved with rehabilitation but do not yet In 2010, a total of 37 Kesko employees and 14 retailers from and heard different lectures. Our daily work was videoed and changes have impaired functional capacity. various parts of Finland started in ergonomics were made based on The TYK rehabilitation courses, ASLAK rehabilitation courses with the findings. As our immediate Ageing and mentally or physically for their part, are aimed at mainseven department store and waresuperiors were also present one stressing work often cause various taining and improving the ability house employees starting TYK day, it's now easier to make permaailments and problems that to work which is threatened due to courses, for both of which Kesko nent work-related changes with decrease the ability to work. Kesko illness. had submitted applications. Five their support.” wants to look after its employees The Occupational Health Service Kesko employees started AMI men“At the rehabilitation course, we throughout their careers and proconsiders that rehabilitation is an tal rehabilitation courses implelearned that we should stop and vide them with physical staff club excellent way to improve the ability mented as development projects by listen to ourselves and remember to activities, fitness courses and rehato work on a long-term basis. Kela (the Social Insurance Institutake breaks at work. Everyone must bilitation. The Occupational Health “Rehabilitation provides employtion of Finland). look after his or her own working Service participates in the selection ees with resources to maintain their Assistant Anja Pötsönen from capacity. We must and have to be of applicants for rehabilitation working capacity, enhance their Kesko Food, who has worked for selfish in a healthy way. ” courses. work and promote a healthy and Kesko for nearly 30 years, is one of The vocationally oriented mediactive way of life. Kesko focuses on ASLAK's participants. cal rehabilitation courses (ASLAK) preventive activities and pays a full CASE Antero and Annukka the Assistants behind the wheel of a Transporter Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles of VV-Auto Group Oy set up the 'Antero the Assistant' campaign in spring 2010. Its purpose was to find 'Antero the Assistant' – a young summer employee who would be offered, together with a long Transporter, to a small firm for the summer. The aim was to provide summer jobs for young people whose wages would be paid by VV-Auto Group Oy. The interest aroused by the campaign exceeded VV-Auto's expectations – there were nearly 620 applicants aged from 18 to 22, and nearly Vesa Pylkkänen, a 22-year-old Jenna Permanto, a 19-year-old musical instruments in her long 250 applicant companies. Encourstudent of automation technology secondary school graduate from Transporter. aged by the success, Volkswagen from Jyväskylä, spent the summer Espoo, worked for the HelsinkiThe news of Antero and Annukka Commercial Vehicles finally selected behind the wheel of a Transporter based Cornerstone Entertainment the Assistants' summer jobs were two companies and two Assistants carrying implements, building Agency. The job took her to various also available on the internet at – one male and one female. In addimaterials and equipment for Kuopsummer events – from Ruisrock to www.volkswagen-hyotyautot.fi/ tion to offering employment, the pala Finland Oy, a Jyväskylä-based Pori Jazz and the Imatra Big Band antero as well as in Facebook. New selection criteria included the comcompany specialising in the planfestival. 'Annukka the Assistant' assistants will be hired for summer pany's real need for a van and a wellning and construction of yards and transported audio equipment and 2011. prepared application. green areas. Energy solutions Energy saving is an essential tool for fighting off climate change. Kesko wants its operations to actively contribute to curbing the progress of climate We use carbon-free electricity Kesko bought on a centralised basis some 74% of the electricity used in the K-Group properchange. We also want to help our business ties located in Finland in 2010. All of this partners and customers to the same effect. electricity was carbon dioxide free, produced with nuclear power and renewable energy sources. We are committed to saving Kesko wants to support a total solution energy towards carbon dioxide free production, In 2010, the K-Group’s aggregate electrical and reduce Finland’s dependency on imported heat energy consumption in Finland was energy and enhance the efficiency of the elec1,124 GWh. Freezers and other refrigeration tricity market. Kesko is one of the 70 particiequipment use a considerable amount of pants in the Fennovoima nuclear power plant energy in K-food stores. An unbroken cold project. chain is an essential part of food safety and We are actively on the lookout for possithe quality of products offered to custombilities to use renewable energy sources. We ers. believe that the use of soil and water as heat Solutions that reduce the consumption of sources will be potential alternatives as techmaterials and energy during the life-cycles of nical solutions become more sophisticated, properties are adopted when building new as in the case of condensation heat from store stores and renovating existing ones. Read refrigeration equipment already in use. more on pages 38 and 40. We have signed the trading sector energy efficiency agreement and are committed to saving 65 GWh by the end of 2016. The target is significant, corresponding to the annual energy consumption of 15 K-citymarkets. The refurbished Keljo shopping centre in Jyväskylä Since 1995, Kesko’s consumption of heat was opened in April 2010. Solutions that reduce the consumption of materials and energy during energy has decreased by over 60% and, corthe entire life-cycle of the property were adopted respondingly, the consumption of electrical in construction. energy has decreased by over 20%. 38 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Energy solutions Lids and doors save energy LED technology generates impacts are assessed under the BREEAM in stores savings International method (Building Research Since 2008, all new K-food stores’ refrigeraLED technology is used in the illuminated Establishment’s Environmental Assessment tion equipment has been supplied with lids signs of all new K-food stores. The resulting Method),” says Suuronen. and doors. Annual energy savings achieved savings compared with traditional neon and In 2010, Kesko joined the environmental by covering freezers amount to some 13 GWh, fluorescent tube solutions are 60–70%. organisation Green Building Council Finland which corresponds to the annual electricity The general lighting of K-supermarket (FIGBC), whose goal is to foster the sustainconsumption of nearly 600 one-family Torp­parinmäki, opened in Helsinki in Octoable development perspective as a natural houses. ber 2010, has been implemented with an part of all real estate and construction activThe total length of lids and doors on K-food energy-efficient LED system, which consumes ity. FIGBC intends to establish a set of indicastores’ refrigeration equipment exceed 4.3 over 35% less energy than the generally used tors to enable comparisons between the envikilometres. By the end of 2010, lids had been fluorescent lighting. ronmental efficiency of properties. Jari installed on the existing freezers of some 50 “LEDs do not dazzle or cause fading. With Suuronen is a member of FIGBC’s training stores. Chest freezers fitted with lids save LED panels light can be directed to the prodcommittee. 30–40% energy compared with uncovered ucts and shelves. Maintenance is easy, K-supermarket Peltola in Järvenpää uses ones. because the useful life of a LED is long, about carbon dioxide recovered from industrial “Electricity savings are also gained thanks 10 years. When the light needs to be changed, processes as a coolant in its cooling equipto fewer defrostings needed and the smaller only the lighting system panel is replaced, not ment. The efficient recovery of condensation fan and refrigeration power required. An even the whole system,” says Suuronen. heat from cooling equipment, freezers covtemperature enabled by lids also helps ered with lids and energy saving fans added improve the quality and shelf life of products. to fixtures reduce the store’s electricity and And when the cold remains inside the freezer, Recovery of condensation heat consumption by dozens of percentages the store interior temperature remains comheat compared to an average K-supermarket. fortable,” says Maintenance Manager Jari Nearly all K-food stores also use condensation Serious energy saving efforts in Kesko’s Suuronen of Kesko Food. heat from cooling units. Thanks to the recovother operating countries began in 2009. The A new saving method being piloted by ery of condensation heat, district heat is only aim over the last two years has been to include Kesko is to add doors to the juice and dairy needed in very low sub-zero temperatures. Rautakesko’s properties in operating control cabins in K-supermarket Kontumarket, HelThis will also be the case in the Veturi shopand energy monitoring. The main emphasis sinki. The annual saving in electric energy ping centre in Kouvola, which will be comhas been placed on Sweden and Latvia, which achieved by this is about 30% compared to pleted for Kesko in 2012. The premises will be have already shown good results to the extent not having doors on the cabins. heated and cooled by using heat and cold that K-rauta stores in Latvia are used as benchenergy from soil. marks of low-energy buildings. Development “The design of the Veturi shopping centre targets for 2011 mainly include stores in Estorelies on environmentally friendliness and nia and Russia. energy efficiency. Veturi’s environmental CASE CASE endangered wood species growing new leased cars at 120 g/km; our Byggmakker in tropical natural forests. Terje Lærum, Environmental Environmental goal is that by 2013, no leased car will exceed that limit,” explains does not sell Manager of Byggmakker, says that certificate Helge J. Nakken, Sales and Operatrainforest wood all suppliers and Byggmakker stores have been informed of this princiawarded to ing Director. Byggmakker has already sucple. In addition, all the suppliers must sign an environmental obligaByggmakker's ceeded in reducing air travel by giving preference to video conferIn 2010, Regnskogsfondet, the Nortion: head office ences. The company also plans to wegian Rainforest Foundation, car“I’m glad that our work has had cut down the amount of waste. ried out a survey covering all large positive results and has been recogFor many years now, Byggmakker “Our goal is to sort out 70–80% building and home improvement nised by environmental organisaNorway AS has been working to of our waste by 2012, compared with store chains operating in Norway. tions and NGOs in Norway.” decrease its environmental impacts. the current rate of 57%,” says More than 50 stores, six of which According to Lærum, more and Concrete evidence of these efforts is Nakken. were Byggmakker stores, were more Norwegian consumers are the environmental certificate, Miljöinspected in the survey. It was found aware of the problems related to fyrtårn, awarded to Byggmakker's that Byggmakker was one of those rainforests. head office. companies that do not sell products “Timber harvesting is a threat to “In connection with the certificaof rainforest wood. the animals, the people who live tion process, we have installed bike Rautakesko has made a policy there and their traditional liveliracks at the Byggmakker head office decision to ensure the origin and hoods, while also accelerating cliin Langhus, replaced disposable traceability of timber and wood mate change. Since Norway is a drinking cups with ordinary ones products. In compliance with this major player in the international and segregate our waste. We have definition, Byggmakker does not efforts to protect rainforests, we also set the maximum limit for the import or sell products made of have to act as a pioneer in the tradcarbon dioxide emissions of our ing sector.” Energy solutions Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 39 project for Energy efficiency Rauma in Pirkkala. Tommi writes a blog The K-environmental store manual supof housing benefits customers about the complete overhaul process of a oneports the stores by providing information on There are over 900,000 one-family or terraced family house built back in the 1940s. The pro-environmental products, recycling and houses built in the 1980s or earlier in the house, now in its basic condition, will energy saving, for example. The manual’s seccatchment area of K-rauta and Rautia in Finundergo a complete renovation, the aim of tion on energy saving has been produced in land. All of these are potential energy renovawhich is to achieve as low energy consumpcooperation with Motiva. An updated edition tion targets. tion as possible. At the same time, living comwill be published during 2011. Improving the energy efficiency of housing fort and convenience will be raised to meet saves money and the environment, improves present day standards. housing comfort and increases property Households who open a renovation account Choices in stores that make a value. with a K-rauta or a Rautia store receive a spedifference In autumn 2010, Rautakesko started an inicial Rautakesko edition of a book by Jussi A store’s function is to offer products that tiative on energy efficiency in housing. The Laitinen (“Pieni suuri energiakirja”), which promote sustainable development and to aim of the project is to create a concept of the contains information and practical instruchelp customers make good choices. services available at K-rauta and Rautia stores tions for saving energy at home. The selections of the K-Group stores for improving the energy efficiency of housinclude a multitude of products which carry ing so that each customer can easily find the an environmental label. There are some 80 solutions suitable just for them. The energy Environmental stores also Pirkka products with the Nordic environmenefficiency project is a continuation to the guide customers in saving the tal Swan labelling, for example, washing Peloton project, lead by Demos Helsinki and environment agents, nappies and soft tissues. K-food store financed by Sitra, the Finnish Innovation K-retailers’ environmental management is selections contain nearly 700 organic prodFund, seeking ways to support people in their based on the K-environmental store operating ucts, of which some 50 are Pirkka Luomu everyday energy choices. model. There are nearly 680 K-environmental organic products. “We want to guide customers’ everyday stores, of which some 460 are K-food stores. Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen have some 230 choices in an energy efficient direction. K-environmental stores pay special attenproducts with environmental labelling, Rautakesko wants to be the leading expert tion to environmental impacts, such as the mainly paper products, light bulbs, batteries, and seller of energy efficiency services,” says use of energy, recycling, environmental washing agents, household appliances and Tuulikki Markkula, Rautakesko’s Customer advice, and environmentally friendly product televisions. Relationship Director. selections. K-environmental stores also help Energy saving light bulbs are available from Customers interested in energy renovation customers save the environment in their K-food stores, Anttila stores, NetAnttila can visit the web sites of K-rauta and Rautia operations. When a store becomes a K-envionline store, Kodin Ykkönen department to follow the renovation project run in coopronmental store, all its employees receive stores, K-rauta stores, Rautia stores, and the eration by Rautakesko and retailer Tommi training in environmental issues. Konebox online store. CASE and decrease their environmental Pirkka recycled impact. The Pirkka bag is made of 90% plastic bag recycled plastic, 30% of which receives the comes from protective plastic wrappings used in Kesko Food's goods recovery award transportation. The rest of the bag's recycled raw material is recovered of the year from Suominen Flexible Packaging Ltd's factories, from the manufacture of food and hygiene packaging In November, the Finnish Associaand plastic carry-bags, for examtion of Environmental Enterprises ple. (YYL) and Uusiouutiset, the Finnish “K-food stores want to offer their Recycling News magazine, granted customers alternative products with the 2010 Recovery Award to the less burden on the environment, Pirkka recycled plastic bag. The particularly in the Pirkka range. award, which was now granted for Approximately one third of the plasthe sixth time, is an acknowledgetic waste generated in our operament for an innovative solution tions can be reused in the manufacimplemented in the environmental ture of Pirkka recycled plastic bags. management sector or related to We will continue our development the reuse of secondary raw materiwork with plastic waste, so that in als. The purpose is to provide the future even a larger proportion encouragement and motivation for can be recycled and used to make adopting solutions in environmenshopping bags and other products,” tal management that both improve says Timo Jäske, Environmental the efficiency of materials' reuse Manager of Kesko Food. 40 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Energy solutions CASE CASE New logistics Real estate centre improves managers advise logistics in energy savings efficiency and Chest freezers covered with lids, saves energy timely maintenance of refrigeration equipment and properly timed lighting are all retail stores' methods The joint new logistics centre of of saving energy, the environment Anttila, Kodin Ykkönen and and costs. NetAnttila in Kerava will be impleKesko's 40 real estate managers mented gradually during the first visit K-Group stores on a regular months of 2011. The logistics centre's floor area is “The Hämeenkylä warehouse basis to give advice on how to reduce The logistics centre applying the 19,000 m2 and cubic volume directed some 97% of the waste energy consumption. The managers latest warehousing technology will 350,000 m3. Goods are stored in a generated to recovery. In the new have some 800 stores representing significantly improve logistics effi30 metre high-bay storage using logistics centre, the recovery rate all Kesko's divisions to visit. ciency. The centre will handle delivautomated technology. of the entire process will be “A real estate manager takes up the eries to all Anttila and Kodin The heating energy of Anttila's improved by introducing recyclable subjects and areas where the retailer Ykkönen department stores as well logistics centre comes from Kerava platforms and removing part of the can save energy through his or her as NetAnttila customers. Energy's nearby bio energy plant, in packaging material before goods own actions. It's possible to cut their Customers' purchasing habits which 60% of the fuel used is wood are sent on to department stores,” electricity bill by a surprising amount have become more varied and an and 40% peat. The consumption of says Harri Ajomaa, Development just by timely servicing and defrosting increasing proportion of them make the heating energy is about one Manager of Anttila Oy and K-citythe refrigeration equipment, adjustpurchases online. Annually, the third compared with the old waremarket Oy. ing the temperature to exactly the logistics centre will deliver over one house in Hämeenkylä, Vantaa. right level, keeping condensers clean million orders to Anttila's online The aim is to further improve the and ensuring that the air circulates customers. current waste recovery rate. freely. Replacing store freezers with ones covered with lids and doors genCASE erates energy savings of some 40%,” exceeded the required level, which cost-effective methods to improve says Jari Pihlajamaa, Maintenance Energy efficient can be mainly attributed to tightness and efficient heat recovery. the energy efficiency of real estate properties. Manager of Kesko Food. Real estate managers operate in stores through “Rautakesko is building new, A study reported that energy specific areas: ISS's managers are cooperation of increasingly energy-efficient stores both in Finland and other countries. consumption of the K-rauta store in Lahti completed in 2008 was even responsible for the Greater Helsinki area, Ovenia's managers for UusiRautakesko In order to reduce energy consumption of buildings during their entire less than that of a comparable building that fulfils the 2010 building maa, Pirkanmaa and Central Finland, while YIT's managers are responsiand Ruukki life cycle, we have developed regulations. ble for all other areas. together with Ruukki, our own taiThe most important individual The managers spend most of lor-made frame and outer shell contributing factors included the their time in stores with retailers: The energy efficiency requirements solution. To date, we have built as good thermal insulation capacity 60% of their work is done out of the set on buildings as well as the propmany as nine stores applying this and air tightness of the building. office. Reporting, development erty and building sector's own effinew concept,” says Ari Pärssinen, The air tightness of the K-rauta work and the implementation of the ciency targets are constantly being Rautakesko's Store Site Director. store, implemented with Ruukki's agreed energy saving activities take tightened. In their joint project, Ruukki participates in the TEKES sandwich panel system, was more up the rest of their time. Ruukki and Rautakesko created an project on sustainable energy, coorthan four times better than the refSami Pasi, YIT's Key Account energy-efficient store concept. The dinated by Aalto University. The erence value in the 2010 building Manager, is responsible for southenergy consumption results clearly objectives include finding the most regulations. western Finland. He describes how K-supermarket Hirvensalo in Turku achieved savings: CASE “K-supermarket Hirvensalo operbon dioxide (Source: Paper and of Latvia, suffered extensive damage ates in an old building heated with Konekesko Wood Insights). Employees of Konekesko Latvija's during autumn storms. During the one-day event, Konekesko staff and electricity. The old, energy-consuming blowers of the ventilation equippeople in Latvia forest machinery sales unit particistudents planted fir trees on the ment were replaced with energyplanted fir trees pated in a forest planting event with two vocational schools in Septem2.7-hectare plot. “This way, Konekesko Latvija wants efficient ones. Furthermore, accurate measuring systems were installed in ber 2010. to take responsibility for the regenthe store to enable the use of ventilaPlanting forests mitigates climate The technical institute of Ergli is eration of forests. Our joint efforts tion that depends on the number of change. Through photosynthesis, a managing 120 hectares of forest have generated an investment in the customers. These measures have cut growing forest binds carbon dioxide provided for this purpose by the future, for many decades to come,” the building's monthly consumption in the atmosphere. Young forests State of Latvia. The forest, located says Einars Skels, Sales Manager of of electricity in K-supermarket grow fastest and so bind most carin the Madona region in the heart Konekesko Latvija. Hirvensalo by 15–30%.” Energy solutions Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 41 CASE as ground heat pumps, a solar water in a correct order – is an easy start K-rauta and Rautia heater, floor heating, air heat pumps, insulations and solar panels. for those who want to reduce the environmental burden of their assists in heat K-rauta and Rautia stores give housing. renovation Finns advice on how to reduce their housing-related impact on the enviThe stores also provide a thermographic camera inspection, which ronment. The stores offer, among can be used to establish the condiThe heat energy tours of Rautakeother things, an energy saving surtion of the building's outer shell in sko's K-rauta and Rautia chains visvey comprising a study, calculations terms of heat technology and the ited various Rautia stores and fairs and a report stating how the confunctioning of the heat insulation repairs. It is well suited for assessing across Finland in 2010. The tours sumption of heating energy in a layer. The camera reveals leakages refurbishment needs and monitorgave consumers an opportunity to one-family house can be cut conand faults with accuracy. The report ing success in renovations. familiarise themselves with different siderably. Planning a heat renovalists what faults there are, for examenergy options and equipment such tion – the correct measures and ple, and what and how to make CASE Heikki Mäkinen, Programme Common Director of the Foundation, emphasises the vital role companies play in concerns over protecting. the condition of “Without companies, there would be no Vesijärvi Foundation. Public Lake Vesijärvi contribution alone is simply not enough.” Major focuses in the protection Lake Vesijärvi in the region of Päijätof Vesijärvi include oxygenation, Häme in southern Finland is an management fishing and the buildessential part of the landscape and ing of wetlands. The treatment prolife of thousands of local inhabitgramme also includes research ants. Constant measures need to be efforts that provide the basis for taken so that this very special and management measures as well as sensitive lake remains in a good communications to the general condition. During 2008–2010, public, such as exhibitions, newsletKesko has been one of the main ters, advice and information for all cooperation partners providing age groups. According to Mäkinen, support for the foundation that it is very important that an effective raises funds for the Clean Lake Vesi­ and versatile cooperation network järvi campaign to restore and mainis created around the treatment of tain the lake. the lake. CASE August 2010 were 136 g/km. The Energy labelling corresponding figure was 140 g/km to guide for Seat passenger cars, 155 g/km for Audis, and 196 g/km for Volkswacar purchases gen commercial vehicles. On 1 March 2010, Finland adopted a voluntary energy labelling for cars Traffic, in general, has considerable from A to G – similar to that for environmental impact with road domestic appliances. The aim is to traffic accounting for most of it. In guide car purchases so that they Finland, traffic accounts for some would be more economical and have 20% of the total carbon dioxide less impact on the environment. The emissions, and some 77% of these energy labelling provides buyers with are generated by road traffic. information on the energy consumpIn Finland, the average carbon tion and costs of different makes of dioxide emissions of new passenger cars so they can make comparisons vehicle tax and car tax rate, fuel www.trafi.fi/ekoautoilu, a website cars dropped annually by about before deciding to buy. consumption, other emissions and maintained by Trafi. 10 g/km in 2007–2009. In August The energy labelling indicates the noise level. How the results achieved (Sources: the Finnish Transport 2010, the average CO2 emissions of car's make and model, CO2 emisactually comply with the energy Safety Agency (Trafi) and the Finnnew registered passenger cars in sions and emission category. It also labelling depends on each individish Information Centre of AutomoFinland were 148.5 g/km. The avergives the target for a car of the same ual's driving style and conditions. bile Sector) age CO2 emissions of Volkswagen weight sold in the EU for CO2 emisThe energy labels of different passenger cars imported in Januarysions, theoretical fuel costs, annual makes and models are available at: Responsible purchasing and sales The product's to a store’s shelf is long and comprises many path ■■ According to the timber policy, Kesko’s stages. A customer who picks up a can of building and home improvement store pineapple slices, a packet of frozen fish or a chains, and home and speciality goods pair of jeans is seldom aware of the work done store chains do not purchase products to ensure the quality and safety of the prodmade of endangered wood species uct. Supplier audits and competitive tendergrowing in tropical natural forests. Read ing, sensory evaluations, laboratory analyses more on page 38. and package labelling are only a few of the ■■ Kesko uses a list that indicates which tasks that need to be done during the months chemicals are either completely banned before a new product is launched onto the or allowed to a limited extent in the home market. textiles, clothing, leather goods, shoes and upholstered furniture delivered to Kesko. Read more on page 45. Sustainability stands and ■■ Kesko keeps a close eye on the statements support buyers in development of the legislation their work concerning the use of genetic The K-Group is responsible for ensuring that engineering and the latest data and the products it sells meet all the requirements products available. Kesko Food has had of both Finnish and EU legislation. no GMO foods or foods containing GMO Kesko’s ethical purchasing principles guide ingredients in its selections. Kesko’s responsible purchasing. Various policy statements have also been prepared to Read more about stands and statements at: support its operations: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. ■■ Kesko Food’s and Kespro’s fish and shellfish statement advises buyers and retailers to favour sustainable fish stocks as well as certified suppliers and products while avoiding endangered fish species. ■■ Since autumn 2008, all Pirkka eggs have been produced either in free-range cage systems, organic poultry houses or Laboratory Assistant Anssi Laurikainen from the Product Research Unit determines the formaldehyde enriched cages. content in children's clothing, which has to fulfil strict safety requirements. 44 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Responsible purchasing and sales Product Research laboratory ensures product safety Kesko Food’s Product Research Unit ensures the safety and quality of the products included in K-food stores’ selections and develops Kesko Food’s own brand products (Pirkka, Euroshopper, Menu). The Product Research also monitors the quality of non-food and home and speciality goods sold by K-citymarkets and Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen department stores. Read more on page 47. The Product Research Unit’s laboratory is the first ISO 17025 accredited laboratory in the Finnish trading sector. In 2010, the laboratory analysed 8,826 product samples. From an idea to a Pirkka product Jaakko Arpiainen, Product Quality Manager of the Product Research Unit, is closely involved in the generation of new own brand products. “We look for new products that meet customer needs, such as lactose-free or glutenwith detailed information on product characinclude blueberry concentrate, Fairtrade free options for existing products. In coopteristics, such as ingredients, allergens, microchocolates and Finnish cherry tomatoes. eration with the buyers, we define the biological features and nutritional values. K-food stores have some 200 Fairtrade required product’s quality and packaging, products in their selections, of which nearly arrange competitive tendering for suppliers, 40 are Pirkka Fairtrade products. The latest carry out comparative quality surveys, organMore Organic and Fairtrade arrivals are Pirkka Fairtrade Cola and Pirkka ise sensory evaluations and make chemical products in the Pirkka range vanilla and chocolate ice creams, made partly and microbiological determinations in our The Pirkka Organic range in particular has of Fairtrade ingredients. laboratory,” says Jaakko Arpiainen. grown in recent years. The most popular The following list contains examples of The development of a new product also Pirkka Organic products include eggs, lettuce, Pirkka products’ Finnish origins by category includes preparing a product specification carrots and tomatoes, while new arrivals in terms of sales figures. CASE for any store wishing to build up its “Besides organic production, all be weeded by hand. The farm proPirkka range own selection of organic products. our products represent local food. Our milk production farms are situduces more than half a million kilos of organic carrots per year. includes nearly Juvan Luomu, supplier of ated within 35 kilometres from the It goes without saying that oper50 organic Pirkka organic yoghurts, was awarded as dairy and all our performance is geared towards sustainable develations at the Lietlahti organic farm are environmentally friendly. The products the Organic Company of the Year opment. We have been using green electricity for several years now. We refrigerated storage and packaging machinery operate with electricity The Union for Organic Farming want to be a strong player in the produced by wind power. The farm awarded Juvan Luomu Oy, the supdeveloping organic food market does not use any chemical pestiNew, organically cultivated and plier of Pirkka Organic yoghurts, as and accept this recognition with cides and the only fertiliser is manufactured products are actively the Organic Company of 2010. The great gratitude and humbleness,” organic material spread over the sought for the Pirkka range. The award is in recognition for the longsays Partanen. ground's surface. In intermediate most popular organic products are term work of the Juva-based organic years, the carrot fields are colonised Pirkka Organic eggs, lettuce, cardairy to promote organic producPirkka Organic carrots by nitrogen-fixing plants, which rots and tomatoes. In addition to tion. Juvan Luomu manufactures grown on an increase the humus content of soil Pirkka organic products, K-food products sold under its business environmentally friendly and help the carrots grow. stores also offer a wide selection of partners' private labels, such as farm (Sources: Kari Partanen, Managother organic products. Pirkka, and sells milk to other comThe Lietlahti farm by Lake Kyyvesi in ing Director of Juvan Luomu and Organic products come up more panies that make organic prodeastern Finland has cultivated carPaavo Pulkkinen, grower of Lietlahti and more frequently in discussions. ucts. rots as the main crop since 1996. The farm.) K-food retailers also purchase many Kari Partanen, Managing Direcfarm also produces carrots for the organic products direct from protor of Juvan Luomu, has confidence Pirkka range. Grower Paavo Pulkducers and farmers located near in the future of organically prokinen says that the organic cultivatheir stores. Customer feedback duced food, while also emphasising tion of carrots relies on manual and demand play significant roles the importance of local food and work, as each row of carrots must green electricity. Responsible purchasing and sales Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 45 the collections and packaging for the compa“Chemicals that are completely banned in Pirkka products' Finnish origins in 2010 nies’ own imports. Responsibility is an manufacture include heavy metals and carciProduct group % important factor in product design and purnogenic textile dyes. Some of the chemicals, chasing decisions. such as formaldehyde, have a limit value that Milk products 100 “In my own job, the area of responsibility must not be exceeded. The Product Research Soft drinks 100 comprises environmental responsibility, Unit regularly analyses imported batches for Meat, fresh and packaged 97.7 social responsibility, working conditions in their formaldehyde and phthalate content, Processed meats 82.6 suppliers’ factories and auditing them. We are for example,” says Satu Nissi-Rantakömi, Ready-to-eat meals 96.1 constantly looking for more BSCI audited or Research Engineer of the Unit. Fish 63.5 SA8000 certified suppliers. It’s a good feeling Vegetables and root crops 56.7 to know that the basic things in the factory Cheese 33.2 are all right. In general, it’s also easier to coopPackage labelling helps erate with these suppliers and the work they consumers Yoghurts, puddings, etc. 22.7 produce is neater,” says Appelström. The Product Research Unit’s daily work also K-citymarkets sell Doogood, their own includes drawing up package labelling for When products are selected for the Pirkka brand made of ecological cotton for women Kesko’s own brands. In the package labelling range, top priority is always given to the and babies. The selections of Anno Collecof its own brands and imports, Kesko comdomestic alternative, provided that it meets tion, sold by Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen plies with Finnish and EU legislation, and the the quality and price criteria. department stores, were expanded in autumn recommendations given by the authorities. The domestic content of Pirkka products in 2010 by the Fair Trade product family, made Compulsory food labelling includes 'Best fresh foods, such as meat and processed meat, of Fairtrade cotton. K-citymarkets and other before' and 'Use by' dates. Package labelling liquid dairy products, such as milks and K-food stores sell Pirkka Fairtrade cotton pads of Kesko’s own brands always comprises creams, is very high, sometimes even 100%. and sticks. – package size and space permitting – nutriA significant part of products purchased tional values, even if not required by legislafrom abroad are those which are not available tion. Nearly all Pirkka products have the in Finland, like fruits and canned foods. The A list of banned and restricted Guideline Daily Amount (GDA) labelling, domestic content also depends on the seachemicals which indicates how much energy and main sons of the year: domestic products are not Kesko uses a list that indicates which cheminutrients one serving contains. Read more on always sufficiently available around the cals are either completely banned or allowed page 52. year. to a limited extent in the home textiles, clothIn addition to compulsory labelling, inforing, leather goods, shoes and upholstered furmation on allergens is also given when it is niture delivered to Kesko. The list of chemicals possible that they unintentionally end up in Responsibility factors contains the requirements of Finnish and EU the product during production. One example impact planning chemicals legislation (REACH) as well as Kesof this is the text 'may contain traces of peaThe product and package design team, headed ko’s own policy definitions on limitations set nuts' on chocolate bars. by Erika Appelström, K-citymarket-Anttila’s on chemicals. Kesko’s buyers send the chemHead Designer, is responsible for designing icals list to suppliers outside the EU. CASE CASE carries out research and produces and law-abiding factory, and proK-maatalous information on how to improve both the efficiency of cultivation Audits improve vided with information on the requirements of the BSCI audit. Experimental and the quality of the harvest. working Eurogroup supports the suppliers Farm tests plant “We test the grain, oil, legume and grass plant varieties that are conditions in included in the BSCI audit process by giving suggestions on corrective varieties and most suitable for the cultivation conditions in Finland. We also high-risk actions and additional training, if required. Through BSCI involvedevelops develop cultivation techniques that countries ment, suppliers have increased their cultivation suit different species as well as possible,” says Jouko Pakarinen, actawareness of labour legislation, occupational health and safety as ing Director of the K-maatalous Through Eurogroup membership, well as communications between The agricultural sector is facing the Experimental Farm. Rautakesko observes and improves the employer and employees. At challenge of producing food to the Based on research, the experiworking conditions in its supplier the end of 2010, nearly 90% of Raugrowing population of the world mental farm develops variety-spechain. BSCI audits cover the evalutakesko's purchasing volume without burdening the environment cific cultivation programmes, which ation of occupational health and imported through Eurogroup was while maintaining operations on a assist farmers to produce highsafety practices, compliance with in the sphere of BSCI auditing. financially sustainable ground for quality harvests that fulfil the legislation concerning working time the farmer at the same time. In the requirements of the food industry. and compensation, and managechanging climate, the development The aim of the cultivation proment practice in the factories of of varieties is increasingly important grammes is to optimise the use of Rautakesko's suppliers. so that farmers always have varieties soil fertilisers and pesticides in order Rautakesko and Eurogroup supavailable that are most suitable for to produce a good harvest, both in port their suppliers in China, India, their current farming conditions. terms of quantity and quality while Bangladesh and Vietnam through Future agriculture is also a conburdening the environment as little pre-audit training events. During cern for the K-maatalous Experias possible. the events, suppliers are given mental Farm in Hauho. The farm advice on how to run a sustainable 46 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Responsible purchasing and sales Product quality is ensured Monitoring in Asia The store's self-control is with quality audits As China is Kesko’s most important supplier part of quality assurance Jaakko Arpiainen is also responsible for qualcountry in risk areas, a monitoring team was Self-control refers to food operators’ statutory ity audits of new suppliers. In 2010, he visited established there in 2008. The monitoring obligation to establish the product safety hazthe factories of 36 suppliers from Spain to team guides, trains and oversees the Chinese ards involved in their operations and create India to audit possible new products. suppliers of Kesko’s division parent compasystematic action plans on how to manage “We require that the supplier has an internies. these hazards. national audit standard, for example BCR, IFS, Monitoring has brought improvements to The Product Research is responsible for the GlobalGAP or ISO 22000. In addition, we often factories’ management practices, working management and support of the K-Group’s audit the new supplier of our own-label prodhours, wages, and occuself-control. ucts. Our audit comprises the monitoring of pational health and The monitoring team made “When the self-conproduction premises, establishing the tracesafety issues. In 2010, trol system in the tradability of ingredients and quality assurance,” explains Arpiainen. The K-maatalous Experimental Farm in Angel Young and Buick Bie, the Chinese auditors of the monitoring 86 ing sector is effective, customers can rely on the quality of foodstuffs factory visits in China in 2010. Hauho tests and develops agricultural plant team, made 86 factory and services; hygiene varieties. Read more on page 45. visits. risks and food shrinkage Rautakesko monitors and develops workare smaller; and operations become more ing conditions in its supplier chain in Asia systematic,” says Product Research Manager Special attention to working through Eurogroup cooperation. Read more Matti Kalervo. conditions in factories in risk on page 45. areas In product sourcing, Kesko pays special attenProducts from sale quickly by tion to the human rights and working condiContinuous quality recalls tions of employees across the supply chain. monitoring Occasionally, a defect is noticed in a product A special focus is on countries where the risks After competitive tendering, research and or package, which thus needs to be taken from of violating these rights are high. audits, the idea gradually turns into a finished the market by the so-called 'recall'. “Outside the EU, Kesko’s most important product, and all labelling, including cooking “The reason for a recall may, for example, supplier countries in risk areas are China, instructions, is printed on the packaging. be that there is no Finnish text on the package Turkey and India. We import clothing, home After the supplier sends the final samples, or the 'best before' date is incorrect. A product textiles, shoes and domestic appliances from transportation to the central warehouse and is also recalled if a defect is detected in its these countries. Some 1.5% of Kesko’s direct stores can begin. The whole process that manufacture or quality. We are most particupurchases come from suppliers in risk areas,” starts from the product idea often takes six to lar with allergens: if the product labelling is says Marjut Lovio, Kesko’s Corporate Responnine months. insufficient, the whole lot is withdrawn from sibility Advisor. The monitoring of the quality of products stores,” says Matti Kalervo. For supplier audits, Kesko uses internaby the Product Research Unit continues. The tional auditing systems – BSCI audits and the laboratory carries out systematic monitoring SA8000 certification. Kesko’s objective is to by spot checks and customers give feedback do business in high-risk countries only with to the unit’s consumer service. If several comsuppliers who have passed the audit. Some plaints are received about the same product, 190 factories of Kesko’s suppliers in high-risk the cause is easier to find when the product countries are in the sphere of BSCI audits. quality manager and laboratory assistants work for the same unit as consumer advisors, and cooperate with Kesko’s buyers. CASE The survey was carried out for The key focuses in Kesko Food's above all, taking responsibility for Helsingin Sanomat by TNS Gallup, responsibility include encouraging the environment and people. Pirkka ranked which interviewed 1,204 Finns aged healthy eating habits, taking care of In the sustainability estimates of among the three over 15. The respondents were presented with a list of the 25 largest employees' wellbeing and competence as well as developing the the top three, emphasis was also laid on the quality and safety of most responsible advertisers, the 50 most advertised selections of sustainably produced products and services, contribution brands, and the 25 largest compamerchandise for the Pirkka range in to employees' wellbeing and combrands nies in Finland in terms of net particular. petence, and as little impact as possales. “The Pirkka range already has sible on the environment. In the According to the responsibility sur“This is a terrific achievement and some 80 products with Swan labelcase of the Pirkka brand, the most vey made for the Finnish newspaper a proof of our long-term and deterling,” reminds Andelin. important factors were domestic Helsingin Sanomat in autumn 2010, mined work for enhancing the The objective of the survey was origins and a good price/quality Pirkka is considered the third most selection of responsible Pirkka to establish consumers' views about ratio. responsible brand in Finland, right products,” says Juha Andelin, ethical and responsible business after Valio and Fazer. Kesko Food's Pirkka Manager. operations. According to the survey, business ethics for Finns mean, Responsible purchasing and sales Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 47 CASE Product Research analyses clothes even before they are purchased Before a shirt or a pair of trousers end up on a shelf of a K-citymarket or Anttila, they have gone through many analyses and tests. The product must comply with the requirements of Finnish and EU legislation, Kesko's chemicals statement and the ethical principles of Kesko's purchasing. Kesko's buyers of home and speciality goods and the Product Research unit act in close cooperation to ensure the safety of products long before Kesko makes a decision to order the particular product. “First we analyse the quality of textiles from the fabric samples sent by suppliers. And before delivery from the manufacturing country to Finland, we receive shipping samples for analysis. We are most particular with suppliers delivering merchandise to the K-Group for the first time,” says Research Engineer Satu Nissi-Rantakömi of Product Research. In 2010, the Product Research analysed more than 1,000 home and Satu Nissi-Rantakömi has been clothing, a committee on toys and cords and strings in clothing, for speciality goods items and carried responsible for textiles testing at baby supplies, and an ISO standards example, is covered by strict regulaout over 14,500 product analyses. Kesko since 2000. She is a member working group. tions to prevent entrapment or Textiles were analysed for textile of several networks and working “At Ginetex, we discuss how to strangulation hazards for playing chemicals used, such as textile colgroups related to textiles and toy make the care symbols of textiles children,” says Nissi-Rantakömi. ours, various process and auxiliary research both in Finland and abroad. uniform and easily understandable substances and finishing agents. Such working groups include Ginein all countries. Groups on children's Limit values, which must not be tex, the international association for clothing and toys address the very exceeded, have been determined textile care labelling, a working strict safety requirements applied for them. group on the safety of children's to these products. The length of CASE – a guarantee that their vegetables tionally recognised certificate expected. We could conduct everyVegetables from have been cultivated following Good Agricultural Practice. makes domestic vegetables increasingly attractive while enhancing thing in Finnish, which made it all easier,” laughs Häyrinen. central Finland in “GlobalGAP and Pirkka go well their value in the eyes of K-food The GlobalGAP certificate is international together, because Pirkka products are known for their high quality and store customers. “Retailers must also bear responsibility for the required from all foreign suppliers of Pirkka fruit and vegetables. The company reliability. There's no better way of monitoring the quality of products product quality,” they explain. Lettuce, for example, should be shelved quality of all Finnish suppliers of Pirkka fruit and vegetables is assured than GlobalGAP. Together with in a cool area in the store. by Kesko Food's own audits and the Pirkka and GlobalGAP, we are now The adoption of GlobalGAP did Finnish Horticultural Products SociJari Häyrinen from Juva and Risto at the top of the quality scale,” say not require any major changes or ety's quality guidelines, which corJanhunen from Mikkeli, who cultithe growers. involve extra costs because the respond to the GlobalGAP standards vate Pirkka iceberg lettuce, broccoli Häyrinen and Janhunen took an farms were already well managed. in many respects. The differences and Chinese cabbage, are pleased. initiative to get the GlobalGAP cer“There was some excitement in the mainly lie in GlobalGAP's more comTheir farms are the first in Finland to tificate some three years ago. The air before the first audit, but the pact documentation and residue receive the GlobalGAP certificate growers believe that the internaprocess was more painless than monitoring. 48 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Responsible purchasing and sales CASE Chip & pin era launched in K-stores The Single Euro Payments Area (SEPA) was introduced in 2010. People and companies can now make their euro-denominated payments as quickly, at the same low price and as safely from one country to another within the euro area as in their home countries. The aim was to make the introduction of the chip & pin era as easy as possible for customers. The same payment terminal was selected for all stores to make the adoption easier. “We wanted to ensure that our customers have as modern, easyto-use and secure equipment as possible,” Kesko's Group Treasurer Heikki Ala-Seppälä points out. Chip & pin payments also change the handling of the K-Plussa card, as customers can register their cards themselves in the new payment terminal. The Banksys Yomani chip & pin terminal is of modern design, has a large and clear colour display and CASE a good shield for entering the PIN Finnish Trade Unions – SAK, and the Lovio, Kesko's Corporate Responcode. The installation of new termiWorking Central Chamber of Commerce. Long-term targets of the project sibility Advisor, who participated in the project. nals started in August 2010 and all stores in Finland will have them durconditions in included permanent improvement During the project, commitment ing 2011. Vietnamese in the working conditions of the factories and the establishment of and initiative of factory management were considered to be of priIn a company of the size of Kesko, changing the payment system is a factories effective work-life practices, in which the trade union movement is mary importance. The factories were given support in the implelarge-scale investment. It is not only the adoption of a new kind of payimproved an active party. mentation of the corrective actions ment terminal but an extensive sysShort-term targets included needed. Gradually the work started tem of secure payments which achieving the state where the facto show and after the second reinvolved, for example, a survey of Vietnam is a developing country tories fulfil the BSCI best practice audit, three of the factories had security risks related to card paywhere the clothing and textile requirements and improving the passed the audit. ments carried out in cooperation industry is one of the corner stones project partners' opportunities to “The project also contributed to with the National Bureau of Investiof the economy. Most of the over promote responsible practices in improving the factories' occupagation. two million employees are women Vietnamese companies. tional health practices – one of the In connection with Kesko's chip with low education. At the initial BSCI audit made at factories even set up a clinic of its & pin payments initiative, the secuIn 2006–2010, Kesko participated an early stage of the project, only own. Working conditions improved: rity of card payments was enhanced in a Vietnam project, which was one factory passed the audit, eight air-conditioning and lighting were in many ways. New payment termifinanced mainly by the Ministry of factories reached the 'improveenhanced, work places were rearnals prevent the use of forged cards Foreign Affairs, coordinated by the ments needed' level, while six of ranged and the availability of clean and alert if anything indicating malTrade Union Solidarity Centre of them were non-compliant. water was improved. Pregnant practice comes up. Card informaFinland, and comprised 16 Vietnam“At the beginning of the project, workers were offered additional tion is also encrypted at the moment ese factories, eight of which were several deficiencies were detected food, more breaks and a paid materthey are generated in stores. clothing and textile factories. In in Vietnamese factories: overtime nity leave. The factories which paraddition to Kesko, Finnish particihours exceeded the legal maximum, ticipated in the project also pants included Stockmann, Tuko, there were insufficient safety mechincreased their knowledge of Vietthe Trade Union Solidarity Centre of anisms in the machinery and namese labour legislation,” conFinland, the Central Organisation of employees did not have personal cludes Lovio on the achievements protective equipment,” says Marjut of the project. Responsible purchasing and sales Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 49 CASE the local society. Decisions on the Fairtrade use of the Fairtrade premium are made by the producer communipremiums provide ties. equipment and Asoproagroín farmers have used their Fairtrade premiums to acquire training computers and school supplies. Marthas for Fairtrade In October 2010, the Martha OrganFairtrade pineapples have been sold ization, Fairtrade Finland and K-city­ in Finland since 2003. The Pirkka market joined forces and organised Fairtrade pineapples were introa consumer event in all K-citymarduced to stores in October 2005. kets. During the one-day event, They are imported from Ghana, voluntary Marthas presented Fairwhere they are produced by Gold trade products and arranged tastCoast Fruits, and from Costa Rica ings of Pirkka Fairtrade pineapples from the farms of the Asoproagroín in the hypermarkets. The purpose cooperative. of the event was to guide customers The growers of Fairtrade pineaptowards responsible consumption. ple are paid at least the guaranteed Fairtrade price, which covers the costs of sustainable production. In addition to the guaranteed price, the farmers are paid a separate Fairtrade premium, which is intended to be used for projects that benefit CASE bags reduces the amount of packNon-disposable aging waste going to landfills thus helping to save the environment. fruit bags save The non-disposable bags are the environment meant for continuous use. They can be washed and used to pack fruit and support and vegetable purchases again and again. Emergency Youth If there are not yet non-disposaShelters ble bags available in your K-store's fruit and vegetable department, the customer can ask the retailer to In response to consumers' wishes, order them. K-food stores have offered nonBy selling fruit bags, K-food stores disposable fruit bags in their fruit support the Finnish Red Cross and vegetable departments since Emergency Shelter Homes where autumn 2010. The use of non-disyoung people get help and support posable bags reduces the amount if things get difficult in their lives. of packaging waste and, at the same Emergency shelters, located in time, supports the Finnish Red Cross Helsinki, Espoo, Vantaa, Tampere Emergency Youth Shelters. and Turku, offer young people a An average family's annual pursafe place to stay the night, assistchases of fruit and vegetables genance in talking to their parents and erate quite a pile of small plastic provide a range of support activities bags. The use of non-disposable to help build a brighter future. Healthiness Healthy living We encourage all our customers to adopt According to the latest nutrient recommenhealthy lifestyles, eat healthily and to maindations, lots of root crops, vegetables, fruits tain good health and fitness through physical and berries should be eaten and often. A activity. We provide our customers with infordiversified diet also includes wholegrain mation and offer them health promoting products and milk products. Main courses of products. meat, fish and chicken should be accompanied by potatoes, pasta, barley, oats and rice. Sources of good fat are fish, margarine and Interest in wholesome food rape seed oil. Foods containing animal fats Some 70% of Finnish people say that they eat and sugar should be eaten seldom and in healthy foods. When shopping for food, they small quantities. pay particular attention to the diversity, fresh(Source: publication “Itämeren ruoka­ ness and fibre content. However, consumers kolmio 2010” of the food specialists of the say that it is increasingly difficult to choose Finnish Diabetes Association, the Finnish good products. More than half of Finnish conHeart Association and the University of Eastsumers are of the opinion that so much is ern Finland.) written about the healthiness of foodstuffs, for example, that it is difficult to know what to believe. (Source: Taloustutkimus’ survey We help our customers in “Suomi syö 2010”.) health promotion Kesko’s responsibility programme for the period 2008–2012 includes several objectives related to healthy lifestyles and responsible product selections. Promoting healthy lifeBerries, root crops, vegetables and fruits should be eaten several times a day. The recommended styles and eating habits, in tandem with daily intake is half a kilo, or six handfuls, as part of physical activity, are essential aspects espea varied diet. cially in our food and sports trade. 52 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Healthiness Product Research develops All recipes are tested in Consult Customer Service new foodstuffs the Pirkka test kitchen Advising consumers about healthful eating is Kesko Food’s Product Research Unit analyses The Pirkka test kitchen has created cooking part of Kesko Food’s daily operations. Kesko product samples and develops new foodstuffs recipes for K-store customers for as long as Food’s Consumer Service Unit comprises and tastes on a daily basis. The Product 50 years. The recipes are available on product three consultants who take consumer calls Research Laboratory has the ISO 17025 certipacks, in the K-Group’s customer magazine and answer customer feedback. In 2010, Confication. Pirkka, in the K-RuokaPirkka leaflet available sumer Service received 19,106 contacts. The Health aspects hold a prominent place in at K-food stores, and at the pirkka.fi website, feedback concerned product complaints, the product development of Pirkka products. which provides a choice of some 4,000 reciproduct inquiries, questions about cooking The Pirkka range includes four cholesterolpes for everyday and festive cooking. and new ideas. lowering Pirkka Reducol products. The active “We test all of our recipes in our test “We are home economists or bachelors of ingredient in these Pirkka Reducol yoghurts kitchen. Promoting a balanced and healthy hospitality management by education, which is Reducol, a compound of plant sterols and diet is an important part of recipe planning. enables us to give expert advice to customers stanols which has been proven to reduce choIt is advisable to eat root crops, vegetables and on product ingredients and cooking,” says lesterol. fruits several times a day. This is more easily Consumer Service Manager Heta Rautpalo. Since 2008, sugar, fat and salt have been achieved when you add root crops and vegetareduced from the Pirkka products. This reforbles in the cooking. Carrots can be grated into mulation supports the targets of the EU White minced meat sauce while herbs, root crops Food stores highlight Paper 'A Strategy for Europe on Nutrition, and vegetables go well with pasta casserole. healthiness Overweight and Obesity related Health Issues'. Our recipes on the pirkka.fi website include K-food stores offer their customers wide Kesko Food is a frontrunner in the reformulahundreds of vegetable-based alternatives,” selections from their fruit and vegetable tion, as the ingredients of dozens of Pirkka says Home Economist Leena Korkalainen of departments, bread and bakery departments, products have been made even healthier than the Pirkka test kitchen. as well as a counter that serves meat and fish before. products as well as ready meals. “The reduction of sugar, fat and salt is a Fruits and vegetables are an important part challenging long-term operation, since the 'What are we having today?' of a wholesome diet, because they contain products must be modified without comproOn weekdays, the MTV3 television channel lots of important nutrients and fibre, but only mising their organoleptic properties and broadcasts a programme with top chef Aki small amounts of energy and fat. A K-superreplacing the ingredients by other suppleWahlman who cooks recipes published in the market selection includes 60 different fruits mentary ingredients. By the end of 2010, we K-RuokaPirkka leaflet. All the recipes in the and 140 vegetables and root crops on averhad reformulated a total of over 80 Pirkka programme are tested in the Pirkka test age. products. Monosodium glutamate has been kitchen. K-supermarkets annually organise threeremoved from 17 products,” explains Product “Recipes cooked in many programmes are day fruit campaigns in which the over 180 Research Manager Matti Kalervo. too complicated and intended for profesK-supermarkets in Finland offer more than sional cooks. Those cooked in the 'What are 30 different fruits at one euro per kilo, pack, we having today?' programme are ideal for all box or bag. The special Fruit & Veg campaign GDA label gives information home cooks,” says Wahlman. held in September 2010 multiplied K-superon healthiness The cooking programme has run for three markets’ sales of fruits and vegetables. The Guideline Daily Amount, or GDA label, years and has the widest audience of all cookK-food stores also provide advice on healthy shows the amount of energy and essential ing shows, with more than half a million choices in terms of customer service. Tips and nutrients per portion of food, and expresses viewers every day. All of the 800 editions and guidelines for wholesome diets are available these quantities as a percentage of the daily their recipes are available at: from as many as 370 K-Food Specialists. Read amount. www.mitatanaansyotaisiin.fi and at: more on page 55. “We have added the GDA label to all Pirkka www.pirkka.fi. products where appropriate,” says Kalervo. CASE as many as 100,000 people with the efforts made to enhance product ant surprise for them,” says Marjo Finnish Coeliac disease. Gluten-free bread, flour mixes and pastas are purchased availability and selection. The K-Group's own Pirkka range Aspegren, Coordinating Manager of the Finnish Coeliac Society. Society awards annually at a value of €31 million. includes some 40 gluten-free speThe society reminds that the K-food stores with (Source: Finnish Coeliac Society) The fifteenth nationwide coeliac cial food products. The local branches of the Finnish selection of gluten-free products available in food stores has a major certificates of disease week was organised in September 2010, under the theme of 'A Coeliac Society awarded the stores with the best gluten-free selection impact on the opportunities for coeliacs to treat their disease. honour Good Store!' The aim of the week in their areas with the 'Good Store!' “As coeliacs' only treatment and was to improve the opportunities certificates of honour. Last year, a medicine is a gluten-free diet, food Coeliac disease is lifelong and for retail stores to better serve those large proportion of the 78 food stores play an important role in the caused by gluten, that is, proteins in customers with the disease. The stores that received the certificate treatment of the disease – they are wheat, barley and rye. The only local branches of the Finnish Coewere K-food stores. like pharmacies for coeliacs,” treatment is a gluten-free diet. liac Society organised various events “Our local branches informed us explains Aspegren. While there are a reported 30,000 in stores across Finland. The importhat retailers would be pleased to diagnosed coeliacs in Finland, tance of gluten-free products was continue cooperation. They valued according to studies we may have communicated to store staff and the certificates, which were a pleasHealthiness Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 53 rautakesko's own brand In May-June 2010, Kesko was the principal Do you know your body's age? products partner for the 'Your Move on Tour' series of Intersport stores throughout Finland provide Our building and home improvement trade events of the Young Finland Association. different physical activity services and events also provides products which help promote Read more on page 54. for their customers. The Kunnossa.fi service, customers’ health. Cello paints, sold in the piloted at Intersport Jumbo in Vantaa in late K-rauta and Rautia store chains, are the first 2009, enables customers to have their fitness range of indoor paints in which all products Intersport encourages people levels and body ages measured for a charge. carry both the M1 and the allergy labels. The to be physically active The measurement results show the person’s M1 classification granted by the Building Kesko’s sports retail chain Intersport is pasaerobic condition, blood pressure, body comInformation Foundation RTS indicates that sionate about sport. Intersport’s objective is position, muscular fitness and mobility. the product’s emissions into indoor air are not only to sell sports equipment, but to actiPersonal sales assistants free of charge, as low. The allergy label tells that the range has vate and guide people in physical hobbies and well as personal trainers for an extra charge been developed in cooperation with the interests. are available for Intersport customers. The Allergy and Asthma Federation. Cello paints “Our concept 'Sport to the People' means service is intended to guide customers in corare water-dilutable, solventless and nearly that sport has something for everyone regardrect and safe physical exercise. odourless. The Cello adhesive and the FXA less of age and level of interest. Intersport “The Kunnossa.fi service is suitable for light filler have also been granted the M1 stores help and guide customers to enjoy the both beginners and experienced alike. Not label. sport they have chosen. Not all sport is permany of us know our body conditions. The formance driven, as people go for sports service has been well received and we have because they want to have diversified activiarranged special events to demonstrate it. The Physical activity generates ties, improve their fitness and health and to media event featured the runner Wilson health feel well,” explains Juha Nurminen, PresiKirwa, who had his body’s age tested, and Since 1998, Kesko has promoted physically dent of Intersport Finland Ltd. Rautakesko offered the possibility to their active lifestyles and wellbeing of children, personnel,” says Intersport Jumbo’s retailer families with children and youths in coopKai Lehmus. eration with the Young Finland Association. Joint activity campaigns annually put hundreds of thousands of children on the move. With the help of this cooperation, the K-Group wants to highlight the importance of healthy food and physically active lifestyles. 54 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Healthiness Running clinic or correct foot position adds to the pleasure of opportunity to have their muscle and bone measurement of body fat movement and helps prevent injuries. After mass and fat percentage measured. They were percentage the Footbalance analysis, the customer can provided with a realistic target body weight Among events arranged by Intersport stores take away a pair of corrective shoe inserts and a report of the indicators to work for. for their customers are right away. The Nice Run kick-off event arranged by running clinics, with a Sport has something for The measurement of Intersport Forssa in November 2010 attracted everyone physical therapist present body composition nearly 100 participants. Nice Run is a womfor advice in choosing appeals to customers en’s activity festival taking place in several running shoes. who take care of their Finnish localities in summer 2011. “In spring, we normally physical condition. “The ladies’ evening was a preparation for organise four to five running clinic events in Intersport Mikonkatu organised a customer the main summer event where members for Intersport Jumbo, followed by one or two event in tandem with the Kisakallio College running teams were recruited. The proevents before the winter running season,” for physical education in November 2010. The gramme also included body composition says Lehmus. event featured the runner Jukka Keskisalo measurement and Footbalance analyses,” All Intersport stores provide Footbalance who gave running tips, a demonstration of a say Intersport Forssa retailers Maire and Aki analyses to help correct foot position, a treatzumba exercise and the possibility to try a Seppälä. ment needed by three out of four people. The kettlebell workout. Customers also had the CASE Your Move put the young on the move Since 1998, and in cooperation with the Young Finland Association, Kesko has promoted the physical activities and wellbeing of children, families with children and the young. Kesko was the main partner of the 'Your Move On Tour' in Helsinki, Oulu, Pori, Jyväskylä and Turku in May and June 2010. Participants of the tour – organised by the Young Finland Association and the Finnish Sports Federation (SLU) included the following Kesko chains: K-citymarket, K-supermarket, K-market, K-rauta, Rautia and Intersport. Your Move events gave the young a chance to see and try out activities such as parkour, skateboarding, roller skating and Kesko's turbomove track. They could also test their environmental skills in the 'Do you want to be a millionaire' game of K-rauta and Rautia, and generate ideas for a future grocery store at the Kesko stand. The Intersport section offered Footbalance analyses of foot position. Education, and the Young Finland the tour. The target was to encourCooperation between Kesko and The 'Your Move On Tour' Association). age the young to move in, one way the Young Finland Association will addressed a national health probThe 2010 spring tour put over or another. We want to emphasise continue in the Your Move Grand lem: physical activity among young 25,000 people aged from 13 to 19 on that it doesn't matter what exercise Event which will run in Helsinki from people has decreased, which is a the move in seven towns. you do, as long as you do some27 May to 1 June 2011. Nearly 50,000 threat to their health (Source: Rec“From the very beginning, young thing,” says Ossi Heinänen, Direcparticipants are expected from all ommendation on physical activity people participated in planning, tor of the Your Move campaign. over Finland to move and have fun of school age children, Ministry of generating ideas and implementing together. Healthiness Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 55 CASE should continue using liquid fats, such as rape and fish oil.” In addition to seven local entrepreneurs presenting their products, there was an exhibition of drawings by schoolchildren and a concert by the village orchestra. The food was prepared by local members of the Martha Organization and the Agricultural Women. The food ingredients that came from local producers were turned into grated turnip, carrot and beetroot, meatballs as well as various salads. “Nearly all we had available was local food – some of it straight from the fields. The root crops were picked by myself and Aino Isokaski, a representative of the local vegetable packing firm, the very morning,” says Anneli Hautaoja. The Martha Organization provides advice on home economics and promotes the wellbeing of families in doing so. The organization has some 1,300 local clubs and activity groups, and a membership berg lettuce, dill, parsley and chives At the event, Tapani Kiminkinen of over 42,000 in Finland. The Wellbeing and and Isokaski produces oven and soup vegetables, root crop cubes – 'country doctor' from a TV programme – gave a lecture on a Honkajoki club has 40 members. “There were many Marthas local food in and swedes all for the Pirkka healthy way of life and took a stand present at the Honkajoki event, Honkajoki range. Anneli Hautaoja, retailer of the on the current discussion about fat. Kiminkinen encouraged his audiwhich occupied us for two days. It was a real pleasure to put our local local K-market, is an energetic ence to favour spreadable and liquid products on show again as an organiser whose Wellbeing Event fats: impressive and mouth-watering Honkajoki, a municipality of some attracts one in five of all inhabitants “No tests have proved that the buffet for the large number of peo2,000 inhabitants in Satakunta, is of the municipality. In October 2010, narrowing of arteries would occur ple who attended,” says Ulla Kuruthe home of many Pirkka products. she set up the third event for local without cholesterol and that's just maa, who chairs the local Martha It is where Honkatarhat grows icebusinesses and people. what solid fats are causing. You club. CASE CASE Tex 100 label. All frame and cushion edge in nutrition. The training proAsko's Puro sofa is upholstery is detachable and washable. The fabrics are available in A K-Food gramme provides the participants with instructions on how to assist suitable for those several colours and do not contain Specialist is an other store staff who need to with allergies any skin irritating surface treatment agents. expert in healthy address customers' questions on diet-related issues. The training also Some 80% of the materials of the Puro sofa, manufactured in Lahti by and balanced encourages the K-Food Specialists to organise tastings and events In September 2010, Asko launched Insofa Oy, Asko's own sofa factory, food under the theme of healthy and bala sofa which had been designed in are of Finnish origin. The frame is anced nutrition. cooperation with the Finnish Allergy made of durable, Finnish PEFC certiStudents study independently – and Asthma Federation. Non-irrified solid wood and Finnish plyThe K-Food Specialist training proboth online and in the store – by tating, washable covers and nickelwood. All upholstery and cushions gramme, aimed at K-food stores' working with day-to-day service free metal parts make the Puro sofa are also made in Finland, which staff and organised by K-instituutti, situations. The online study packa good choice for families with allerkeeps transportation distances was launched in February 2010. So age includes information on packgies. short and reduces the impact on the far, over 600 students have already age labelling, balanced nutrition, The EcoSeat padding, which has environment. completed or started the prothe most typical special diets, and received the Innosuomi Award, is Insofa Oy became the first sofa gramme, which has turned out the requirements set on food by difmade of recycled PET beverage botmanufacturer in Finland to have the more than 370 specialists in healthy ferent cultures and religions. tles, while 85% of the EcoSoft back allergy label when it was granted to nutrition and special diets for K-food The K-Food Specialists can be padding is made of recycled matethe Puro sofa. stores. distinguished by a badge they rial. The upholstery material and With the help of training, store wear. zippers of the sofa have the Ökopersonnel can deepen their knowl56 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI index GRI index Based on its own assessment, Kesko has followed the A+ application level, Kesko reports all the key indicators. GRI indicator protocols are level of the GRI guidelines. The application level has been checked by not applied in detail for the calculation of all indicators. a third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy. In accordance with the A+ GRI GUIDELINES KESKO'S REPORT Global Code GRI content Included Page Further information Compact 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the President and CEO 6–7 x 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 10–11, 12–13, 20–21 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation 2 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 4–5 2.3 Operational structure 4–5, 14 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters 4 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 4–5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4–5, 61–62 2.7 Markets served 4–5 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 4–5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding No significant changes during the reporting size, structure, or ownership period. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 8–9 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period 3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 3 3.3 Reporting cycle 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 90 contents 3.5 Process for defining report content (materiality, prioritisation, 2–3, 22–23 stakeholders expected to use the report) 3.6 Boundary of the report 2–3 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 2–3 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 2–3 facilities, outsourced operations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the basis of calculations 2–3 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information 3 provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement 2–3 methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI content index 56–60 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3, 88–89 assurance for the report 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 16,18–19 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2010, pages 64–68. 4.2 The Board Chair's function within the organisation's 16 management 4.3 Independence of Board members 16 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 16, 84 recommendations or direction to the Board 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Board and 16, 79 the management, and the organisation's corporate responsibility performance GRI index Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 57 GRI GUIDELINES KESKO'S REPORT Global Code GRI content Included Page Further information Compact 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest 16 Kesko complies with the Finnish Corporate are avoided Governance Code for listed companies. 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the Board members for 16, 25 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2010, strategic management and corporate responsibility pages 65–66 and 76–77. 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct and principles, and the 14–15 status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing the organisation's 16–19 management of economic environmental and social performance, including risk management 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board's own performance 16 4.11 Explanation on how the precautionary principle is addressed 17 Description of risk management. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social 14–15, 66 initiatives to which the organisation endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations 16, 28 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 3, 15 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 15 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 15 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 15, 18, 22–23 engagement 5. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 61 x Economic performance indicators EC1* Direct economic value generated and distributed 61 EC2* Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 63 Financial implication for the organisation's x organisation's activities due to climate change activities due to climate change not assessed. EC3* Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan 63 Presented in Kesko's Annual Report 2010, obligations page 118. EC4* Financial assistance received from government 63 EC5 Standard entry level wages compared to local minimum wages Finland, Sweden and Norway have collective at organisation's significant locations of operations agreements, other countries have at least statutory minimum wages. Ratio between wages not available. EC6* Spending on locally-based suppliers 64 EC7* Procedures for local hiring 65 x EC8* Infrastructure investments and services provided for public 65 benefit EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of 65 To be evaluated case by case in connection with impacts the establishment of a new store. Environmental responsibility MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY 66–67, 69–70, 73 x Environmental performance indicators EN1* Materials used 67 Packaging materials supplied to the market. x EN2* Materials used that are recycled input materials Not material in Kesko's operations. A trading company does not use recycled material in the way referred to by GRI. EN3* Direct energy consumption 68 x EN4* Indirect energy consumption 68 x EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 69 Description of energy saving actions. x improvements EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and 69 Energy-efficient products have been described. x services Savings achieved not reported. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and 69 Actions to reduce energy consumption have x reductions achieved been described. Savings achieved not reported. 58 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI index GRI GUIDELINES KESKO'S REPORT Global Code GRI content Included Page Further information Compact EN8* Water withdrawal 70 Water consumption in Finland has been reported. x Water consumption in companies in other countries is low. EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not material to Kesko’s operations. Kesko uses water from municipal systems. EN10 Water recycled and reused Not material to Kesko’s operations in the way referred to by the GRI. EN11* Land owned, leased and managed in areas of high biodiversity Not material to Kesko, store sites are only in areas value or in protected areas zoned for business premises. EN12* Impacts of activities on biodiversity in protected areas and See EN11 areas of high biodiversity value EN13 Habitats protected or restored See EN11 EN14 Strategies, actions and plans related to biodiversity See EN11 EN15 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species See EN11 in areas affected by operations EN16* Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 70–71 x EN17* Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 71–72 x EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 72 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions x have been described. Achieved reductions not reported. EN19* Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 72 Few ozone-depleting coolants still in use in x cooling equipments of stores, amounts not reported. EN20* NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type 72 Acidification and ethene emissions from x electric and heat energy in Finland have been reported. EN21* Water discharge All wastewater into the municipal sewerage system. No water discharge referred to by the GRI. EN22* Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 72 x EN23* Total number and volume of significant spills 73 x EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste Not material to Kesko’s operations. deemed hazardous EN25 Water bodies significantly affected by the reporting Not material to Kesko’s operations. organisation's discharges of water and runoff EN26* Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and 74 Kesko has indirect impacts on products on sale. x services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27* Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials 74 Recycling of plastics recovered from goods x that are reclaimed transportation has been reported. EN28* Compliance with environmental laws and regulations 73 x EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting 74 x EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Data not available. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO LABOUR ASPECTS 75 x Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1* Total workforce by employment type and employment 75–76 contract LA2* Employee turnover 75–76 Not reported by age group or gender. Data not x available. LA3 Benefits provided to employees 76 Benefits exceeding the statutory level have not been reported in detail. Practices vary by operating country. LA4* Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 77 x agreements LA5* Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 77 x LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal health 78 The percentage of employees not reported. x and safety committees Arrangements based on local legislation. GRI index Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 59 GRI GUIDELINES KESKO'S REPORT Global Code GRI content Included Page Further information Compact LA7* Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism 77–78 Reporting does not cover contractors. x and work-related fatalities The statistics of occupational injuries only available for Finnish operations. LA8* Education and counselling to assist workforce members 78 x regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with In Finland, arrangements based on legislation. trade unions LA10* Average hours of training per employee 78 Not reported by employee category. Data not available. LA11* Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 78 LA12 Performance and career development reviews 79 LA13* Composition and diversity of governance bodies and 79–80 x employee categories LA14* Ratio of basic salary of men to women 81 The ratio has not been reported. It is not possible x to make a Group-level comparison. MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO HUMAN RIGHTS 81 x Human rights performance indicators HR1* Human rights screening in investment decisions No human rights problems relating to retailing have been detected in Kesko's operating countries. The issue is included in the risk assessment procedure. HR2* Suppliers' and contractors' screening on human rights 82–83 The number of suppliers in the BSCI, SA8000 or x Fairtrade auditing process has been reported, not the percentage. HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning 83 The training hours have not been reported. x aspects of human rights Data not available. HR4* Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 84 x HR5* Operations in which the right to exercise freedom of 84 The unionisation rate of employees has been x association and collective bargaining may be at risk reported for those operations for which the data is available. HR6* Operations with a risk for incidents of child labour 82–83 x HR7* Operations with a risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 82–83 x labour HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in aspects of human Not material to Kesko's operations. rights HR9 Number of incidents involving rights of indigenous people and 84 x actions taken MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO SOCIETAL ASPECTS 84 x Society performance indicators SO1* Programmes that assess and manage the impacts of Impacts on communities are assessed as part of operations on communities the development of the store network. SO2* Percentage and number of business units analysed for risks 85 The risk management practices have been x related to corruption described. The number of business units has not been reported. SO3* Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies 85 The number of employees trained and x and procedures percentage for management and other employees not reported. Data not available. SO4* Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 85 x SO5* Organisation's public policy positions, participation in public 85 Kesko's main channels of influence have been x policy development and lobbying reported. SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 85 x politicians and related institutions SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and 85 monopoly practices SO8* Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 85 laws and regulations 60 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI index GRI GUIDELINES KESKO'S REPORT Global Code GRI content Included Page Further information Compact MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 85 x Product responsibility performance indicators PR1* Assessment of health and safety impacts of products and 86 The percentage of products that are covered by x services at various life cycle stages the assessment has not been reported. Data not available. PR2 Non-compliance with regulations and codes concerning 86 x health and safety impacts of products PR3* Product and service information required by procedures 86 The percentage of products that are covered by x information requirements has not been reported. Data not available. PR4 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 86 x concerning product and service information and labelling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction and results of 86 The results of customer satisfaction surveys have customer satisfaction surveys not been reported. Group level results not available. PR6* Adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to 86 marketing communications, incl. advertising, promotion and sponsorship PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations and 86 voluntary codes related to marketing communications PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses 86 The accurate number of complaints regarding x of customer data breaches of customer privacy has not been reported. The complaints are not recorded by topic. PR9* Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations 86 concerning products and services Included Partly included Not included *Key indicator recommended in the GRI guidelines x) Reporting in compliance with Global Compact, COP = Communication on Progress GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 61 Economic In the car and machinery trade, the market share of brand representations, such as Volkswagen and Audi, is reinforced by developing the dealer network. responsibility Read also 'Kesko in brief' on pages 4–5. Most of the economic responsibility indicators in this report are presented based on stakeholder group and derived from the consolidated financial statements (www.kesko.fi/investors), whose preparation and presentation are governed by the IFRSs (International Financial Reporting Standards). Kesko’s reporting on economic responsibility is in compliance with the GRI Guidelines. This report also presents Management approach to economic responsibility results essential for business divisions, such as the development of According to Kesko’s general principles of corporate responsibility, the store site network, geographical scope of operations and breakeconomic responsibility refers to the good management of finances, down of purchases. the efficient use of resources as well as generating stable, long-term economic benefits to different stakeholders. General management is complemented by Kesko’s ethical purchasing principles, risk manageECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED, EC1 ment and internal audit principles, as well as corporate governance and other practices and guidelines for product and service purchases. Kesko analyses the economic benefits from its operations with regard Read 'General principles of Kesko’s corporate responsibility' at: to different stakeholder groups and market areas. Stakeholder welfare www.kesko.fi/responsibility. in its market areas is important for Kesko, but its international trading Financial results must be achieved in responsible ways – supported operations also increase welfare outside its own markets, especially by good corporate governance, open communications and effective in developing countries. stakeholder interaction, while taking environmental and social The following tables show cash flows between Kesko and its stakeresponsibility into account. holders, as well as the breakdown of economic value added between Kesko’s key strategic objective is profitable growth, at a rate exceedstakeholder groups. The consolidated income statement, the coning that of the domestic market. Growth is also sought in the nearby solidated statement of financial position and the consolidated stateareas, especially in the fast developing Russian market. ment of cash flows are available in full in the consolidated financial statements (IFRS). Read more in Kesko’s 2010 Annual Report beginning Kesko's performance indicators on page 80. Target level 2008 2009 2010 Return on capital employed, % 14.0 Economic benefits from Kesko's operations flowing to stakeholder groups, € million, continuing operations Actual return on capital employed, % 15.2 11.0 15.9 2008 2009 2010 Return on equity, % 12.0 Customers* Revenues 10,322 9,157 9,476 Actual return on equity, % 12.1 6.6 10.1 Suppliers Cost of goods, materials Equity ratio, % 40–50 and services purchased -9,278 -8,257 -8,526 Actual equity ratio, % 52.4 54.1 53.4 Value added 1,043 900 949 Gearing, % 2.3 -12.5 -16.8 Capital expenditure*, € million 338 198 325 Distribution of value added: Capital expenditure as percentage of Employees Wages, salaries and net sales*, % 3.5 2.3 3.7 social costs -578 -535 -521 *Continuing operations Creditors Net financial revenue/ expense 3 -16 6 Kesko seeks growth through a reinforced store site network, the impleShareholders Dividends -98 -89 -128 mentation of competitive advantage projects, the achievement of Public sector Income taxes -89 -82 -97 synergy benefits as well as developing electronic customer commuCommunities Donations given -2 -2 -2 nications and e-commerce. Read the objectives of the responsibility Retained in business 279 177 207 programme on pages 20–21. In the food trade, major capital expenditures are made in the expan*Incl. net sales and other operating income sion and modernisation of the store network in Finland. Another objective is to expand business operations into Russia. In the food Basic information on Kesko shares and shareholders at 31 Dec. trade, the most important competitive advantage project is to 2008 2009 2010 strengthen the selections, service offer and displays of fruit & vegetable and bakery departments, as well as those of service counters offerNumber of shares, 1,000 pcs 97,824.9 98,321.5 98,641.3 ing fresh meat, fish and ready meals. Share capital, € million 196 197 197 In the home and speciality goods trade, synergy benefits are sought A shares as percentage of all shares, % 32 32 32 by combining Anttila’s and K-citymarket’s purchasing and logistics B shares as percentage of all shares, % 68 68 68 operations and chain control. An important competitive advantage A shares as percentage of all votes, % 83 83 83 project in the home and speciality goods trade is to increase online B shares as percentage of all votes, % 17 17 17 sales. Market capitalisation of A shares, € million 698 749 1,101 In the building and home improvement trade, the store site network will be expanded over the next few years in both Finland and other Market capitalisation of B shares, € million 1,176 1,537 2,337 operating countries, especially in Russia. Synergy benefits in the buildNumber of shareholders 38,080 38,888 38,258 ing and home improvement trade are gained by making capital expenEarnings per share, diluted, € 2.24 1.27 2.06 ditures in centrally controlled purchasing and selection development, Dividend per share, € 1.00 0.90 1.30 as well as in a shared enterprise resource planning system and the logistics network. 62 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators According to its dividend policy, Kesko Corporation distributes at least Kesko's staff cost, € million, continuing operations 50% of its earnings per share excluding non-recurring items as divi2008 2009 2010 dends, taking however the company’s financial position and operating Salaries and fees 497 448 451 strategy into account. In 2010, Kesko distributed a total of some €88.5 performance bonuses in Finland 13 5 8 million in dividends for the 2009 profit, which represented 70.5% of Social security expenses earnings per share and 126.8% of earnings per share excluding nonpension costs 29 40 23 recurring items. A decision has been made to distribute some €128 other social security expenses 47 39 41 million for the 2010 profit as dividends, which is 63.1% of earnings Share options granted 6 8 5 per share and 72.7% of earnings per share excluding non-recurring items. Foreign operations accounted for €114 million of total salaries in 2010. At 31 December 2010, foreign ownership of all shares was 26%, and Foreign operations accounted for €25 million of total pension costs and other social security expenses in 2010. foreign ownership of B shares was 38%. In 2010, the price of liquid B shares rose by 51% and that of less liquid A shares by 47%, while the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki All Share Index was up 19%. Kesko's taxes, € million, continuing operations The largest foreign shareholders are from the United States, Norway, 2008 2009 2010 Great Britain, Germany and France (source: BigDough). Income taxes to Finland 79.4 76.5 92.6 Income taxes to other countries 10.1 5.9 4.1 Real estate taxes to Finland 3.4 3.4 3.0 Ten largest shareholders by number of shares (A and B series) at 31 Dec. 2010 Real estate taxes to other countries 1.1 1.1 1.3 % of shares % of votes Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy 3.54 7.06 K-Retailers' Association 3.50 8.88 Kesko's support for the public good, € thousand Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy 2.67 6.86 2009 2010 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 2.07 1.08 Non-governmental and environmental organisations 79 130 Valluga-sijoitus Oy 1.36 3.49 Science, research and education 140 1,033 Kesko Pension Fund 1.32 2.22 Culture 122 166 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1.15 0.29 Sports 621 619 Oy The English Tearoom Ab 1.02 0.26 Health care 63 89 Foundation for Vocational Training in the Retail Trade 0.96 2.11 Youth work 469 207 Tapiola Mutual Pension Insurance Company 0.91 0.23 Veteran organisations 14 10 More detailed information on Kesko's shareholders and shares is available in Total 1,508 2,253 Kesko's 2010 Annual Report and at: www.kesko.fi/investors. Store network Kesko has about 2,000 stores engaged in chain operations in Finland Number of K-food stores in Finnish municipalities and other operating countries. The K-food network is the most com% of all prehensive in Finland, as the food trade services cover nearly all municipaliK-food stores Municipalities ties municipalities in Finland (see the adjoining table) and K-food stores have some 900,000 customers every day. Kesko also has a large number 10 or more 17 5.0 of B2B customers. Outside Finland, Kesko engages in the building and 7–9 6 1.8 home improvement trade, the interior decoration trade and the 5–6 28 8.2 machinery trade. See number of stores by division on pages 4–5. 3–4 55 16.1 In Finland, Kesko acts in close cooperation with K-retailers. At the 2 64 18.7 end of the year, Kesko partnered with 1,270 K-retailer entrepreneurs 1 134 39.2 and about 170 other retailer entrepreneurs in the Asko, Sotka, Bygg0 38 11.0 makker and Senukai chains. The K-Group, i.e. Kesko and retailer entreMunicipalities, total 342 100.0 preneurs, employ a total of some 45,000 people. Analysis of economic benefits from Kesko's operations by market area, € million Pension and social Capital Salaries and share security expenses Purchases expenditure options granted and taxes Total Finland 5,174 283 342 135 5,934 Other Nordic countries 777 19 52 16 864 Baltic countries 188 3 40 7 239 Russia 170 15 17 4 205 Other countries 1,176 5 6 4 1,190 GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 63 FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS AND OTHER RISKS AND The importance of responsible purchasing practices can be expected OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE ORGANISATION'S ACTIVITIES to increase, and it will be necessary to provide customers with increasDUE TO CLIMATE CHANGE, EC2 ingly accurate information on the origin and production methods of products. Key objectives in Kesko’s work for the environment include mitigation The promotion of healthy lifestyles and eating habits is a major of climate change, which provides opportunities but also incurs costs opportunity and a strategic objective for the food trade. Different forms for Kesko’s operations. The need for cost reductions generates an of physical activity play a significant part in the product selections of increasing necessity to save energy and optimise transportation. both the K-Group’s sports and department stores. Transportation fleet composition must also be taken into consideraRead more about opportunities on pages 12–13. tion in logistics operations. Furthermore, waste management in comKesko’s operations are considered in continuous risk assessments pliance with laws and regulations is increasingly expensive, which which also cover changes necessitated by climate change. Read more sets the objective for higher recovery rates. about risks on pages 13 and 17. The objectives included in Kesko’s responsibility programme for the period 2008–2012 contains aspects closely related to Kesko’s and its divisions’ own strategies, which are expected to generate commerCOVERAGE OF DEFINED BENEFIT PLAN OBLIGATIONS, cial savings as well as business opportunities and competitive advanEC3 tages. The progress and results of the responsibility programme are presented on pages 20–21 and in various sections of this report. The Group operates several retirement plans. In Finland, employees’ As a multi-division company, Kesko is able to offer responsible pension insurance is partly arranged with insurance companies and consumption alternatives and service solutions in nearly all sectors partly by the Kesko Pension Fund, whose department A granting addiof consumption. Kesko’s selections contain many alternatives with tional benefits was closed on 9 May 1998. The pension plan arranged which Kesko and its customers can jointly reduce negative impacts of with the Kesko Pension Fund is classified as a defined benefit plan. At consumption and promote sustainable development. 31 December 2010, the plan obligations totalled €285.8 million and were Maintaining a comprehensive store network is one of Kesko’s corfully covered. The surplus was €185.8 million at 31 December 2010. porate responsibility objectives. Visits in shopping centres and stores When calculated under IFRS (the Pension Fund’s contributions are generate some of the environmental impacts of consumption which made to a defined benefit plan), the whole Group’s contribution repKesko aims to help reduce through the location of its stores. resents 6.9% of the salary amount. Read more in Kesko’s 2010 Annual The emissions from the production of electrical and heat energy for Report, Consolidated financial statements, page 118, Note 20. Kesko’s own properties represent a significant part of the K-Group’s In 2010, the Kesko Pension Fund paid pensions to a total of 2,722 environmental impacts. The K-Group’s environmental policy obliges people. At the end of the year, the Pension Fund covered 5,839 people Kesko’s real estate operations, in cooperation with its business partners, with an employment with the Kesko Group or related parties. Addito develop solutions related to the building, repairs, concept changes, tional benefits covered 640 people at the end of the year. maintenance and use of real estate properties that reduce the consumpIn Kesko’s other operating countries, retirement benefits are tion of materials and energy during the life cycle of these properties. arranged in accordance local legislation and significant defined benKesko is a member of Green Building Council Finland (FIGBC), an efit plans are not operated except in Norway. The number of employenvironmental organisation whose goal is to foster the sustainable ees covered by additional benefits in Norway is insignificant in reladevelopment perspective as a natural part of all real estate and contion to the whole Group. struction activity. Consideration of sustainable development in construction is an opportunity for Kesko in a competitive situation. New building requirements especially for energy saving also provide SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED FROM opportunities for the building and home improvement trade. The GOVERNMENT, EC4 operations of the building and home improvement trade emphasise eco-efficient building and energy saving solutions. In 2010, Kesko received financial support amounting to €92,400 from The changing climate conditions require that plant varieties new the Finnish business partnership programme, Finnpartnership, manto Finnish conditions be tried and current farming practices modified. aged by Finnfund and financed by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of The K-Group’s own K-maatalous Experimental Farm carries out such Finland for a monitoring project which Kesko implemented in China research and development. in 2008–2010. As the outcome of the project, Kesko established a control and support process of its suppliers in high-risk countries, which is now an everyday tool in Kesko. Read more about monitoring on page 46. 64 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators Kesko's purchases by operating country in 2010 Suppliers of goods Suppliers of goods and services in and services in operating country* Purchases from suppliers of goods** other countries* Purchases from suppliers of goods** kpl milj. € % kpl milj. € % Finland 11,778 5,152 81.6 2,480 1,160 18.4 Sweden 1,044 124 81.3 105 28 18.7 Norway 1,377 489 97.8 82 11 2.2 Estonia 1,096 34 56.1 319 27 43.9 Latvia 558 32 51.7 214 29 48.3 Lithuania 810 57 31.1 1,187 127 68.9 Russia 1,042 154 99.9 6 0 0.1 Belarus 705 32 52.2 172 29 47.8 Total 18,410 6,074 81.1 4,565 1,411 18.9 * Suppliers of goods and services ** Suppliers of goods Kesko's purchases by company's country of domicile and by supplier's country of domicile in 2010, € million Supplier's country of domicile Company's country of Other domicile Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia Belarus countries Total Finland 5,152 147 7 31 0 3 0 0 971 6,311 Sweden 9 124 4 1 0 0 0 0 15 152 Norway 1 4 489 0 0 0 0 0 7 500 Estonia 5 2 0 34 1 1 0 0 18 61 Latvia 4 0 0 4 32 1 0 0 20 61 Lithuania 3 0 0 6 14 57 2 1 100 184 Russia 0 0 0 0 0 0 154 0 0 154 Belarus 1 0 0 0 0 3 13 32 12 61 Total 5,174 277 500 76 48 65 170 33 1,143 7,485 SPENDING ON LOCALLY-BASED SUPPLIERS, EC6 The purchases of goods by the Kesko Group’s Finnish companies totalled €6,311 million. Of these, 81.6% were from suppliers operating Most of the economic benefits from Kesko’s operations – about 85% in Finland and 18.4% from other countries. It should be noted that as of Kesko’s total net sales – flow to suppliers of goods, from whom the some of the suppliers operating in Finland are import companies, purchases were valued at €7.5 billion in 2010. reliable statistics cannot be compiled on the origin of goods supplied In 2010, Kesko had some 23,000 suppliers of goods and services by them. from whom the purchases were valued at least €1,000 during the year Kesko actively increases the number of local suppliers and encour(25,000 in 2009, the figure has been restated since the previous report). ages K-retailers to purchase locally. In 2010, K-retailers’ direct purOf these, some 12,000 operated in Finland, some 7,500 in Kesko’s other chases from regions totalled 537 million (see table on page 65). operating countries, and about 3,400 in the rest of the world. Kesko’s purchases of goods totalled €7,485 million. Capital expenditure The decrease in the number of Baltic suppliers was especially due In 2010, Kesko’s capital expenditure totalled €325 million, or 3.7% of to the planned discontinuation of the grain and agricultural inputs net sales (2.3% in 2009). Capital expenditure in Finland was €283 miltrade in the Baltics and the concentration of purchases. lion and €42 million in other countries. Capital expenditure on store The ten largest suppliers accounted for 23.1% (22.9%) of the Group’s sites – on service network development – was €212 million. In addition purchases of goods, and the 100 largest suppliers for 52.4% (52.8%). to Kesko, K-retailers annually make capital expenditures on the buildOf the ten largest suppliers, seven were Finnish food industry coming and reconstruction of stores used by the K-Group. These included, panies, one import company operating in Finland and two German the total capital expenditure in Finland was some €351 million (€327 car manufactures. million) in 2010. The purchases of all Kesko’s companies from suppliers operating Kesko’s capital expenditure has a positive financial impact on the in Finland totalled €5,174 million, accounting for 69.1% (70.7%) of the operations of building firms, building sector service companies, Group’s total purchases. and suppliers of fixtures, equipment and information systems, for example. GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 65 Economic benefits from Kesko's and K-retailers' operations flowing to Finnish regions in 2010, € million Kesko's and K-retailers' Kesko's purchases K-retailers' direct capital expendiSalaries paid Salaries paid Taxes paid Region of goods purchases ture by Kesko by K-retailers by K-retailers Total Southern-Karelia 11.5 13.0 13.2 4.5 11.0 1.2 54.4 Southern-Ostrobothnia 237.6 33.0 3.1 4.2 11.9 1.1 290.9 Southern-Savo 37.8 15.8 1.4 4.8 10.5 1.5 71.8 Eastern-Uusimaa 87.5 6.6 0.7 5.9 0.4 101.1 Kainuu 2.3 11.4 0.1 1.7 6.0 0.5 22.0 Kanta-Häme 70.2 22.0 0.2 1.2 12.0 0.6 106.2 Central-Ostrobothnia 49.0 14.3 0.2 2.2 3.8 0.7 70.2 Central-Finland 70.5 18.4 56.8 8.0 17.0 1.5 172.2 Kymenlaakso 24.2 18.1 9.3 5.6 10.8 1.3 69.3 Lapland 18.4 24.1 13.8 6.1 16.2 1.7 80.3 Pirkanmaa 358.4 30.0 34.4 26.1 31.0 3.3 483.2 Ostrobothnia 111.0 10.5 2.8 5.1 7.2 0.8 137.4 Nothern-Karelia 25.9 18.5 3.5 10.5 1.6 60.0 Nothern-Ostrobothnia 75.7 35.7 5.3 16.8 24.5 2.1 160.1 Nothern-Savo 145.4 26.3 34.7 9.1 18.4 1.7 235.6 Päijät-Häme 95.4 23.6 14.6 8.7 11.9 1.0 155.2 Satakunta 98.7 23.1 17.2 5.1 14.4 0.8 159.3 Uusimaa 3,000.0 130.6 129.4 230.4 98.6 11.6 3,600.6 Varsinais-Suomi 613.2 61.7 14.6 23.0 31.6 2.6 746.7 Åland 18.9 18.9 Total 5,151.5 536.9 351.1 366.8 353.1 35.8 6,795.2 The figures are for those K-retailers whose bookkeeping and payroll are carried out by Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu Oy, accounting for some 85% of K-retailers' total business volume. PROCEDURES FOR LOCAL HIRING, EC7 SIGNIFICANT INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS, INCLUDING THE EXTENT OF IMPACTS, EC9 Kesko recruits local expertise and aims to cover a wide diversity of candidates for job openings including management and middle manKesko’s measurable indirect impact on society, such as employment agement positions. Kesko provides statistics on recruitment by counimpact, increased municipal tax income, or income in the producer try. In 2010, all Kesko’s top and middle management positions in and supplier chain, must be evaluated case by case, in connection with Finland were held by Finnish people. the establishment of a new store, for example. In the other operating countries, the top and middle management Read more about impacts on society on pages 10–11. positions were held at 99% by local people. INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS AND SERVICES PROVIDED PRIMARILY FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT, EC8 During the reporting period, Kesko itself did not make infrastructure investments for public benefit referred to in the GRI. Instead, Kesko made contributions to the public good in donations and through business partners. At the national level in all operating countries, Kesko supports initiatives promoting, for example, science, research and education, youth work, sports, as well as the operations of non-governmental and environmental organisations. Kesko especially supports projects for the wellbeing of families with children. Read more on pages 28 and 29. Kesko's support for the public good 2008 2009 2010 € thousand 1,622 1,508 2,253 66 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators Environmental VV-Auto Group Oy and its subsidiaries fulfil the requirements of the ISO 14001 environmental system and the ISO 9001 quality system. The operations of Keslog and Anttila are ISO 14001 certified. responsibility In the food trade, the building and home improvement trade and the agricultural trade, environmental management is based on the K-environmental store model – the K-environmental store diploma (kesko.fi/responsibility). The model is part of the K-citymarket, K-supermarket, K-market, K-rauta, Rautia and K-maatalous chain concepts. Food stores applying for the diploma are audited by Bureau Veritas, Management approach to environmental who also perform repeat audits by annual sampling. Key environmenresponsibility tal issues are also included in the food store chains’ concept measureThe K-Group’s environmental management is based on the ICC Busiments. The Environmental School of Finland (SYKLI) is responsible ness Charter for Sustainable Development, standards for management for the audits of the building and home improvement stores and for systems, as well as requirements set by legislation and the authorities. repeat audits conducted every third year. Kesko is also committed to observe the Global Compact principles. The criteria content of the K-environmental store model will be Environmental management is part of the K-Group’s management revised and its structure will be reviewed during 2011. system. The Kesko Group’s Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board Kesko Food’s and Rautakesko’s partners in the management and defines the main policies for environmental work and the target levmaintenance of premises are YIT Kiinteistötekniikka Oy, ISS Palvelut els for the Group companies, taking account of the environmental Oy and Ovenia Oy. YIT Kiinteistötekniikka’s environmental system impacts of operations and their significance. The assessment of the has the ISO 14001 certification. significance of impacts aims to examine impacts throughout the whole Kesko’s main office in Katajanokka, Helsinki, and Kesko Food’s lifecycle and chain of functions. The division parent companies and central warehouse in Hakkila, Vantaa, have adopted an environmensubsidiaries specify the main policies of their environmental work tal programme for office work developed by them. into environmental action programmes which suppot their business At the end of 2010, environmental systems covered 63% of the Kesko operations. The action programmes are monitored and updated annucompanies net sales in Finland and 52% of the whole Group’s net sales. ally as part of strategy work. The coverage has been calculated in proportion to retail sales. Certified Kesko’s environmental objective is to mitigate climate change environmental systems have not yet been adopted by the Group comthrough energy efficiency, and to reduce carbon dioxide emissions panies outside Finland. from transportation and travel. Read detailed targets and results on The K-Group’s environmental policy can be read at: www.kesko.fi/ pages 66–74, and a summary in the responsibility programme on pages responsibility. 20–21. The K-Group’s environmental policy covers the operations of the Kesko Group and the K-Group stores both in Finland and the other operating countries. The K-Group’s key business partners are also expected to observe corresponding environmental management principles. Environmental systems at Kesko Operations Environmental management system Comment Keslog's warehousing, terminal and ISO 14001 Certificate renewed in 2009 transportation operations Anttila Oy; central unit, mail order sales and ISO 14001 Certificate renewed in 2010 in addition to this, Lielahti Kodin Net Anttila, all Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen Ykkönen certified as new in 2010 department stores Real estate management and maintenance ISO 14001; ISO 9001 Certificated held by YIT Kiinteistötekniikka Oy VV-Auto Group Oy ISO 14001; ISO 9001 Programme created by the Finnish Central Organisation for Motor Trades and Repairs Association K-food stores: 458 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement for K-citymarkets, K-super­markets and K-markets K-rauta stores: 40 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requiremet, totally 41 stores (of which one joint store 1) Rautia-stores: 100 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement, totally 107 stores, in addition to this, process (of which 50 joint stores) going on in three stores K-maatalous-stores: 77 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement, totally 88 stores (of which 51 joint stores) Main office in Katajanokka, Helsinki, and Environmental management system System developed by Kesko warehouses in Vantaa for offices GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 67 K-environmental stores at 31 Dec. 2010 Management approach to energy management 2010 Mitigating climate change resulting from energy consumption is one K-citymarket 69 of the key objectives in Kesko’s environmental work. Kesko develops, K-supermarket 175 in cooperation with business partners, solutions for new construction, K-market 212 repair, concept modifications, maintenance and use which help reduce the materials and energy consumption throughout the lifecycles of K-extra 2 properties. Kesko offers its customers energy saving products and K-rauta 40 services with which they can save energy in their own activities. Rautia 100 The K-Group’s objective is to save 65 GWh by the end of 2016. The K-maatalous 77 actions to meet this target can be read in the responsibility programme Total 675 on pages 20–21. Since 1995, Kesko’s heat energy consumption has decreased by over 60% and the consumption of electric energy has dropped by over 20% during the same period. Management approach to materials use In 2010, the total consumption of electric and heat energy in Kesko’s Kesko works actively in Finnish producer associations and standoffice and warehouse premises and the K-Group stores in Finland was ardisation organisations, among others, to improve the standardisa1,124 GWh. tion of packaging, the use of materials with a smaller impact on the In Finland, electricity, heat, and water consumption (multi-energy environment, and to reduce the quantities of materials used. monitoring) is monitored using the Enerkey system supplied by EnerKesko can play an important role in determining the packaging giakolmio Oy. This enables automatic monitoring in locations where materials and quantities, especially when developing its own brands. the electricity supplier has an hourly-based measurement terminal. For example, Kesko Food will put an emphasis on the development of Readings from manually monitored locations or meters are collected private label (Pirkka, Menu) packaging. Among the most important by maintenance companies. In terms of energy consumption, the most functions of packaging is to sufficiently protect the product from important types of properties are K-citymarkets, K-supermarkets, spoilage before use and that the whole product quantity can be used. Anttila stores, and large wholesale and warehouse buildings. EspeAccording to surveys, the environmental impacts of foodstuff packagcially in these locations, the aim in consumption monitoring is to ing are significantly smaller than the emissions from the production achieve as comprehensive coverage as possible. and consumption of the foodstuff itself. A recent study shows that the In 2010, multi-energy monitoring covered 2,405,963 m2 in Finland production of foodstuffs which end in waste has a higher environand electricity monitoring alone covered 461,308 m2. The consumption mental impact than the production of the packaging. The most ecoof locations is estimated by type of real estate, based on the specific logical packaging are those which generate the minimum of food consumptions of the monitored premises. Specific consumption is waste. (Source: MTT Agrifood Research Finland FutupackEKO). calculated per gross square metre of heated area. Read about the objectives and progress of Kesko’s recycling and Outside Finland, the real estate area was 955,000 m2 in 2010. In the material efficiency in the responsibility programme on pages 20–21. last two years, Rautakesko’s real estate in the other operating countries have been increasingly included in operating control and energy monitoring systems Materials used, EN1 Total energy consumption in real estate managed by Kesko in Finland, Large quantities of materials pass though Kesko’s operations. The most 2008–2010 significant of them are the packaging of products imported by us and the materials of products packaged by ourselves, which are reported GWh Net sales in Finland, € million to the authorities in compliance with the EU packaging directive. 800 8,000 Kesko reports the quantities of packaging materials it supplies to the 700 7,000 market (excl. wood packagings and roll containers). The statistics system for Kesko Food’s quantities of packaging materials was 600 6,000 reformed in early 2011. The statistics for 2010 have been produced by 500 731 745 756 5,000 the new system, and K-citymarket Oy is no longer included in Kesko 400 4,000 Food’s figures (2010 in Anttila’s figures), which is why Kesko Food’s 300 3,000 statistics for 2009 and 2010 are not completely comparable. 289 325 368 200 2,000 Kesko’s logistics operations also take account of the possibilities to use more environmentally friendly materials in their operations and 100 1,000 packaging systems. Kesko guides its customers in comparing the 0 0 environmental properties of products and packaging, their proper use 2008 2009 2010 and disposal after use. Heat Electricity Net sales in Finland Quantities of packaging imported and packaged by Kesko, Finland, tons 2009 2010 Anttila/K-citymarket 1,146 2,575 Rautakesko 2,978 3,701 Kesko Food 25,628 18,101 In 2009, K-citymarket was included in Kesko Food figures. 68 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators Direct, EN3, and indirect energy consumption, Subsidiaries in the other operating countries purchased a total of EN4 129.2 GWh (94.5 GWh in 2009) of electricity and district heat in 2010. Read more in the report by Energiakolmio at: www.kesko.fi/­ In 2010, the specific consumption of electricity in Kesko’s properties responsibility. In the other countries, electricity and heat was proin Finland (properties managed by Kesko and covered by monitoring duced to the total of 26.9 GWh (20.0 GWh), mainly from non-renewsystem supplied by Energiakolmio Oy, see report attachments at: able energy sources, gas and oil. The energy consumption of subwww.kesko.fi) totalled 216 kWh/m2 gross area. In 2010, the total elecsidiaries in Belarus is not included. tricity consumption in properties in Finland was 756 GWh, whereas Kesko supplied 562 GWh, or approximately 74% of the total electricin 2009 it was 745 GWh. There is an increase of 1.4% as the correspondity used by the K-Group in Finland. Fortum Markets Oy accounted for ing properties in Finland decreased by 1.5% over the same priod. The 99.3% and the balance power for 0.7% of the electricity purchased by 1.4% increase in electricity consumption is largely attributable to Kesko. K-retailers purchased 194 GWh of electricity, mainly from local changes in store opening hours and the exceptionally hot summer. power plants. The specific heat energy consumption in Finland was 105 kWh/m2 The 2010 source data and calculation principles are available in the gross area. In 2010, the increase in the measured specific consumption report attachments. The year 2009 indicators have been calculated was exceptionally high owing to cold weather. In the most important and updated to correspond to the actual consumptions in 2009. property classes, changes varied between +3.9% and +30.1%. The energy consumption figures for 2010 and the environmental Specific consumptions of electricity and heat by type of real estate, profiles for energy consumption have been produced by Energiakolmio and developments in real estate in Finland can be read in the conOy. The calculation, which includes a comparison with the energy sumption monitoring report at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. protocol contained in the GRI reporting guidelines, is available at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Kesko's electricity consumption and specific electricity consumption, Finland Profile for energy consumed in real estate managed by Kesko in Finland Consumption, MWh Specific consumption, kWh/grm2 Primary energy, PJ Net sales in Finland, € million 800,000 400 10 10,000 700,000 350 8 1.6 1.7 8,000 600,000 731,485 745,307 755,769 300 500,000 250 6 1.89 6,000 400,000 200 5.49 6.3 6.5 300,000 150 4 4,000 200,000 100 2 2,000 100,000 50 0 0 0 0.55 0.6 0.6 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Electricity (MWh) Electricity (kWh/grm2) Renewable Nuclear power Non-renewable Net sales in Finland Kesko's total heat consumption and specific heat consumption, Finland Profile for electricity supplied by Kesko to the K-Group in Finland Consumption, MWh Specific consumption, kWh/grm2 Primary energy consumption, PJ Net sales in Finland, € million 400,000 160 8 8,000 350,000 140 7 7,000 300,000 368,213 120 6 6,000 250,000 288,972 324,891 100 5 0.51 0.02 0.01 5,000 200,000 80 4 4,000 150,000 60 3 4.90 6.05 5.92 3,000 100,000 40 2 2,000 50,000 20 1 1,000 0 0 0 0.22 0.07 0.07 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Heat (MWh) Heat (kWh/grm2) Renewable Nuclear power Non-renewable Net sales in Finland GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 69 Energy saved due to conservation and Most Audi models have the start/stop system as standard. The Audi efficiency improvements, EN5 e-models focus on improving their energy efficiency. Carbon dioxide emissions and other harmful exhaust gas emissions are reduced by The K-Group participates in the trading sector energy-efficiency agreelowering consumption. Engine management software has been modment and is committed to saving 65 GWh of energy by the end of 2016, ified, engine idle speed has been reduced, gearboxes reconfigured as calculated from the 2005 level. The agreement is based on the 9% well as aerodynamics and tyre rolling resistance optimised. They also savings target set in the Directive on Energy End-Use Efficiency and feature intelligent technology telling you when to change gear for Energy Services for the period 2008–2016. The agreement covers all optimum driving efficiency (models with manual gearboxes), a start/ store chains that belong to the K-Group. stop system and a braking energy recuperation mechanism. In K-food stores, energy is consumed especially by freezers and Ecomotive is a Seat brand for models including technologies with other refrigeration equipment. As part of Kesko’s responsibility prolower environmental impacts. There is already a wide range of models gramme, Kesko Food is installing freezers with lids in all new food optimised for lower CO2 emissions and fuel consumption enabled by stores. Lids and new fan motors are installed in the existing refriga combination effect of several solutions is already available. Read eration equipment whenever technically and economically reasonable. more on page 41. Lids help save 30–40% of electric energy compared with uncovered chest freezers. The saving in electricity achieved annually is over 13 GWh. By the end of 2010, there were about 200 K-food stores whose Initiatives to reduce indirect energy freezers had lids or doors, and the total length of such refrigeration consumption and reductions achieved, EN7 equipment was about 4.3 kilometres. Electricity savings are also gained thanks to fewer defrostings In 2010, air miles in business travel in Kesko totalled 9.5 million (9.6 needed and the smaller fan and refrigeration power required. An even million in 2009). The aim is to continue reducing emissions from air temperature enabled by lids also helps improve the quality of products. travel as part of the Group’s responsibility programme, for example by Additionally, the service lives of the equipment lengthen, in-store increasing video conference facilities. At the end of 2010, there were air-conditioning can be adjusted more accurately, and the need for 20 Videra distance meeting points in use within the Group and the cleaning and maintenance is reduced, as are the costs of interruptions total duration of video meetings arranged between two or several and power failures. facilities was 4,516 hours (2,846 hours). There were 991 distance meetA new saving method piloted by Kesko is to add doors to the juice ings from employees’ own terminals (Genesys Conference), with a and dairy cabins. The annual saving in electric energy achieved by this total duration of 2,771 hours (4,460 hours). The use of Genesys has is about 30% compared to not having doors on the cabins. been decreased by an increasing use of Videra and the Office ComLED technology is used in the illuminated signs of all new K-food municator instant messaging pilot. stores. The resulting savings compared with traditional neon and At the end of the year, Kesko had 577 company cars in Finland, of fluorescent tube solutions are 60–70%. LED lighting systems can also which 254 were petrol and 323 diesel engined. be used in general lighting in stores. Read more on page 38. This consumes over 35% less energy than the widely used energy-efficient Management approach to water management fluorescent lighting. In addition, LED lights have long service lives, Monitoring water consumption has been part of the K-Group’s enviwith replacement periods of about 10 years. When a light needs to be ronmental policy for many years, and the importance of water has changed, only the lighting system’s LED panel is replaced – not the become recognised in changing environmental conditions. The enviwhole system. Furthermore, LED lights do not contain hazardous ronmental policy will be reviewed in 2011, and attention will be paid waste. to the use of water. In their joint project, Rautakesko and Ruukki created an energyIn the K-Group’s operations, water is mainly used for cleaning. The efficient store concept. The energy consumption results clearly level of hygiene and cleaning methods for food stores have been stipexceeded the required level, which is mainly attributable to tightness ulated in the Food Act and the decree on food hygiene. and efficient heat recovery. Read more on page 40. The total quantity of water consumed in the properties in Finland (monitoring supplied by Energiakolmio Oy), some 805,000 m3/year, is not material. Nevertheless, water consumption is part of real estate Energy-efficient or renewable energy-based consumption monitoring also in the other operating countries outside products and services, EN6 Finland. When needed, responses to changes can be fast. In the trading sector, indirect water consumption, in other words, The aim of Rautakesko’s energy efficiency project is to create a concept the use of water during the process of growing or manufacturing of the services available at K-rauta and Rautia for improving the energy products for sale in stores is more significant than the trading sector’s efficiency of housing so that each customer can easily find the soluown water consumption. With respect to the most material product tions suitable just for them. Read more on pages 39 and 41. groups, such as fruit and vegetables, most producers have the GlobalKesko offers energy efficient and lower emission products to conGAP certificate for good agricultural production, including the use of sumers also in the car trade. BlueMotion Technology is a Volkswagen water. The beverage industry products included in Kesko’s selections brand for models using technologies with smaller environmental are mainly produced in Finland. The breweries and soft drink manuimpacts. A wide range of models optimised for lower CO2 emissions facturers used by Kesko have their own environmental criteria conand fuel consumption enabled by a combination effect of several cerning the use of water. The optimisation of water consumption in solutions is already available. The BlueMotion Technology range feathe textile industry production begins from monitoring water contures modified engine management software, reduced engine idle sumption at the factory, coupled with the factory’s own measures. speed, reconfigured gearboxes and modified aerodynamics as well as tyres with optimised rolling resistance. They also feature intelligent technology telling you when to change gear for optimum driving efficiency (models with manual gearboxes), a start/stop system and a braking energy recuperation mechanism. 70 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators water withdrawal, EN8 Management approach to emissions and aspects of waste Property-specific statistics in Finland are available at: www.kesko.fi/ The K-Group’s operations have both direct and indirect impacts on the responsibility. The 18.6% increase in water consumption is partly environment, which are included in the environmental policy coverattributable to a more comprehensive water measurement at K-service ing the whole K-Group. The most significant direct impacts include station grocery stores coupled with the hot summer of 2010. emissions from the production of electric and heat energy used in The total water consumption in companies in the other operating properties, and the emissions from transportation. Indirect impacts countries (Belarus not included in the statistics) is small at less than are related to the production, use and disposal of products sold and 95,000 m3/year. their packagings. Indirect impacts are also generated from shopping visits to the K-Group stores. Kesko’s responsibility programme sets objectives and defines Water consumption, Finland actions aimed at reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions in its own energy use, transportation and business travel. Consumption, m3 Specific consumption, l/grm2 In cooperation with business partners, Kesko develops solutions 900,000 250 for the building, repairs, concept modifications, maintenance and use of real estate properties that reduce the consumption of materials and 800,000 200 energy during the life cycle of the properties. In cooperation with business partners, logistics operations for smaller impacts on the 700,000 655,665 678,671 804,839 150 environment are developed by optimising transportation and promoting energy efficient modes of transport, and by offering return logistics 600,000 100 and recycling services to customers. Kesko recovers the waste generated in its operations as possible. 500,000 50 Kesko develops recycling systems in cooperation with other operators and promotes waste recycling also by developing packaging methods 400,000 0 and the use of materials. The generation of waste is prevented by using 2008 2009 2010 recyclable transport units and by minimising the wastage of products Water m3 Water l/grm2 on sale. According to Kesko’s business model, retailer entrepreneurs are responsible for wastage management in K-stores. Product and service alternatives with smaller environmental impact are made available to customers. Kesko provides guidance for comparManagement approach to safeguarding biodiversity ing the environmental properties of products and packagings and their Kesko only builds retail stores on areas zoned for business properties. proper use and disposal after use. Kesko’s operations do not have significant direct impacts on biodiverThe impact from Kesko’s energy consumption on acidification sity, which is why Kesko’s management operations are limited to and lower atmosphere ozone are not material due to small quantities individual actions and policy definitions. of fossil fuels used as heat sources. Energy profile is available at: In line with Kesko’s sourcing recommendation, the garden furniture www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Kesko’s operations do not generate water made of tropical wood and sold by the K-Group stores is either FSC discharge referred to in the GRI. certified or made of such wood species whose cultivation is possible The objectives and the progress of the actions can be read in the in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. Tropiresponsibility programme on pages 20–21. cal wood and timber represented less than 1% of the building and home improvement trade’s total sales. In 2010, certified timber – mainly with the Finnish national FFCS direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions forest certification and the FSC certification – accounted for some 91% by weight, EN16 of sawn timber sold by Rautakesko. Kesko’s fish statement is intended to direct Kesko Food’s (and Kesko reports the greenhouse gas emissions from the energy purKespro’s) own sourcing, as well as K-retailers’ sourcing to safeguard chased by it and and by retailers, and from self-produced energy responsible fishing and the cultivation of fish. Kesko’s fish statement abroad in accordance with the GHG Protocol (The Green House Gas can be read at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Protocol, Scope 1 and Scope 2; report supplied by Energiakolmio Oy). In 2008–2010, Kesko was one of the main partners supporting the The electricity, 562 GWh (576 GWh in 2009), supplied by Kesko repPäijät-Häme Vesijärvi Foundation in their campaign for a clean Vesiresents 74.3% of the total consumption by real estate in Finland. Of järvi lake. Read more on page 41. all carbon-free electricity purchased by Kesko from Fortum Markets Kesko’s customers have the possibility to donate their K-Plussa Oy (99,3%), 97% was produced using nuclear power. The carbon dioxpoints to charity projects, such as the WWF – Help WWF protect the ide emissions from the electricity purchased by Kesko were 1,050 tons. Baltic Sea. The share of nuclear power decreased slightly from the previous year, and correspondingly the use of primary energy decreased by 1.1%. GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 71 Climate change impact from energy used in properties managed by Kesko, Finland K-retailers’ own electricity purchases included, the total carbon dioxide emissions from electricity used in all real estate properties Tons CO2e Net sales in Finland, € million totalled 48,337 tons. 130,000 10,000 In 2010, carbon dioxide emissions from real estate heat energy were 120,000 9,000 77,303 tons. 110,000 8,000 The aggregate carbon dioxide emissions (CO2e) were 125,641 tons, 100,000 7,000 slightly less than 0.2% of total emissions in Finland (66.4 million tons 90,000 6,000 CO2e according to advance information from Statistics Finland’s 80,000 100,087 118,477 125,641 5,000 energy statistics for 2009). 70,000 4,000 Energiakolmio Oy has also calculated the environmental profile of 60,000 3,000 the energy used by Kesko companies outside Finland. Regarding the 50,000 2,000 calculation of electricity and heat consumption, the profile is based 40,000 1,000 on country-specific energy production statistics and the statistics of 30,000 0 emissions prepared by the International Energy Association (IEA). The 2008 2009 2010 amount of radioactive waste generated from nuclear fuel used is estimated at 3.0 mgU per kWh regardless of country. The calculation of Climate change Net sales in Finland carbon dioxide emissions from Kesko’s own energy production is based on the OECD/IEA instructions and the IPCC 1996 Good Practices Guide. Acidifying emissions from Kesko’s own production have not been calculated. Climate change impact from electricity supplied by Kesko to the K-Group, Finland The aggregate carbon dioxide emissions from real estate properties in other countries totalled slightly over 25,000 tons (27,568 tons in Tons CO2e Net sales in Finland, € million 2009). Country-specific environmental profiles of purchased energy 20,000 10 000 are presented at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. 18,000 9,000 Kesko’s own electric and heat energy production accounted for some 16,000 8,000 6,300 (7,800 tons) of the total carbon dioxide emissions from real 14,000 7,000 estate properties in the other operating countries. The acidifying emis12,000 6,000 sions (from purchased energy only) were 161 tons (171 tons). 10,000 5,000 8,000 4,000 6,000 3,000 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, EN 17 4,000 2,000 2 000 19,647 1,495 1,050 1,000 Kesko reports emissions from transportation and business travel 0 0 under the GHG Protocol, Scope 3, definitions. The information on 2008 2009 2010 transportation in Finland includes Keslog’s own transportation and outsourced transportation controlled by it. Transportation kilometres Climate change Net sales in Finland totalled 40.7 (38.9) million in 2010. The traffic exhaust emissions are calculated using the LIPASTO system developed by VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland. The 2010 emissions have been calculated using the LIISA 2009 software unit coefficients. Profile and environmental impact from purchased energy consumed by the whole K-Group, all operating countries, 2008–2010 The CO2 emissions from transportation totalled 47,543 tons (46,025 tons). The increase in volumes supplied exceeded that of kilometres Primary energy consumption, PJ Environmental impact, tons CO2e driven, which means that the relative emissions per transport kilo­ 7.00 175,000 metre were 0.0242 (0.0252) CO2 kg, a year-on-year decrease of 3.98%. Compared to the 2007 level, the relative emissions from transporta6.00 150,000 tion have increased by 0.7%. Because the development of biofuels and 5.00 125,000 technology for heavy vehicles has been slower than expected, it is 5.88 6.56 6.79 likely that Keslog will not meet its objective to reduce the relative 4.00 100,000 emissions from its transportation by 10% by the end of 2012. The 3.00 75,000 objective will be revised based on the latest know-how in connection 2.00 2.16 1.83 1.97 50,000 with updating Kesko’s responsibility programme. The majority of Anttila’s transportation was handled by Keslog and 1.00 25,000 is reported in Keslog’s indicators, as is transportation handled by 0 0.70 0.73 0.73 0 Keslog for the other division parent companies. 2008 2009 2010 The total volume of imports forwarded by Keslog was 320,200 tons, an increase of 6.4% on the previous year. There is no information on Renewable Nuclear power Non-renewable kilometres driven or any emission calculations available for imports Climate change transportation. Transportation within Europe was handled by trucks, Belarus is not included in the statistics. semi-trailers and containers, and from outside Europe only by containers. Kesko Food accounted for 74% of the total volume of imports. Transportation of subsidiaries in other countries has been divided between a larger number of companies than in Finland and some of the transportation is made from manufacturers directly to end-users. Transportation statistics are incomplete and annual data is not based on a consistent database; for this reason they are not presented in this report. 72 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators In 2010, air miles in employees’ business travel in Kesko totalled In autumn 2010, Kesko joined the supporters of the CANEMU (car9.5 million and their CO2 emissions were 1,935 tons (1,971 tons in 2009, bon neutral municipality) project of the Finnish Environment Institute restated since the previous report). Although emissions from air travel SYKE, and participates in the management team work of the CANEMU represent only a small part – roughly 1.1% of the Group’s total emisCOMP project. The main purpose of this project, funded by the Finnish sions – the aim is to continue reducing them as part of Kesko’s responFunding Agency for Technology and Innovation (Tekes), is to establish sibility programme, for example by increasing video conference a national investment and emission compensation model, which facilities (read also item EN7). would be effective and widely adopted in minor environmental Kesko had 577 company cars in Finland at year-end. Kesko’s comprojects. The aim is to increase the use of renewable energy and to pany car policy recommends a CO2 emission level below 160 g CO2/ improve energy efficiency. km. In 2010, the average emission level was 155 g CO2/km (161 g CO2/ km in 2009) and the total CO2 emissions from company cars were 2,505 tons (2,600 tons). The calculation also includes private travel by the Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by company cars. Part of Kesko’s business travel is carried out by employweight, EN19 ees in their own cars. In 2010, allowances paid for such travel in Finland covered 7.4 million km. Kesko does not take a stand on emissions The use of ozone-depleting substances is not material in the K-Group’s of business trips made by employees’ cars and they are not included operations and the phase-out of HCFC is not reported. CFCs (R12 and in Kesko’s emission figures. If it is assumed that the average emission R502) are no longer used in K-food store refrigeration equipment level of employees’ cars was 179 g CO2/km, the total emissions from (prohibited by law since 2000). HCFC chlorofluorohydrocarbon refrigbusiness travel by employees in their own cars would have been about erants, such as R22, are still used in some old stores and the existing 1,320 CO2 tons. equipment will be used until the end of their service lives. This refrigerant will be prohibited from the beginning of 2015. CO2 emissions from transportation in Finland, tons The HFC substance, more specifically R404a, is currently the lead2008 2009 2010 ing refrigerant in K-stores. R744 technology, using carbon dioxide Anttila's delivery transportation 192 188 189* recovered to 100% from industry processes as the refrigerant, is already Keslog's delivery transportation 19,117 18,854 18,454 used in some K-food stores. Refrigeration units also make use of the Keslog's trunk and long delivery gas temperature in the carbon dioxide process – higher than that transportation 14,975 15,513 16,528 generated in the traditional refrigeration process – by building an Outsourced transportation 10,242 11,658 12,372 efficient heat recovery system for heating service water and the incomTotal 44,526 46,213 47,543 ing air of the air-conditioning system. The leading refrigerants in Keslog’s warehouses are NH3 (ammonia) Most of Anttila's distribution transportation is managed by Keslog and included in Keslog's emissions figures. and R404a. *Anttila's figure for 2010 is notional. The refrigerant in air heat pumps sold in the building and home improvement stores is R410A which is permitted. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by and reductions achieved, EN18 type and weight, EN20 By improving energy efficiency and adopting carbon-free electricity In 2010, the acidification emissions (SO2 e) from electricity and heat Kesko has significantly reduced the impact from properties on climate energy used in real estate properties (see report by Energiakolmio Oy) change. For example, in Finland, when electricity purchased by Kesko were 381 tons and ethene emissions (C2H4 e) producing lower atmosand K-retailers is taken into account, the CO2 emissions from electricphere ozone were 12.9 tons. The emissions were from the production ity have decreased by 78% (2001 is used as base year, when CO2 emisof purchased energy and insignificant in quantity. sions totalled 220,644 tons). The quantity of radioactive waste produced by using nuclear power The relative reduction of emissions from transportation is more was 1.8 tons. Kesko is a participant in Fennovoima Oy’s nuclear power difficult. The positive trend in CO2 emissions in 2010 is attributable plant project. Kesko’s related statement can be read at www.kesko.fi/ to the centralisation of warehousing operations from Turku to Hakkila, responsibility. Vantaa, the development of transport route optimisation, and the CO2 emissions are only reported for transportation and business change in the trading structure. travel. In addition, Keslog has long reduced emissions from the K-store supply chain by centralising distribution. Key tools in improving logistics efficiency also include the optimisation of transport routes and a Total weight of waste by type and disposal high volumetric efficiency. A significant part is played by efficient method, EN22 return logistics with, for example, purchase loads or carrier trays and recycling components, such as pallets, roll containers, cardboard, botThe total amount of waste generated in companies in Finland (Kesko tles or cans, collected on the return route. For several years, we have Food Ltd (logistics), Anttila Oy (logistics centre), Rautakesko Ltd and also arranged training in economical driving styles for our drivers. VV-Auto Group Oy) 8,962 tons, of which 84% was recovered. The aggreIn its own operations, as well as through the services and products gate quantity of waste in the other operating countries (excluding it offers, Kesko makes effective efforts to operate in ways in which to Latvia and Belarus) was 10,029 tons, and the recovery rate there was curb greenhouse gas generation. Read more on page 74. 71%. In Finland, Kesko’s waste statistics mainly cover warehousing operations, while in the other countries most of the waste included in statistics is generated in retail stores. Kesko Food’s objective is to raise the recovery rate in K-food stores’ waste management to 90% by 2012. GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 73 Kesko's waste management statistics in Finland, tons Kesko Food (logistics) Anttila (logistics centre) Rautakesko Car and machinery 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 4) 2009 2010 Waste for recovery 5,792 5,638 5,596 608 539 471 339 414 405 374 599 969 WEEE 5 101 95 94 3 Landfill waste1) 2) 705 901 3) 1,100 3 23 14 15 111 100 59 138 147 130 Hazardous waste 1 3 8 3 140 65 120 Total 6,503 6,539 6,698 740 651 581 450 514 464 655 811 1,219 Recovery rate, % 89 86 84 96 97 97 75 81 87 58 74 79 1) Mixed waste and other components not suitable for recovery. 2) Composted organic waste is included in the recovery rate. 3) In addition, 2009: 110 tons and 2010: 96 tons of construction and special waste were treated, but such one-time batches are not included in calculations. 4) Konekesko included in Rautakesko figures (Kesko Agro). Waste management statistics in the other operating countries, tons Sweden Norway Estonia Lithuania Russia 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Waste for recovery 2,022 2,044 2,055 932 654 699 285 196 158 1,931 2,069 1,905 1,906 2,343 Landfill 635 555 480 765 574 504 449 422 271 672 992 796 889 1) 771 Hazardous waste 83 48 11 8 38 8 11 21 11 Total 2,739 2,647 2,535 1,708 1,236 1,241 734 626 428 2,614 3,082 2,711 2,795 1) 3,114 Recovery rate, % 74 77 81 55 53 56 39 31 37 74 67 70 68 1) 75 1) The figure has been corrected after the previous report. Statistics for Latvia and Belarus are not available. Keslog’s objective is to increase the efficiency in distribution transTotal number and volume of significant spills, portation in terms of €/m3 and to raise the the recovery rate. In 2010, EN23, and compliance with environmental laws the amount of mixed waste per cubic metre delivered was 0.44 kg (0.38 and regulations, EN28 in 2009). The increase is largely attributable to changes in HoReCa product warehousing in Hakkila. ISO 14001 certified Kesko units manage their environmental risks and VV-Auto Group Oy is in the process of selecting a more efficient readiness to act in exceptional and emergency situations in accordance waste transportation and device waste operator in order to reduce with the requirements of the standard. As one of the biggest risks for mixed waste quantities and the number of waste press emptying transtrading sector companies is fire, employees have been given appropriportation. Some of the waste presses have already been replaced by ate instructions and training. In 2010, there were no reportable envilarger ones with higher volumetric efficiency, and emptying weights ronmental damages or accidents within the Group. have been monitored whereby the volumetric efficiency has already Surveys of contamined land are made annually in connection with improved. Waste sorting training will be continued in 2011. construction work and real estate transactions. In 2010, a total of five Some 50% of the Anttila premises achieved their targets for reducsuch surveys were conducted as part of real estate construction in ing waste quantities. The recovery rates of the department stores Finland. Contaminated land was found at three sites, of which two varied between 60% and 100% depending on local recycling possiwere cleaned up by the end of 2010. One site will be cleaned up during bilities. the construction period before opening the store in 2012. Land cleanThere are 243 recycling points made available to customers in K-food ing operations were not performed outside Finland in 2010. stores. A total of 278 million cans and 103 million recyclable plastic In addition, in connection with real estate transactions possible bottles were returned. K-food stores contributed some 28% to all disruptive substances and ozone-depleting substances within strucreturned beverage packagings in Finland. ture are surveyed. In 2010,there were no non-compliance cases within the Group. Packagings delivered by Kesko Food's return logistics for recovery and reuse, 1,000 pcs Management approach to product and services 2008 2009 2010 The K-Group’s operations have direct and indirect environmental Aluminium cans 81,885 74,161 103,149 impacts, whose control is guided by the requirements of legislation, PET bottles 18,061 28,463 53,540 the K-Group’s environmental policy and Kesko’s general corporate Disposable bottles 2,872 2,685 4,266 responsibility principles. Indirect impacts are linked to the manufacDeposit bottles 666 362 452 ture, use and disposal of the products on sale and their packagings. Transbox crates 9,125 9,856 10,885 Indirect impacts also arise from customer visits to the K-Group stores. We offer our customers product and service alternatives with smaller Impregnated timber and lead-acid batteries recycled in the building and environmental impacts. home improvement trade (K-rauta and Rautia) in Finland, tons 2008 2009 2010 Impregnated timber 832 858 840 Lead-acid batteries 3 22 5 74 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Rautakesko offers a wide selection of products featuring environof products and services, and extent of impact mental or energy efficiency category labelling. In the building and mitigation, EN26 home improvement trade, products with the EU Flower symbol or the Swan symbol, as well as products made of FSC certified wood, are Selection and marketing policies concerning organic products and considered as pro-environmental products. In environmental stores, products with environmental labelling are, just like Fairtrade products, these products have a logo in question within shelf 0r other price included in the K-food stores’ chain concepts. At the end of 2010, Kesko labelling. Food had over 1,100 (some 850) organic products and products with Certified timber – with the PEFC (in Finland FFCS) or FCS forest environmental labelling in its selections, of which 48 (41) were Pirkka certification – accounted for some 91% of sawn goods sold by Kesko. Organic products and 78 (73) Pirkka products with the Swan label. Both Tropical wood and timber accounted for less than 1% of Rautakesko’s of the ranges are continuously expanded with new products. total sales. In 2010, all garden furniture made of tropical wood The number of organic products in K-food store selections varied imported by Rautakesko was FSC certified. depending on the size of the store. Some of the organic products – such In line with Kesko’s sourcing recommendation, the garden furniture as milk, bakery and meat products – are delivered by suppliers directly made of tropical wood in all K-Group stores is either FSC certified or to stores; further, K-retailers also buy organic vegetables direct from made of such wood species whose cultivation is possible in accordance local producers. There are no reliable statistics on these products. with the principles of sustainable development. Anttila department stores and Kodin Ykkönen department stores When required, Kesko draws up sustainability statements concernfor interior decoration and home goods accept as pro-environmental ing product selections and purchasing criteria. These include: products those which carry a Swan label, the EU Flower Ecolabel or ■■ A stand on genetic engineering the label indicating that the energy consumption category is 'A'. These ■■ A fish and shellfish statement products are highlighted by 'Pro-environmental product' shelf labels ■■ Pirkka eggs in the stores. Anttila and Kodin Ykkönen currently have some 230 ■■ Rautakesko’s timber policy products labelled as Pro-environmental, especially paper products, light bulbs, batteries, washing agents and household appliances. and can be read in full at: www.kesko.fi/responsibilty. Some 97.0% (96.5%) of Kesko Food’s import suppliers of fruit and In the car trade, Kesko’s selections include low emission brands. vegetables have the GlobalGAP (Good Agricultural Practice) certificate. Read more on page 68. Chiquita’s banana plantations supplying Kesko in 2010 are Rainforest Alliance and SA8000 certified, as are Chiquita pine apple plantations. Also Dole banana plantations are SA8000 certified. Banacol’s banana Percentage of products sold and their plantations, Kesko’s new banana supplier, are SA8000 and Rainforest packaging materials that are reclaimed by Aliance certified. category, EN27 Kesko Food’s Finnish producers of vegetables must belong to the Finnish Horticultural Products Society (KK) and be entitled to use the Pirkka recycled plastic bags are manufactured to a 90% of recycled society’s seed leaf symbol. The society has drawn up a set of guidelines plastic. Of this material, 30% is recovered from protective plastic on good production methods for the sector to ensure product safety wrapping used in Kesko Food’s goods transportation. Read more on and environmental aspects of domestic gardening products. Complipage 39. ance with these guidelines is compulsory for companies using the KK’s seed leaf symbol. Kesko Food’s Finnish supplier of Pirkka products was the first in Significant environmental impacts of Finland to receive the GlobalGAP certificate. Read also page 47. transporting, EN29 Instead of an ordinary plastic shopping bag, K-food store customers can choose a bag made of recycled plastic (read more on page 39), a CO2 emissions are reported at EN17. biodegradable Pirkka bag or a non-disposable Pirkka bag. At K-citymarkets, options for families with babies include domestic Muumi reusable nappies and the same manufacturer’s – which has the Swan label – disposable Pirkka nappies made from biodegradable and chlorine-free pulp. The long-term development programme of the Pirkka product range includes the launch of biodegradable packaging to the market. No genetically manipulated ingredients are accepted. GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 75 Social capacity and motivation, reduce sickness absences and raise the retirement age. Kesko’s responsibility programme for 2008–2012 contains several objectives associated with employee wellbeing. Read more on responsibility pages 20–21. Occupational safety management is defined in Kesko Corporation’s labour protection programme. The objective of labour protection is to secure and maintain employees’ working capacity and to prevent and avoid occupational accidents, occupational diseases and other physical and mental health disorders caused by the work environment. Labour protection is part of the line organisation’s normal leadership Management approach to labour aspects and managerial work, and each superior is responsible for labour Kesko’s HR management is based on the company’s values and responprotection in his or her own area. sible working principles. Kesko’s HR principles and HR strategy provide Kesko’s occupational health care action plan defines the general guidelines and support in the practical implementation of the HR contents and targets of occupational health care. The target of occupolicy. HR principles are permanent corporate policies and guidelines pational health care is maintaining and promoting employees’ health, for practical personnel issues. The HR strategy defines HR management working capacity, preventing occupational illnesses and accidents, objectives and key development initiatives. View ‘Our Responsible ensuring health and safety in the work environment and supporting Working Principles’ guide at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. the functionality of work communities. The Chief Physician is in The Corporate HR Unit is responsible for defining the HR strategy charge of Kesko’s Occupational Health Service. as part of the annual Kesko Group strategy process. The HR steering group monitors and promotes the implementation of the HR princiHR objectives and indicators ples and HR strategy. Division parent companies and subsidiaries can The most competent also establish complementary guidelines to support the achievement The most attractive and motivated The best personnel workplace in the trading personnel in the trading productivity in the of their business objectives. sector sector trading sector Kesko’s HR objectives are to be the most attractive workplace, to ■■ Personnel survey ■■ Personnel survey, ■■ Staff cost/gross profit, have the most competent and motivated personnel and the best labour (Kesko’s and performance and % productivity in the trading sector. The indicators related to Kesko’s HR company’s operations; development ■■ Staff cost/net sales, % objectives are presented in the table on this page and the results are scale 1–5) review discussion, ■■ Average number of discussed in the respective sections. ■■ Departure turnover, % realisation % personnel (converted ■■ Company’s/chain’s ■■ Personnel into full-time The state of the working community and the quality of leadership employer profile development costs, €/ employees) is measured with an annual personnel survey. Development plans are person, Training days, ■■ Sickness absence drawn up for each place of business on the basis of the survey results. days/person hours/total hours, % The external employer image is monitored with various studies. Kesko ■■ Personnel survey (own came in 36th place (18) in the 2010 Universum Young Professionals job, supervisor’s performance, unit’s survey and in 18th place (18) in the Universum Student survey. Kesko operations; scale 1–5) came in 19th place (17) in T-Media’s survey of students in upper sec■■ Customer satisfaction, ondary education. two own indicators Systematic and continuous development of employee competence is one of the main factors that ensure good customer services and the competitiveness of stores. Staff competence and enthusiasm also improve the productivity of work carried out by the personnel of Kesko Total workforce by employment type and and its chains. Kesko subsidiary K-instituutti Oy is responsible for employment contract, LA1, and employee training services provided to Kesko and its chains. Annual planning turnover, LA2 and training programmes for developing competence are drawn up with business units. At the end of 2010, the Kesko Group had 22,124 employees, of whom The work and productivity programme that was launched in 2008 86.3% (88.1%) were permanent employees and 13.7% (11.9%) were is still underway. Personnel productivity improved in most divisions fixed-term employees. The figure includes 1,343 (1,512) people who are in 2010. The Group’s staff costs fell 2.7% compared with the previous absent for an extended period, such as employees on parental leave. year. Employees absent for an extended period are included in permanent, full-time employees. The proportion of fixed-term employees is higher Labour productivity, continuing operations, € thousand at year-end than at other times due to the Christmas season. 2008 2009 2010 Part-time employees (less than 37.5 hours/week) accounted for Net sales/average number of 28.7% (29.0%) of all Group personnel at year-end. The majority of employees part-time employees work for retail subsidiaries in Finland. ApproxFinland 706 683 739 imately three-quarters of all Group employees work in retailing. other Nordic countries 451 437 489 In 2010, the Group recruited 4,011 (4,122) new employees in Finland. Baltic countries 150 116 109 In Finland 4,154 (4,277) employees left the Group. whole Group 450 440 482 In other countries, the Group recruited 3,844 employees (1,416 in 2009, the figure for 2010 does not include Anttila AS), while 3,355 Profit before tax/employee 14 11 17 employees (3,863 in 2009, the figure for 2010 does not include Anttila AS) left the Group. The most common reason for the termination of In autumn 2010 Kesko hired a manager for wellbeing at work to proan employment relationship in Finland was a fixed-term contract, mote projects and business models related to employee wellbeing. which accounted for about 53% (47%) of departures. Elsewhere, the The focus areas of employee wellbeing are work and competence, reason for approximately 66% (73%) of departures was the employee’s leadership and managerial work, personal life management and the resignation. working community. The target is to improve employees’ working 76 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators In Finland, 6.9% of employment relationships (288) and 20.4% (683) Benefits provided to employees, LA3 in other countries were terminated by the employer for production and financial reasons, or other reasons based on the Employment The Kesko Group provides its permanent, fixed-term and part-time Contracts Act. The corresponding figures in 2009 were 7.6% (323) and employees in all its countries of operation with the employee benefits 22.7% (875) respectively. required by local legislation. These benefits include occupational At the end of 2010, Finland’s Supreme Court had one case, the Court health services, insurance against occupational accidents and diseases, of Appeal had four cases and the district courts had five cases pending parental leave and retirement benefits. concerning employment disputes on, for example, the termination of Employees are also provided with diverse shopping benefits that an employment contract and the payment of supplementary benefits. can be used at K-Group stores and staff shops. A company mobile In Kesko’s other countries of operation there were no employment phone and car are also offered, if required in the job. dispute cases pending in which a Group company was the defendant. Bonuses and share option schemes In spring 2010, about €8.4 million (€5.0 million) was paid in Finland Trends in the number of Kesko employees* in bonuses under the 2009 performance bonus schemes, accounting 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 for some 2.5% (1.5%) of the total payroll. Kesko Corporation’s performFinland at 31 Dec. 14,149 14,192 13,651 12,959 12,720 ance bonus schemes cover the whole personnel, with the exception Other countries at 31 Dec. 9,606 11,698 11,017 9,248 9,404 of sales assistants. In 2010, the total amount of different fees paid in Total at 31 Dec. 23,755 25,890 24,668 22,207 22,124 operations in Finland was €9.5 million (€6.0 million) consisting of bonuses, sales commissions and other similar monetary remuFinland, average 11,583 11,338 10,939 10,284 9,914 neration. Other countries, average 12,184 9,842 10,590 8,916 8,300 In Kesko Corporation’s bonus scheme, the key factors contributing Total, average 23,767 21,180 21,529 19 200 18,215 to the bonus amount are the total performance of the Group and the *Figures for 2006–2008 include Kauko-Telko and Tähti Optikko division, the sales and performance of the employee’s unit and customer satisfaction. Personnel job satisfaction is another contributing factor for supervisors. Breakdown of Kesko personnel by division Fixed-term and part-time employment relationships in Kesko* at 31 Dec. 2010, % 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fixed-term employees as % Food trade 14.0% of total personnel at 31 Dec. Home and speciality Finland 16.5 14.8 15.6 15.3 14.6 goods trade 35.6% Companies in other Building and countries of operation 0.9 0,8 0.5 7.0 12.6** home improvement Whole Group 10.2 8.6 8.8 11.9 13.7 trade 42.9% Part-time employees as % of Car and machinery total personnel at 31 Dec. trade 5.4% Finland 42.0 43.6 43.0 43.1 43.3 Other 2.0% Companies in other countries of operation 8.8 8.8 6.7 9.3 9.0 Whole Group 28.6 27.8 27.5 29.0 28.7 *Employees absent for an extended period are included in permanent full-time employees. **Statistics more accurate. The figure is not fully comparable with previous years. Kesko personnel statistics for 2010 by country of operation Finland Estonia Latvia Lithuania Belarus Russia Sweden Norway Total number of employees at 31 Dec. 12,720 629 577 3,407 1,381 1,677 1,159 574 Average number of employees in 2010 9,914 596 538 2,881 1,193 1,548 1,093 451 New employment relationships* 4,011 71*** 140 1,467 662 860 499 145 Terminated employment relationships* 4,154 105*** 155 1,524 370 714 357 130 Terminated by employer, %* 10.2 43.8*** 22.6 19.6 16.5 9.4 47.3 4.6 Departure turnover, %** 24.8 15.8*** 25.0 44.5 26.3 43.0 21.7 22.6 * Summer employees included. **Summer employees not included. ***Data of Anttila AS not included. GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 77 In 2010, the companies outside Finland paid some €9.3 million in Percentage of employees covered by collective bonuses and other remuneration (does not include Senukai’s data), bargaining agreements, LA4, and minimum accounting for 10.6% of the payroll. The corresponding figures for notice period(s) regarding operational 2009 were €8.9 million, accounting for 7.6% of the payroll. changes, LA5 The Kesko Group’s management – comprising some 90 people – has a performance-based bonus scheme. The maximum bonus amounts Collective agreements cover about 80% of employees in Finland. vary depending on the profit impact of the person’s job and are equivIndustry-wide collective bargaining agreements have not yet been alent to the salary over 3 to 8 months. drawn up in the Baltic countries or Russia. In 2010, Kesko had two option schemes in force: the 2003 and 2007 A total of 40.4% (40.3%) of the Kesko Group employees in Finland option schemes. The subscription period of the 2003 option scheme were members of trade unions, mainly the Service Union United PAM. expired on 30 April 2010. The terms and conditions of the schemes The statistics include the employees whose trade union membership are available at: www.kesko.fi/investors. The staff cost in the 2010 fees are deducted from their salaries. financial statements included share options granted to the value of In Norway, the unionisation rate was 22.1% (21.8%). Statistics on €5.0 million. employee unionisation in the other operating countries are not available. In the Baltic countries, Kesko’s subsidiaries have workplace comPensions mittees comprising both management and employee representaIn Finland, 180 (179 in 2009, figure corrected after the previous report tives. was published) employees retired from the Kesko Group. The figure The Kesko Group has a company-specific shop steward system in includes employees retiring on part-time pension and on partial place in its largest subsidiaries in Finland. Keslog Ltd’s site-specific disability pension. Rehabilitation allowance was granted for vocashop stewards also represent the employees of other division parent tional re-training or work testing for 19 (23) employees with an obvious companies at their sites. Anttila Oy and K-citymarket Oy also have risk of incapacity for work during the next few years. Read more on department store-specific shop stewards. page 34. The National Works Council meets twice a year. The international The number of disability pensions has remained low throughout Group-level European Works Council (EWC) meets once a year. the 2000s. During the same period, the Occupational Health Service In all operating countries, Kesko applies the notice periods specified has intensively focused on actions targeted at maintaining working in labour legislation. In Finland, the minimum notice period is from capacity. The average retirement age of employees was 59 years. two weeks to six months depending on the duration of employThe average pension paid by the Kesko Pension Fund was €1,235 per ment. month (€1,397). In the other operating countries, 15 (6) employees retired. Injuries and occupational diseases in Finland Trends in the number of sick days 2009** 2010 Fatal injuries 0 0 sick days/million working hours Occupational injuries, excl. commuting injuries 173 149 10,000 Commuting injuries 47 62 8,000 Injury rate*/million working hours 10 9 Average degree of injury severity, days 15.5 23.3 6,000 Suspected occupational diseases 4 3 Occupational diseases 0 3 4,000 Sick days due to injuries and occupational diseases 3,415 4,495 2,000 per employee 0.33 0.45 The calculation method has been changed in the 2010 report: small injuries, i.e. 0 those leading to absence of less than three days, are not included in the figures. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Statistics do not include contractors or the following companies: Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, Vähittäiskaupan tilipalvelu/VTP Oy, the Agricultural Foundation of Finland Other countries Trade. *Excl. small injuries and commuting injuries, calculated with actual working hours. **The figures of the above companies have been eliminated from the 2009 figures after the previous report was published. Sickness absences by country in 2010 Finland Estonia Latvia Lithuania Belarus** Russia Sweden Norway Total number of sick days 129,811 1,934 8,280 27,355 11,772 22,617 11,963 6,610 per employee* 13.1 3.2 15.5 9.5 9.9 14.7 10.9 14.6 per million working hours 6,626 1,599 7,669 4,700 4,856 7,439 6,219 8,320 *The calculation method has been changed in the 2010 report: sick days per employee have been calculated on the average number of employees during the year. **Data of Konsoma Belarus not included. 78 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators Percentage of total workforce represented in Occupational health care negotiations involving the employee, the formal health and safety committees, LA6 supervisor and a representative of the Occupational Health Service are a long-established operating practice in occupational health care. Labour protection activities are arranged separately by each company Situations in which these negotiations are conducted include, for or place of business according to local legislation. Outside of the Norexample, an employee’s reduced working capacity, vocational rehadic countries, labour protection activities are dealt with by workplace bilitation planning, high absence rate, experience of work-related committees. strain or a conflict. The aim is early intervention in situations threatK-instituutti provides labour protection training for all Kesko ening working capacity. employees and K-retailers. There were also training sessions tailored to the needs of different Group companies. Average hours of training per employee and programmes for skills management, LA10, and Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost lifelong learning, LA11 days, absenteeism and work-related fatalities, LA7 The statistics on basic education are available for Kesko’s employees in Finland, with the exception of retailing companies. Of the 7,084 The statistics on injuries in Finland are shown on page 77. Injury people included in these statistics 15% (16%) have basic education, statistics are not available for the other countries. 68% (66%) have intermediate vocational education and training and In 2010, the sickness absence rate in Finnish companies was 5.0% 18% (18%) have a degree from an institution of higher education. In (5.1% in 2009). Some 75% of the sickness absences were short-term other countries these percentages vary greatly by country. absences (paid sick days). In other countries, the sickness absence percentage was 4.2% (4.1%, statistics corrected after the publishing Training days and costs of the previous report). The figure for 2010 does not include Konsoma 2009 2010 Belarus’ data. Training days Finland 20,028 17,728 other countries* 3,050 10,558 Education and counselling to assist Training days per employee workforce members regarding serious diseases, LA8 Finland 2.0 1.8 other countries* 0.6 1.5 At the Kesko Group, the normal operations of the Occupational Health Training costs, € million Service include the training and counselling of employees, surveying Finland 3.4 2.7 and prevention of risks and treatment of serious illnesses. other countries* 0.7 1.3 In Finland, there were approximately 6,200 Kesko Group employees Training costs per employee, € in the sphere of Kesko’s in-house Occupational Health Service. The Finland 331 276 occupational health services provided to retail employees outside the other countries* 79 160 Greater Helsinki area are acquired mainly from outside of the Kesko *Data of SIA Antti and Konsoma Belarus not included. Corporation from various clinics. In other countries, occupational health care is arranged according to the local practice and legislation. K-instituutti provides training service planning, delivery and sourcing A total of €4.3 million (€4.3 million) was spent on occupational for the K-Group in Finland. In 2010, approximately 40% of training health care in Finland in 2010. The Social Insurance Institution of days were provided by K-instituutti. A total of 24,300 (24,207) K-Group Finland compensated around €1.9 million (€1.8 million) of this sum. employees, including also the employees employed by the retailers, In 2010 Kesko’s Occupational Health Service spent €452 per employee studied at K-instituutti. served by Kesko’s in-house occupational health care on maintaining K-instituutti is responsible for implementing Master Sales Assistant employees’ working capacity and providing employees with medical training, one of Finland’s largest adult training programmes. In 2010, care. Rehabilitation courses are presented on page 35 of this report. 16,532 (17,010) K-Group employees participated in the programme, studying in 13 different product lines. The goal is to continuously Kesko's investment in occupational health care in Finland, develop the service attitude, sales skills and product knowledge of Kesko's own Occupational Health Service sales assistants in cooperation with suppliers. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 As in previous years, the Master Assistant training programme was €/person 420 484 427 455 452 offered in about 100 business colleges and polytechnics. Some 5,000 students took the opportunity to participate in the training. In 2010, 871 employees had an apprenticeship contract and 289 of The Occupational Health Service Unit’s expertise is diversely used by these graduated with a vocational qualification. Kesko’s retail companies in the development of workplace ergonomThe training programmes for K-retailers and store managers focus ics. Ergonomics is a broad concept here and it includes chemical and on the daily management of the store, business planning and entrephysical factors and factors related to work movement and psychosopreneurship. In addition, K-instituutti offers training in customer cial factors. service and selling for staff of K-stores. GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 79 Leadership skills and career advancement are supported with superPersonnel survey visor, expert and management training provided to Kesko employees The annual personnel survey plays a key role in measuring and develand store supervisors. During 2010 the training programmes were oping the quality of the working community and leadership. The same updated and the new training programmes will be launched in 2011. survey is carried out at Kesko and its chains’ stores. K-market and Common themes for management are dealt with in annual training. Senukai did not participate in 2010. In 2010, 74% of the employees in Development programmes dealing with topical issues are also arranged the participating Kesko Group companies responded to the survey. for management and key personnel. About 200 employees participate Employees who are absent for an extended period are excluded from in these programmes each year. These training programmes provided the survey. for all are complemented by the chains’ own management training The results of the personnel survey are presented below. Further programmes. development of employee wellbeing, such as working capacity, and In-house job rotation provides an extensive selection of career alterwider use of the personnel survey results were identified as areas for natives. In Finland, some 1,100 (1,800) people moved to a new job improvement. In the Group companies in Finland, the results of the within the Group. personnel survey have an impact on the bonuses paid to supervisors, In Finland, recruitment in the K-Group is supported by the K-trainee including top management. and K-retailer trainee programmes. An essential part of the K-trainee programme is work experience in a K-Group store. The K-retailer trainee programme offers three alternatives: an extenComposition and diversity of governance sive programme; and intensive programme; or studying to become a bodies and employee categories, LA13 retailer entrepreneur at a polytechnic. After completing the programme, the trainee is qualified to start a career as an independent In 2010, the average age of personnel in Finland was 35.4 years. In the K-retailer entrepreneur, which 95–99% of trainees choose to do. Find other countries, the average age of personnel varies from 27 years to out more about our K-trainee and K-retailer trainee programmes at: 40 years. www.kesko.fi/jobs. Kesko Corporation and its Finnish division parent companies and subsidiaries draw up company-specific equality plans based on national legislation and define objectives for improvement. The plans Performance and career development reviews, cover recruitment, career development and training, remuneration, LA12 and reconciliation of work and family life. Performance and development review discussions and performance assessment of key personnel are carried out in all Kesko Group companies and countries. In 2010, 76% (77%) of the Group’s employees in Finland and 68% (71%) elsewhere participated in the reviews. The level of satisfaction with the reviews was 3.8 (scale of 1–5). Personnel job satisfaction in Finland, Sweden and Norway (scale 1–5) Finland Sweden Norway 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Own job 3.75 3.76 3.73 3.74 3.83 3.79 3.78 3.67 3.77 Supervisor's performance 3.76 3.81 3.79 3.48 3.53 3.62 3.52 3.53 3.74 Unit's operations 3.79 3.83 3.80 3.80 3.81 3.86 3.77 3.51 3.64 Kesko's operations 3.77 3.62 3.65 3.67 3.79 3.65 3.69 3.63 3.44 Personnel job satisfaction in the Baltic countries and Russia (scale 1–5) Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Own job 3.98 3.98 3.81 4.06 3.97 3.79 4.05 4.09 3.92 4.08 4.01 4.06 Supervisor's performance 3.88 3.85 3.78 3.93 3.83 3.70 4.15 4.01 4.10 4.26 4.21 4.29 Unit's operations 4.05 3.92 3.79 4.03 3.73 3.53 4.22 4.19 3.95 4.30 4.31 4.40 Kesko's operations 3.97 3.97 3.72 4.00 3.91 3.62 4.14 4.13 3.91 4.21 4.10 4.17 Personnel job satisfaction, average by country (scale 1–5) Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 3.77 3.80 3.77 3.67 3.72 3.76 3.69 3.57 3.72 3.97 3.92 3.79 4.01 3.84 3.67 4.14 4.10 3.99 4.21 4.18 4.25 The average is calculated from the results in categories 'own job', 'supervisor's performance' and 'unit's operations'. 80 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators Breakdown of Kesko personnel by age group in Breakdown of Kesko personnel by age group in Finland in 2010, % other countries in 2010, % under 26 years 26.9% under 26 years 23.8% 26–35 years 28.0% 26–35 years 39.4% 36–45 years 22.1% 36–45 years 21.8% 46–55 years 15.6% 46–55 years 11.0% over 55 years 7.5% over 55 years 3.9% Sample some 5,800 people. Duration of employment in Finland in 2010, % Duration of employment in other countries in 2010, % under 2 years 29.4% 2–5 years 24.9% under 2 years 40.3% 5–10 years 15.4% 2–5 years 36.6% 10–15 years 9.8% 5–10 years 16.4% 15–20 years 4.0% 10–15 years 5.0% over 20 years 16.5% 15–20 years 1.0% over 20 years 0.6% Sample some 5,200 people. Percentage of women by employee category in Finland Percentage of women by employee category in other countries 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010* 2010 Top management 15.6 16.2 20.6 20.6 25.7 Top management* 32.3 Middle management 24.7 21.6 20.3 24.8 18.0 Middle management* 40.4 Supervisors and Supervisors and specialists 48.7 42.6 48.8 50.1 44.5 specialists* 52.6 Workers and office Workers and office employees 64.4 66.2 65.2 64.8 64.2 employees* 39.8 Total 60.9 62.0 61.7 60.9 60.7 Total 46.2 *Only the figure for top management is comparable with previous years, as the *Breakdown by employee category does not include data on Senukai or determination of employee categories was changed in 2010. Byggmakker. GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 81 In addition to gender equality, the plans also guide other aspects of Management approach to human rights equality, such as the treatment of people in different age groups or In its operations, Kesko pays special attention to the human rights with different cultural backgrounds. Employees’ experiences of equalissues and working conditions in its purchasing chain and, in moniity with respect to age, ethnic origin and gender have been monitored toring these, primarily focuses on suppliers in the high-risk countries. as part of the personnel survey. In these areas, employees’ experiences In accordance with the BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative), of equality are good: the implementation of equality in the operations these are countries and areas where there is a risk of human rights of Kesko Group is 4.02 for gender equality (scale of 1–5), 4.00 in equaland workers' rights violations. The classification is based, for example, ity of different age groups and 4.12 in equality of people from different on the UN Index of Human Development and the Transparency Intercultural backgrounds. national Corruption Perceptions Index. At year-end, 61% (61%) of Kesko Group employees in Finland were High-risk countries typically produce clothing and home textiles, female and 39% (39%) were male. In our foreign companies, the figures shoes and other leather goods, furniture, carpets, interior decoration were 46.2% and 53.8% (50.1% and 49.9%) respectively. items, sports equipment, toys, agricultural supplies (such as coffee, In 2010, one of the seven members of the Board of Directors, and tea, cocoa, fruit, vegetables, wines), and canned fish, fruit and vegetatwo of the eight members of the Corporate Management Board were bles. female. In 2010, direct purchases by Kesko’s Finnish companies from supIn the retailing subsidiaries in Finland a significant percentage of pliers in risk areas totalled €114 million (€113 million in 2009) and women hold management positions. 82% of K-citymarket home and accounted for 1.5% (1.6%) of Kesko’s total purchases. Direct imports speciality goods’ department managers and 69% of Anttila department from high-risk countries accounted for 18.2% of Kesko's total imports stores’ department managers are women. into Finland. Outside the EU, Kesko’s most important supplier countries in risk areas were China (€68 million), Turkey (€8 million) and India (€8 million). Around 82% (76%) of Kesko's imports (excluding Ratio of basic salary of men to women, LA14 VV-Auto's imports) come from EU countries. There are no statistics available on the imports of Kesko's foreign subsidiaries from high-risk The average annual salary of Kesko employees was €33,955 in Finland, countries. €33,523 in the other Nordic countries, and €9,265 in the Baltic counIn addition to its own direct imports, Kesko also buys goods protries, Russia and Belarus. As the Kesko Group’s operations are diverse duced in high-risk countries from other importers operating in Fin– there are nearly 700 different job titles – average salary is not a good land and through international purchasing groups. There are no reliindicator of salary level or structure. able statistics available on the countries of origin of these imports, Equality in remuneration is considered as part of annual companywhich mainly consist of international branded products that have specific equality plans. Gender is not a factor in determining pay been the subject of much attention in respect of assuring the responlevels, and no significant differences in comparable jobs have been sibility of their production in recent years. There may also be social detected. risks involved in the manufacture of products imported to Finland The wage groups and tables specified in the collective trading sector through third countries or in the production of their ingredients. labour agreement are applied to jobs covered by the collective labour agreement, such as sales assistant and warehouse worker. Salaries take into account job-based responsibility bonuses, work experience Kesko's own direct imports from outside the EU, 10 largest countries and cost-of-living class based on locality. in 2010* In addition to the requirements of the job, the salary of a senior Value of imports, Country € million white-collar employee is determined by competence, work experience, performance and results. Because of the versatility of jobs, it is not China 68.3 possible to make a comparable Group-level survey between genders. Turkey 8.3 Company-specific equality plans are drawn up to promote equal pay India 7.9 in comparable duties. Thailand 7.6 Vietnam 4.0 Pakistan 3.6 Brazil 3.2 Indonesia 2.8 United States 2.6 Israel 2.5 *Figures include direct imports forwarded by Keslog only, not VV-Auto's imports. Ethical purchasing principles and the Steering Group for Responsible Purchasing Responsible purchasing is guided by Kesko's ethical purchasing principles, which are available at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. The principles are based on the national labour protection legislation and corresponding conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), applied when national legislation is not up to their level. Kesko has a steering group for responsible purchasing, which steers and coordinates social quality control of suppliers. The group consists of representatives of Kesko's division parent companies importing from high-risk countries. The steering group met three times in 2010 and focused on the purchasing policies of tropical wood, the monitoring work in China, as well as the BSCI audits and related objectives. 82 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators Monitoring human rights and working conditions Main elements of SA8000 and BSCI audits in the purchasing chain Auditing areas Corresponding ILO convention Kesko is a member in the European BSCI audit system, and uses both Compliance with legislation and BSCI auditing and the SA8000 standard for assessing its suppliers in agreements high-risk countries. Kesko is committed to the BSCI Code of Conduct, Freedom of association and collective the content of which is practically the same as Kesko's own ethical bargaining 87, 98, 135 and 154 purchasing principles. As a member of BSCI, Kesko has to set annual Discrimination 100, 111, 143, 158 and 159 objectives for the number of audits to be made in suppliers' factories Compensation 26 and 131 in various high-risk countries. The objective is also to improve the Working hours 1 and 14 quality of audit results. 155 and recommendations 164 and Kesko primarily promotes BSCI auditing to its suppliers in high-risk Health and safety at work 190 countries, although it still also recommends SA8000 certification, 79, 138, 142, 182 and which is included in the BSCI audit as a voluntary part (the 'best pracChild labour recommendation 146 tice'). Forced labour 29 and 105 In cooperation with BSCI, Kesko follows other audit systems in the Basic environmental protection market and accepts audits based on them, provided that the level of requirements is the same as in the BSCI audit. Kesko accepts ETI, WIETA and UTZ audits complying with its sourcing practices, while the other audits systems are handled case by case. See the table on page 83 on some certification and audit systems used for different product groups in Kesko. Kesko is a member in CIES, the Food Business Forum, which runs the Global Social Compliance Programme (GSCP) to enhance the comparability of social and environmental audits. In China, Kesko supports its suppliers of home and speciality goods by monitoring activities. A team of two experts operating from Shanghai guides, trains and oversees Kesko’s Chinese suppliers in issues related to the terms of employment and working conditions, and the observance of environmental and chemical regulations. The monitoring principles of Kesko are in compliance with the terms of the BSCI Suppliers' and contractors' screening on auditing. The ultimate aim is to get the factory to apply for either the human rights, HR2, and operations with a risk BSCI audit or the SA8000 certification made by a third party. In 2010, for incidents of child, forced or compulsory the team made 86 factory visits. labour, HR6 and HR7 Rautakesko and Kesko Food monitor and develop the responsibility of the purchasing chain as part of the sourcing cooperation with other Significant risks related to the use of child, forced or compulsory European retail chains (in Eurogroup, ICASS and AMS). Read more labour have not been identified in Kesko’s own operations. Kesko’s about Eurogroup's BSCI work on page 45. reporting is focused on supplier assessments. Kesko has the SUMO (supplier monitoring) database, in which it saves all information on supplier audits, certifications and monitoring SA8000 certifications visits in high-risk countries as well as the risk classification based on At the beginning of 2011, Kesko had 24 suppliers with SA8000 certifithem. Information about BSCI audits are also saved in the database cation. In addition, all plantations of Chiquita in Costa Rica and Panmaintained by the BSCI and available for all members. ama that supplied bananas to Kesko in 2010 have both SA8000 and Rainforest Alliance certification. The plantations of Banacol in Colombia, which has supplied Pirkka bananas to Kesko since the beginning of 2011, have the same certifications. Kesko's BSCI results IN 2010, initial audits Kesko's BSCI results IN 2010, re-audits Good 33% Good 40% Improvements Improvements needed 19% needed 35% Non compliant 40% Non compliant 31% GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 83 Certification and audit systems related to production in high-risk countries used by Kesko Certification/audit system Product group Coverage of criteria Product labelling BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) All product groups Social, limited environmental part No SA8000 All product groups Social No Fairtrade Agricultural products, incl. cotton Social, environment Yes Rainforest Alliance Agricultural products Social, environment Yes UTZ Certified Coffee, cocoa, tea Social, environment Yes FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Wood products and timber Social, environment Yes MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) Caught fish and shellfish Environment (sustainable fishing) Yes Results of Kesko's BSCI audits in different areas in 2010, % audited factories Part B, initial audits (51) Part B, re-audits (52) Management Practice Good Documentation Improvements Working Time needed Compensation Non compliant Not applicable Child Labour/Young Employees Forced Labour/Prisoner Labour/Disciplinary Measures Freedom of Association/Collective Bargaining Discrimination Working Conditions Health and Social Facilities Occupational Health and Safety Dormitories Environment 0 20 40 60 80 100 0 20 40 60 80 100 BSCI audits Fairtrade products Kesko’s objective for 2010 was to have 85 initial audits and 50 re-audits Kesko Food has a comprehensive cooperation agreement with Fairat the premises of the suppliers of home and speciality goods and trade Finland and a licence for Fairtrade products in the Pirkka range. foodstuffs, and five initial audits at the farms of the producers of The selection and marketing policies of Fairtrade products are included agricultural products. The total number of initial audits carried out at in K-food stores' chain concepts. suppliers' premises or farms during the year was 51, while the number In 2010, Kesko Food had 201 Fairtrade products (154 in 2009) in its of re-audits was 52. At the beginning of 2011, a total of 188 factories or selection, of which 37 (28) were Pirkka products. According to the farms of Kesko's suppliers in high-risk countries were in the BSCI statistics of Fairtrade Finland, Kesko Food had 114 Fairtrade suppliers auditing process. Some of Kesko's suppliers are themselves members in 33 countries, and the products sold by Kesko Food generated nearly of BSCI and thus promote audits in their own supply chains. €240,000 in Fairtrade premium for social development projects. KesThe results of the BSCI audits of Kesko's suppliers' factories are ko's home and speciality goods companies had a total of some 50 presented on this page. Most deficiencies occur in documentation, Fairtrade products in their selections. observance of working time regulations, compensation, and occupational health and safety. Experiences gained from monitoring work in China are very similar, and it has been found that Chinese suppliers Employee training on policies and procedures need time and professional support in order to manage the corrective concerning aspects of human rights, HR3 actions required by BSCI. Re-audits prove, however, that improvements in working conditions are possible. Kesko's buyers are regularly trained in practices related to responsible Kesko' target for 2011 is 90 initial BSCI audits and 55 re-audits. BSCI purchasing. In 2010, the focus was on the use of the SUMO database members have also decided to focus on improving the qualitative level and the evaluation criteria of suppliers. of suppliers, and accordingly quantitative audit targets alone are no In 2010, BSCI also arranged 70 training events for suppliers in 15 longer informed to BSCI; in the future, the targeted audit results must high-risk countries. be at the ’good’ or ’improvements needed’ level. 84 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators In 2006–2009, some of Kesko’s Vietnamese suppliers participated Prevention of malpractice in the development project promoting BSCI audits and employees' Kesko's attitude to bribery and other malpractice is absolutely uncomknowledge of trade unions. According to the project evaluation carried promising. Kesko's principles are presented in the guide 'Our Responout in 2010, working conditions in all participating factories had sible Working Principles', adopted by all Kesko's units and K-stores in improved, particularly in terms of occupational health, social facilities 2008. The guide consists of the following sections: and the working environment as well as the relations between man■■ observance of law agement and employees. The need for improvement was identified in ■■ avoiding conflicts of interest creating a comprehensive management system relating to occupa■■ anti-bribery approach tional health and safety in factories. Furthermore, many of the facto■■ creating a good working atmosphere ries also need improvements in employee compensation, their insur■■ safety ance coverage and working time. Six out of the 17 factories which ■■ confidentiality of customer information participated in the project passed the BSCI audit. Read more about the ■■ open communications. project on page 48. The guide has been published in Finnish, Swedish, Norwegian, English, Russian, Estonian, Lithuanian, and Latvian languages as have Total number of incidents of discrimination the animated videos made on the themes of the guide, available at: and actions taken, HR4 www.kesko.fi. The animated videos can be used to facilitate discussions about the principles with the personnel. The guide will be At the end of 2010, the Court of Appeal in Finland had one case pendupdated in 2011 and an online training programme will be built to ing concerning discrimination in the selection of a candidate in which support it. The updating process will also include some specifications a Kesko Group company was the defendant. on stakeholder cooperation, for example, to the Groupand divisionlevel instructions relating to the Responsible Working Principles. In late 2010, Kesko's Legal Affairs, Risk Management and Internal Audit Operations in which the right to exercise organised a series of value discussions on Kesko's responsible working freedom of association and collective principles in Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Russia and Belarus. bargaining may be at risk, HR5 Read more on page 26. Kesko’s ethical purchasing principles, adopted for business relations Page 77 reports on the unionisation of Kesko's personnel. The monitorwith suppliers in high-risk countries, make a clear statement about ing of suppliers and corrective actions are included in SA8000 and Kesko’s opposition to bribery. Kesko is a member of Transparency BSCI audits. International, Finland. The Kesko Group's Internal Audit has paid particular attention to the efficiency of controls that prevent malpractice and financial losses. incidents of violation involving rights of Measures preventing malpractice have included more effective comindigenous people and actions taken, HR9 munications, training and guidelines as well as tightened controls. Information technology is increasingly used to trace unusual transacNo incidents of violation involving rights of indigenous people in tions, and to prevent and examine malpractice. Kesko uses a malprac2010. Kesko's operations have no significant impact on the rights on tice examination and reporting guideline, according to which Kesko's indigenous people. Risk Management examines the suspicions of malpractice. Suspicions of crime are reported to the police for investigation. Management approach to societal aspects Through Kesko's intranet, employees in all operating countries, Communities except for Belarus, can give feedback on operations not only in their In Kesko's operations, impacts on communities are assessed as part own units but also directly to top management. Feedback can be given of the development of the store network. Establishing a new store, or openly or anonymously. expanding or changing an existing one involves various statutory reports and hearings of local inhabitants and operators both at the Public policy town plan and construction permit phases, depending on the extent Kesko does not engage in direct lobbying with politicians and the of the project. Reports take a stand on the project's impacts on the authorities. Instead, Kesko plays an active role in trade and industry community structure, traffic and employment. organisations in Finland and in the European Union, contributing its expertise to legislative work. The chart on Kesko's channels of influence and representation in organisations is presented at: www.kesko.fi/­ responsibility. Anti-competitive behaviour For Kesko, compliance with competition legislation is of primary importance. Kesko has a competition legislation guide and a control system, which includes self-assessments and employee training events. Key principles and guidelines of competition legislation have also been presented in the internal web training on matters concerning competition legislation. GRI indicators Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 85 Percentage and number of business units Management approach to product responsibility analysed for risks related to corruption, SO2, Customers' health and safety percentage of employees trained in antiKesko and K-Group stores are responsible to the products' end-users corruption policies and procedures, SO3, and for ensuring that the products comply with all requirements of Finnactions taken in response to incidents of ish and EU legislation, are safe for the users and meet quality and other corruption, SO4 promises. Kesko Food's Product Research ensures the safety and quality of the products purchased, develops Kesko Food's own brand prodRisks related to corruption are managed as part of the Kesko Group's ucts, coordinates self-control, keeps abreast of food legislation, and risk management. Key risks are systematically identified, assessed, is responsible for recipe and consumer services. In addition to food managed, monitored and reported as part of business operations at the products, the unit also controls the safety and quality of non-foods Group, division, company and unit levels in all of Kesko's operating and home and specialty goods. In the development of its own brands, countries. In addition, risk assessments are made of significant projects the unit works in close cooperation with Kesko’s buyers and product related to capital expenditures or changes in operations. Rankings of manufacturers. Kesko's operating countries in the Corruption Perceptions Index 2010 Kesko's 2008–2012 responsibility programme includes several objecfrom Transparency International are presented on page 26. tives related to a healthy way of life. Read more on pages 20–21. Kesko's anti-corruption principles are included in the 'Our Responsible Working Principles' guide. According to the 2010 personnel surPrivacy protection vey, 69% of employees had read the guide. K-Plus Oy, a Kesko subsidiary, manages and maintains the K-Plussa In 2010, Kesko was not informed of any corruption-related cases customer loyalty system, operated by K-store chains and K-Plussa pending in which a Kesko Group company was the defendant. partners. The system is limited to Finnish operations. There are over 3.6 million K-Plussa customers. The customer information of K-Plussa cardholders forms a customer The organisation's public policy positions, database that is used, with the customer’s permission, for managing participation in public policy development and customer relationships, for customer contacts and marketing purlobbying, SO5, and financial and in-kind poses of the companies which have joined K-Plussa system. Data on contributions to political parties, politicians cardholders’ purchasing patterns are collected at sum total and prodand related institutions, SO6 uct group level. Customers can forbid the use of their product group level information. In this case, product group data on their purchases In election years, political parties and candidates are given equal are not collected or used in selection planning or for direct advertising opportunities to arrange campaign events in K-Group stores. In addipurposes. Customers can also request that no information at all is tion, Kesko participates in economic and tax policy seminars arranged registered on their purchases, and only make use of the immediate by parties, impartially and with appropriate consideration. In 2010, benefits they receive from using their K-Plussa cards. In these cases, the seminar participation fees and advertising in Finnish party newspurchasing data are not entered into the K-Plussa system and the papers paid by Kesko totalled some €14,000. In the table 'Kesko's customer does not gain K-Plussa points. At the end of 2010, some 1,000 support for the public good' (page 62), political support is included in active customers had requested that their purchasing data not be colthe amount of 'Non-governmental and environmental organisalected at all. tions'. According to the K-Plussa rules, personal data from the customer database and customer information accrued from the use of the K-Plussa card can be made use of and assigned for direct marketing Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, purposes to the companies partipating in K-Plussa cooperation. Cusanti-trust, and monopoly practices, SO7, and tomers can forbid the use and assignment of information for this fines and non-monetary sanctions for nonpurpose by informing K-Plus Oy. The prohibition always applies to the compliance with laws and regulations, SO8 K-Plussa customer and the holder of a parallel card. As a data controller, K-Plus Oy ensures that the customer informaNo legal actions or fines in 2010. tion is only used for the purposes specified in the file description. Information on individual customers is protected efficiently with instructions given to the personnel and by various technical means. Customer data is only disclosed to outside parties if required by law. According to the Finnish Personal Data Act, every data controller must have a file description. K-Plus Oy's file description is available in Finnish at: www.plussa.com. 86 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 GRI indicators Assessment of health and safety impacts of Practices related to customer satisfaction and products and services at various life cycle results of customer satisfaction surveys, PR5 stages, PR1, and non-compliance with regulations and codes concerning health and The recognition level and images of Kesko's chains are regularly monsafety impacts of products, PR2 itored in brand surveys targeted at consumers in all product lines. Store-level customer satisfaction is measured with customer satisfacThe activities of Kesko Food's Product Research include assessing tion surveys, complemented with the mystery shopping method in products' impacts on health and safety. In 2010, the Product Research food and building and home improvement stores. Satisfaction with audited 43 suppliers (41 in 2009), of which 4 (9) were Finnish. These the K-Plussa customer loyalty programme is measured once a year. companies mainly included manufacturers of Kesko Food’s own The chains have different channels for giving customer feedback brands, and were audited in compliance with Kesko Food’s audit proand Group-level feedback can be given through the www.kesko.fi pages. tocol. All contacts received via the feedback channels are responded to. A total of 8,826 (9,226) product samples were analysed, nearly half During the year, Kesko Food's consumer service, maintained by the of which related to product development of Kesko Food's own brands. Product Research, received 19,106 contacts (20,999). Some 80% of feedA total of 1,488 (1,393) batch control and other self-control samples back were product complaints. The consumer service received more were analysed. Read more about self-control on page 46. than 2,400 product samples or packages, of which the unit analysed In the development of the company's own brands, special attention, nearly 40% and sent the rest to manufacturers for analysis. in line with Kesko Food's strategy, is paid to the healthiness of the products. Since 2008, fat, salt and sugar have been reduced from the Pirkka products containing a high content of them. A total of 81 Pirkka Adherence to laws, standards and voluntary products had been reformulated by the end of 2010. codes related to marketing communications, The Product Research Unit is also responsible for product recalls, incl. advertising, promotion and sponsorship, which numbered 80 in 2010 (61 in 2009). Of these, 24 (21) were Kesko PR6, and incidents of non-compliance with Food’s own brand products; in the other cases, the unit assisted manlaws and regulations and voluntary codes ufacturers in recalls. One was a public recall involving a potential related to marketing communications, PR7 health hazard. In this case, grill sausages with cheese had been packed by mistake in the Pirkka A class grill sausage wrapping. Kesko complies with legislation in its marketing communications. At the end of 2010, there was one case pending in the Finnish district The changes in legislation and authorities' recommendations are court concerning product safety in which a Kesko Group company was monitored on a regular basis, and related information is given to the the defendant. employees responsible for marketing in respective units. Sponsorship is guided by Kesko's sponsorship principles, available at: www.kesko.fi/ responsibility. There were no incidents of non-compliance with Product and service information required by legislation or voluntary codes during the year. procedures, PR3, and non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and Complaints regarding breaches of customer labelling, PR4 privacy and losses of customer data, PR8 In the package labelling of its own brands and imports, Kesko complies In 2010, K-Plus Oy had some customer contacts regarding the processing with the Finnish law and with EU legislation, as well as the recomof customer information. Replies were given in the way of normal cusmendations given by the authorities. Voluntary package labelling on tomer service and they did not lead to any further actions. No data leaks the product's responsibility aspects can also be added to the products. came up and no complaints were received from regulatory bodies. Such labelling may include, for example, organic and environmental labelling, as well as labelling indicating social responsibility. The selection of organic products and products with environmental labelFines for non-compliance with laws and ling are discussed on page 74 and product labelling indicating mainly regulations concerning products and services, social responsibility on page 83. PR9 Package labelling of Kesko Food's own brands always comprises – package size and space permitting – nutritional values. Nearly all No fines during the year. Pirkka products have the Guideline Daily Amount (GDA) labelling, which indicates how much energy and main nutrients one serving contains. During the year, there were 19 product recalls caused by defective package labelling, four of which concerned Kesko Food's own brands. Definitions of terms Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 87 Definitions of terms The text and graphs contain terms and indicators whose contents are defined below. Profit/loss before tax – income tax Return on equity, % = x 100 Shareholders’ equity Operating profit Return on capital employed, % = (Non-current assets + inventories + receivables + other current assets x 100 – non-interest-bearing liabilities) for a 12 month average Shareholders’ equity Equity ratio, % = x 100 Balance sheet total – prepayments received Interest-bearing net debt Gearing, % = x 100 Shareholders’ equity Market capitalisation = Share price at balance sheet date x number of shares Primary energy = Available in resources in their natural state; divided into renewable and non-renewable energy GWh = Gigawatt hour = a million kilowatt hours (kWh) 1 kWh = 3.6 MJ = 3,600 kJ (in GRI guidelines the unit for measuring energy is joule or J) CO2 = Carbon dioxide = affects climate change (‘greenhouse effect’) Carbon dioxide equivalent, the amount of different gases whose combined impact on CO2e = the greenhouse effect corresponds to the amount of carbon dioxide mentioned SO2 = Sulphur dioxide equivalent (affects acidification) C2H4 = Ethene (affects the ozone content of the lower atmosphere) Sickness absence/ Sickness absence 1 Jan.–31 Dec. = x 1,000,000 hours million working hours Theoretical regular working time 1 Jan.–31 Dec. Sickness absence 1 Jan.–31 Dec. Sickness absence percentage = x 100 Theoretical regular working time 1 Jan.–31 Dec. Number of departures 1 Jan.–31 Dec. (does not include summer employees) Employee departure turnover = Number of personnel at 31 Dec. Injury rate/ Number of injuries 1 Jan.–31 Dec. = x 1,000,000 hours million working hours Number of hours worked 1 Jan.–31 Dec. 88 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Independent Assurance Report (Translation from the Finnish Original) Independent To the Management of Kesko Corporate responsibility information has not ■■ assessed Kesko Group’s materiality Corporation been prepared, in all material respects, in determination process and evaluating the We have been engaged by the Management of accordance with the reporting criteria. results of this process; Kesko Corporation to perform a limited assurIn addition, we have conducted our work ■■ performed a media analysis and an ance engagement on the information on ecoin accordance with the AA1000 Assurance internet search for references to Kesko nomic, social and environmental responsibilStandard 2008, and as a Type 2 assurance Corporation during the reporting period; ity disclosed in Kesko Corporation’s Corporate engagement, as agreed with Kesko Corpora■■ conducted interviews with employees Responsibility Report 2010 for the reporting tion. The AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 responsible for the collection and period of 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 requires planning and performing of the reporting of Corporate responsibility (hereinafter “Corporate responsibility inforassurance engagement to obtain limited information at group and site level; mation”). assurance on whether any matters have come ■■ inspected relevant documents and to our attention that would cause us to believe systems for gathering, analyzing and that Kesko Corporation does not adhere, in all aggregating the Corporate responsibility Management’s responsibility material respects, to the AA1000 Account­ information as well as performing tests The Management of Kesko Corporation is Ability Principles (inclusivity, materiality and on a sample basis; responsible for preparing the Corporate responsiveness), and that the Corporate ■■ assessed the data consolidation process responsibility information according to the responsibility information would not be reliof the Corporate responsibility reporting criteria as set out in Kesko Corporaable, in all material respects, based on the information at Kesko Group level. tion’s internal corporate responsibility reportreporting criteria. ing guidelines, the Global Reporting InitiaIn a limited assurance engagement the tive’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines evidence-gathering procedures are more limConclusion version G3, as well as AA1000 AccountAbility ited than in a reasonable assurance engageBased on our limited assurance engagement Principles Standard 2008 issued by Accountment, and therefore less assurance is obtained nothing has come to our attention that would Ability. than in a reasonable assurance engagement. cause us to believe that Kesko Corporation An assurance engagement involves performwould not adhere, in all material respects, to ing procedures to obtain evidence about the the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. Practitioner’s responsibility amounts and other disclosures in the CorpoFurthermore, nothing has come to our It is our responsibility to present a conclusion rate responsibility information. The proceattention that would cause us to believe that on the Corporate responsibility information dures selected depend on the practitioner’s the Corporate responsibility information has based on our work performed. This assurance judgment, including an assessment of the not been prepared, in all material respects, in report has been prepared in accordance with risks of material misstatement of the Corpoaccordance with the reporting criteria, or that the terms of our engagement. We do not rate responsibility information. the Corporate responsibility information accept, nor assume responsibility to anyone Our work consisted of, amongst others, the would not be reliable, in all material respects, else, except to Kesko Corporation for our following procedures: based on the reporting criteria. work, for this report, or for the conclusions ■■ conducted interviews with senior Our assurance report should be read in conthat we have reached. management of Kesko Group to gain an junction with the inherent limitations of We have conducted the assurance engageunderstanding of Kesko Corporation’s accuracy and completeness for corporate ment in accordance with the International targets for corporate responsibility as part social responsibility information. This indeStandard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) of the business strategy and operations; pendent assurance report should not be used 3000 “Assurance engagements other than ■■ conducted interviews with key personnel on its own as a basis for interpreting Kesko audits or reviews of historical financial inforfrom various organizational levels of Corporation’s performance in relation to its mation”. The ISAE 3000 -standard requires Kesko Group to gain an understanding of principles of corporate responsibility. compliance with ethical principles as well as stakeholder expectations towards Kesko planning and performing the assurance Corporation, Kesko’s responses to those engagement to obtain limited assurance on expectations as well as stakeholder whether any matters have come to our attenengagement; tion that would cause us to believe that the Independent Assurance Report Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 89 Assurance Report Observations and ■■ Regarding Materiality: Kesko Practitioner’s independence recommendations Corporation has a process in place to and qualifications Based on our limited assurance engagement determine the materiality of corporate As auditor of Kesko Corporation, Pricewaterwe provide the following observations and responsibility issues. During the houseCoopers Oy is required to meet the recommendations in relation to adherence to reporting period Kesko Corporation has independence requirements of the Finnish the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. These updated the materiality assessment of Auditing Act (459/2007). In addition, Priceobservations and recommendations do not corporate responsibility and developed waterhouseCoopers’ own Global Independaffect the conclusions presented earlier. its reporting based on the results of the ence Policy is applicable to Pricewaterhouse■■ Regarding Inclusivity: Kesko materiality assessment. We recommend Coopers Oy, its partners and professional Corporation has identified key that the results of the materiality staff, including all members of the assurance stakeholders for its operations, and it has assessment will be taken into account engagement team. an extensive stakeholder engagement when updating the corporate Our multi-disciplinary team of corporate process in place. We recommend that responsibility programme for 2013–2017. responsibility and assurance specialists posKesko Corporation further develops the ■■ Regarding Responsiveness: Kesko sesses the requisite skills and experience systematic management of the Corporation is committed to being within financial and non-financial assurance, stakeholder engagement process. responsive to its stakeholders, which is corporate responsibility strategy and manageevident from the ongoing and widement, social and environmental issues as well ranging communication on corporate as knowledge of the retail industry to underresponsibility issues and stakeholder take this assurance engagement. engagement related to corporate responsibility. We recommend that Kesko Corporation strengthens its corporate responsibility activities and communications especially towards consumers. Helsinki, 6 April 2011 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Johan Kronberg Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner Authorised Public Accountant Partner Director, Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability & Climate Change Sustainability & Climate Change 90 Kesko Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Contacts Contacts Corporate responsibility contacts This list below gives contact information on the personnel who primarily provide additional information on different areas of the report. The list does not include all Kesko employees who have participated in editing the report. Kesko's phone number from outside Finland is +358 10 5311. E-mail: firstname.lastname@kesko.fi. Name Title Unit Name Title Unit DEVELOPMENT, COORDINATION, RESPONSIBILITY FOR EDITING THE REPORT HUMAN RESOURCES RESPONSIBILITY Merja Haverinen Senior Vice President Kesko Corporation, Jennie Stenbom HR Manager Kesko Corporation, Human Corporate Communications Resources and Responsibility Mikko Myyryläinen HR Development Kesko Corporation, Human Helena Frilander CR Manager Kesko Corporation, Manager Resources Corporate Communications Janna Pirhonen Manager, Wellbeing at Kesko Corporation, Human and Responsibility Work Resources Marjut Lovio Corporate Responsibility Kesko Corporation, Päivi Sariola Financial Manager Kesko Pension Fund, Pension Advisor Corporate Communications Insurance and Occupational and Responsibility Health Service Pirjo Nieminen Communications Officer Kesko Corporation, Pirjo Anttila Chief Physician Kesko Pension Fund, Pension (pirjo.j.nieminen@ Corporate Communications Insurance and Occupational kesko.fi) and Responsibility Health Service Lena Leeve Kesko Corporation, Kesko Corporation, Investor Corporate Accounting Relations RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING Marjut Lovio Corporate Responsibility Kesko Corporation, ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Advisor Corporate Communications Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Kesko Corporation, and Responsibility Corporate Controller Corporate Accounting Tiina Nyrhi Financial Controller Kesko Corporation, PRODUCT SAFETY Corporate Accounting Matti Kalervo Product Research Kesko Food Ltd, Päivi Avelin Controller Kesko Corporation, Manager Product Research Corporate Accounting Esko Mansikka Managing Director Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu CORPORATE SECURITY AND RISK MANAGEMENT VTP Oy Pasi Mäkinen Chief Audit Executive Kesko Corporation, Internal Sari Viitanen Systems Manager Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu Audit and Risk Management VTP Oy Petri Käyhkö Security Manager Kesko Corporation, Internal Lena Leeve Kesko Corporation, Kesko Corporation, Investor Audit and Risk Management Corporate Accounting Relations PRIVACY PROTECTION/CUSTOMER LOYALTY SYSTEM ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Niina Ryynänen Managing Director K-Plus Oy Timo Jäske Environmental Manager Kesko Food Ltd, Logistics and IT Management Jari Suuronen Maintenance Manager Kesko Food Ltd, Real Estate Maintenance Jari Pihlajamaa Maintenance Manager Kesko Food Ltd, Real Estate Maintenance Satu Kuoppamäki Property Information Kesko Food Ltd, Real Estate Coordinator Maintenance Toni Pelin Environmental and Keslog Ltd, Supply Chain Safety Manager Management Harri Ajomaa Environmental Manager K-citymarket Oy/Anttila Oy Jesse Mether Sustainability Manager Rautakesko Ltd, Customers and Concepts Joni Ikonen Development Manager VV-Autotalot Oy KESKO’S CORPORATE RESPONSIbIlITY REPORT has been published in Finnish and English. The report can be ordered and read at: www.kesko.fi/responsibility. It may also be ordered from Kesko Corporation, Corporate Communications and Responsibility, Satamakatu 3, FI-00016 Kesko and by phone +358 1053 23702. The report has been edited by Kesko’s Corporate Communications and Responsibility Unit (Helena Frilander, Marjut Lovio and Pirjo Nieminen) and translated from Finnish into English by Taija Mäentaka and Pirjo Holm. PHOTOS: Mirja Hussain/Etelä-Suomen Sanomat, Jussi Jäppinen, Juha-Pekka Laakio, Sami Nummela, Numi Nummelin, Anton Sucksdorff, Kimmo Syväri, Heikki Tuuli, Adolfo Vera, Kesko Corporation and Volkswagen AG. lAYOUT: Kesko’s Brand Director Anne Laakso, Bond Creative Agency Oy, Zeeland Branding PRINTEd bY: Libris, Helsinki PAPER: cover: 300g/m2 Scandia 2000 white, inside: 130g/m2 Scandia 2000 white The paper and the printers have been granted the right to use the Nordic Swan environmental label. Kesko Corporation Satamakatu 3, FI-00016 KESKO, Helsinki, Finland Telephone +358 10 5311 www.kesko.fi Business ID 0109862-8
