2010 Sustainability Report Strategy 8 14 Key social The strategy topics in action: 4 2010 results Franck Focus on the Riboud four strategic interview priorities / Health 80 / For All / Nature Measuring / People progress and performance throughout the value chain / Danone Way 67 / Respect / Danone’s evaluation by Dashboard: social responsibility 2010 stakeholder rating agencies commitments and outlook 92 108 A social Historical approach built approach on Danone’s and unique feature highlights / Social integration tools in the company’s business / Stakeholders at the heart of the dialogue / Corporate governance / Nutrition and Health governance 2 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 This translation is for information only. Performance 114 GRI Index (*) (*) S elf-evaluation of the application of GRI according to version 3.0 guidelines for the GRI with approval by KPMG Audit. 124 Validation of the 140 report by Performance an external Indicators third party / Governance, Commitments and Engagement / Economic / Environmental / Social / Human Rights / Society / Product responsibility 128 Upstream and downstream impacts and 132 responsibilities Company profile and report parameters Danone Sustainability Report 2010 3 2010 REPORT Sustainability Franck Riboud The “dual economic and social project” that is the foundation of the Danone way of doing business is interview almost forty years old. What still makes it timely today? “My vision Franck Riboud: this “dual project” was born of a simple fact that remains just as true today: a company cannot for Danone: succeed in the long run if it turns its back on the society it is a part of, if it only looks to its short-term economic a company gain. Danone’s founder understood very quickly that creating economic value and social value are both essential that creates to a company’s solidity. economic value Much has changed since 1972. What are the major factors that have shaped the company’s evolution over while creating these past years, and what are those that promote a social value” different vision of doing business? FR: we simply forgot that business performance is also measured by the health of the surrounding society: if this society is not doing well, or is getting poorer, there will be fewer consumers or less frequent consumption; which in turn means more difficulty finding efficient subcontracting and supply channels, etc. At Danone, for example, for every job within the company there are between five and ten jobs generated outside, at our milk producers and industrial and service suppliers. Danone’s competitiveness and that of the regions where it does business are therefore very closely linked. Franck Riboud CEO 4 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Do the interests of business converge with meeting In 2008, Danone’s general management decided to step social needs? up the pace. Why? FR: it is common to oppose the “social” and “economic” FR: the financial, economic and social crisis that erupted in spheres, where social needs are perceived as a cost and 2008 was revelatory. It was largely the product of the therefore generally detrimental to a company’s competievolution I have described, and it highlighted the need to tiveness. I see things differently. Take food and its contriprovide direction and to redefine the vision of the company bution to health, which is at the core of Danone’s mission. we wanted to be. Danone’s Executive Board did this by The challenges are huge at the scale of the planet: supportfocusing on four strategic priorities that contribute to ing people by offering healthy and balanced nutrition for Danone’s mission of “bringing health through food to as every stage of life, helping reduce nutritional imbalances many people as possible.” The first two priorities, “Health” that lead to obesity or dietary deficiencies, allowing and “For All,” are directly related to the development of our everyone access to quality food. I see no opposition here, business and our growth objectives, while the two others, but rather an extraordinary convergence between the “People” and “Nature,” are characteristic of Danone’s economic and social spheres. A bad diet has direct conseapproach. For each of these priorities we have defined a goal quences on people’s health, but also major economic and objectives with an initial phase to be completed at end consequences in terms of public health costs. Food 2012. We want these priorities to help transform Danone’s companies like Danone should offer solutions that please businesses, operations and organizations. consumers and respond to public health concerns in each country. This can be an impressive catalyst for innovation For example, the “Nature” priority is leading us along a and growth. transformative path. A food company is closely connected to natural life cycles. Danone bottles natural spring water, The same is true for the environment: reducing energy and maintaining this water supply into the future is vital and raw materials consumption and developing clean both to the company and to the people who depend on it. technologies are good for the planet, and also for business. Our products come from milk, fruits and plants. We want to bring the entire Danone organization into alignment Social needs are vast, in terms of health, housing, with this approach by progressively becoming an education and preserving natural resources. Companies environmentally neutral company. The first step is to that innovate and contribute to effective solutions massively reduce the carbon footprint of our industrial to meet these needs will strengthen their economic processes, packaging and logistics. To effect this change at competitiveness by creating social value. In the same way, every level, an ambitious 30% reduction goal has been set who can believe that a company whose products and for 2008 to 2012, and integrated into the objectives of services have no real social utility can succeed long-term? Danone’s 1,500 senior managers around the world. Alongside this reduction policy, Danone has launched innovative carbon offset programs by investing in the restoration and preservation of ecosystems that play a vital role in food security and in supporting the income of rural populations in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 5 Sustainability Report 2010 Franck Riboud interview We are now at the half-way point in this program. When we look at the reality of nutrition needs in the Are we on track to meeting our objectives? world, we realize we have a huge innovation project ahead What are the catalysts and obstacles along the way? of us. I am convinced that we must move faster, bring our FR: we are right in line with the plan we have defined Research & Development and marketing teams even thanks to strong commitment at every level and in every closer to the field, listen actively to needs, strive to invent area of the company. The innovative transformation that solutions that truly meet these needs, and work with other will result in delivering both economic and social value is players – public authorities, NGOs – who have intimate at work. This change cannot happen without some knowledge of the populations concerned. Naturally we resistance, but I am impressed by the teams’ motivation. will make mistakes, and certain products or services will For example, at the end of 2009, Danone created the not work out, but others will be tomorrow’s rising stars. Danone Ecosystem Fund with the approval of its board of Here again, creating shared value involves changing the directors and its shareholders, endowed with €100 million way we work. for the purpose of supporting initiatives that strengthen the “Danone ecosystem.” The principle is that any project How do you view your relationship with the farming financed by the Fund must be launched and carried sector upstream? through by a local CBU. In just one year, more than FR: these past years we have moved into a very tense phase 20 projects have been proposed and financed in some with regard to agricultural raw materials, with scarcity fifteen different countries. Many are extremely innovative. of certain products and major price fluctuations. This They involve support for small farmers, job creations in situation is not temporary, but likely to last and perhaps local distribution and package recycling, for example. to worsen. Farming is once again becoming a strategic All these projects contribute to building a solid foundabusiness on a global scale. Industrialists have a responsibility tion for the company in these countries. to ensure supply for their factories at competitive cost compared to the competition by working in partnership Does this approach lead to the creation of new with producers. We must support production models that products and services? help expand agricultural production while maintaining FR: according to experts, the global population will reach environmental balance and taking into account the eight billion by 2025. It is crucial to find solutions to feed diversity of regional situations. Pilot programs supported this growing population while sparing our limited natural financially and technically by Danone with milk producers resources. This will be hard to do under current models. in France, Ukraine, Egypt and Mexico are opportunities for We must come up with new approaches. Pilot projects us to explore these interactions between economic, social such as Grameen-Danone in Bangladesh compel us to and environmental factors. Danone and the producers that think differently, to come up with solutions that break supply our factories are part of the same “ecosystem,” with the way the food industry has developed in recent where each one benefits from the other’s good health. years: low-cost micro-factories, products that are easy to distribute and preserve without a cold chain, ingredients The “local” appears to be back at the center of Danone’s from local farms, etc. Other experiments in Indonesia concerns and Mexico for example have allowed us to test out new FR: Danone has always been a “multi-local” company concepts for accessible products with a high nutritional with Country Business Units (CBUs) that produce locally impact or local distribution. for local consumers. And so we remain. 6 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 The globalization of these past twenty years has fostered But together with the Danone teams, I am trying to the myth that distance no longer matters, that low put a new conception of business into practice, where logistics and information costs mean we can relocate to the economic sphere can contribute to solving a certain wherever production costs are lowest. However, when this number of social issues. movement is pushed to extremes, the resulting social and environmental costs bring its validity into question. What is your greatest wish for Danone? Without denying the undoubted benefits of international FR: that Danone remains what it is, a company where trade, companies must weigh their decisions by taking all people share pleasure and passion, are free to try new aspects into consideration. Transporting less, storing things, and pay close attention to the results. Without smaller amounts and distributing locally can make a lot of these results, we would not have the freedom to try to sense in certain situations. implement our vision of business. You make it sound like the traditional division of roles between companies, NGOs and public authorities is being redefined. FR: we all suffer from the old divisions between social, political and economic agents. To caricature, companies “do economics” and what is known as “Corporate Social Responsibility” aims to correct the negative social and environmental impacts of their business. NGOs work in the social and environmental fields, and companies might finance them or provide technical assistance to support their mission, through sponsorships, partnerships or charity donations. Public authorities serve to protect the public interest, defining and enforcing the rules that apply to all. The limits of this “partitioned” approach in solving the problems faced by mankind can clearly be seen today. Whatever the agents and their role, our real purpose is to create shared value. This must be the yardstick for our actions, not the money spent or the means applied. The experience of Danone teams in numerous countries shows us that we can “co-develop” with other players whose roles and skills are different and complementary. Let us be clear. I don’t think that companies are here to “save the planet.” We have neither the responsibility nor the means to respond to every social need. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 7 2010 REPORT Sustainability Key social topics social ISSUES 09 Product and consumer related ISSUES 10 Environmental issues 12 8 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Social issues Employment and skills Beyond the financial and economic crisis, the world is facing the biggest downturn in terms of employment experienced over the last 60 years, with an acute increase in unemployment rates in all countries accompanied by the massive destruction of jobs. Given this context, employees are worried and afraid of losing their jobs: how does one talk about commitment to people who fear that they might lose their jobs at any moment? Employment is an important issue: it represents both the income of the family (and thus its ability to consume), a factor of identity and social integration, a means of personal achievement for some, and in many countries the guarantee of a minimum level of social protection. Employment has thus become the number one social concern because employment is inseparable from the commitment of employees. In a context of globalisation and intense competition, companies are having to regularly reorganise themselves to remain competitive and cope with the many changes that can sometimes result in job losses. It is the responsibility of the company to help each employee build up their only real active security when faced with a potential risk of job loss by continuously developing and strengthening their professional skills and employability. Providing information and instruction on the economic situation, maintaining the quality of social dialogue, establishing the means to support the transformation processes are also ways to reassure employees facing the anguish of job loss. Taking into account the territories in which the company operates Beyond employees who fear for their jobs, the company cannot develop and grow in isolation. It needs raw materials, transportation, customers, distributors, skills and competence. The interdependence of these various activities shows that it is not possible to contemplate the development of the company without considering the development of its environment. In order for the company to be sustainable, it must be concerned about the health and robustness of its environment, and take preventive actions intended to strengthen the fabric of the local economy while developing skills and competence with regard to its employees and also the labour pool in the employment area. Employee commitment Commitment is a key lever of employee performance: it cannot be decreed; it is embodied and manifested every day in the relationship between employees and their supervisors or managers, but also in the understanding of the company’s mission, in the alignment of management with the stated values, in the social value that the company creates all around itself. The quality of life in the workplace and corporate culture constitute major challenges with respect to recruitment, retention and employee commitment. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 9 Key social Topics Product and consumer related issues The primary consumer expectations related to health include food safety, the quality and conformity of products marketed with respect to nutritional and organoleptic specifications as well as indication of the health benefits being scientifically proven. This commitment to quality is carried right throughout the product life cycle, from development to production, up to the point of consumption, and from raw materials to the products sold. Consumers also express widely varying expectations, including ease (of purchase, storage and preparation), availability and price. In developed countries, their expectations are widely reported by consumer groups that have become essential partners of the company. The major challenge is to continue to develop consumer confidence in brands that continuously invest to ensure product safety and quality, that respect the environmental and care about their social impact Food is a daily necessity for all of us, providing not only the energy and nutrients essential for life, but also pleasure, symbolic meaning, identity and values for all individuals. It also represents tradition, culture and friendship within communities. Scientific research consistently demonstrates that a varied and balanced diet and regular physical exercise are key factors in maintaining good health and preventing chronic diseases. On the other hand, a poor diet combined with a sedentary lifestyle can lead to a higher incidence of diseases, such as diabetes, osteoporosis and high blood pressure. Every day, scientific advances confirm the specificity of dietary needs, which vary by age (baby, child, teenager, adult, older person), gender and physiological state (pregnancy, metabolic disorder, chronic disease, aging, etc.). An increasing body of evidence shows that dietary intake at early age (during pregnancy and the first two years of life) are major determinants of future health and that they should be given serious consideration to prevent certain diseases. However, a wide range of socioeconomic conditions in the different countries and population groups that do not have equal access to food resources must be taken into account. With the 2008 world food crisis, for example, certain countries’ efforts to fight malnutrition suffered a defeat, and it’s likely that the coming rise in commodity prices will only worsen the situation. 10 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 The world food-related health situation is a major global concern worldwide given the continuing spread of the double burden of: • undernutrition and malnutrition, resulting from food insecurity and/or the poor quality of dietary intakes, which affect nearly one billion people; • excess weight, obesity and chronic food-related diseases, such as diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular diseases, partly stemming from an inadequate dietary intake in terms of both quantity and quality. This phenomenon is growing at a particularly fast pace in emerging countries under the influence of a very rapid nutritional transition. The WHO (World Health Organization) is forecasting over 1.5 billion overweight and obese people by 2015, while the IOTF (International Obesity Task Force) is estimating 360 million cases of diabetes in 2030. In view of this situation, most member countries of the United Nations responded to the warning issued by the WHO in 2004 by developing national health programs designed to prevent food-related diseases. These programs call upon the food industry to be part of the solution by taking voluntary, self-disciplinary steps to improve their products’ nutritional value (reduction in fat, sugar and sodium content); responsible communications (nutrition labeling, health claims, advertising); and promoting healthy lifestyles. By 2013, stakeholders are expecting a real impact on products and marketing practices from the self-disciplinary measures taken by the food industry. If not, political decision-makers may adopt new regulations for the food industry. In addition to the double burden of undernutrition and obesity, another challenge facing the world is an aging population in the developed countries. The WHO estimates that by 2050, people over 65 will make up more than 25% of the European population. For this population, prevention and the treatment of agerelated illnesses, especially through the use of specific dietary supplements, will be essential for the long-term viability of health care systems. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 11 Key social Topics Environmental issues I n the next twenty years, the world’s population is estimated to see an increase of over 40%. Consequently food requirements and the pressure on natural resources will significantly increase. This trend is already reflected by multiple effects: pollution and soil loss, pollution of rivers and groundwater, emission of greenhouse gases, increasing production of waste and depletion of biodiversity-rich environments. There will eventually be a need to produce more with less inputs on an agricultural area that is fast diminishing. While agriculture is vital for humans, it accounts for nearly 25% of all greenhouse gas emissions, 70% of water consumption, and even 40% of the pollution of groundwater. It will therefore ultimately need to reinvent itself to cope with these challenges. Livestock’s role has been especially criticized, seeing that it alone would be responsible for 18% of greenhouse gas emissions and 37% of soil degradation. This involves two risks: a risk of increased pressure of taxes and a risk of tension in the lower categories of products of animal origin.  gri-food companies are presented with a dilemma that involves, on the one A hand, responding to the ever greater needs of consumers and on the other hand, limiting the impact of their activities on the environment. For their part, stakeholders’ expectations point firstly towards reducing the impacts of industrial activity and the precise measurement of this reduction (ISO certification, measuring the carbon footprint, reductions in water and energy consumption, contributing to the elimination of waste). Controlling the impacts related to packaging requires not just the reduction of materials at source, but also recycling, reuse and/or the provision of biodegradable packaging. To a more limited extent it also involves the reduction in consumption of animal products.  ressure on the supply of raw materials from agriculture (increasing price P volatility, new competitors for soil via biofuels, climate impact on crops) is high. This changing supply side context is inducing agricultural producers to seek improvements in strategy much further upstream. We are moving from a period of plenty to a time of dwindling resources, which will eventually affect costs. 12 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 For their part, consumer expectations are laying greater stress on agricultural practices combining safety, environmental protection and respect for natural cycles. In response, regulatory developments and advances in research have been pushing forward better ways of taking into account environmental and health concerns (precision agriculture, effective pesticides at low doses, alternative control methods against diseases and pests, etc.). Some leading global mass market retail / distribution chains (Walmart, Carrefour, Tesco) having gradually undertaken the promotion of sustainable development are progressively seeking to work with suppliers who are environmentally respectful (Walmart Index). Networks of suppliers have also been launched to work on diverse and varied issues (water, agriculture, etc.) and to define common environmental good practices. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 13 2010 REPORT Sustainability The strategy Focus on the four in action: strategic priorities 2010 results Health 15 For all 29 Nature 40 People 54 14 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Health In 2010, the major achievement of the Nutrition and Health strategy was an in-depth analysis of the nutritional value of products not subject to related regulatory requirements, representing 83% of the group’s total revenue. The nutritional content of 79% of these products was analyzed and compared to internal nutritional standards based on health authorities’ guidelines. Moreover, in line with Nutrition and Health Charter commitments, several nutritional improvement programs were conducted in 2010 to meet internal nutritional standards. Many value-added nutritional and/or health innovations were introduced in areas as diverse as product families, eating patterns, new ingredients or health benefits, and geographic expansion. 2010 also saw the creation of new efforts to encourage consumers, various population groups (children, parents, physicians, etc.) and Danone employees to adopt a healthy lifestyle through a balanced diet and regular exercise. Most of these initiatives were developed in partnership with local institutions, such as the ministry of health, research centers, professional organizations and NGOs. Danone’s Health Strategy priorities More than ever before, Danone aims to support the health authorities’ food and nutrition objectives in every country in which it operates through its mission “to bring health through food to as many people as possible.” This aim is broken down into two strategic priorities and is based on an approach very specific to Danone: • a unique line of products tailored to local needs; • responsible product promotion and involvement in information and education; • a unique approach based on a solid foundation characterized by detailed knowledge of local health and nutrition issues; ongoing dialogue with local stakeholders; product reformulation; innovation; and special investment in scientific research. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 15 The strategy in action: 2010 results Health In this way, Danone is clearly demonstrating its determination to contribute to a sustainable health objective by helping prevent chronic food-related diseases 2010 achievements included an in-depth analysis of the nutritional and fostering the fulfillment of its consumers’ biological potential. value of products not subject to related regulatory requirements (fresh A unique line of products providing consumers with the health dairy products, drinks and baby benefits they need throughout their lives nutrition products, representing 83% of the group’s total revenue). 1. Products meeting the needs of a large proportion of the local population (type of food, eating times and habits) The nutritional content of 79% of • Daily food products complying with strict internal nutritional these products was analyzed and compared to competitive products as standards (Danone Nutrition Book) that meet public health authorities’ well as internal nutritional standards guidelines. For example: yogurt (Danone natural and with fruit), based on health authorities’ guidelines. fermented milk (Kefir), soft white cheese (Danio), mineral and bottled The rate of compliance with internal nutritional standards reached 63% for water (Evian, Aqua), and fruit-based products such as compotes without dairy products and 93% for compleadded sugar (Taillefine Jardins Gourmands) and smoothies (C-Optima), mentary foods for babies (prepared etc. foods, compotes, desserts, cereal). • Occasional food products or “indulgence” products, whose nutritional content is also regulated by internal standards. For example: drinks (Taillefine, Bonafont Levite) and dairy desserts (Danette, Fantasia). 2. Products meeting special dietary needs and whose nutritional profile is specifically tailored to consumer needs (especially by adding essential Nutritional quality evolution of the nutrients), such as baby nutrition products (infant formula and grow-up Dairy products portfolio in Brazil milk, complementary foods), certain fresh dairy products like Danonino for children, etc., or dietary supplements for pregnant and/or breastfeeding • 5 0% of adults in Brazil are overweight, which is a major public women or designed to fight malnutrition caused by nutritional deficiencies health concern. or certain diseases (Fortimel, Forticare, etc.). The composition of these • Danone pays particular attention products is generally governed by strict regulations – if not, then by very to reducing fat and sugar content. This is a progressive approach that demanding internal standards, such as the Danone Nutrition Book or Baby integrates consumer preferences. Nutrition Standards. • Across all the brands in the Dairy products division, 242 metric tons of sugar were withdrawn from the market between 2009 and 2010, and products’ average sugar content(*) has decreased steadily. Average sugar content/100g (*) 14 13 13,9 12 13,1 12,9 11 10 2008 2009 2010 (*) Taking into account the volume of each product. 16 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 3. Products providing appropriate functional benefits for consumers with specific physiological and metabolic conditions, such as Danacol for adults with high cholesterol, Néocate for babies allergic to cow’s milk, and Souvenaid for Alzheimer’s disease patients. Danone pays particular attention to the taste experience offered by all its products as it is now widely accepted that taste is a major factor in dietary choice. In addition to ensuring nutritional quality and functional benefits, Danone also tries to make its products as widely available as possible through affordable prices and innovative distribution channels. “Bien Vieillir” – France Promoting products responsibly and providing information and Social environment The ageing of the French population education to encourage healthy behaviors has led to an increased risk of severe 1. Providing reliable and clear product information helps consumers make falls for the elderly, generating informed food choices. All Danone products provide nutrition information significant financial costs for health insurance systems. per 100 grams and/or per serving. In Europe, dairy products and beverages also provide the contribution per serving to the Guideline Daily Amounts It is difficult for physical educators (GDA) for calories and seven nutrients (proteins, carbohydrates, including to find employment in France sugars, fat, including saturated fats, fiber and sodium). Danone’s health The project claims are exclusively based on recognized scientific data and expressed Combine nutrition and physical in a transparent and non-misleading manner for consumers. activity to combat health problems and support the well-being of seniors, and offer new possibilities for employment 2. Conducting responsible marketing practices, especially for the most to physical educators. vulnerable consumers, such as children, includes complying with the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Code for Responsible Food The goal for Nutricia France Reach seniors who suffer from and (non-alcoholic) Beverages Marketing and the self-regulation of malnutrition and offer them advertising to children under 12 in many countries (all European Union appropriate solutions. countries, the United States and Brazil). Social goals Train 240 physical educators in nutrition concepts. Create 65 new jobs based on this dual competency. Partners Siel Bleu, association promoting health through physical activity. Contribution from the Fund ➜ 670,000 euros over three years. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 17 The strategy in action: 2010 results Health 3. Setting up product information services and healthy eating educational programs (labeling, website, brochures, teaching kits, events, etc.) and promoting physical exercise contributes to government efforts to encourage healthy lifestyles. These activities target consumers, employees and other groups, including health professionals. Most of these initiatives were developed in partnership with local institutions, such as the ministry of health, research centers, professional organizations and NGOs, to make sure they were suitable for the local community. In 2010, particular emphasis was placed on promoting water as the healthiest solution to good hydration, with such programs as the H4H initiative (Hydration for Health – www.h4hinitiative.com); “Healthy Hydration” for Indonesian health professionals, which provides health professionals and consumers with a “hydration scale”; and, in Poland, “Mum, Dad, I prefer water” for parents and children, which promotes the regular drinking of water. This program, developed by the Polish subsidiary Zywiec Zdroj, received the support of the Ministry of Health, the Food and Nutrition Institute and the Mother and Child Institute. Several other programs for the general public were also launched: • “Learn how to reduce your cholesterol” in France, an online guide for people with high cholesterol (www.savoirreduiresoncholesterol.com); • “Healthy Alphabet,” an educational kit for pre-school teachers in the Czech Republic (www.zdravaabeceda.cz); • In the United Kingdom, Danone created “Eat Like a Champ”, a fun program that raises school children’s awareness of the importance of a balanced diet and physical activity. Developed in close cooperation with the British Nutrition Foundation and the Department of Health, this program supports the British government’s anti-obesity efforts. 18 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Danone also provided active support for the promotion of breastfeeding to health professionals and mothers. Various programs designed for health professionals were also developed, such as the creation and distribution of the “Infant Food Pyramid,” produced by Mellin in Italy. In addition, a large number of CBU’s (Country Business Units) created workplace programs that encourage employees to take charge of their health through a balanced diet and regular exercise. These programs consist of educational sessions, doctors’ visits and checkups, balanced meals, fitness equipment and other initiatives. The impact of the program set up at the Daniel Carasso Research Center in Palaiseau, France is currently the subject of a study being jointly conducted with INSERM (French National Institute of Health and Medical Research). Danone Sustainability Report 2010 19 The strategy in action: 2010 results Health Danone Institutes, a unique international network Since 1991, Danone has been supporting the Danone Institutes, independent non-for-profit organizations, to help advance knowledge about the links between food, nutrition and health. Their programs include providing support for scientific research, informing and training health professionals, and educating the public. The network of 18 Danone Institutes in 19 countries comprises 250 prominent and independent researchers, physicians and dieticians specialized in all aspects of food and nutrition, including biology, medicine and the humanities. Danone Institutes’ major achievements in 2010 The Danone Institutes published several works designed to help practitioners, journalists, education professionals and others take advantage of the latest breakthroughs in the field of nutrition: • Food & Drugs, Are there complementary beneficial effects for health? (International Danone Institute); • Guia alimentaria para las personas mayores, Spain; • Manuel sur l’alimentation des adolescents à destination des enseignants (Teachers’ guide to adolescent nutrition), France. New educational programs for children were launched, including: • Zdravá abeceda in pre-schools in the Czech Republic. Danone Institutes held some 15 scientific conferences and clinics for health professionals and scientists: • The International Danone Institute supported and helped lead Nutrition Leadership Program workshops for French-speaking Africans for the third consecutive year; • The Danone Institute Conosur (Argentina, Chili and Uruguay) held a symposium on the links between nutrition and immunity for the second consecutive year, drawing 250 scientists; • The Danone Institute Belgium brought together over 200 professionals for a seminar on the topic, “Top Sports and Nutrition,” during its annual nutrition conference. Nearly 1 million euros was awarded in support of nutrition research. Since 1991, some 1,000 research projects have been funded by the Danone Institutes, and more than 18 million euros distributed in the form of research awards and grants. 20 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 These two strategic priorities largely rely on our R&D and Quality expertise and a unique multi-faceted approach: “Nutripacks: sociology’s 1. In-depth knowledge of health and nutrition issues in the countries in contribution” which we operate by analyzing the latest scientific data in the areas of In addition to nutritional epidemiology, sociology and food supplements and by consulting experts in information, analyzing eating the food and nutrition fields (Nutripacks reports). This work enables us, for patterns (behaviors, practices, example, to identify any deficiencies in specific populations, such as iron symbols) is vital to identifying deficiencies in infants and children and protein deficiencies in the elderly. dietary concerns. A qualitative methodology was developed by Danone Research and the 2. Ongoing dialogue with stakeholders in the food, nutrition and health Montpellier CIRAD (French field, such as health authorities, professional organizations, inter-trade Agricultural Research Center for organizations and consumer representatives (see pages 97 to 103 in this report International Development). for more information about the stakeholders’ approach). The first pilot project conducted in 2010 in Algeria showed that a new 3. The development of appropriate nutritional solutions in response to local eating pattern was emerging – a requirements (dietary needs, taste, cost, eating habits, etc.). This stage unique combination of traditional generally proceeds with the help of scientific committees, which combine and modern practices. Men’s and complementary expertise in nutrition, medicine and human sciences. These women’s roles are being redefined, particularly in urban settings where nutritional solutions can come about by improving existing products women are more likely to do the (Nutriprogress program) or developing new ones. Whatever path is chosen, shopping. taste always plays a central role to make sure consumers have the enjoyable experience they expect. A new sales network is appearing in cities: women are cooking dishes at home and selling their products to With the Nutriprogress program, we continually analyze the nutritional grocers or directly to working quality of our existing product portfolio and design reformulation programs, women. Analyzing eating habits is if necessary (by, for example, gradually reducing the fat, sugar or sodium therefore useful for developing content and/or fortifying the product with vitamins and minerals). nutritional strategies appropriate for the local community. In 2010, for example, we thoroughly analyzed the nutritional profile of our baby food line: nutritional quality of the whole infant formulas and milks portfolio was improved by the addition of essential fatty acids (beyond regulatory requirements); added salt content was reduced in complementary foods (6.5 metric tons of salt were removed); and added salt was completely taken out of Cow & Gate cereal, which is sold in the United Kingdom. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 21 The strategy in action: 2010 results Health For 30 years, continuous efforts have been made to reformulate Danonino soft white cheese for children by reducing its sugar and fat content and fortifying it with calcium and vitamin D. Since 2010, the German Research Institute for Child Nutrition (FKE) has stated that Fruchtzwerge can form part of a healthy afternoon snack for children (“Optimix” snack as defined by the FKE). 4. Many value-added nutritional and/or health innovations were also launched in 2010, introducing an original idea or new product in areas as diverse as product families, eating patterns, new ingredients or health Fruchtzwerge (Danonino): benefits, and geographic expansion. The main new products rolled out in 30 years of nutritional 2010 were as follows: Activia Pouring in the United Kingdom (fermented improvement in Germany milk for pouring on breakfast cereals); Taillefine Stevia in France (yogurt with a natural sweetener that reduces the sugar content); C-Optima fruit smoothie (100% fruit, acerola-based mixture that meets daily vitamin C requirements); Milupa Fruta (compotes for infants); Nutrinidrink smoothie (fruit purée for malnourished children); Nutrilis Aqua (gelatin with high water content for elderly people who have trouble swallowing); Dumex HI-Q1 infant milk in Thailand (infant milk combining prebiotics and “Danone Research, a unique probiotics); and Densia, sold in Argentina under the brand name feature of Danone’s strategy”: Ser Calci + (yogurt that meets 50% of the daily calcium requirements key figures: for women over 45). • 43 patents filed in 2010, bringing the portfolio up to 448 5. The development of products providing functional benefits, • 140 articles published in peerdemonstrated by rigorous scientific research and recognized by the reviewed scientific journals publication of results in the world’s best peer-reviewed scientific journals. • 108 active clinical studies in 2010 More than 100 clinical studies were conducted in 2010. Dozens of clinical • 1st international “Microbes for Health” symposium held in studies have demonstrated Neocate’s effectiveness in improving the cooperation with the Pasteur symptoms of milk protein allergy in infants. A recent study showed that Institute (Paris, November 2010): the regular consumption of Danacol not only helps reduce the cholesterol 366 participants from 27 countries level in people with high cholesterol, but also improves their eating habits. In 2010, other studies were conducted in partnership with prestigious Main areas of expertise: Nutrition and physiology; research institutes to confirm the initial encouraging results on Souvenaid’s Digestive system and microbiology; positive effects on the cognitive abilities of Alzheimer’s disease patients. Immunology; Neurosciences; Water science; Clinical research; Food design and quality; Packaging; Sensory analysis and behavioral sciences. 22 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 More than three years after the health claims regulation took effect, where does Danone stand? European Regulation 1924/2006 (often called the “claims regulation”), concerning ”nutrition and health claims made on foods,” was adopted on December 20, 2006 and has been in effect since July 1, 2007. Danone supports this health claims regulation. Its main objective is to provide clarity to consumers by ensuring that product claims are legitimate. Danone received two favorable opinions from the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). One concerned a January 2009 report establishing a link between calcium and vitamin D consumption and bone growth in children. The other involved a July 2009 report showing that Danacol’s phytosterol content significantly reduced the cholesterol level (7-10% in two to three weeks) when eaten daily as part of a balanced diet and healthy lifestyle. A high cholesterol level is a risk factor for developing cardiovascular diseases. Danone received two unfavorable opinions. The first, in February 2009, concerned a report submitted by Danone Baby Nutrition division, specifically regarding the ingredient Immunofortis and the role it plays in babies’ natural defenses. The second, in December 2010, involved the causal link between the consumption of Actimel and the reduced risk of Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea in adults over 50 undergoing antibiotic treatment. In reference to these two reports, Danone publicly expressed its disagreement with the EFSA’s conclusions because they contradicted the results of many clinical studies published in prestigious international scientific journals. 2010 year-end review Since the nutrition and health claims regulation took effect, it must be stated that implementation is a complex task for the European institutions responsible for enforcing it (EFSA and European Commission) as well as scientists and manufacturers. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 23 The strategy in action: 2010 results Health There are two major concerns: the clarity and detail of the assessment criteria and the methodology for assessing the claims. The criteria issue mainly arises for claims involving a specific scientific field or a field that is still developing. This is the case, for example, with intestinal flora. In view of these difficulties, EFSA held several meetings to clarify matters, including one specifically on the “Gut and Immune System” that has yet to fully explain the assessment criteria. Yet the criteria involving generic ingredients, which have been studied for decades (vitamins and minerals, for example), are sufficiently clear. The second concern relates to the assessment methodology. At this time, the regulation does not provide for direct discussions between the relevant scientific experts and the panel members responsible for assessing the claims. Such discussions would allow these experts to explain both the claims submitted and the scientific strategy followed and to resolve any misunderstandings. The lack of ongoing dialog makes the process more cumbersome. Given these challenges, Danone has adopted a pragmatic attitude and has not submitted any new claims to the EFSA. Danone, of course, remains a player in the discussion, seeking solutions for implementing this necessary regulation under the best conditions. 6. Danone’s involvement in scientific research in addition to demonstrating its products’ health benefits. In partnership with prestigious research organizations, Danone supports many programs in a variety of areas, such as the benefits of better hydration, the influence on long-term health of early nutrition during pregnancy and the first two years of life (metabolic imprinting, partnership with the European EARNEST project), and the intestinal microflora’s function and impact on health (Saint Louis University, US; INRA and Pasteur Institute, France). In 2010, Danone also created a joint business chair with the French AgroParisTech scientific institute that combines research and educational objectives; research mainly concerns the metabolic impact of products, while the education component includes the training of young graduates. 24 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Measuring progress: a process under development, with the aim of precision monitoring In order to make its achievements more tangible, based on the strategy, approach and commitments laid out in its “Food, Nutrition and Health” charter, Danone plans to create a survey with a series of performance indicators in 2011 that will address: • Danone’s expertise in nutrition and health (internal expertise, use of outside experts); • the nutritional quality of its product portfolio (for example: percentage of products analyzed for their nutritional content; percentage of products whose composition meets standards based on health authorities’ guidelines); • programs designed to improve products’ nutritional value (for example: number of products with reduced fat, sugar and sodium content and number of products fortified with essential nutrients); • value-added nutrition/health innovations (for example: percentage of innovations corresponding to products providing health and/or nutritional benefits); • products’ health benefits (for example: number of clinical studies conducted); • responsible communication practices, such as labeling, health claims and advertising (for example: percentage of products with nutritional information, compliance with self-regulating advertising code); • contribution to educating the public about healthy lifestyles (for example: number of educational programs and number of people reached); • ability to help provide solutions to public health challenges (for example: number of health professionals trained); • ability to create affordable products (for example: number of products in the market). These indicators will be consolidated in 2011 for 12 countries representing over 70% of the group’s total revenue. The results will be published every year. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 25 The strategy in action: 2010 results Health Product quality in hearts and minds Product quality, which forms an integral part of Danone’s DNA, is one of the group’s main assets passed down over time. A quality governance system has been set up over the past two years, encompassing all the quality procedures applicable to manufacturing food products, “from farm to fork,” from conception to consumption.” Three key phases must be carefully monitored to ensure healthy products that meet consumer requirements: 1. early in the process, the quality of the product design, from the marketing brief to the product specifications; 2. followed by product production, from raw materials processing to the finished product; 3. and, finally, consumers’ perception of the product’s quality; this last phase allows us to improve the first two. In 2010, Danone improved its oversight of these three key phases, with the aim of satisfying consumer requirements, which keep growing at an ever-faster pace. For more information about the Quality strategy, see pages 87 to 89 of the 2009 Sustainability Report. First, Danone must reassure the targeted consumers that it is producing good, healthy and nutritionally appropriate foods. By linking science with food-risk assessment, from the birth of any product innovation to process and production-equipment control, the Danone Food Safety Center aims to provide its internal customers and the divisions’ and CBUs’ quality departments with clear and business oriented guidance that give consideration to each country’s economic and social fabric. In 2010, the Danone Food Safety Center developed a new structure based on streamlined operating methods, seeking to take the robust governance of the quality process to an even higher level. For more information, see the chapter on performance indicators, the PR1 indicator and “Consumer Safety” on pages 219 to 222 of this report. 26 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Second, Danone must ensure that its products comply with the nutrition and quality specifications defined during the design phase, with the goal of making Danone products consumers’ preferred foods. Reflecting Danone’s quality commitments, performance indicators have been developed and are regularly monitored as part of a continuous improvement approach. The goal is to ensure that our products comply with quality standards every day in every part of the world. Information management systems for data collected in the field are being set up at all CBUs. As a result, a database of all products, recipes, raw materials, packaging, consumer complaints and critical points in the manufacturing process is now available. Furthermore, in 2010, most consumer services were made available by e-mail or online, leading to greater interaction and closer ties with consumers. Each consumer need is therefore tracked by a dedicated performance indicator: • The Food Safety Index, which guarantees food safety and consists of indicators in seven specific areas (good hygiene practices, good manufacturing practices, Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point, control and monitoring plans, bio-vigilance and traceability). • Product compliance rate, to ensure that Danone continually delivers products worldwide that fulfill our promises to consumers. • Rate of consumer complaints to measure satisfaction. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 27 The strategy in action: 2010 results Health 2010 indicators (For more information, see the chapter on PR1 and PR2 performance indicators.) In the Dairy products division, all indicators improved worldwide: the Food Safety Index rose 16%, while the number of consumer complaints fell 22%, and product compliance remained stable at 96.6%. The transition from a Quality strategy focusing on “finished product control” to a Quality strategy geared towards “production process control” explains these good results, which also resulted from better control over the critical stages that ensure food safety throughout the manufacturing process. In the Baby nutrition division, despite a significant rise in sales volume and customers’ growing inclination to express their dissatisfaction, the number of customer complaints fell 13% in 2010. These good results can be attributed to successful projects involving all company departments and more interaction between consumer services and production plants. ISO 22000 certification of Baby nutrition plants and more extensive cooperation with strategic suppliers also played a role. In the Waters division, the Food Safety Index rose slightly by 2% this year. An assessment based on 2009 standards would have shown greater improvement, but external audit methods and schedules that were more rigorous than in previous years were implemented in 2010, making progress more difficult. The number of consumer complaints remained stable and the performance level, excellent. In the Medical nutrition division, all indicators improved in 2010. The number of consumer complaints dropped by 27% compared to 2009 after the launch of the successful “Fix the Basics” program in all plants as well as continuous improvement efforts. The Food Safety Index rose by 11% due to the ISO 22000 certification awarded to all Medical nutrition plants. In the four divisions, no food safety neither extensive quality issues were recorded in 2010, confirming the clear downward trend for these types of incidents in recent years. 28 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 For all Danone’s mission to “bring health through food to as many people as possible” is the foundation for the group’s strategy and emphasizes two key concepts: “health” and “as many people as possible” (For All). In pursuit of this mission Danone defined several priorities and began deploying the four dimensions of the New Danone strategy in 2009, including the For All approach. Danone is devoting powerful resources to this goal in the form of specific and innovative tools, such as the various Funds (Danone Ecosystem Fund, Danone Fund for Nature, danone.communities Fund) that offer us outstanding possibilities for executing our initiatives. For more detailed information about these funds: • danone.communities Fund see pages 35 to 39 of this report; • Danone Fund for Nature see pages 45 to 52, pages169 and 170 of this report; • Danone Ecosystem Fund see pages 48, 62 to 65, 154, 155, 212 and 213 of this report. For the governance principles of these funds see also page 98 of this report. By its very nature, this type of mission leads us to reach into new geographic regions and markets. Health is the cornerstone of Danone’s global development strategy today, particularly for emerging countries. Consequently, the group must adapt to a variety of local nutritional and economic situations, and in many cases has to invent new models. The aim of the For All strategy, defined in late 2008, is to increase the number of consumers from 700 million in 2008 to one billion by 2012 (consumers buying one Danone product at least once a month). Danone Sustainability Report 2010 29 The strategy in action: 2010 results For all Three strategic priorities have been identified to allow Danone to achieve this goal: Increasing the number of consumers reached at different levels of the pyramid Danone’s rapid expansion into emerging markets has revealed that most people in these countries do not have the resources to buy one or more Danone products a day. This means that strategy must be adapted to local realities based on a comprehensive review of traditional product ranges with a view to: • adjusting prices to the actual purchasing power of Danone consumers in these countries (Reset strategy); • innovating with products, formats or varying degrees of packaging sophistication (i.e. offering products in large packages, at reduced per-kilo prices, or offering smaller packages sold by the unit). “Reset” strategy The Reset strategy introduced in 2009 has served to help consumers of Danone products increase or maintain their purchasing power. This strategy aimed to review the different price/product mixes for existing brands to: • reflect changing consumption trends in periods of crisis; • address the issue of affordability of Danone products; • identify potential growth drivers within various consumer categories; • support the Danone mission by continuing to make products more accessible. However, the Reset strategy involves more than just price adjustments, but has also led to a return of “core market” products alongside the more sophisticated and functional choices, and to a number of efforts that will sustain our brands over the long term: • Resetting the product portfolio to ensure that all market segments are covered and that product formulas are adapted. 30 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 • Resetting the price range to guarantee that each brand or brand portfolio includes a range of products to cover all needs across the different levels of the food pyramid. In Argentina, for instance, Activia Fiber and Activia Bottle are higher-end products, Activia Standard ranks in the middle, and the Activia one-liter packaging is more economical. Another example of brand portfolio adaptation is in Romania, where brands such as Activia and Actimel cover the high-end consumption range, the Danone brand meets the core market demand, and Casa Buna targets consumers with less disposable income with a “value-for-money” focus. Promotional initiatives adapted to each distribution channel have also been introduced, notably reactivating local distribution by offering more product for the same price. • Jumpstarting innovation: the launch of Activia breakfasts with cereal “toppers” has created a new timeslot for consuming Danone products. This product has increased consumption in Bulgaria and added 20% to the brand’s sales volumes. • Resetting communication, notably by diversifying the media used and reinforcing the internet presence. • Enhancing store presence to achieve maximum visibility, with a focus on pricing. Innovation backed by tools as an accelerating force All Danone Country Business Units (CBUs) have implemented the Reset strategy, taking into account the specifics of their local market and leveraging the tools at their disposal (innovation via productsformats-prices, or distribution or production model) to find the right fit. In gearing innovation to local situations and consumer habits, best practices have been identified and formalized. Various tools have been created, tested and rolled out to Danone CBUs starting in 2010, particularly the GAP tool. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 31 The strategy in action: 2010 results For all GAP (Growth Across the Pyramid), targets growth at all levels of the consumption pyramid. The GAP methodology is used to analyze consumer behavior with a view to targeting new consumers at every level of the pyramid by developing a product offer that is adapted to different economic and social situations (levels A, B, C and D of the pyramid) in the countries in which Danone operates. This tool was tested in 2009 and deployed starting in second-half 2010. By the end of 2010, 20 CBUs on different continents (Mexico, Chile, Thailand, Indonesia, Ukraine, Russia, Egypt, Algeria, Turkey, etc.) had applied this methodology to renovating their product portfolios, either by creating new brands for previously non-covered categories with lower purchasing power (levels C and D), or by adapting the products and/or prices of existing brands. A few notable examples of brand and product innovation: • Casa Buna, a new fresh dairy brand, created to target the bottom of the pyramid (category D) in Romania; • Gran Compra, a new fresh dairy brand in Argentina, with a pocket-sized format for categories C and D. This introduction led to 34% volume growth between 2009 and 2010; • Pureza Aga in the Waters division in Mexico, a specific format also targeting the lower half of the pyramid; • Gizikita, a new Baby nutrition range launched in Indonesia early in 2010 and comprising several products, especially “porridge” (cereal) for babies and a nutritional topping to be added to young children’s food. Each portion costs just 0.15 euro and delivers up to 50% of the Recommended Daily Allowance of essential nutrients, using as many sustainable locally-sourced products as possible. Danone has successfully involved partners in this approach, and has invested in education, training and advertising to promote awareness of Gizikita and of the importance of proper nutrition among families with young children. Indonesian NGO PKPU and its local volunteers teach mothers about good nutrition using specific visual aids and menus they can take home to help them prepare healthy meals. 32 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Route To Market (RTM): new distribution models to optimize store coverage and reach previously inaccessible consumers. Reliance on local distribution has been increasing steadily as the group has stepped up its expansion into emerging markets. In Eastern Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America, regions in which small local merchants dominate distribution, Danone is adapting to ensure that its products are available in millions of stands, grocery stores and kiosks (in Indonesia alone, bottled water is sold in almost two million small shops.) This approach is based on a Route to Market methodology that aims to maximize coverage of stores by using efficient (costs/volumes) and innovative (proximity, micro-distribution, door-to-door, etc.) distribution channels or models. In 2010, 40 CBUs across all Danone divisions, including Baby nutrition, expanded their business and made products physically accessible to more consumers by applying RTM. Results to date speak to the efficiency of this approach: • For example, in China the Dumex China Baby nutrition Country Business Unit (CBU) was one of the first to adopt this approach, and has set up a network of local distributors that increased stores coverage by 280% and added 900 new cities to distribution in just two years (2007-2009). • In the Dairy division in Brazil, Danone Brazil increased the number of stores reached by 34% (32,000) between the first and third quarters of 2010. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 33 The strategy in action: 2010 results For all • The Semilla project in Mexico is a different type of approach: it is inspired by the Danone’s experiences in South Africa with Danimal and the Kiteiras – Brazil Daniladies, and with the Grameen Ladies in Bangladesh, and entails Social environment distributing products door to door to create jobs for local residents. The Brazilian Nordeste region suffers This is a perfect illustration of the relationship between economic and social from high social inequality that has a value creation. Adapting to the realities of different countries means taking particularly strong impact on single into account their social concerns and, for the poorest among them, coming mothers. up with new distribution models to do as much as possible to create jobs and The project combat poverty. These street sellers distribute a variety of Danone products • create a sales force in the field with an that do not need refrigeration, earn more than the local minimum wage and employment program designed especially for single mothers; gain access to social safety net programs. Semilla is jointly managed with an • foster better knowledge of the NGO and is one of the projects supported by the Danone Ecosystem Fund. principles of nutrition and health. The goal for Danone Brazil Production models can also drive innovation. In the Waters division, Expand its business through Bonafont in Mexico set up a mobile plant to give itself a flexible production distribution adapted to a model by adapting product manufacturing and distribution to the specific low-income population. characteristics of the local market. Social goals Create 150 jobs by implementing a Continuing the group’s geographic expansion pilot phase in Salvador and ensure that 100% of the micro-distributors benefit from a minimum income and basic The group is also undergoing a geographic transformation. social welfare coverage. Partners Danone’s profile is changing now that emerging markets have come to Aliança Empreededora, a Brazilian account for almost half of its sales (49% of the total compared with 30% ten NGO that supports social integration years ago). Its geographic footprint grew 151% between 2008 and 2010. through micro entrepreneurship. With the joint venture between Danone and Unimilk, which entered Danone’s Contribution from the Fund scope of consolidation at December 1, 2010, Russia became the company’s 393,000 euros for the pilot phase. largest market in terms of revenue along with France. This sustained momentum, particularly in the key “MICRUB” emerging markets – Mexico, Indonesia, China, Russia, the US and Brazil – has increased revenues in these countries by 17% between 2008 and 2010. These countries are the priority development targets for the years ahead, while the goal in mature markets will be to invent differentiating models and boost the potential of innovations. 34 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Creating new models to reach Base of Pyramid (BOP) consumers Danone’s first experiment in this area dates back to the creation of the danone.communities Fund in late 2006 (see pages 92-94 of 2009 Sustainable Development Report), when it set up a “lab” that was tested as a social business in Bangladesh. Four years later, the danone.communities projects were stepped up considerably in 2010 by expanding their geographic reach (including in mature countries) and the businesses or divisions involved. The portfolio went from three projects in 2009 to ten approved projects by the end of 2010, of which five had already received Fund financing, and more are in the pipeline (see pages 37 and 39 of this report). Jumping off from the Bangladesh experience, Danone created the “Base of the Pyramid” (BOP) internal organization in 2009 (see page 91 of 2009 Sustainable Development Report) to foster radical innovation to transform the business and forge new models with a priority focus on bringing the health impact of Danone products to as many people as possible. Four priorities were identified as BOP projects: affordability, access to nutrition, the Danone brand as a guarantee of a good balance between health and pleasure, and local roots at all levels of the value chain. Danone set up a dedicated Research and Development team (platform) in 2009/2010 to accelerate project implementation by developing products with nutritional profiles that are adapted to local requirements of the targeted countries and populations, and by unleashing synergies with danone.communities projects. Today, the BOP team’s projects focus on India, while the danone.communities experiment in Bangladesh continues. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 35 The strategy in action: 2010 results For all 2010 saw the introduction of the first BOP “business” with a new production site in India and a dedicated local team On November 18th, 2010, the Danone BOP team began construction of its factory in India, north of Delhi. BOP (“Base of the Pyramid”) aims to give people with very low incomes access to products with nutritional qualities adapted to their needs. The program’s goal is to sell nutritionally balanced products at a cost of 5 rupees per pot, a price that is adapted to the standard of living of the local population. This is a complex equation for Danone, requiring the production of highly nutritional products with significant health benefits at a low cost, and tailored to local tastes, infrastructure and distribution systems. Constant innovation is needed in all areas (internal organization and at the various levels of the value chain: suppliers, technologies, product development, formulation, packaging, distribution, etc.) if these new projects are to be successful. To meet this ambitious goal and maximize projects’ impact, Danone can leverage a number of strengths that are in turn driving innovation: • Detailed knowledge of consumer habits and nutritional situations in each country: working with governments and opinion leaders, the Danone teams analyze nutritional deficiencies in terms of energy, food groups, minerals and vitamins to develop supplements that are of good quality, simple, affordable and adapted to local lifestyles. • Teams consider quality micronutrients starting in the product design phase to enrich products in a manner tailored to local population needs (iron, iodine, vitamins, etc.) and guarantee a high level of nutritional quality. In Bangladesh for instance, Shokti Pocket is formulated with milk and cereals. Its unique ingredients give consumers access to a product with plant-based ingredients, at a lower cost than significantly more expensive traditional yogurts made entirely with cow’s milk. 36 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 • Innovation in the area of sourcing raw materials and ingredients: Danone builds supplier networks even in countries with no existing structured markets in terms of quality, consistent production or logistics. In seeking to create business models that reflect the issues faced by each country, Danone seeks to align its business strategy, nutrition approach and social commitments for each product. This overall approach helps the group devise new models for both distribution and local sourcing of raw materials. By working with local producers the group contributes to local economic Grameen Danone Food Ltd development, in keeping with its commitment to sustainable development. Grameen Danone Food Ltd Grameen Danone, for instance, sources milk locally from producers near the (Bangladesh) is the danone. factory, to help strengthen the milk collection market. communities Fund’s first investment In Senegal, Danone has taken co-development even farther with a new product project. Its mission is to combat child malnutrition with a dairy for children based on local ingredients and recipes. Lemateki is a millet-based product fortified with vitamin A, product (first cereal of the country) developed with a Senegalese chef zinc, iodine and iron at an affordable representing the Slow Food Senegal association, who has long been working to price (between 0.05 euro and 0.12 promote better nutrition among local populations. euro). Distributed in part by close to 800 “Grameen Ladies” and produced with milk procured locally from 2010 also saw danone.communities bolster its impact with fresh 350 farmers, Shokti+ sales doubled project momentum in 2010. danone.communities is a social business incubator that promotes, supports and finances social businesses working to tackle the problems of malnutrition and poverty. An economic and social vision danone.communities is the brainchild of two men, Franck Riboud, Danone Chairman and CEO, and Muhammad Yunus, Chairman of the Grameen Bank (microcredit) and winner of the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize. They agreed that creating sustainable companies with social objectives would help reduce poverty and malnutrition in the most severely affected countries. A first factory began production in Bangladesh in 2007. It produces yogurts fortified with micronutrients (iodine, zinc, iron and vitamin A) marketed at a very affordable price to counter nutritional deficiencies in children. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 37 The strategy in action: 2010 results For all To take its efforts a step further, Danone is participating in the creation of an innovative financial tool designed to support social business initiatives: the danone.communities SICAV (French mutual fund). At least 90% of the assets are invested in instruments from within the Euro zone, giving priority to Socially Responsible Issuers (ISR), and up to 10% is invested in social businesses via the danone.communities FCPR (venture capital fund). Existing projects gather steam in 2010 1001 Fountains The three existing projects by danone.communities picked up momentum in 2010: The 1001 Fountains project • 80,000 yogurts were sold every day by Grameen Danone Food in in Cambodia aims to improve the health of rural populations Bangladesh, meaning that sales doubled. Grameen Danone Food is working with clean drinking water distributed to build a second factory in Bangladesh; by local micro-entrepreneurs. • up to 700,000 liters of milk were collected during 2010 at “La laiterie du At December 2010, the populations berger” (shepherd’s dairy) in Senegal; of more than 40 villages, including • nearly 80% of the 30 locations operated by 1001 Fountains in Cambodia three orphanages, had access to clean drinking water for less have already achieved financial equilibrium. than 0.01 euro per liter. Two new projects launched in 2010 to expand impact danone.communities shifted to a higher gear in 2010, taking on two new projects in new regions: • Naandi in India: financed by danone.communities in 2010, Naandi’s mission is to bring clean drinking water to village communities in India. Treatment and distribution systems are managed directly by the villages. This project alone has allowed danone.communities to increase its impact considerably: Naandi distributes 30 million liters a month to around 600,000 people, at a cost of 0.003 euros per liter. It has also created 500 jobs directly and indirectly. “La laiterie du berger” • Isomir in France: this project aims to help farmers in France develop their business through short distribution channels, using modular processing Located at two sites in Senegal, “La laiterie du berger” aims to utilize plants and technical assistance. To date, some 31 farming projects have the fresh milk produced in this been identified. country and to improve the situation of Pular farmers. “La laiterie du berger” currently collects between 1,200 and 6,000 liters of milk per day depending on the season, and employs 130 people. This project was launched in 2006 by Bagoré Bathily, and received financing from danone.communities in 2008. 38 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 With these new projects, danone.communities now reaches more than one million people. Ten projects in all by 2011 In addition to the five initiatives already in place, the danone.communities 1 teams and their partners are implementing five additional projects: • some will continue to address issues of child nutrition and access to water; • others will target new health and poverty issues, such as the distribution of essential products in emerging countries and support for agricultural million production; • all will aim to keep Danone’s mission alive by promoting social businesses. The projects in the pipeline will allow danone.communities to expand its geographic footprint and to tackle new aspects of poverty and malnutrition. people impacted Through these new projects, danone.communities will continue to invent new models for partnership that open up fresh avenues for combating poverty and malnutrition and for innovating in these areas. danone.communities’ new partners include the Naandi Foundation, ADIE, GRET, ENDA GRAF, the Red Cross and Red Crescent and CARE. Outlook danone.communities aims to increase the number of projects from 10 to 15 on four continents by 2012. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 39 The strategy in action: 2010 results Nature Putting nature at the heart of the company’s strategy Danone products are all coming from nature and its cycles, so a commitment to maintaining a healthy natural environment is key to accomplishing our mission of bringing health through food to as many people as possible. Danone strongly believes that Nature and business are not in opposition, but that they can each act to strengthen the other. This is the basis for a strategy where everything and everyone benefits: the planet, businesses and people. A historic alliance with nature, radically expanded since 2008 “There is only one planet Earth!” This idea is the foundation of the group’s dual economic and social project that has made nature part of Danone’s DNA since 1972. In 1992 Danone turned its policy focus to preserving water resources, before formulating an environment charter in 1996. For the first time in 2000, Danone set ten-year objectives for reducing our environmental impact: when these were all achieved or exceeded by 2008, Danone chose to push further by bringing Nature into the heart of its company’s strategy. The group identified five critical areas of environmental impact across the value chain of our business (carbon emissions, water, packaging, agriculture and biodiversity), and took on new challenges. Carbon (CO2) serves as a simplified indicator that reflects most other environmental indicators, so Danone chose to base its policy for change on carbon and set the seemingly “impossible” goal of reducing its carbon footprint by 30% from 2008 to 2012. The true challenge is for the company to reassess every one of its practices and entirely reinvent itself. In 2010, significant progress in reducing our environmental impacts and the beginning of a new reconciliation between business and nature Achievement of all environmental objectives in our 2000-2010 plan (carbon, water, waste and packaging) was confirmed in 2010. In terms of carbon footprint, the group exceeded its annual reduction goal for the second consecutive year, and what we learned in the past two years of intensive efforts makes it possible to reaffirm our “30% carbon reduction” goal for our direct scope of responsibility (excluding upstream agriculture). Significant progress has been made overall in environmental measurements: normalization and integration of carbon assessment into business activities, design of a methodology for measuring the footprint on water, and measurement of the impact of the cold chain. 40 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 The participation of hundreds of Danone employees helped rapidly spread good environmental practices, which has brought about effective reductions and commitment even faster. The protection of rainwater catchment areas and the restoration of mangroves in the framework of our offset programs continue at a steady rate. Finally, a major event of the year is the emergence of a score of nature-directed projects with an impact on sales that gradually transform our efforts into a competitive advantage. This will ensure that transformation is sustainable. It is also the confirmation that, far from contradictory, Nature and business can operate in synergy. Long-term plan 2010-2000 Carbon plan Key progress report CO2 Energy Water Packaging Factory waste Key progress report eq. CO2 g/ kwh/kg prod l/kg prod g/kg prod % recovered kg prod Objectives -20% -30% -10% 80% Objectives -30% Achieved -42% -41% -10% 86% Achieved -22% Danone Sustainability Report 2010 41 The strategy in action: 2010 results Nature Danone’s “Nature” strategy Manage and strengthen the fundamentals In 1995 the group defined strict environmental production standards for its factories (“Green Plants Program”) and began checking compliance with these standards with internal audits in 1997. In 1999 the group completed its first ISO 14001 certifications (16 sites). By 2010 56% of sites had been certified (up five points compared with 2009). In 2006 the group rolled out its GREEN (Global Risk Evaluation for Environment) project worldwide. This tool summarizes all environmental risks arising at the industrial sites (accident risks, image risks and risks of non-compliance with environmental regulations) in a single standardized rating scale audited by an external partner (ERM). To date, 54% of the group’s industrial plants have carried out an external green audit (+6 points compared with 2009). In 2010, specific investments amounting to 3.4 million euros were undertaken to help the lowest rated sites move forward. A GREEN “light” tool was also designed for auditing smaller sites, particularly those designated “HOD” (home & office delivery) in the Waters division, and will be ready for implementation in 2011. Focus on five key areas where our environmental impact is significant 1. Combat climate change and reduce our dependency on fossil fuels Priority objectives and results: reduce our carbon footprint by 30% from 2008 to 2012 across the entire value chain wherever Danone’s direct responsibility is in play (production plants, packaging and end of life, transport and storage). A reduction of 9% was achieved in 2010. The consolidated reduction from 2008 to 2010 was 22%. The group reconfirms its goal of a 30% reduction by 2012. Overall, for the entire Danone scope (including upstream agriculture), the group’s carbon footprint decreased from 16.8 to 14 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent, due to its reduced carbon intensity, changed measurement methods for milk, and volume growth. 42 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 • Measure – To achieve this goal, the group developed the Danprint tool Reducing CO2 and costs for measuring products’ carbon footprint based on their full life cycle, and with green energy uses it in all its businesses (covering 97% of the group’s volume). In a joint project with software developer SAP, this tool was successfully integrated A “green capex” of 2.4 million into the information systems of three pilot Country Business Units (CBUs) euros will allow Danone Brazil to save (representing 8% of the group’s revenues) in 2010, and integration is 14 kT of CO2 and 35% on its underway in another ten CBUs. Deployment will continue through electricity bill each year. Danone’s the end of 2012, with the aim of consolidating CO2 along the same energy needs will be met with waste model as revenues. from the local paper industry and renewably-produced wood. The group also modified the methodology for measuring the carbon footprint of milk production. The method initially drafted with the French Livestock Institute, was adapted to include recommendations from the FAO (UN Food and Agriculture Organization) and the IDF (International Dairy Federation), bringing this measure down from 1.2 kg to 1.0 kg of CO2 per kilo of milk. Danone is now able to estimate the impact of its milk -14,000 ton eq CO2 production in every region and in each of its CBUs. -35% cost • Reduce – Reduction efforts are ongoing and cover every link in the value chain, those under our direct responsibility (where the group acts with full autonomy) and those which we indirectly impact (particularly upstream agriculture and sections of the cold chain). Danone has accelerated the identification and expansion of good environmental practices since 2008, under the management of the group Environment Director and those within each business division. Production plants: the group’s Energy plans (notably Campus Energie, an in-house energy-themed university) have continued to sustain decreases in energy intensity after a record 12% drop in 2009. Several CBUs tried out intelligent energy management systems in 2010. The group is also growing its consumption of renewable energies, particularly in the Medical nutrition division (29% of total energy consumption) and Dairy products at Dannon USA (100% of consumption). The cogeneration unit launched in 2009 at the Ochsenfurt production plant is now operational. Finally, new investment (“green capex”) has supported the launch of major biomass-based energy production projects, notably in Brazil. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 43 The strategy in action: 2010 results Nature Transport: reduction of carbon intensity generated by transport by 10% between 2009 and 2010 by strengthening the share of more virtuous transport, for example replacing trucks with rail transport wherever possible. Thus, the rail/road ratio on departure from the Volvic and Evian sites measures 34% and 59% respectively. Evian and Volvic’s logistics footprint was reduced by 10% in 2010 compared with 2009, with half of this reduction due to collaborative efforts with the most efficient maritime shipping companies (such as Maersk). The Dairy products division also developed and deployed a new Cost/ Carbon logistics model in 15 countries, “COCO”, which identifies the operational parameters (kilometers traveled, load rate, diesel consumption per kilometer) and will make more systematic management of CO2 and cost reduction possible beginning in 2011. Innovative experiments in this area have been carried out in the area of “co-logistics” (in the United Kingdom and Japan) and computer-aided optimization of commercial routes. Packaging: reduction of carbon intensity was 6% from 2009 to 2010 (see detailed description in the packaging section.) Cold chain: the CO2 impact of the cold chain is estimated at around 10% of the total for a product’s life cycle, and includes two key areas: in-store storage (58% of the total) and transport (19%). The impact from the group’s production plants is estimated to be 13% of the total: Danone’s industrial facilities mainly operate using natural refrigerants with a low carbon footprint. A plan for reducing the impact of Danone’s refrigeration fleet was begun in 2008 (“Bcool”), and partnerships between distributors and refrigerator manufacturers, particularly in Spain, are showing promising results. Danone has also committed to the Consumer Goods Forum recommendation of having entirely converted its refrigerators fleet to natural refrigerants before end of 2015, to contribute to the emergence of disruptive solutions. Milk: once the tool for measuring milk’s footprint was in place, Danone began in 2009 to develop a tool to help reduce cattle-generated methane, “COW2.” This tool is now certified by an international panel of dairy experts. It can be used to extrapolate the methane emitted by cattle from a simple milk composition analysis, and is currently being deployed in nine pilot countries. 44 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 The tool offers farmers the means to reduce methane emissions while also improving their milk’s nutritional profile, with a focus in particular on cattle feed. Mobilizing suppliers: the group pursued the “Carbon Pact” begun in 2009 as a way of mobilizing suppliers (three-year measurement and reduction plan). Half of all packaging and raw materials procurement for the Dairy products division is now covered by this pact (+13 points compared with 2009). Its successful rollout has begun in the Baby nutrition division (37% of procurement), but results are slower than expected due to the timeconsuming nature of training and motivating suppliers in this area. This pact and its implementation will be a particular focus in the 2011/2020 plan, and will be extended to other environmental issues. • Offset – There is an emerging consensus that simply reducing CO2 emissions will not be enough to prevent climate change, and that we also need to increase the carbon absorption capacity of our planet. The group has therefore invested in carbon offset projects in the framework of the Danone Fund for Nature (created in 2008). Danone has committed, with external partners such as the UICN and Ramsar, to co-develop carbon offset programs related to its businesses’ upstream activities (the water cycle, agriculture, etc.). In 2010, Danone continued its project in Senegal by planting 60 million mangroves in partnership with Voyageurs du monde (for a total of 100 million planted in two years). It also launched five new programs, notably in India with a project for mangrove restoration in the Ganges delta at Sunderbans and an agroforestry project in the Araku valley. Feed the soil to feed people, In Africa, Danone invested in an agroforestry program on the Bateke with the creation of a carbon sink plateau in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. From 2008 to 2011, the Evian CO2 plan reduced carbon intensity for the brand by around 40%. In 2010, 30 villages in the Araku By end-2011, what has not been reduced will be completely offset. valley in India planted 700 hectares of fruit trees with high nutritional value, thanks to an agroforestry Outlook: since mid-2010, Danone has been working on a “carbon plan 2.0” program financed by Danone and as well as on new objectives regarding the use of renewable resources. Approval the Naandi foundation. These trees of the plan is underway for completion in 2011. will generate new resources for the local communities, while also diversifying their nutrition and creating a carbon sink. Ultimately, 300 villages will plant trees on 6,000 hectares. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 45 The strategy in action: 2010 results Nature 2. Water: Protect our water resources, particularly where they are scarce, and use them in harmony with local ecosystems and communities. Evian, first brand to measure The group’s strategy focuses on four areas: Protecting the resource (protecting its water footprint our springs and reintroducing clean water into the environment after its use in our sites), reducing our water consumption, contributing to restoring the global water cycle and facilitating access to water. Priority objectives and results: reduce water consumption in our industrial processes by 30% between 2000 and 2010 and protect our springs. At end2010 this objective had been exceeded, for a reduction of 41% (an additional 11 points of reduction since 2009). • Measure – The group measures, audits and sets objectives for water consumption at its sites since 2000, as well as for the quality of water that reenters circulation after use (rate of organic components in the water, etc.). The Danprint tool introduced in 2008 measures our products’ water consumption across an extended scope including production plants, packaging and transport. For the first time in 2010 Danone began implementing its “DROP” global water footprint tool developed in collaboration with Quantis, and shared notably with the Water Footprint Network. This global tool includes not only water use throughout the entire value chain, but also the negative and positive impacts on the water cycle, which will ultimately allow water to be managed using the same methods as carbon. • Protect our springs and our water supply – The protection of springs began in the Waters division in 1992 with the creation of the Association for the Protection of rainwater catchment for Evian mineral waters (APIEME) was extended to the rest of the world with the group’s “Ground Water Policy” introduced in 2004. It is based on local management of the resource: respect for natural cycles (not removing more water than can be replenished by nature), protection of rainwater catchment areas and of their ecosystems in collaboration with all local players. Deployment of the SPRING tool in 2009 made it possible to define management standards for each source of spring water bottled by the group. In 2010, the tool was used by 100% of Country Business Units (CBUs). Danone Waters division also established national and regional mapping of water resource availability in 2010, to identify priority action areas. 46 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 In the other divisions, protection of resources is managed by controlling the quality of waters released into circulation after use (investments in wastewater treatment centers or treatment agreements with local authorities). For the indirect portion of our impact, the primary response is the promotion of integrated agriculture, in particular through the FaRM program. Concerning fruit procurement, Danone favors the development of agricultural practices that conserve water, such as in Morocco with the transition of nearly all suppliers from traditional to drip irrigation, which has radically reduced water consumption. In 2011, the transition to automated drip irrigation will lead to further improvement of these results. • Reduce water consumption – All Danone CBUs have quantitative water reduction objectives per kilogram of product manufactured at group sites. In 2010 Danone reduced its water consumption (in industrial processes) by 11%, bringing the overall reduction since 2000 to 41%. • Contribute to protecting our water supply around the world – Since 1998 Danone has been a signatory of the Ramsar international convention for wetlands protection, that promotes the conservation and wise use of water resources. Finally, the Danone Fund for Nature’s offset initiatives contribute to restoring wetlands in Africa (in Casamance and the Congo basin) and the Ganges delta in India. Outlook: the group will test the new “DROP” tool in 2010 in its other divisions, and map available water resources for all divisions in order to adapt action plans. 3. Packaging: turning waste into resources and developing renewable materials Danone has always sought to reduce the environmental impact of its packaging rPET based on a 360° end-to-end view, for example creating Vacances Propres (Clean Vacation) in 1971 to combat litter and raise consumer awareness. • Startup of the first rPET In 1992 the company helped create the Eco-Emballages organization in production lines in our partnerships with France France, which defines the principle of the producer’s extended responsibility Plastique Recyclage and which model has been spread to now organize waste collection in and Artenius. 33 countries around the world. The group published a packaging eco-design Goal: ensure 50% of rPET guide in 2000. Since 2008, Danone measures the CO2 emissions of its supply for Evian Volvic World packaging across the chain to monitor carbon reduction. • First 100% rPET bottle launched in Mexico. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 47 The strategy in action: 2010 results Nature Priority objectives and results – The goal of the 2000/2010 plan (-10% pack ratio) has been met. The carbon intensity of packaging decreased by 6% in Developing rPET collection while 2010 compared with 2009. creating social value By creating 15 recycling centers • Reduce – Global life cycle analysis for packaging helps optimize its shape, its based on communities of waste weight and its end-of-life. Thus, the weight of an Actimel bottle has pickers (the Pemulungs) in seven decreased by 50% since its launch and that of an Evian bottle by 40% since Indonesian cities, Danone, Ashoka 1995 (a further 12% in 2010). For yogurt pots, the Foam project (new and a network of local Indonesian NGOs have improved their living technologies for plastics with less density, generating a 19% gain in terms of conditions. Danone also ensures its CO2) rolled out on 40 production lines in 2009 was extended to 55 lines at supply of recycled PET. end-2010. Progress is slower than initially planned, because the older production lines are harder to convert, but a savings of 40,000 metric tons of CO2 has already been achieved since 2008. Fifteen additional lines will be converted in 2011. Danone also eliminated the outer cardboard packaging for its yogurts, in the United States and the Canary Islands in 2009, and in France in 2010. These initiatives will continue in 2011. • Develop recycling – For all of its businesses, the group supports improved collection of materials used in its products’ packaging, as well as the development of downstream recycling activities. When collection exists, the group focuses its efforts on supporting waste transformation activities. Where collection does not exist, the group invests through the Danone Ecosystem Fund in projects to improve waste collection that also have a positive social impact. In 2010, three projects were deployed in Argentina, Mexico and Indonesia. Danone also encourages local initiatives to expand sorting of uncollected materials (in France and the United States). The group is also increasing its use of recycled packaging: the rate of recycled cardboard used is now 85%. In the Waters division at end-2010, the average rate of use of recycled PET (“rPET”) was 10% (8% in 2009), with a minimum target of 20% at end-2011. Overall progress is slower than expected, because investments to secure reliable supply are taking place in phases, with the final goal of achieving a 50% rate. Certain brands such as Evian are already at 35% to 50% depending on format. The Bonafont brand in Mexico launched the first 100% recycled PET bottle at end-2009. 48 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 • Develop renewable materials – Two major innovations took place in 2010 to replace traditional plastics with plant-based plastics. Volvic launched First plant-based bottle on the Europe’s first plant-based bottle in France, Germany and the United French market Kingdom, and Stonyfield (leading organic yogurt brand in the United States) The Volvic 50 cl bottle is now launched a pot made of corn-based plastic. Other major initiatives will take manufactured using secondplace in 2011. The group has defined a very precise charter to ensure that generation plant-based plastic these materials comply with strict ethical and environmental criteria (20% content), along with a 25% (principle of absolute priority of food cultivation, employment policies composition of recycled PET plastic. for upstream agriculture, multi-criteria impact studies, etc.). • Involve the consumer – Specific communication on packaging in collaboration with national collection agencies helps promote proper sorting of packaging waste. Outlook: the year 2011 will witness new launches in the area of renewable materials and expansion of the medium-term strategy of organizing collection. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 49 The strategy in action: 2010 results Nature 4. Agriculture: support competitive agriculture that creates social value, respects natural ecosystems and generates better nutritional balance Danone initiates actions to reduce the environmental impact of its dairy business with farmers and agricultural organizations, even though the group generally does not control upstream milk production and is not the sole decider; it is also a minor player in the market overall (less than 1% of global milk supply, less than 5% in the largest countries). • Commit to joining with other companies to promote agriculture that is more respectful of the environment – Danone joined the FARRE (Forum for integrated agriculture that respects the environment) in 1999. In 2002, the group co-founded the SAI (Sustainable Agriculture Initiative) with Nestlé and Unilever. Danone participated in the benchmark “Global Dairy “Acteurs pour un lait durable” Agenda for Action on Climate Change” agreement in 2009, with the aim of (Actors for a sustainable milk): Starting to reconnect upstream developing good agricultural practices and reducing methane emissions. and downstream • Invent tomorrow’s sustainable dairy in partnership with farmers – In 2010, Danone France and its FaRM program – The group joined this audited good agricultural practices 3,300 partner livestock farmers charter in 2004, with ten environmental criteria that particularly concern joined together to recreate a longterm partnership of mutual benefit farming practices. This program was extended in 2010 (around 100 to Danone and the farmers, and technicians and more than 3,300 audits carried out) and renamed “FaRM” which includes environmental and (Farmer Relationship Management). It already covers more than half of milk nutritional facets. supply. This program is implemented through intensified relationships between Danone and its livestock farmers in France, the Czech Republic and Portugal. The group also supports the spread of innovative good practices, such as methanization (“pilot” projects with 200 “methanizers” in Indonesia) or reduced use of fertilizers and pesticides. Danone is also active in the organic sector (world leader for organic yogurts with a 7.4% market share, primarily due to its US subsidiary Stonyfield) and supports the development of this business through the Danone Ecosystem Fund, particularly with its MolayLittry plant in France (Reine Mathilde project). 50 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 A long-term research and development plan – Since 2002, Danone has been active alongside many scientific partners (Inra, Vallorex, etc.) and has participated in various experiments (addition of flax to feed) to research the connection between cows’ diet, reduced methane emissions and the nutritional quality of their milk. In 2010 the group published the first studies establishing the link between biodiversity in grazing fields and milk composition, and began a ten-year program to identify innovative new developments in feed, probiotics and animal health. Outlook: in 2010 the group launched a broad examination of agriculture together with various international experts, to contribute to reinventing more meaningful agriculture that feeds the planet and its future nine billion inhabitants while including the four dimensions of Health, Economy, Nature and Social. This new vision and an agriculture plan will be finalized by 2012. The group is also committed to 100% of its palm oil supply (23,000 metric tons, or less than 0.1% of total procurement) being RSPO (sustainable origin) certified by the end of 2014. 5. Biodiversity: Protect our sites’ biodiversity throughout the life cycle and all around the world Defending biodiversity is at the heart of our resource conservation strategy in the Waters division. Priority objectives and results: the absence of widely accepted biodiversity indicators makes it difficult to precisely measure Danone’s progress in this area. All of the mineral water catchment areas promote practices to maintain biodiversity, and more than 100 million mangroves have been planted by the Danone Fund for Nature. • At Danone sites – Several of the group’s sites apply best practices in terms of biodiversity: for example, in the Dairy products division, the Molay-Littry plant in France was designated a Natura 2000 zone. In Argentina, the Villavincencio mineral water plant has developed a natural reserve of more than 72,000 hectares that is home to a rare species of wild llama. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 51 The strategy in action: 2010 results Nature • Throughout the product life cycle – The protection of mineral water catchment areas by the Danone Ground Water Policy, together with the promotion of pesticide-free agriculture, supports the biodiversity of local plants and animals. In Evian, for example, restored wetlands once again provide natural shelters for foxes. These are natural predators of voles, and have helped avoid the use of pesticides that threaten biodiversity. The Evian site was classified a Ramsar zone in 2009. In the Klaten catchment area in Indonesia, rainwater draining initiatives have helped reconstitute local trees in a forest. In the Dairy products division, the group contributes to developing best agricultural practices for conserving biodiversity, in collaboration with the SAI (Sustainable Agriculture Initiative). • In the rest of the world – Finally, the Danone Fund for Nature chose to address the challenge of “preventing biodiversity loss” in 2008, together with the UICN and Ramsar. Since its creation, the fund has already contributed to replanting more than 100 million mangroves on 5,000 hectares of land, thus helping to restore the mangrove swamps that are a key source of biodiversity. Five additional projects are being developed in Africa and India. Outlook: measuring biodiversity performance is extremely difficult. To be able to measure the progress achieved through its many initiatives in support of biodiversity, the group will work with external partners to develop a measurement tool by 2013. Governance: changing organizations and internal procedure Organization, internal procedures To achieve its new goals, Danone has transformed its organization: appointment of two Nature sponsors to the group’s Executive Board; creation of a central Nature department (with a General Manager from the business side) reporting directly to the group’s Executive Board; addition of Environment directors in each business; creation of a Finance Nature department; creation of a community of 110 “Carbon Masters” (to promote the carbon reduction plan in the different Country Business Units (CBUs)). 52 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 The Nature plan is now steered by a twice-monthly (committee held once every two months) group Nature Committee responsible for defining strategies N°1 and monitoring policy. Finally, the CO2 indicator is integrated into the company’s major decision-making processes (such as in the investment and innovation committee, etc.). An internal policy on environmental claims and a “responsible nature on 4 criteria of DJSI communication” guide were drafted with the assistance of the British agency agri-food Futerra in 2010. A new decision-making process based on these two guides will be implemented throughout the organization in first-half 2011. All Country Business Unit (CBU) General Managers and corporate directors now have a carbon footprint reduction goal as part of their bonus determination. Reporting and rating of environmental criteria For the second consecutive year in 2010, Danone was recognized by the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) as a benchmark company in the agri-food sector in the area of environmental reporting, as well as for its environmental management systems, packaging, and raw materials procurement methods. Danone’s Vigeo rating also rose significantly (Environment score of 56, up nine points compared with 2008). Danone gained 39 points in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) rating, and entered the CDP panel of companies most committed to reducing carbon intensity. Conclusion Respect for the environment is, naturally, in Danone’s DNA. It is now being integrated into our corporate strategy. This progressive approach is moving forward swiftly today, and is based on the group’s historic foundations and policies: co-development with external partners and full integration of environmental, economic and social issues. The challenge of achieving radical mobilization around carbon reduction is not just to reduce the carbon footprint, but also and above all to profoundly change the company’s practices and develop projects with a positive impact on our planet, while also creating a competitive advantage for our brands. This will ensure the sustainability of change and the group’s long-term success and economic performance. Danone will announce its new commitment to long-term Nature plan during 2011. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 53 the strategy in action: 2010 results People 2010 was a year of transformation for the People focus area: the many projects begun in 2009 as part of the 2009-2011 Human Resources strategic plan were widely implemented, resulting in a significant impact on Danone’s employees and ecosystem. Strengthen employee fundamentals Making the safety of employees and subcontractors a daily priority 2009-2011 Goals: Danone has the same frequency rate of lost-time work accidents than its competitors and includes its subcontractors in its safety policy. The WISE program, which reduced Danone’s frequency rate of lost-time work accidents by 50% from 2004 to 2008, continues to bear fruit: after having reduced the lost-time work accidents frequency rate by 24% in 2009, Danone did it again in 2010 (more than 20% down from 2009), achieving for the first time a frequency rate of three accidents per million hours worked. 2010 made its mark with special action plans developed for six countries vulnerable to major road-safety risks – Saudi Arabia, Russia, China, Indonesia, 3 Mexico and Argentina. Moreover, the subcontractors’ safety policy is systematically audited by the Group’s 137 Safety Department internal auditors as well as Du Pont de Nemours auditors, who conduct some 100 audits each year at the various Frequency rate of lost time work Danone locations. accidents Danone’s objective is to continue rising to the level of benchmark companies by establishing a sustainable safety culture, with the aim of achieving a frequency rate of 2 per million by the end of 2012. 54 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Improving health and well-being at work 2009-2011 goals: raise Danone employees’ awareness about health issues through specific programs. Employees benefit from a basic health insurance. •P rovide minimal medical insurance and other benefits to all employees over time. Danone believes that its health objectives must first be achieved within the Group. As such, the Executive Committee supports a program called Dan’Cares, which aims to provide employees with medical insurance offering affordable, quality healthcare with reasonable deductibles and copays in the areas of hospitalization, surgery, maternity care, basic office visits and pharmacy services. Following an audit in the Group’s 15 largest countries, which represent 85% of employees and 56 Country Business Units (CBUs), 10 countries were selected to set up this program in 2011 with the aim of improving medical coverage by 2013 (Argentina, Saudi Arabia, Brazil, China, Spain, Indonesia, Mexico, Poland, Russia and Turkey). In addition to its health program, Dan’Cares falls perfectly in line with Danone’s dual economic and social purpose because it seeks to share any value created with all its employees, to create new social fundamentals and expand them within the Group, and to improve workplace performance and well-being – largely through lower turnover and greater commitment. •P revent stress at work, and improve well-being and working conditions. A Group-wide agreement for France was signed with the labor unions on March 11th 2010. This ambitious agreement followed in-depth negotiations conducted with the unions since 2008. At each French company, labor and management entered into negotiations, with the involvement of all other stakeholders, for the purpose of taking concrete measures at Danone sites. In 2010, the companies also entered into negotiations with IUF (International Union of Food Workers), leading to a global framework agreement on health, safety, working conditions and stress. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 55 The strategy in action: 2010 results People The framework agreement, currently undergoing approval by the unions and Danone’s management, is set to be signed at the Information and Consultation Committee meeting in October 2011. • Ensure  employees health and well-being Consistent with its objective to “Bring health through food to as many people as possible”, Danone continues to pursue its initiatives at both its headquarters and Country Business Units (CBUs). Through its “Health@Work” program, the Group seeks to promote good health among its employees based on good nutrition and healthy lifestyles. In 2010, 28 CBUs presented programs on this subject and three were nominated for internal challenge “Dan’Awards”: Danone Bulgaria, Stonyfield US and Dumex China. Bulgaria won the award for a five-part program: workplace health for all Danone employees; a healthy diet; education and training; on-site exercise and sports; and promotion of healthy lifestyles. Strengthen dialogue with employees worldwide 2009-2011 goals: expand international employee dialog to countries outside Europe. Numico’s European Works Council joins Group bodies involved in international employee dialogue. The negotiation of a new agreement with IUF is on the way. A trailblazer in international employee dialogue, begun in 1972 (see 2009 Sustainability Report), Danone had experimented in 2009 with expanding and furthering various fields of international employee dialogue, including: • expanding the Information and Consultation Committee (ICC) to representatives from countries outside Europe (Asia, North and South America, Africa); • furthering dialogue by creating Business Line Committees (Dairy products, Waters, Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition), bringing together General Management and the employee representatives concerned, for the purpose of discussing the business line’s strategy, structure, HR policy and main Groupwide projects. An enhanced program took place in 2010, with time set aside for delving more deeply into a specific HR issue and for sharing the different countries’ best practices. In 2010, the topic of discussion was safety and working conditions. 56 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Furthermore, Numico’s European Works Council (Baby & Medical EWC as from 2008) was dissolved at year-end 2010, and the Medical nutrition and Baby nutrition divisions joined the Waters and Dairy products divisions to +17% create a single international employee dialogue body, the Information and Consultation Committee. Improve employability for all Danone employees Continually improving staff employability is a priority for Danone: Evolution of the training hours Maintaining significant training budgets, ensuring that all employees are per employee in 2010 regularly trained, setting up employee participation programs with more opportunity to acquire qualifications and developing autonomy are all performance tools to both enhance employees’ skills and maintain their competitiveness on the job market. • Expand  Danoners’ access to training (all Danone employees) In 2010, indicators showed constant growth in Danone’s training program: t he average number of training hours per employee was 31 hours (compared to 28 hours in 2009); t he total number of hours rose 17% on a like-for-like basis, representing an increase of 382,689 hours over 2009, 296,970 hours of which were provided to the WETS category (Workers, Employees, Technicians and Supervisors); the number of employees trained rose by 7%, reaching 99% in 2010. • Have  in-house trainers conduct operational training that brings together staff from different countries and Country Business Units (CBUs) the “Danone Leadership College” (see pages 110-111 of the 2009 Sustainability Report for more information), seeks to train 15,000 team leaders by the end of 2011 (by year-end 2010, 11,500 employees had been trained, including 8,400 team leaders); sessions are conducted by 300 in-house trainers; t he “Dream Store College” training-action program designed for Danone sales staff and led by the line managers themselves (110 in-house trainers and 4,900 salespeople were trained in 11 CBUs in Asia, the Middle East, Latin America and Eastern Europe); t raining by business line (marketing, finance, human resources, procurement, etc.) and management training for all managers, as well as the “Danone Learning Solutions” ready-to-use training packages tailored to each country’s requirements. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 57 The strategy in action: 2010 results People • Moreover,  with a view to measuring the results of its efforts on behalf of all its employees, Danone oversaw the creation of a “personal development” indicator called the “Great Place to Grow Index.” This indicator is broken down into two equal parts: t he results of four basic issues: employees’ advancing through the “glass ceiling” to become managers (10%); internal promotion rate for managers and senior executives (10%); training hours per employee (10%); and the work accident frequency rate/hours worked (20%); e mployees’ opinion about these basic issues based on an internal opinion survey, which first became an annual survey on this occasion. In comparison to 2009, the 2010 results are very encouraging and indicate progress in most of the items tracked. Increase Danone employees’ autonomy and efficiency CODE: leadership attitudes and the Danone Leadership College (DLC) Danone’s leadership program, called the Danone Leadership College, (for more information, see pages 110-111 in the 2009 Sustainability Report) is growing at a faster rate to support Danone’s “transformation.” For example, at Dannon US, the The Danone Leadership College does much more than provide training, it also DLC supports the goal of tripling revenue by involving and developing seeks to create the conditions for transforming Danone based on three all employees. In addition, the objectives: company has started to involve 1. develop the leadership skills of all team leaders based on the “CODE” customers and preferred suppliers in leadership attitudes this program in order to create new 2. help improve business performance partnership models and give them more say in the process. 3. help employees grow and make all “Danoners” aware of their responsibilities Manufacturing employees in Since mid-2009, some 110 Group Country Business Units (CBUs) have southern Europe have been using embarked on this adventure worldwide using a top-down process, first gaining leadership development to improve the commitment of the executive committees’ members, then gradually both manufacturing performance and workplace safety. moving on to all team leaders. Overall, nearly 8,400 Team Leaders had participated to the transformation process by the end of 2010. At Danone Waters China, the goal is to develop leaders capable One of Danone Leadership College’s major features, which distinguishes it of reaching ambitious and longfrom a conventional training program, is that it involves employees in term results at all levels of the organization, including the sales developing and implementing the company’s business strategy. force and plant personnel. 58 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 In 2011, the goal is to continue this “transformation” by transitioning from the Danone Leadership College (DLC) to a Danone Leadership Culture. This will largely be achieved by extending the DLC to all 15,000 Team Leaders and expanding the program to a larger number of Danoners, especially those who work in manufacturing and sales. Expanding diversity by capitalizing on CODE Diversity takes on added importance in tight markets. By exposing people to different cultures and ways of thinking, it fosters creativity and innovation and helps forge close ties with consumers and society. Danone has decided to focus on two diversity priorities at the global level. • Increase gender parity at all levels of the company Danone strives to develop the careers of all its employees, both women and men, especially since women account for 43% of managers. Yet an in-depth study on women’s careers conducted for the Second Women’s Leadership Lab in June 2010 showed that only 37% of senior management positions are women. To ensure that the proportion of women at the highest levels matches their numbers in the organization, an overall action plan was developed and presented to all General Managers. Two new working groups were also created: -O  ne group on flexible career paths, with the aim of rethinking career planning, such as remaining longer in a certain job if necessary, breaking out of insulated groups, removing age barriers, and acknowledging longer life expectancies and generation Y expectations. -A  second group on work-life balance open to all employees, with the goal of exploring the many opportunities available, such as telecommuting, made possible by “new ways of working”. In tandem with these internal initiatives, 2010 also saw the creation of the EVE seminar, a continuation of Danone’s in-house seminars on women’s leadership. Held jointly with various partners in Evian in December 2010, this first event attracted 230 business people, giving them an opportunity to share their many experiences in developing women’s leadership skills. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 59 The strategy in action: 2010 results People • Increase  recruitment of individuals from different socioeconomic backgrounds 1. Give top priority to personality during the recruitment process (“something special inside”) rather than academic degrees by revising the recruitment methods: to identify personality types, use an observation matrix for Danone leadership qualities (CODE Committed, Open, Doer, Empowered); continue experimenting with “hiring without a résumé”; take advantage of the presence of the group on Facebook (Danone is the largest HR community on Facebook in France) to try a different approach to hiring. 2. Work with partners to change the way of recruiting. 3. Develop special “emerging country” assignments for Danone employees as a recommended stage in their career In 2011-2012, Danone’s goal is to create diversity governance committees to implement and coordinate action plans and turn them into Human Resources policies at a faster pace. Encourage a responsive culture supported by new working methods In 2010, Danone’s 2.0 corporate plan reached a new threshold, with over 35,000 Danone employees registered online. The widespread use of our new communication tools shows just how deeply these new ways of working have become ingrained in our daily lives. The program aims to: 35,000 • Link up Danoners so they can identify people with specific expertise, experience and interests. • Increase cooperation between Danoners as a way to foster the development of social networks and communities. linked-up Danoners 250 • Support innovation through the sharing of ideas, expertise and the co-development of currently non-existent solutions. Over 250 communities have been created and nearly 2,000 Danoners use communities created them on a daily basis. 60 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Continuing to create meaning in order to stand out Capitalizing on very strong employee commitment The 2010 Danone People Survey mainly focused on employee development 87% issues (a new, complete version with all the questions will be sent out in 2011). This survey of 66,000 Danoners continues to motivate employees, who participated at the exceptional rate of 86% (+4 points over 2009). Compared to the previous year, the results show a generally positive trend, exceeding those in the “consumer products” industry and approaching Participation rate the scores of “high-performance” companies. For the first time, employees to the people survey participated at a rate higher than those in “high-performance” companies, with a remarkably high score of 87%. The following areas recorded the most significant gains: • training (positive opinions +5 points); • safety (+4 points); • overall social and environmental responsibility (+3 points), with a remarkable score (89% positive) in response to the question: “Do you think your Country Business Unit (CBU) is concerned about protecting the environment?”. These results clearly reflect the company’s investment in the Danone Leadership College, WISE (safety) and Nature programs. On the other hand, scores on equal opportunity for women and older workers dropped by six points, a decline explained by greater awareness of diversity issues at Danone. What’s more, employees believe they have development opportunities at their CBU (73% positive), but work remains to be done on career path visibility, with a score four points below that of “highperformance” companies (69% positive). Finally, employees continue to have high expectations regarding local responses to social responsibility issues. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 61 The strategy in action: 2010 results People Creating meaning through Danone’s social initiatives Staff (Danoners) commitment is based on several factors: culture and values, a sense of responsibility and the autonomy that make up Danone’s leadership model. Its new community initiatives also foster a sense of meaning. Motivating the community with danone.communities In addition to managing projects, danone.communities seeks to bring together the various project stakeholders (Danone employees, key contributors, partners, NGOs, etc.). It also jointly participates with others in coordinating communities attracted by social business issues through a new type of partnership with social entrepreneurs and NGOs. On top of other Danone projects that incorporate economic and social criteria in their definitions and actions, promoting and coordinating communities help strengthen Danoners’ commitment. In 2010, over 400 Danone employees subscribed to the danone.communities FCPE (mutual fund), an increase of 19% over 2009. The total number is now 2,276 Danone employees in France, or more than one in four employees, who have chosen to give meaning to their savings. In addition, participation in university chairs in social entrepreneurship, case studies written about danone.communities projects at Harvard, HEC, ESSEC and other business schools, knowledge-sharing initiatives (online conferences, growth circles, international gatherings), and more skills-based volunteering all demonstrate the strong interest of the various communities. They also help create a distinctive image for Danone in the outside world, especially among young people. The Danone Ecosystem Fund 34 PROJECTS, Approved by the Danone Annual General Meeting held in April 2009, the 20 VALIDATED 16 PARTNERS/ NGO’S Danone Ecosystem Fund, managed under the rules governing endowment M€ 11,4 ENGAGED, 12,000 DIRECT BENEFICIARIES funds, aims to create jobs. (For more information, see page 115-118, 2009 Sustainable Report). ★ Recycling Validated projects ■ Area Projects under study ● Distribution Ideas ✱ Home Care Services ▲ Supplies 62 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 The Fund has both an economic and social purpose, aiming to support, strengthen and develop local players in Danone’s ecosystem who contribute or can contribute to its CBUs business, including small farmers, suppliers, subcontractors, transport and logistics operators, distributors and the communities in which our factories are located. Its mission is to support the business development of small and medium-sized enterprises with the ultimate goal of creating jobs, improving employability and developing initiatives that foster microentrepreneurship. (http://ecosysteme.danone.com) Created by Danone CBUs, Ecosystem projects are conducted all over the world, in both developed and emerging countries. To date, the Fund has approved 20 projects in 5 major focus areas: 1. Responsible sourcing: locate and secure Danone supplies by developing partnerships with small producers. 2. Recycling: collect PET plastic by helping organize the work of rag picker communities and improving their social conditions. 3. Personal services: enhance the professionalism of players in the personal services sector, with a focus on nutrition. 4. Distribution: create new distribution channels, especially in marginalized areas, and help people in difficulty enter the workforce. 5. Factory sites: help develop employment in the communities where the group’s factories are located through local economic development programs. The Fund 18 months after its creation Now that 20 approved projects worth 11.4 million euros are currently reaching 12,000 people, the Danone Ecosystem Fund can draw its first conclusions in order to better fulfill its mission. The CBUs’ strong interest in co-development projects and the quality of the original idea are catalysts we need to capitalize on. The partners in the non-profit sector generally support the Fund’s approach and are involved in the co-development and co-management process. This improves the perception of social responsibility at CBUs and helps transform practices in the areas of procurement, distribution and the product offering. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 63 The strategy in action: 2010 results People Based on this promising beginning, the challenge is to now ensure the Horizon 2015 initiatives’ medium-term impact (see indicator S01 on page 211 in this report on assessing the impact). Company and NGO co-management create new forms of Social environment project governance that should be mastered. The French dairy market is evolving, with structural changes that will impact dairy farmers in the coming 2011 outlook: expand the impact of Danone Ecosystem Fund. years. For 2011, the Danone Ecosystem Fund reaffirms the Group’s ambition to serve as a transformative tool for economic practices. The objective is to help create The project • Develop advanced farm projects with real impact based on each Country Business Unit’ (CBU) management skills with a tailored sustainable development strategy. It means, of course, to ensure the success program of support; and long-term viability of projects that are already underway. Now that • Nurture farmers’ thinking about changing agricultural practices and the Fund has operated for a year and a half, an internal and external farming models. communications challenge related to its projects is taking shape. It will need to address this challenge using the indicators selected for each project. The goal for Danone Dairy France Concretely implement the “Agents Internal communications will allow to take on new projects, while external for sustainable dairy” approach that communications will let discuss best practices and the issues raised by these aims to strengthen dairy farmers’ “laboratories” with the various communities involved in those focus areas economic competitiveness by developing rural practices that are (to learn more about the initiative, see http://ecosysteme.danone.com). respectful of environmental balance and biodiversity. Social goals Train 350 producers over two years in the Southwest pilot region, and prepare to roll out the system on a national scale. Partners The “Institut de l’élevage” (Livestock Institute), a research and development institute that supports livestock farming and herbivore branches. Fund contribution: 350,000 euros for the pilot phase. 64 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Danone Supporting Life Danone Supporting Life comprises the various community outreach initiatives Restaurants du cœur (a charitable food aid created by our Country Business Units (CBUs). It is a network that enhances organization): staff professionalism in terms of building and managing a community a 2nd successful year! program. These initiatives are based on a triple-win concept that must contribute to: the CBU’s business growth, the motivation of Danone Danone’s 2010 partnership with employees by way of their involvement, and local community growth in areas Restaurants du coeur in France was related to the group’s expertise (nutrition/health, partnership with nature, a real success. This year’s program drew 1,124 Danoners, who spent access to food and water, and support for the well-being of children and two days collecting food in the stores the elderly. of another partner, Carrefour, up from 1,054 in 2009. They collected 2010 Dan’Awards for social innovation 1,500 metric tons of products. In 2010, 29 Danone Supporting Life projects participated in the in-house What’s more, one million meals “Dan’Awards” contest, which recognizes the best “triple win” projects, up from were funded by Danone, Carrefour 21 in 2009. Most of the projects originated in Europe (62% of projects) and and customers thanks to the 41% from the Dairy products division. special promotion of four products purchased = one meal at Restaurants du coeur. Finally, the partnership, which also relies on people volunteering their skills, bore fruit in two ways: the goal to enhance professionalism became reality with eight programs designed for volunteers. In addition, assistance for Restaurants du coeur clients led to internships at Danone Dairy products France, which resulted in the hiring of two people. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 65 The strategy in action: 2010 results People in 2010 As a conclusion for the “People” stream 2010 marked the success of the 2009-2011 Human Resources (HR) strategic plan. The 2012-2014 strategic plan will be developed during 2011. The plan will be based on HR objectives 10 years out, which were developed then shared in 2010 with over 200 people in the department. The HR plan aims to boost Danone’s growth and cultivate a unique culture in which individuals, teams and partners can grow and make a difference for the purpose of nurturing the Group’s mission. The 2020 HR objectives will support three major “transformations”: • determine the appropriate organizational models acting upstream of organizational change and build the necessary capacities to boost Danone’s growth during an early stage of the organizational change process; • develop skills as well as managers, staff and Dan’Affiliates, i.e. partners (farmers, distributors, subcontractors, etc.) who operate in its ecosystem; • expand the scope of its dual economic and social initiative by opening it up to community concerns and involving all stakeholders in creating and sharing value. 66 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 2010 REPORT Sustainability Dashboard: 2010 stakeholder commitments and outlook Consumers 68 Communities 70 SUPPLIERS 70 Environment 72 Employees 74 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 67 CHART OF 2010 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK Consumers Our Stakeholder Commitments 2010 goals and objectives Performance 2009 CONSUMERS Monitor the evolving consumers’ health • E stablish and update mapping of nutritional and health issues (NutriPlanet) • + 2 Nutripacks and dietary needs in countries where Danone operates (bibliography, expert opinion on dietary • 26 countries intake, regulations and guidelines, prevalence of dietary deficiencies and participating at food-borne illnesses, etc.). year-end 2009 • Conduct epidemiological studies to determine dietary intake and any local deficiencies, if necessary. Develop and offer products having • R egularly evaluate the nutritional quality of Danone’s products compared to the • 67 Business Units: appropriate nutritional profiles that meet health authorities’ recommendations and competing products (NutriProgress Dairy products + program) and develop reformulation objectives, if necessary (such as reducing Baby nutrition consumer needs sugar, fat and salt content and adding vitamins and minerals, etc.). • 91% of net revenue from Dairy products Develop new products with health • Expand existing product lines and create new ones. benefits that meet consumer needs and appropriate nutritional profiles Demonstrate product health benefits • Conduct clinical trials and publish the results. • 120 clinical studies with convincing scientific evidence Provide transparent and practical • Provide consumers with nutritional information for products not subject to • 98% of eligible nutritional information labeling regulatory requirements (dairy products, drinks). revenue in EU • In European Union countries, provide Guideline Daily Amounts (GDA) per countries serving for calories, protein, carbohydrates including sugars, and fat including saturated fat, fiber and sodium. Include reliable health claims on • E nsure that all product health claims are easy for consumers to understand product benefits using consumer(accurately reflect the product benefits demonstrated by the scientific evidence) and reliable (reflect the level of scientific evidence). friendly language. Limit advertising to children (<12 years) • Implement the self-restriction on advertising in EU countries (in line with the • Expansion to Brazil to products whose nutritional value and E.U. Pledge 27 countries), the USA (in line with the CFBAI Pledge) and Brazil (in line with the Brazilian Pledge). portion sizes meet children’s needs, • Expand our commitments to other countries outside the EU. and do not advertise in schools. Develop nutritious new products • Expand the reach of existing programs, launch new programs. with good nutritional profiles that are affordable for low-income people 68 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 2010 Performance 2011 Commitments and and Noteworthy Achievements Short-range Outlook • + 20 additional Nutripacks; 34 participating countries. 2013 Objectives • Program expanded to 8 additional countries: Austria, Switzerland, Lebanon, Malaysia, Vietnam, Japan, Ivory Coast, • Create Nutripacks for the 10 largest Morocco. Dairy product Business Units. • Broader population analyzed: babies (< 3 years) in 11 countries, seniors (>45-65 depending on the country) in 3 • Create Nutripacks for all Baby countries (France, Germany, Spain). nutrition Business Units. • More data analyzed (sociological data): 3 countries (Algeria, USA, France). • Provision of data in real time on the NutriPl@net intranet for all functions. 79% of net revenue from analyzed eligible products 2012 Objectives Dairy products Dairy products • 20 countries conducted a nutritional analysis of products representing 80% of net revenue, or 72% of the • Systematize the annual analysis division’s volume; 1,470 Danone products and 2,000 competing products were analyzed. 63% of Danone in the 18 major countries and continue products analyzed met nutritional standards in terms of protein, fat, sugar and calcium, a 30% increase over the dietary improvement programs. 2009 due to reformulation programs (reduced sugar and fat); Baby nutrition products • In Germany, local authorities consider Fruchtzwerge (Danonino) soft white cheese for children as part of a • Systematize the annual analysis balanced snack (called Optimix). of the entire product portfolio. Baby nutrition products / growing-up milk • Establish a roadmap on complementary • 100% of the division’s products (infant formula, second-stage formula, growing-up milk, wet foods) products in the five major countries were analyzed in 2010; (France, UK, Poland, Netherlands, Italy). • 93% of wet foods (prepared foods, compotes, desserts, cereal) comply with existing dietary standards. Stricter Aquadrinks nutrition standards (sugar, fat, sodium) were set in 2010. The division improved the nutritional quality of its entire • Develop nutritional standards (sugar, line of infant formula and milk in 2010 by adding essential fatty acids (in addition to required ingredients). sodium) and launch reformulation • 6,500 kg of sodium was eliminated from all prepared foods. programs to reduce the amount of sugar, Drinks if necessary. • Seven countries conducted a nutritional analysis of aquadrinks representing 71% of net revenue; 57 Danone products and 431 competing products were analyzed. Other products • Bottled waters and Medical Nutrition products (17% of Danone’s volume) are not affected by reformulation issues as they are subject to regulation. Daily food items • Expand existing product lines and create • Launch of: Taillefine Stevia in France (natural food sweetener), Ser Calci + in Argentina (50% of calcium daily new ones. requirements for women 45 and older), C-Optima fruit smoothie in Belgium (100% of daily requirements in vitamin C), Activia Fresh in Russia (mix of fermented Activia milk and fruit juice), Activia Pouring in the UK (fermented milk for use with breakfast cereal). Occasional food items • Launch of: Bonafont Levite in Mexico (beverage with natural food sweetener), Fantasia in France (yogurt & topping to be mixed together). Food items for specific needs • Launch of: Nutilis Aqua in Europe (thickened water for elderly people who have trouble swallowing), Nutrinidrink Smoothie in Germany, the Netherlands and the UK (fruit purée for malnourished children), HI-Q1 in Thailand (growing-up milk combining prebiotics and probiotics), Acidified Nutrilon in Russia (fermented and acidified milk for babies), Gallia Grossesse in France and Aptamil Pregnancy and Breastfeeding food supplement in Ireland (milks and food supplement to pregnant and breastfeeding mothers). • 108 clinical trials underway in 2010 for all Danone divisions. • Conduct clinical studies and publish/ • 140 scientific publications in peer-reviewed journals. publicize the results. • 43 patents fiiled in 2010, bringing the portfolio to 448. •  98% of eligible revenue in EU countries. 2013 Objective • For products with no nutrition labeling requirements (dairy products, drinks): provide nutritional information online • Disseminate nutritional information on (Business Units and/or brand websites) for products (in the form of GDAs for EU countries): this information was packaging and online for 95% of products available for 67% of EU products listed at year-end 2010. (based on GDAs for EU countries and at least calories and protein, fat and carbohydrate content per 100g for the rest of the world). • All claims are covered by Danone’s internal process of validation (local, division and corporate levels). • Continue and expand Danone’s policy by producing and disseminating its best practices guide. • C  ompliance with commitments in EU countries (analyzed in line with EU Pledge monitoring), the USA (analyzed in 2012 Objective line with monitoring conducted by the Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI)). • Expand the commitments to • Compliance with the Mexican code, Publicidad de Alimentos y Bebidas No Alcohólicas dirigida al Público Infantil other countries (Mexico, Turkey, (PABI), analyzed by the Mexican government. South Africa, etc.). • E  xtension of the roll-out and distribution of the Gizikita product line launched in 2009 in Indonesia, of Shoktidoi in 2013 Objectives Bangladesh etc. • Expand the reach of existing programs. • Initiation of new projects in Senegal (Lemateki : children’s product with milk and local cereals), and in Algeria • Launch new programs. (Sahazine: children’s product covering 30% of GDAs of iron) to be launched in 2011. • Expansion of the roll-out of Gran Compra in Argentina with the launch of yogurts sold at 0,95$ per pot. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 69 CHART OF 2010 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK Communities and Suppliers Our commitments 2010 goals and objectives 2009 performance to stakeholders Communities Create value in the company and local communities Strengthen Danone’s ecosystem • Involve Danone stakeholders in creating economic, social and • L aunched the Danone environmental value through the company’s daily activities and Ecosystem Fund, approved specific community projects. by the Annual General • Contribute to the development of the global ecosystem to which Meeting of Shareholders in the company belongs. April 2009, with a grant of • Focus on three areas: creating jobs, improving employability and 100 million euros. promoting micro-entrepreneurship. • Two projects approved in December 2009. Encourage and replicate community • D  evelop initiatives based on the «triple win» concept: • 4 7 “triple win” projects from projects initiated by Danone a Country Business Unit (CBU) business development the Danone Supporting Life challenge; initiative. employees worldwide (Danone a Danone staff motivation challenge by involving employees; • 21 Country Business Units Supporting Life) a local growth challenge in areas related to Danone’s expertise (CBUs) entered the (nutrition/health, environmental management, access to food in-house “Dan’Awards” and water, support for the well-being of children and the contest, which rewards elderly). community initiatives. SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITIES AND HEALTH PROFESSIONALS Foster the advancement and • S  upport nutrition research through grants, awards, university exchange of scientific knowledge chairs and partnerships. • Foster exchange through symposia and conferences, etc. Promote nutrition training • P  ublish newsletters, organize seminars and training programs, for health professionals provide e-learning tools, etc. Support initiatives undertaken • Develop  learning tools to promote healthy lifestyles. • 4 grants. in the fight against obesity • Award Danone Next Generation Nutrition Grants each year • 85,000 euros (4 grants worth a total of USD120,000 per year). THE SUPPLIERS Support Danone’s suppliers in • Include the Fundamental Social Principles and/or the • Around 70% of suppliers rolling out their Corporate Social Sustainable Development Principles in 100% of contracts/ have signed the general terms of procurement. Fundamental Social Responsibility (CSR) policies • Implement an assessment of the CSR performance of Danone’s Principles and/or the suppliers, raise their awareness of the topic if necessary, and Sustainable Development identify at-risk suppliers. Principles in their contracts • Carry out CSR audits of suppliers identified as at-risk. In the and/or general terms case of significant non-compliance issues, carry out follow-up of procurement. audits after implementation of appropriate action plans. • Launch of registration of Danone’s suppliers on the SEDEX platform, around 300 suppliers registered in 2009. • 56 suppliers audited by Danone, based on an in-house CSR benchmark, including 3 follow-up audits. 70 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 2010 performance Our 2011 commitments and outlook and notable achievements • 1  1.4 million euros were invested. • E nsure that projects begun in 2009 and 2010 are well executed. • 34 projects in the portfolio, 20 of which are underway in 2010. • Create new opportunities with a program designed for CBUs based • 16 civil society partners, including NGOs. on the five clusters. • 12,000 potential beneficiaries. • Assess the projects’ impact using “baseline surveys” and anthropological/ • The projects are divided into five categories called “clusters”: supply, ethnographic studies. distribution, recycling, personal services and challenges related to • Increase the level of shared expertise in the areas of co-development factory sites. and co-management. • Try out new purchasing, micro-retail and personal services practices. • 29  Danone Supporting Life projects participated in “Dan’Awards”: • Continue to coordinate the community projects network. 62% of the entries came from the European region and 41% from • Encourage the sharing of best practices. Dairy Products division • Increase staff professionalism. • 60 grants/awards (total of 1 million euros) by Danone Institutes. • Foster the advancement and exchange of scienitific knowledge. • 8 Nutricia Research Foundation grants (400,000 euros). • First “Microbes for Health” symposium at Pasteur Institute in Paris: 366 participants from 27 countries. • M  ore than 1,400 seminars organized by Baby Nutrition division, • Promote nutrition training for health professionals. reaching more than 100,000 health professionals and Danone Institute publications (Foods & Drugs, are there complementary benefial effects for health?; Guia de alimentacion para las personas mayores; Magazine pédagogique sur l’alimentation des jeunes enfants et adolescents etc.) • 4 grants worth a total of 85,000 euros awarded in the United States. • L aunch the “Bon Appétit Bouge ta Santé” program in Belgian schools. • Development of learning tools for children in partnership with local • Continue and expand the roll-out of existing programmes (“Faut que ça organizations (Zdrava Abeceda in the Czech Republic; Eat like a bouge dans les écoles” and “Ensemble surveillons sa corpulence” of champ in the UK). Danone Institute France, the Danone Nations Cup etc.). • Around 80% of suppliers have signed the Fundamental Social • 90% of suppliers will have signed the Sustainable Development Principles and/or the Sustainable Development Principles in their Principles in their contracts and/or general terms of procurement. contracts and/or general terms of procurement. • 100% of major suppliers will be registered on the SEDEX platform. • 1,282 suppliers registered on the SEDEX platform. • Eventually, 100% of suppliers considered to be at-risk based • 103 suppliers audited by third parties, based on an external CSR on SEDEX input will have been audited. benchmark (SMETA), including 15 follow-up audits. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 71 CHART OF 2010 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK Environment OUR COMMITMENTS TO OUR 2010 goals and objectives 2009 STAKEHOLDERS PERFORMANCE Environment Managing the fundamentals Number of ISO 14001-certified sites (% of production plants): 85 (51%) Number of GREEN (Global Risk Evaluation for Environment) sites, Danone audit method 78 (48%) certified by ERM: Recovery of production plant waste (% of weight): 86% Contributing to prevention of MEASURE global warming Expansion of the DANPRINT tool (Danone's carbon footprint measurement tool) 95% % of volume of products sold by our CBUs that deployed the tool: Percentage of volume of products sold by CBUs that have implemented the Carbon 0% Footprint module (co-developed with SAP): REDUCE Energy consumption (total kwh/t): -12% Reduction of carbon intensity (kg eq CO2/kg) in Danone's scope of responsibility (production -8,2% (1) plants, packaging and end of life, transport and storage) – % Carbon Pact committing our Raws and Packaging suppliers: • Number of pacts with suppliers for the Dairy products division: NA • Number of pacts with suppliers for the Baby nutrition division: NA OFFSET Co-development of carbon offset programs with high social and biodiversity value 1 (number of programs): Partnerships supporting projects with high social and environmental value generating 0 certified carbon credits: Supporting the development of an Deployment of the sustainable milk management model (FaRM) with farmers 70% agriculture that is more respectful (% of the number of farms in direct contact with Danone): of the environment COW2 program (measurement of the carbon footprint arising from livestock methane emissions). Number of countries involved in the program: Redesigning packaging to REDUCE ultimately turn waste into Reduction of the “package weight/product weight” ratio (pack ratio) in the Waters and Dairy -2% resources products divisions: RECYCLE Increase in the “bottle to bottle” recycling rate – rate of rPET in water bottles (% weight): 8% USE RENEWABLE MATERIALS % of packaging based on renewable materials (volume): Protecting our springs, reducing Reduction of water consumption in our plants (l/kg of product): -11% our water consumption and helping to protect water resources around the world Reduction of the impact of industrial activities – reduction of pollutant load (COD/kg -5% of product): Contributing to protecting Protection of our springs’ rainwater catchment areas (% of sites applying the Danone charter 90% biodiversity at our locations and its guidelines): around the world (1) This figure corresponds to the result published for the year 2009 (-6.1%) after application of the new consolidation rules defined in 2010. 72 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 2010 LONG TERM CUMULATIVE OUR 2011 COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES PERFORMANCE 88 (56%) NA 2012 goal: 100% of strategic sites ISO 14001 certified. 85 (54%) NA Goal: 100% of strategic sites audited in 2012. Rollout of GREEN Light to at least 20 sites in 2011. 86% NA Redefine the Indicators in the long-term plan (2011-2020). 97% NA This tool will progressively be replaced by the Carbon Footprint module (co-developed with SAP). 6% 2012 100% NA Integrate Danprint into one of the group’s information system modules. of SAP Goal: 100% of CBUs with the SAP system in 2012. CBUs -2,7% 2000-2010 -20% -42% Renew the long-term energy reduction plan (2011-2020). -9% 2008-2012 -30% -22% Define a 2020 long-term plan based on the experiences of 2008-2011. Extend the Carbon Pact to the Waters division. 2012 goal: 100% of strategic suppliers. 66 66 33 33 3 NA 2 NA Evian brand is neutral in 2011 (est. 150 kt eq CO2 after 40% carbon intensity reduction). 78% 100% 78% 2011 goals: >85% with at least three new countries participating in the approach. Final goal: 100% coverage of farms directly supplying Danone. 9 Define a 2011-2020 long-term sustainable dairy plan and pursue our progress based on research and co-development with the agricultural and scientific sectors. 2000-2010 -2% 2000-2010 -10% -10% Define new packaging indicators for the long-term plan (2011-2020). 10% at end 20% to Ultimate goal of an average of 50% rPET per bottle. 2011 30% 2011: define a quantified goal for each division and the 2011-2020 long-term plan. -11% 2000-2010 -30% -41% Renew the long-term plan for water consumption in our plants (2011-2020). Implement a water footprint pilot measurement in collaboration with Quantis in the Waters and Dairy products divisions. -12% 2000-2010 -29% Define new indicators for industrial impacts for the long-term plan (2011-2020). 100% 2000-2010 90% 90% Define a biodiversity measurement tool for the group by 2013 and continue Danone Fund for Nature policies to protect biodiversity (goal of 5-10 programs by 2012). NA: information not available Danone Sustainability Report 2010 73 CHART OF 2010 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK Employees Our Stakeholder Commitments 2010 goals and objectives 2009 Performance Employees STRENGTHEN SOCIAL FONDAMENTALS FOR ALL Making the safety of employees and •B  y 2011, reduce the frequency rate • Reduced frequency rate: 3.9 in 2009 vs. 5.2 in 2008. subcontractors a daily priority of lost-time accidents to approach • Set up WISE program at Baby and Medical divisions best-in-class levels: 2.5. and conduct audits at all industrial sites. •D  evelop a general framework to • 4 standards (Accident Investigation, Driving Safety, enable the divisions and CBUs Contractor Management, “Lock Out Tag Out”) to be to set standard guidelines and implemented no later than December 31, 2010 after procedures. approval by the Safety Steering Committee. Provide minimal medical insurance •S  upport a minimum level of • Mapped out the situation in each country, taking into and other benefits for all employees medical insurance and other account various criteria (general level of insurance and improve working conditions benefits for all employees based coverage, employer/government split of insurance on an audit of existing systems in costs, risks covered, cost of plans, deductibles/co15 countries representing 85% of pays, etc.). Danone employees. •P  revent stress at work and improve • Set up an exploratory group on stress in cooperation working conditions. with French unions representing the various Danone companies in France on April 7, 2008. • Set up OMSAD, a program that monitors stress, anxiety and depression, at five pilot sites, including corporate headquarters, with the support of IFAS. • Create  a health awareness/training • 3 pilot “Health Induction” programs were conducted program for Danone staff: “health in Spain, the United States and Argentina in 2009, induction” and “health at work” attracting 100 people. programs. • Set up about 15 hands-on training programs in the workplace on the importance of a balanced diet and physical activity and provided practical help: conducted workshops and presentations on good nutrition, sleep, etc. • Provided fitness rooms; offered optional checkups; and conducted screening and prevention campaigns. Strengthen the international social • Include representatives from Asia • New CIC’s first pilot project: opened up to employee dialog and North and South America representatives from CBUs in Asia, North America, while maintaining majority Latin America and Africa. European representation (the • Set up Business Line Committees on issues Information and Consultation relating to Dairy and Waters divisions products, with Committee CIC acts as the involvement of the division’s General Managers. European Works Council). • Implement the Danone/IUF • Made joint IUF/Danone visits to five countries agreements in all Group countries. (Germany, Argentina, Russia, Czech Republic, Poland) to promote the IUF/Danone agreements, assessed the local versions of the agreements and described the international bodies that handle social dialogue. 74 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 2010 Performance 2011 Commitments and Noteworthy Achievements and Short-range Outlook • Objective exceeded, with a lost-time frequency rate of 3 (down by Establish a sustainable safety culture and sustainable safety performance more than 20%). Set up a special action plan for countries vulnethroughout the Group: rable to road safety risks (Saudi Arabia, Russia, Mexico, Indonesia, • 2011 Objective: frequency rate of 2.6 (down 14% over 2010) and China, Argentina) and developed structural measures (example: frequency rate of 2 in 2012; GPS, Danone-certified licenses after specific training, etc.). • Sales department: action plan and department’s involvement; Results: reduced frequency rate by 29% in these countries • Action plan for priority CBUs (France, Mexico, Argentina); • Set new 2-year objectives and include them in 2012 plans and budgets. • Implemented the 4 standards by including them • Set other standards for deployment in 2011. in the Danone Way indicators for the 2011 campaign. • Checklists for CBU self-assessments on the 4 standards. • Launched “Dan’Care” plan: 10 countries selected, 55,000 • Support countries and CBUs that have decided to join in 2011 (Poland, employees, with the objective of a minimum level of medical China, Spain, Russia, Mexico, Indonesia); prepare plans for 2012. insurance for CBUs (in-patient, maternal care, outpatient) by 2013. • Group-level agreement in France signed in March 2010; company• Sign and implement a global agreement; launch right after initial human level negotiations being finalized. feasibility studies (HFS) and just before organizational changes. • Negotiated a global framework agreement on health, safety, working conditions and stress with IUF (International Union of Food Workers): draft agreement being finalized at year-end 2010. • In 2010, the “health induction program” was carried out at 10 CBUs • 2011 Objective: 100% of CBUs conducted the training program and in 8 different countries. developed active, ongoing programs to improve employees’ health. • Managed the integration of the Baby and Medical European Works Council (EWC) into the CIC: included Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition representatives on the Danone/IUF Steering Committee and negotiating team. • Expanded the current Steering Committee. • Joint visits were made to Italy, Belgium, Turkey, Hungary and Brazil, • Continue joint visits in the following countries: United Kingdom, Ireland, with a focus on safety and conditions at work (visit to Brazil + Netherlands, Mexico, Algeria, Romania, Bulgaria. Danone/IUF Steering Committee visit to Spain to analyze the • Launch a world survey on staff representation in Danone companies. safety program). Danone Sustainability Report 2010 75 CHART OF 2010 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK Employees Our Stakeholder Commitments 2010 goals and objectives 2009 Performance Employees STRENGTHEN SOCIAL FONDAMENTALS FOR ALL Improve the employability and skills of • Increase access to training for all • Rise in the average annual number of training hours all our employees employees. per employee from 24 to 28. • Increase in the number of training hours (up 16%) and number of employees trained (up 7%). •C  ontinue the VAE program in France • 1,082 VAE graduates at year-end 2009 since the (accreditation of prior experiential beginning of the project compared to the 2009 learning). objective of 1,100 employees. • 47 new employees entered the program in 2009. This figure has been consolidated since the program began in April 2004 and includes the 261 employees in the French Biscuits business (sold in 2007). •H  ire young people for the • Conducted a pilot project in one of Danone’s “Pays apprenticeship program and de Bray” plants to give unqualified young people help them gain the necessary the skills they need to earn a CAP (vocational qualifications. aptitude certificate) in shipping and receiving, with the assistance of regional players. • Develop  sales training methods • Created the “Dream Store College,” a special tailored to the characteristics training module designed to meet the performance of local cultures. needs of the sales staff in the Africa Middle East region. • First implementation with 2,800 Dairy product salespeople in the Africa Middle East region in 2009. Results: a 20 to 30% increase in revenue. E  nsure compliance with fundamental • Improve implementation of the • Scope 2009: 77 CBUs representing 89% of Group sustainable development criteria by 16 Danone Way fundamentals net revenue compared to 58 CBUs representing 76% by increasing the number of of net revenue in 2008. all CBUs (Danone Way) participating CBUs, particularly Baby • Integrated the 10 new CBUs into Danone Way in nutrition and Medical nutrition. Dairy and Waters divisions, 14 new CBUs in Baby and 1 new CBU in Medical. •R  aise the level of sustainable • Percentage of CBUs rated lower than 3 stars: 17% development standards required for in 2009 (like-for-like basis) compared to 33% in Danone Way. 2008. • Percentage of 5-star CBUs: 13% in 2009 (7 CBUs) compared to 5% in 2008. 76 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 2010 Performance 2011 Commitments and Noteworthy Achievements and Short-range Outlook •T  he average number of training hours per employee rose from 2012 Objective 27 hours in 2009 to 31 in 2010 (vs. 24 hours in 2008). • No longer allow employees to go without training for 3 years and • The number of employees trained, across all categories, no job change for 5 years. rose from 75,000 to more than 83,000. • Overall, the number of training hours per employee climbed an average of 29% in two years. •6  5 new employees entered the program, i.e. a total of • End of program. 1,149 graduates. End of program as such, since its goal was to reach 1,000 employees in training. •A  s part of the French government’s Youth Employment plan, set 2011-2012 Objective up a pilot project to create a more diverse group of apprentices • Sign 200 additional contracts in 2011 to bring in a total of 500 young (currently 70%: high school diploma + 2 years of higher education) people in 2012. in order to accommodate those without diplomas in the prequalification period, in cooperation with local partners (employment agencies, non-profit and training organizations). This will enable them to earn their vocational aptitude certificates or BEP (vocational proficiency diploma). • 144 contracts signed in 4 regions in France, 11 Danone sites and at our suppliers’ and subcontractors’ companies. • Over 95% of young people were confirmed after the prequalification period. •4  ,900 salespeople were trained in 11 CBUs in Asia, the Middle East, Objective at year-end 2012 Latin America and Eastern Europe. • 10,000 salespeople trained. •1  12 CBUs representing over 94% of Danone’s revenue were •R  evise the guidelines for the 2012 campaign, especially regarding analyzed as part of the Danone Way program. business and project changes, and types of CBUs. • 14 CBUs audited by external companies. •P  ercentage of CBUs rated lower than 3 stars was 17% in 2010, Objective i.e. 12 CBUs (like-for-like basis with 2009). • All CBUs at the 3-star level at the end of their 3rd self-assessment • Percentage of 5-star CBUs was 9% in 2010 (7 CBUs). process. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 77 CHART OF 2010 STAKEHOLDER COMMITMENTS AND OUTLOOK Employees Our Stakeholder Commitments 2010 goals and objectives 2009 Performance Employees ENCOURAGE RESPONSIBILITY AND AUTONOMY AMONG ALL EMPLOYEES Increase Danone employees’ • Increase Danone employees’ • Definition of CODE (Committed, Open, Doer, autonomy and efficiency autonomy and efficiency. Empowered), Danone leadership attitudes based on its values. • These attitudes have been translated into 30 languages and incorporated into all HR processes (recruitment, assessment, training, career development, identification of leadership potential), with pilot projects conducted in several CBUs. • 30% of CBUs have launched the Danone Leadership College (DLC). E  xpanding diversity by capitalizing on • Conduct  the 1st Danone Women’s • Conducted 1st Danone Women’s Leadership CODE Leadership Lab with 70 participants, Lab in March 2009, with 73 people, 80% of them facilitating the transition to multiple women, and Danone’s CEO and several Executive forms of leadership, with progress Committee members in attendance. in gender parity at all levels of the • Involved Executive Committee members in company. mentoring young women and set up 2 women’s networks. • Offered women’s leadership training to women managers and general managers in the Group training catalog. •S  et Open Sourcing priorities • The strategic priorities selected were “Upward that promote the global diversity Social Mobility” and “New Business Models/New agreement signed in 2007 and give Profiles.” everyone the opportunity to join Danone and advance their careers. •S  et up inter-company diversity • Danone Italy signed the Diversity Charter adopted networks in a number of European by the Italian government for the Diverseurop countries in cooperation with the network’s companies. “Diverseurop” network. • Danone Spain signed the Diversity Charter adopted by the Spanish government. • Continuation of the Spanish network. •S  ign agreements with unions on • Conducted research concerning senior issues specific to seniors in the employment in the Group’s French companies. Group’s French companies. 78 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 2010 Performance 2011 Commitments and Noteworthy Achievements and Short-range Outlook •R  ecruitment guide, including a Danone leadership attitudes • Revise training programs for all employees to reflect CODE leadership observation matrix, currently being distributed. attitude standards: management fundamentals, training for human • Assessment of managers and senior executives using CODE resources managers. leadership attitude standards, with an impact on compensation. •1  1,500 employees trained, including 8,400 “Team Leaders” and •1  5,000 employees trained at year-end 2011; follow-up and training300 in-house trainers practice sessions, designed to develop coaching attitudes in managers. •G ender parity: 2nd year of Danone Women’s Leadership Lab in June • Develop indicators for measuring women’s progress in moving 2010, with presentation of results to all general managers during up the corporate ladder. their annual meeting. • 2 new working groups on flexible career paths modularity • Action plans adopted for Sales, Industrial and Procurement and work-life balance. departments as well as for the Southern Europe and France regions. • Plan for tracking careers of women with leadership potential per • Mentoring programs expanded: over 80 women enrolled. division. • Women’s leadership training: over 200 women trained (100 in France and 100 worldwide). Creation of the EVE seminar with partner companies, a continuation of Danone’s in-house seminars on women’s leadership. The first seminar, which took place in Evian in December 2010, drew 230 women and men. Focusing on the theme, “Take action by daring to be yourself,” the seminar is designed to develop individuals capable of transforming organizations. Recommendations from “Open Sourcing” laboratories in November • Develop  indicators for measuring progress in diversifying candidate 2010: pool during recruitment process (socioeconomic background, • Introduce a new bonus criterion for managers (access for all experience and education). employees to an individual career development and internal promotion plan); • Add a CODE (leadership attitudes) observation matrix to our recruitment methods (identify leadership potential); • “Hiring without a résumé” pilot projects, partnerships with universities and non-profit organizations (HR Mozaik, for example); • Develop special “emerging country” assignments for Danone employees as a recommended stage in their career. •D  iversity policy/organization: produced and distributed a manual •S  et up a diversity structure supported by the various Danone to CBUs to share best practices and to formally lay the groundwork divisions and regions. for a shared needs assessment. • Create a network of diversity representatives in the CBUs. •A  ll French CBUs are now covered by an action plan or senior •S  ign 2 additional agreements and achieve objectives set by employee agreement and achieved specific objectives in the each CBU in its action plans. areas of job retention, training, and flexible working conditions and transition-to-retirement arrangements. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 79 2010 REPORT Sustainability Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain danone way 81 RESPECT 86 Danone’s evaluation by social responsibility rating agencies 89 80 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Danone Way Danone Way methodology For more information about Danone Way’s methodology, see pages 52-56 in the Danone 2009 Sustainability Report. Change in methods in 2010 Since the new version of Danone Way was introduced in 2007, the Group has sought to maintain consistent guidelines to ensure a clear understanding of the Country Business Units’ (CBUs) progress over a period of several years. At the same time, the Group must make occasional changes in response to developments in the five topic areas, in terms of level of requirements, changes in strategy (New Danone in 2009) and integration of the Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition divisions’ new CBUs. In 2010, Danone Way changed its methodology as follows: • implemented the Danone Way program in all Baby nutrition division CBUs and sevenpilot Medical nutrition division CBUs; • created a version called “Danone Way Light” for 10 CBUs that incorporates the five major Danone Way fundamentals (one per topic): Safety at work, Working hours, Environmental footprint, Consumer quality management, and Business conduct policy; • improved the quality assessment of the CBUs’ efforts with a more objective evaluation of the required criteria; • raised the standards for suppliers’ CSR Performance fundamental after implementation of the Sedex platform (see page 94); • strengthened the Local Communities fundamental by requiring the implementation of a large-scale community program (modeled after the Danone Ecosystem or Danone Supporting Life initiatives, see page 65) to achieve the highest rating (level 4); • eliminated questions (fundamental or indicator) considered non-applicable to a specific CBU in the calculation of its final score; Danone Sustainability Report 2010 81 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain Danone Way External audits to certify an internal program To demonstrate the objectivity and reliability of the Danone Way program to the Group’s stakeholders, the program has been audited, since 2002, by an independent firm (KPMG since 2007). Conducted jointly with external auditors (KPMG) and Danone, these audits have three objectives: • ensure the reliability of information originating from Country Business Units (CBUs); • increase the CBUs’ familiarity with Danone Way in terms of the process, expected standards and understanding of the guidelines; • highlight to Danone Way’s corporate staff the best practices developed by the CBUs and the guidelines’ smooth implementation in the daily work routine in order to advance the Danone Way program as much as possible. 14 CBUs representing 17% of Danone’s revenue were audited between November 2010 and March 2011. Combined with the audit of the central consolidation method applied to all CBU results, KPMG thus certifies the entire Danone Way program at Danone Group level. The resulting opinion is published on pages 124 to 126 in this report. 82 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 20 10 0 Environmental Environmental Raw materials Packaging footprint risks production / supply impacts 60 2009 2010 49 50 46 46 2010 Results 44 40 Scope of assessment 30 Consom In 2009, 77 Country Business Units (CBUs) participated in the Danone 20 Way self-assessment, representing 89% of the Group’s revenue. In 2010, 10 in a continuation of the process begun in 2009, 35 new CBUs in the Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition divisions joined the Danone Way program, 0 Quality Standards which now accounts for 94% of the Group’s revenue. Out of the 112 CBUs management on nutrition & health that have joined, 10 have conducted a self-assessment based on the “Danone Way Light” guidelines. Detailed results 60 55 2009 2010 51 Methodological note: All of the results presented below show the trend from 50 50 43 2009-2010 on a like-for-like basis (2009) to make it easier to understand the 41 40 36 Danone Way results. Moreover, the 2009 and 2010 results are based on the 2010 calculation method, i.e. an indicator not applicable to a specific CBU 30 Gouvern is not included in the CBU’s final score, whereas it was considered non20 compliant in 2009 (and thus resulted in a loss of points). 10 0 1. Star Challenge Business conduct Suppliers’ Local The chart on the right shows the breakdown of CBUs based on the number Star Challenge policies corporate social communities responsibility Distribution of Country Business of stars awarded. There has been a continuing trend towards a general Units according to the number of improvement in results, and the effort to focus on CBUs scoring under the stars obtained. three-star threshold has been bearing fruit. In fact, the proportion of CBUs 10% 10% under this minimum acceptable performance level has dropped from 36% to 16%. There has even been a very strong trend of CBUs jumping from three to 29% four stars. 53% 25% Star cha 21% 36% 16% No star 2009 2010 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 83 60 2009 2010 60 2009 2010 60 53 2009 51the 2010 60 2009 2010 Measuring progress 50 49 and performance 50 50 50 throughout 50 50 49 value chain 46 46 45 50 44 48 49 48 41 4349 49 50 45 48 46 45 50 46 46 45 40 43 44 40 41 Droits humains Relations humaines 40 40 30 Thématiques Droits hu 30 30 30 Danone Way 20 20 20 20 10 10 10 10 0 0 2. Equal opportunity Topics and Safety at work Fundamentals Health at work and diversity 0 Social dialogue Human Working Humantime Environment Compensation Development and benefits Consumers &Governance training Change 0 in the average Equal opportunity Safety at work score for Health at work In 2010, the five areas had higher scores, withRights a particularly Relations significant increase CBUs (policies and indicators total) and diversity in the following areas: for each of the 5 Danone Way topics • Environment: largely due to efforts to improve the safe use of raw materials: from 2009 to 2010. 60 FaRMS in the Dairy products 2009 division 2010 (see 60 page 178 in this report)2009 and 2010 60 2009 2010 60 SPRING 50 53 in50 the50 Waters 51division 2009 (see 2010 page60 46 in this report), included 2009 in the 2010 60 2009 2010 49 49 48 53 48 49 49 50 Raw Materials Impact fundamental. In 50 addition, the GREEN47 initiative plays 5047 50 45 50 50 50 46 49 45 51 48 49 48 41 43 49 43 46 42 49 50 45 48 48 46 45 50 46 41 45 42 50 41 43 40 an important role 41 in verifying the Environmental 43 40 3944 Risks fundamental (see 40 41 43 Relations humaines Thémati 40 page 42 in this report). 40 40 Droits humains Relations 30 30 Thématiques 30 Environnement •30 Governance: due to strengthening knowledge 30 of the CBU regarding their 30 20 local communities. 20 20 20 20 20 10 10 10 It’s 10 also worth noting that the Compensation 10 & Benefits fundamental 10 0 0 0 (Human 0 Social Relations Working topic), after Compensation Developmenta year of decline 0 in 2009 Environmental due to Environmental Rawmuch materials tougherPackaging 0 Human Human Environment Consumers Governance dialogue time Environment and benefits &Governance training footprint risksSafety atproduction / supplyHealth impacts Rights Relations standards, Human Rights started Human Relations rising again Consumers (see below for more Equal information opportunity and diversity on work all the at work Social dialogue Working time Compensation Development and benefits & training fundamentals). Human Rights Human Relations Environment 60 2009 2010 60 2009 2010 60 2009 2010 60 2009 2010 60 2009 2010 60 2009 2010 50 47 49 47 53 49 49 50 50 46 50 51 46 50 46 46 43 49 50 50 44 50 49 44 49 45 50 46 42 46 41 42 50 50 47 47 3944 45 40 40 43 40 43 42 42 41 41 39 Droits hu 40 40 40 30 Droits humains Relations humaines 30 Environnement 30 Consommateurs 30 30 30 Environn 20 20 20 20 20 20 10 10 10 10 10 10 0 0 0 Environmental Environmental Raw materials Packaging Quality Standards 0 footprint 0 0 Equal opportunity Safety at work Health at work Equal opportunity risks Safety at production work / supplyHealth impacts at work Socialmanagement Working on nutrition &Development Compensation health and diversity Environmental Raw materials Environmental Packaging and diversity dialogue time and benefits & training footprint risks production / supply impacts Consumers Governance 60 2009 2010 60 55 2009 2010 60 2009 2010 60 2009 2010 60 2009 2010 60 53 512009 2010 49 50 51 50 50 50 50 53 50 49 50 44 46 50 50 46 51 50 49 49 43 49 43 50 50 47 41 47 50 46 46 41 40 43 40 43 42 42 44 41 36 41 40 39 Relations 40 40 40 30 Relations humaines 30 Consommateurs 30 Gouvernance 30 30 30 Environnement Consom 20 20 20 20 20 20 2009 10 10 10 10 10 10 0 0 0 2010 Quality Standards Business conduct Suppliers’ Local Social Working Compensation Development 0 0 0 SocialmanagementWorking on nutrition & Development Compensation health policies Environmental Environmental Raw materials communities corporate social Packaging dialogue Quality time Standards & training and benefits dialogue time and benefits & training footprint risks responsibility production / supply impacts management on nutrition & health 84 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 60 55 2009 2010 60 2009 2010 10% 10% Danone Way in 2011 and outlook In the future, there will be a considerable increase in the number of innovative sustainable development projects initiated by the Country Business Units (CBUs). As a result, Danone Way will have more responsibility than ever for ensuring the robustness of the Social Responsibility fundamentals. Danone Way will thus be facing two challenges: adapting both the guidelines’ content and the coordination process within the Group. First, in terms of process, the higher number of CBUs participating in Danone Way will require providing more assistance through intermediaries in divisional and regional organizations, particularly by using more targeted and inter-CBU audits conducted jointly by KPMG and experienced “Danone Walkers.” Finally, adapting the guidelines will have to allow for the integration of the Medical nutrition division’s newest CBUs as well as the need to establish sufficiently ambitious standards for the most mature CBUs and to maintain consistency between policies and performance indicators on the one hand and Danone’s four strategic priorities on the other. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 85 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain Respect The RESPECT program The year 2009 was one of strong forward movement due to: • the integration of the Fundamental Environmental Principles and Principles of Business Ethics into procurement contracts and general terms of procurement, in addition to the Fundamental Social Principles integrated since 2001. Together these form the Sustainable Development Principles; • the extension of the approach to the Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition units; • the shift from internal audits based on primarily social criteria to external so called “SMETA” audits including the four pillars: Health and safety, Employment law, Environment and Business ethics. The RESPECT approach benefited from this strong forward movement, which led to registration of 1,282 suppliers on the Sedex platform in 2010, all divisions combined, covering 50% of raw materials and packaging suppliers as well as the major service suppliers for all group Country Business Units (CBUs). Zone Waters Baby & medical Dairy Total nutrition products Africa 0 0 14 14 Americas 97 45 117 259 Asia 135 134 19 288 Europe 153 267 302 722 Total 385 445 452 1 282 This table shows the breakdown of the number of supplier sites that have completed the self-evaluation questionnaire on the SEDEX platform by geographic area and division. 86 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Based on the self-evaluations of these 1,282 suppliers, 103 were identified for SMETA audits by external auditors, a 60% increase over the number of audits in 2009, with considerable strengthening of environmental and business ethics criteria. Zone Waters Baby & medical Dairy Total nutrition products Africa 0 0 2 2 Americas 13 1 13 27 Asia 17 4 29 50 Europe 4 8 12 24 Total 34 13 56 103 This table shows the breakdown of the number of supplier sites that have completed a SMETA audit by geographic area and division. Results in 2010 Most of these audits were carried out in Asia and South America, regions viewed as at-risk with regard to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) practices. The external audit results are as follows: Topic Percentage of non-compliance issues Health & safety 31% Working hours 23% Wages 16% Forced labor 6% Freedom of association 6% Child labor 4% Discrimination 3% Environment 3% Other 8% This table shows the breakdown of non-compliance issues identified by the audits. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 87 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain Respect Results in 2010 were comparable to those in 2009: health and safety, working hours and wages remain the areas in which the most non-compliance issues were detected. These audits led to implementation of corrective action plans with suppliers. RESPECT outlook The program’s aim and objectives were set at end 2010 by the RESPECT Committee and Danone’s top management. The primary 2011 objectives are to: • further promote supplier registration (to reach 100% by end 2011) and the number of audits completed (eventually covering 100% of at-risk suppliers); • continue to structure tools and processes to support the RESPECT approach, and work together with other FMCG (Fast Moving Consumer Goods) sector companies to promote the necessary standardization of these processes and tools; • strengthen buyers’ skills in terms of educating suppliers with regard to topics identified as at-risk. 88 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Danone’s evaluation by social responsibility rating agencies Dow Jones Sustainability Index Rating – October 2010 The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is a major global index that evaluates the sustainable development performance of the 75 best-performing companies (chosen from a total pool of 1,400 companies), according to social, environmental and economic criteria. These criteria have become stricter over the years and companies need to continuously improve to remain in the index. Danone has been in this index since its creation in 1999, with a score of 74% (compared with 73% in 2009), and is part of a panel of the nine best companies worldwide in the agri-food sector in the 2010 index. Economic dimension Danone’s economic performance is rated average for the sector, with a score down by five points due to the relative drop in Danone’s rating for three items: corporate governance, innovation management and nutrition/ Danone rating in the DJSI in 2010 health. At the same time, Danone progressed in other areas, such as emerging 100 91 markets strategy and risk and crisis management, where Danone has almost 90 84 84 83 80 76 the best rating. 73 66 67 74 70 65 63 65 60 Environmental dimension 50 Danone is clearly positioned as an agri-food sector leader in the environmental 40 area, with a three-points increase in the index in 2010, following a five30 20 point rise in 2009. Of the seven environmental evaluation criteria, Danone 10 is rated a benchmark company (highest rating) in four areas: environmental 0 Economic Environmental Social Overall reporting, environmental management systems, packaging, and raw materials dimension dimension dimension procurement methods. Minimum global DJSI rating Danone rating Social dimension Maximum global DJSI rating Danone’s performance in the social dimension is stable. The company’s key strengths are in labor practices and social reporting, and areas for progress include the corporate citizenship and philanthropy criteria (due to the lack of consolidated reporting of budgets for these items in 2010), as well as health and safety, despite strong progress. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 89 Measuring progress and performance throughout the value chain Danone’s evaluation by social responsibility rating agencies VIGEO Rating March 2010 The European leader in social responsibility ratings, Vigeo measures the social responsibility performance of European, American and Asian companies in the DJ Stoxx 1800 Global in six evaluation areas (see table). Danone was evaluated in March 2010 with a panel of 19 companies in the agri-food sector, and has achieved an overall score of 60/100. Vigeo noted in its report that “the group is aware of the opportunities and threats arising from the integration of Corporate Social Responsibility principles, and these are a significant component of its business strategy.” March 2010 evaluation of Danone in the six rating areas, and 2008 comparison Evaluation areas 03/2010 03/2010 04/2008 rating rank rank 0 25 50 75 100 min / max ++ Human Human resources 76 ++ ++ resources Environment 56 ++ + Environment Behavior in the markets 54 + + Corporate governance 48 = Behavior in the markets Social commitment 72 ++ + Corporate Human rights 68 ++ ++ governance Social Danone has made significant progress since the last evaluation in 2008, commitment with a higher rating for all indicators, notably Human resources and Social Human rights commitment. Danone is also positioned as the agri-food sector leader in three areas: • Human resources; • Social commitment; • promoting and respect of Human rights. (see rating in the tables opposite). 90 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Danone’s Human Resources (HR) policies are recognized as ambitious and dynamic, and as presenting a competitive advantage for the group in the following areas in particular: • promoting labor dialogue; • employment forecast management and ongoing skills and employability improvement for employees; • implementing joint approaches for managing corporate restructuring. The fundamental social principles (respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, promoting non-discrimination in the group, etc.) remain at the heart of Danone HR policies. In terms of social commitment, Danone is the leader in the sector with extensive policies in the areas of: • economic and social development of the regions and countries in which it does business; • development of products and services to reduce obesity and cardiovascular disease. Danone is also the second-leading company in terms of behavior in the markets and environmental performance. Danone is recognized for its advanced environmental strategy that includes quantified objectives for all relevant challenges in the sector, and for the publication of adequate periodic reporting indicators. Finally, the group’s performance in terms of corporate governance is now rated as average for the sector, after significant progress made in 2010. Other ratings Danone is also present in the ASPI and Ethibel sustainable development indices, which highlight the company’s performance in terms of social responsibility and respect for the environment at European level. The Aspi Eurozone index includes the 120 best-rated listed companies in the euro zone based on Vigeo ratings for their environmental and social performance. The Ethibel index offers potential investors an overview of the leading companies in the areas of sustainable development and social responsibility. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 91 2010 REPORT Sustainability A social approach built on Danone’s unique feature Social integration tools in the company’s business 93 Stakeholders at the heart of the dialogue 97 Corporate governance 104 Nutrition and Health governance 106 92 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Social integration tools in the company’s business Danone Way: the fundamental sustainable development principles in Danone’s Country Business Units (CBUs) Launched in 2001, the Danone Way program is based on the fundamentals of Danone’s sustainable development strategy. In 2010, 112 CBUs, representing 94% of Group revenue, assessed their performance in five areas based on guidelines covering policies and indicators that concretely convey Danone’s key Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) criteria. This program meets stakeholders’ CSR expectations and drives efficiency and progress at all CBUs. Danone Way enables: • Danone to provide guidance to startup CBUs, particularly in emerging countries; • Danone to instill its corporate culture in newly acquired, but already structured, CBUs; • each CBU to compare its performance to that of its fellow CBUs and learn ways to improve. As evidence that Danone Way has become deeply rooted in the corporate culture, the 2010 participation rate and the results have significantly increased. This demonstrates that CSR performance is viewed as a leverage for setting the Group apart and transforming the business during a period of economic crisis. For more information about Danone Way’s history, see pages 52 to 56 in the Danone 2009 Sustainability Report. For detailed 2010 results, see pages 83 and 84 in this report. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 93 A social approach built on Danone’s unique features Social integration tools in the company’s business RESPECT: Monitoring the suppliers’ Corporate Social Responsibility Due to Danone’s relationships with thousands of suppliers around the world, a significant portion of its environmental and social impact takes place within these companies that evolve in partnership with the group. A direct reflection of Danone’s “dual economic and social project”, the RESPECT approach launched in 2005 consists in extending this vision to the group’s entire supply chain, except milk producers, following a specific process: • contractualizing suppliers’ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) performance with the signature of Sustainable Development Principles and their integration into general terms of procurement; • exchanging information through self-declarations by suppliers concerning their CSR performance, on the Sedex platform connecting players in the FMCG (Fast Moving Consumer Goods) sector; • external CSR auditing of suppliers viewed as at-risk based on this information exchange, with a view to implementing an appropriate action plan (see diagram). For more details on the RESPECT methodology, see the 2009 Danone Sustainability Report, pages 63 to 69. The detailed results for 2010 are presented on pages 86 to 88 of this report. In taking this proactive approach to CSR issues with its suppliers, Danone supports its partners’ sustainable business methods and thus its own sustainable development. RESPECT also represents significant change in business RESPECT monitoring and control procedure relationships, in terms of comprehensiveness and transparency “Non-conform” of information to be documented and shared. Well aware of ACTION suppliers PLAN the efforts required from suppliers in this context, Danone, together with other companies in the AIM-PROGRESSEXTERNAL AUDIT “Risky” suppliers SEDEX group, has taken on the responsibility of promoting change in commercial practices to support more sustainable RISK MAPPING via SEDEX shared with other members of SEDEX development of the agri-food industry. SEDEX REGISTRATION CONTRACTUAL CLAUSE (Sustainability Principles) 0% Suppliers covered 100% 94 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 A bonus system that integrates social performance since 2008 The social dimension is a powerful force to bring meaning and commitment to Danone’s employees. Since 2008, criteria used to evaluate the performance of the company’s 1,400 managing executives are based on a three-part bonus system: • 1/3 for economic objectives, • 1/3 for social and environmental objectives, • 1/3 for individual performance objectives. More specifically, in 2010, management’s «short-term» variable compensation was determined based on specific performance with regard to ten economic, social and management objectives and calculated using objective, measurable criteria together with the supervisor’s assessment, in three areas: 1. The group’s economic objectives and published market data: • Net revenue, Operating Profit, Operating Free Cash Flow (OFCF) for the manager’s scope of responsibility; • Earning per Share (EPS) applied across Danone. 2. Danone’s social objectives, which are divided into two areas: • the “Social Fundamentals”: Workplace Safety including accident frequency rate and implementation of specific action plans for the CBUs identified by the group’s Safety Committee; the “Great Place to Grow Index” as an indicator of HR progress, which has been tested for the Dairy products division and includes data and resources (employee training hours, part of management positions held by non-managers, internal promotion rate for all open positions, accident frequency rate); and employees’ perception of these topics, measured by the external Towers Watson agency opinion poll; • the New Danone strategic priorities: for the Nature priority: reduction of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, and for the People priority: talents development plan or “Danone Leadership College” rollout plan. 3. Specific individual objectives within the scope of each manager and consistent with the group’s strategy, in some cases with a specific objective concerning the New Danone Health priority. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 95 A social approach built on Danone’s unique features Social integration tools in the company’s business Danone’s unique approach in this area is based on its three-part short-term variable compensation structure, which makes it possible to manage the group’s economic and social strategy as precisely as possible. The system for setting objectives and managing performance continued to prove its effectiveness in 2010: • the group’s economic objectives are aligned with published market data; • social results (reduced accident frequency rate, measurement and reduction of CO2, Danone Leadership College launch, talent development and the Great Place to Grow Index dedicated to employees development, etc.) meet or exceed stated objectives. Beyond these results, this bonus system for the group’s 1,400 managers and executives serves to reinforce the dual economic and social project that has motivated Danone teams for almost 40 years, for the benefit of Danone employees as well as its ecosystem. 96 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Stakeholders at the heart of the dialogue Danone’s approach toward stakeholders: from dialog to co-creation In keeping with the spirit of its dual economic and social project, Danone believes that the relations it has developed with its stakeholders are part of its business model. The Group has established processes and applications to organize this dialog with public and private sector institutions outside the company. For Danone, the main challenge involves “co-creation” i.e. creating shared value to benefit both the company and its stakeholders. Danone’s approach is therefore separate from the traditional view of philanthropy, which is generally distinct from the company. Danone is convinced that its interaction with partners who have gained experience and skills complementary to its own can serve as powerful means for transformation and innovation both for the company and society. More than mere “dialog,” Danone’s actions are all about creating “solutions.” One of Danone’s action principles is to work toward developing partnerships concluded at corporate level with suitable partners and preferably based on projects and local situations. Danone’s Country Business Units (CBUs) therefore have considerable leeway in each country to develop partnerships with those organizations offering the greatest synergies. The Group’s role is to provide guidelines for selecting partners and to encourage the CBUs and its partners to share information and capitalize on their respective best practices. Information-sharing platforms have been established on the Group’s intranet networks. Each year, the Danone Social Innovation Lab brings together all the organizations active in business and social innovation. In July 2010, more than 200 participants from 30 different countries spent two days working on specific innovation projects related to general health and nutrition, reducing environmental impacts, sustainable agriculture, etc. Some 50 organizations outside of Danone (non-governmental organizations, research and development centers, public-sector associations, etc.) participated in the Social Innovation Lab. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 97 A social approach built on Danone’s unique features Stakeholders at the heart of the dialogue While the impetus for these projects is local, they are governed by the Group at several levels: • Each of the Funds created on Danone’s initiative has governance bodies composed mainly of people from outside the company. Thus the Board of Directors of danone.communities is co-chaired by Professor Muhammad Yunus and includes representatives from civil society such as Jean-Michel Sévérino, the former Director General of the French Development Agency; Jay Naidoo, Chairman of the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition; Maria Nowak, Chairwoman of the microfinance association ADIE. The Steering Committee of the Danone Ecosystem Fund is co-chaired by Martin Hirsch, the former Commissioner for Active Solidarity of the French government, and Pascal Lamy, the Director General of the World Trade Organization (WTO); other members include: Bill Drayton, Chairman of the social entrepreneurs movement Ashoka; Esther Duflo, founder of Poverty Action Lab; Ron Oswal, General Secretary of the International Union of Food Workers (IUF). The Executive Committee of the Danone Fund for Nature is co-chaired by Anada Tiega, General Secretary of the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands and Julia Marton-Lefèvre, Director General of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN). • The Social Innovation Committee is responsible for validating projects that have been previously analyzed by teams dedicated to the various funds. The Committee decides on the financing to be allocated to the projects, which it then monitors. It also plays a broader role of initiating and proposing social innovation themes to the Group’s Executive Committee. The Committee consists of some 10 members: General Managers of the regions, representatives from the various divisions and heads of corporate functions. It is chaired by Muriel Pénicaud, the Head of Group Human Resources and led by Bernard Giraud, Vice-President responsible for Sustainable Development. • The Social Responsibility Committee is a committee of the Board of Directors charged with keeping the Board informed on all of these matters. Comprised of Group directors, the Committee gives an opinion of overall orientations, projects and their impact while paying close attention to potential conflicts of interest. 98 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 People A forerunner in the area of international social dialog, Danone distinguished itself very early on by signing the first international framework agreements with the International Union of Food Workers (IUF). Eight framework agreements were signed, with Danone and the IUF jointly responsible for their promotion and assessing their implementation in the Country Business Units (CBUs) in several countries. Following the October 2009 meeting of the Information and Consultation Committee, a new international framework agreement on health, safety, working conditions and stress is currently being negotiated and should be signed in 2011. In order to accurately reflect the actual conditions, the negotiators traveled together to inspect several plants, notably in Spain and Brazil, and finalized the draft agreement in late 2010. Danone takes part in several initiatives aimed at stimulating local employment, particularly in France through the Initiative 500 program, which strives to promote access to skills training for low-skilled youths through a preliminary training period of at least four months, including one-third provided at the company. At the end of this preliminary training period, the youths are typically able to participate in an apprenticeship training program that includes qualifications ranging from the French professional aptitude certificate (CAP) to the French baccalaureate (Bac). Working with institutional organizations at local level (French Regional Councils, DDTEFP, local youth advice centers, the French employment agency, ADAPT, etc.), as well as subcontractors to bring these youths into the company, Danone has also used instructors from the preliminary training stage with special training. Moreover, since its launch in late 2009, the Danone Ecosystem Fund has made it possible to finance some 20 projects related to “upstream” agriculture, the collection and recycling of used packaging, local distribution, etc. The principle of the Fund is that each project be initiated and led by a Danone CBU in partnership with one or more non-profit organizations. These organizations may be purely local NGOs or local branches of international NGOs. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 99 A social approach built on Danone’s unique features Stakeholders at the heart of the dialogue The following are examples of projects financed by the Fund in 2010: the development of a social business involved in local distribution in Mexico with Ashoka and local NGOs; the creation of cooperatives with small dairy producers in Ukraine along with Heifer; a program to develop small-scale producers in Egypt with CARE and in Mexico with Technoserve; the conversion of dairy farms to organic milk production in France with the Institut de l’Elevage; a program to collect and recycle plastic packaging in Indonesia with Ashoka and local NGOs, etc. In each of these cases, an agreement defines the project’s economic and social objectives, measures their impact and the action plans to be implemented, the special resources to be made available to the partners and the project governance. Nature The development of the strategic focus on Nature requires dialog with several different stakeholders depending on the topics addressed. This dialog involves consultations with the stakeholders to assess the challenges and impacts of choices that will be made or to explore new areas where Danone would like to make progress. In 2010, these consultations in several countries and at corporate level focused primarily on new packaging materials, impacts on biodiversity, the supply of agricultural-based commodities, notably with respect to the challenges involving palm oil and GMOs. Organizations such as WWF, IUCN, the Nicolas Hulot Foundation and the Ramsar Convention are involved in these consultations. In addition to the consultations, Danone is developing several joint initiatives under major programs dealing with environmental challenges, particularly the link between agriculture, food and climate change. Danone is therefore working with the French National Institute for Agricultural Research and SAP to develop an information and decision-making system that integrates CO2 impacts and financial indicators. 100 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 To complement the actions aimed at reducing CO2 emissions, Danone has developed innovative offset programs. These programs are conducted through the Danone Fund for Nature, created in 2008 in partnership with the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and the Ramsar Convention. All projects are implemented by local NGOs. In 2009 and 2010, the project to restore mangroves in Senegal, led by the Senegalese NGO Oceanium, led to planting 100 million mangrove trees, which will sequester more than 500,000 metric tons of carbon and help to reestablish biodiversity and fish stocks, thereby improving the food security of the villages. In 2010, two other carbon offset projects with major social and environmental impacts were launched in India, one with the NEWS non-governmental organization to restore mangroves in the Sundarbans (Western Bengal) and another with the Naandi Foundation to plant fruit trees with the Adivasi communities in the Araku valley. The success of these projects conducted in 2009 and 2010 has encouraged Danone to step up this innovative carbon offset approach. Health To implement its mission of “bringing health through food,” Danone’s teams work in each country and at corporate level with the public health authorities responsible for defining food and health priorities. Ongoing dialog is organized with the Ministry of Health, agencies specialized in nutrition and public health and nutrition experts. This dialog allows us to understand the major nutritional issues in the various countries where Danone operates and to co-develop solutions (products and services) offering the greatest potential benefits. Since 2002, Danone has further enhanced its understanding of local environments through the establishment of Nutripacks, i.e. summaries of nutrition challenges in the various countries. This approach, which demonstrates a strong commitment toward developing increasingly relevant products, is further enhanced by a component on dietary practices, dietary behavior and food claims in a given country. Partnerships such as the one concluded with the International Nutrition Foundation, which is a benchmark for nutrition in the emerging market countries, also bolster Danone’s expertise and commitment to openness and co-construction. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 101 A social approach built on Danone’s unique features Stakeholders at the heart of the dialogue Through these actions, Danone’s team members all work closely with nutrition experts, sociologists, doctors, etc. This work with stakeholders is also reflected at the scientific level through cooperation which goes beyond the products. Thus Danone recently created the ANCA (French acronym referring to diet, nutrition and dietary behavior) Company Chair with AgroParisTech school in Paris. The purpose of this chair is to create new knowledge (research, training, events) in the area of nutrition science, technology and sociology in order to offer dietary and dietary behavior solutions, help raise awareness and educate all walks of civil society. A partnership has also been established with Tufts University in Boston, the leading U.S. university in the area of nutrition. The Danone Institutes, non-profit independent organizations, which bring together scientists and nutrition experts from some 20 countries, also promote dialog and information-sharing. Each year, the Institutes provide up to €1 million in financial support to research efforts on the link between diet and health. In 2010, the Institutes provided financial backing for some 60 research studies focused on intestinal microflora, nutrition, obesity prevention and nutritional status among other topics. Teaching tools have also been developed to help teachers work with children. In the Czech Republic, the Healthy Alphabet program based on the preschool General Education Curriculum was launched. This program also provides teachers with well-researched thematic learning modules and seminars on dietary education accredited by the Czech Ministry of Education. This program was implemented by a multidisciplinary team: members of the Danone Institute, experts in the areas of physical education, nutrition, mental health and the environment, NGOs, teaching specialists and preschool teachers. Danone’s dialog with stakeholders in the health and nutrition fields is not limited to scientific research or education. Danone also works closely with other food industry players to develop solutions aimed at helping consumers make well-informed and healthy food choices. That approach applies in particular to providing consumers with nutritional information on the products and ensuring responsible marketing and advertising practices. 102 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 For all To develop models that allow us to bring health through food to as many people as possible, Danone works with several large international partners such as the Global Alliance For Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and numerous local private and public organizations depending on the projects. After an initial step consisting in understanding local nutritional situations and needs, so-called immersion projects are designed and implemented with NGOs or universities in the respective countries. Thus in 2010, Danone’s Base of the Pyramid teams worked in India with several organizations, notably Drishtee, an Indian NGO that develops local services in rural areas. New products satisfying special nutritional needs of the respective populations are designed as part of a “co-development” process between Danone’s Research and Development and marketing teams, NGOs and local experts. Thus in Senegal, the development of a product aimed at school-aged children was carried out in close collaboration with the team from danone.communities, Danone Research and Development experts, the Senegalese NGO ENDA, Senegal’s Ministry of Education, support from a French NGO, GRET, and help from Mrs. Diouf, a restaurant owner with extraordinary knowledge of local tastes and ingredients. In Indonesia, the design and launch of the product Gizikita aimed at complementing the diet of infants (between 6 and 36 months) and providing dietary supplements to pregnant and nursing mothers to fight against dietary deficiencies were carried out in partnership with the Indonesian Ministry of Health, the National Midwives Association and an Indonesian NGO, PKPU. Awareness raising programs for families, and notably mothers, are organized with these partners at local dispensaries. In 2010, a company was created in India that was supported by danone.communities in partnership with the Naandi Foundation to develop access to pure water for impoverished rural populations. This Indian foundation has developed major programs in the areas of nutrition in schools, access to water and rural development. The new packaged water distribution company aims to equip 2,000 villages with water purification plants over the next three years, creating a positive impact on the health of 600,000 people in rural areas. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 103 A social approach built on Danone’s unique features Corporate governance Sound governance is not only a management imperative but also an asset for getting through crisis situations. It is in this spirit that Danone strives to move ahead. With special attention given to strengthening the dialogue with its stakeholders and with the willingness to harmoniously fulfil its mission to bring health through food to as many people as possible. Since the mid-1990s, Danone has sought to adopt rules and processes established across the enterprise. This work was supported by the Board of Directors (see table below) and helped build the framework and tools for good governance in order to ensure the management of risk and compliance of the company’s business activities with applicable regulations. With the advent of the two divisions of Baby Nutrition and Medical Nutrition, Danone has now become a company totally focused on healthy nutrition and diet, which has further reinforced some governance issues for the group. Mandatory information regarding the company’s governance is available in Danone’s Registration Document. References to the relevant pages are indicated in the GRI index on pages 115 and 116 of this report. The board of directors and its committees The Board of Directors At the time of this report, the Danone Board of Directors was composed of the following fourteen members, eight of whom are independent. The Danone Board of Directors The Danone Board of Directors, meeting on February 14, 2011, approved the resolutions that will be submitted to the Shareholders’ Annual Meeting . Franck Riboud on April 28, 2011. . Emmanuel Faber . Bernard Hours In the framework of continuous improvement of the group’s governance, and . Bruno Bonnell 1 upon recommendation by the Nomination and Compensation Committee, . Michel David-Weill the Board will present the Board appointments of Ms Isabelle Seillier and . Richard Goblet D’alviella 1 Mr. Jean-Michel Severino for shareholder vote at the April 28, 2011 . Yoshihiro Kawabata Annual Meeting. . Christian Laubie 1 . Jean Laurent 1 . Hakan Mogren 1 . Jacques Nahmias 1 . Benoît Potier 1 . Guylaine Saucier 1 . Jacques Vincent 1 Independent Director 104 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 In this new configuration, subject to its approval by the upcoming Annual Meeting: • members viewed as independent by the majority of institutional investors will comprise 50% of the Board (seven members out of 14); and • the ratio of women on the Board will rise from 7% to 14% (two of the 14 members). The Board will thereby improve its ratio of independent and of female members. The Board restates its intent to continue to pursue improved governance in terms of independence and participation of women in the future in proposals submitted to the Annual Meeting. The Audit Committee, Nomination and Compensation Committee and Social Responsibility Committee Complete descriptions of the Audit Committee, Nomination and Compensation Committee and Social Responsibility Committee are available in the Danone Registration Document (see respectively chapters 6.2 page 163, 6.3 page 165 and 6.4 page 168). The governance of the following funds: danone.communities Fund, Danone Fund for Nature and Danone Ecosystem Fund, is detailed on page 98 of this report. The internal control and risk management procedures applied by the group are described in the 2009 Sustainability Report on pages 33 to 39. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 105 A social approach built on Danone’s unique features Nutrition and Health governance Danone’s Nutrition and Health governance Health and nutrition are at the very heart of Danone’s mission, and therefore also of the corporate governance. To create a Health and Nutrition strategy in line with its mission, Danone has created Nutrition and Health governance structures that meet very stringent criteria. These structures are based on principles, mechanisms, commitments and evaluation methods that allow Danone to meet its commitments and fully express its values of social involvement and responsibility in action. Principles 1. A rigorous scientific approach The first core principle is to apply a rigorous scientific approach to developing products and demonstrating their nutritional and health benefits. This pillar is based on Danone’s unique Research and Development expertise, as well as ongoing and open communication with the scientific community through public and/or private partnerships, meetings of experts and seminars. This scientific approach uses internal reference tools (described in the 2009 Sustainability Report) to ensure project relevance (selected nutritional/health objectives, food involved, proposed nutritional responses, etc.) and provide convincing science-based evidence of products’ effectiveness. 2. Self-discipline that goes beyond official regulations Danone’s Nutrition and Health governance also seeks to establish rules that are stricter than existing regulations with the aim of raising up the products’ relevance and ensuring greater trust and transparency in Danone’s communications. This approach is based on several internal tools (see Sustainability Report 2009 for a description) and on national, regional and/or international codes of best practice such as the International Chamber of Commerce code of Responsible Marketing Communication of Food and Beverages. 3. A consistently collaborative approach with many stakeholders at national, regional and international levels Danone supports national, European Community and international collaborative efforts involving both industrial players and civil society, particularly those that seek to promote clear consumer information or foster responsible health and nutrition behaviors. 106 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Mechanisms The health and nutrition facets of Danone’s corporate governance are managed by the Global Nutrition and Health Policy Committee. Chaired by a member of Danone’s Executive Board, this committee includes executives responsible for the main nutrition and health related functions, such as Research and Development, Regulatory affairs, Health and medical affairs, Quality and External relations. The committee meets every two to three months to discuss emerging topics, evaluate potential impacts and define appropriate positions and commitments. It also formulates concrete action plans, directives, guidelines, benchmarks and tool kits, and monitors their rollout in the Danone business units. Danone’s commitments Ensuring safety and quality from production to the end consumer is Danone’s primary responsibility. Beyond this core duty, the Global Nutrition and Health Policy Committee has defined five fundamental health and nutrition commitments targeting the major food-related public health issues of today and tomorrow: 1. Propose nutrition solutions continuously tailored to nutritional needs and recommendations, tastes, and incomes, 2. Develop products with relevant, scientifically proven health benefits, 3. Inform consumers clearly and factually and advertise responsibly, 4. Promote healthy diets and lifestyles, 5. Address major health and nutrition related societal challenges. Evaluation of Danone’s commitments Implementation of the Food, Nutrition and Health Charter, and compliance with its commitments, are the responsibility of every one of Danone’s business units. They carry out a self-assessment of their Nutrition & Health policy every year as part of the Danone Way approach, under the supervision of the Labor Relations and Social Responsibility department and verified by independent auditors. This approach ensures that Danone’s responsibility to support people’s social, economic and environmental well-being remains at the heart of its commitment to health and nutrition. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 107 2010 Sustainability REPORT Historical approach and highlights Reference documents 109 Highlights and Key dates 1972-2010 110 108 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Reference documents • A ntoine Riboud’s speech in Marseille (1972) constitutes the group’s cultural heritage. It was formalised in 1974 in the economic and social dual project. • The Fundamental Social Principles, based on the standards defined by the International Labour Organisation, provide the basis to be respected by all companies within the group, Country Business Units, partners and suppliers. • The joint conventions signed with the International Union of Food (IUF) since 1988, which include the World Convention on Diversity, signed on June 8, 2007, serve as the reference for international trade union dialogue within the group. • The Environmental Charter (1996) commits the group from the design of products right through to the recycling of the packaging to a management approach that is more environmentally-responsible. • The Bledina Charter for breath milk substitutes (2005) relates to the marketing of baby products. • The Danone Business Conduct Policy (1997, revised in 2001, 2005 and 2009) details the behaviour expected of managers on issues such as corruption and conflicts of interest. • The group’s Values, formalised in 1997: openness, enthusiasm, humanism and proximity. • The Food Nutrition and Health Charter (2005, revised in October 2009) formalises Danone’s commitments. The 5 commitments of the new charter represent a response to the concerns of authorities regarding public health issues related to food. • The Global Policy on the Protection of Underground Water Resources (2005) commits Danone to ensuring the sustainable management of its sources. • Franck Riboud’s speech (of December 2008) for the launch of the Chair in “Social Business / Enterprise and Poverty”, in partnership with HEC, reaffirms the economic and social dual project supported by Danone. • CODE: an initiative launched in 2009 aimed at formalising and developing the leadership style and attitudes expected of all employees, in close alignment with the Danone values. • The Danone Inside Pack: created and distributed in 2009 to all employees and all new arrivals. This is the reference document on: the history and background, the Danone values, areas of strategic focus, managerial attitudes (CODE), the Danone Way initiative and the Business Conduct Policy. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 109 Historical approach and highlights Highlights and key dates 1972-2010 2008 2009 2007 2010 Creation of the Creation of the Danone Fund for Creation of the Danone 2006 Danone Ecosystem Nature with the Communities Fund. Launch of the Dan Cares Fund approved International Union program to bring miniCreation of the company at the Annual for the Conservation World Convention mum medical coverage Grameen Danone Foods General Meeting of Nature, this coming on Diversity signed to all employees in every Limited. of Shareholders. after 10 years of between Danone and geographic region. partnership with Ramsar the International Union Danone refocuses its First carbon offset (International Convention of Food (IUF). The first EVE seminar, mission around health: project with the on the Protection of a women leadership “Bringing health through Danone Fund for Wetlands in the World). Danone completed the program created on food to as many people Nature: the restoration sale of its Biscuits and Danone’s initiative in as possible”. of mangroves in Senegal Launch of the Chair Cereal Products division partnership with other in partnership with a “Social Business/ and took over control companies, uniting 230 Deployment of the local NGO, Oceanium. Enterprise and Poverty” of Royal Numico N.V. women leaded by the sustainable procurement in partnership with the specialized in baby common topic “Dare to (RESPECT) initiative Revision of Food HEC school. Nutrition and Medical be yourself to act”. in all Country Business Nutrition and Health Nutrition. Units of the group after Charter and the Business Danone commits 84% of Danone a pilot phase between Conduct Policy. to reduce its carbon Creation of the products have been 2003 and 2005. footprint by 30% Social Responsibility assessed in terms of Safety Charter signed between 2008 Committee of the nutritional profile. by all General Managers. and 2012. Board of Directors. Final integration of The Employee Hosting an internal the former Numico Barometer survey global network: subsidiaries in Danone is sent for the first more than 150 people processes. time to all employees. participated in the “Social Innovation Deployment of the Enlargement of Labs” which also Danone Inside Pack the International helped establish in most of the CBU’s Consultation Committee contact and relations (document including outside Europe. between members Danone Way’s history, of NGOs from several values, strategy and CODE launching: countries and approach, Business corresponds to the Danone teams. Conduct Policies, etc). formalizing of the leadership styles and attitudes. 110 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 1997 1996 1998 1992 Refocusing on Appointment of 1999 Publication of the 3 businesses with Franck Riboud as Creation 1991 first annual social high health-nutrition CEO of Danone. of the 1st network Creation of and environmental positioning: Dairy for collection Creation of the the Managers’ responsibility report. Products, Beverages Environmental and recycling Danone Institute. barometer, an and Biscuits. Charter. of packaging, opinion survey Support for the Eco-Emballages. for measuring Ramsar International Business Conduct Creation of Danone adherence Convention on Policy. Conseils, consumer to the group’s the protection of relations department strategy and values. wetlands. Group’s values in France. formalizing: Danone selected Openness, for the Dow Jones Enthusiasm, Sustainability Index. Humanism, Proximity. 1985 2005 First meeting at the European level with Food, Nutrition and the IUF, inaugurating Health Charter. an international social dialogue Comprehensive global within the group. policy on protection of underground water 2003 resources. Membership Integration of of the Global the Fundamental Compact of the 1977 Social Principles in United Nations. conventions that were Danone a founding Creation of revised and re-signed member of the employment “Sustainable with the IUF. Agriculture 2001 offices in charge of supporting Blédina charter about Initiative”. restructuring. commercialization Launch of of Baby nutrition Danone’s DANONE Way. 1972 products. commitment to the Global Formalisation Antoine Riboud’s Compact was of the Fundamental speech in Marseille reconfirmed Social Principles. (economic in 2009. and social dual project). 2000 Over 70% of group employees outside of Western Europe. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 111 2010 Sustainability Report Performance 114 GRI Index (*) (*) S elf-evaluation of the application of GRI according to version 3.0 guidelines for the GRI with approval by KPMG Audit. 124 Validation of the 140 report by Performance an external Indicators third party / Governance, Commitments and Engagement / Economic / Environmental / Social / Human Rights / Society / Product responsibility 128 Upstream and downstream impacts and 132 responsibilities Company profile and report parameters This translation is for information only. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 113 Performance GRI index and content Report Scope Chapter Page Boundary and/or page of DDR 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decisionmakerof the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or 1.1 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and 4 F its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 128 131 F 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization F p. 5 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services F ch. 2.2, 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating p. 109 2.3 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures F à 116 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters F p. 5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with ch. 3.2 2.5 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues F et p. 5 covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form F p. 5 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries) F p. 108 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization F ch. 3.2, 7.1 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership F ch. 2.1, 3.1 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 133 F 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 133 F 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 133 F 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 133 F 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents back cov. F Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 133 -139 F Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 133 -139 F 3.6 ventures, suppliers) DDR: Reference document (equivalent of 20 F in English). F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported 114 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Report Scope Chapter Page Boundary and/or page of DDR 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 134 -139 F Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to 135 -136 F period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions 3.9 and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and 133 -139 F other information in the report Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, 3.10 and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base 133 -139 F years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or 3.11 measurement methods applied in the report 133 -139 F GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 114 -123 F Third party validation 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 124 -126 F 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or F ch. 6, 11.2 organizational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 4.2 (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this F ch. 6.5 arrangement) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of 4.3 the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members F ch. 6.1 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction 4.4 to the highest governance body 197 P Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 4.5 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s P ch. 6.10, 8.5 performance (including social and environmental performance) Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are ch. 6.1 4.6 avoided F p. 157, 160, 163 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest ch. 6.2, 4.7 governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, F 6.3, 6.4 and social topics DDR: Reference document (equivalent of 20 F in English). F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported Danone Sustainability Report 2010 115 Performance GRI index and content Report Scope Chapter Page Boundary and/or page of DDR Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their F ch. 6.4 implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, 4.9 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 93 -96 F internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly 4.10 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance F ch. 6.1 Commitments to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 4.11 by the organization 142 F Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other 4.12 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 142 F Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 4.13 international advocacy organizations 143 F Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Examples of stakeholder 4.14 groups are: communities; civil society; customers; shareholders and providers of 144 F capital; suppliers; and employees, other workers, and their trade unions 97 et 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 144 145 F Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 97 et 4.16 and by stakeholder group 144 145 F Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and 4.17 how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through 144 145 P its reporting 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators 5.1. Economic Aspect Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, EC1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained 147 F ch. 4.1, 5 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities F EC2 due to climate change 147 149 DDR: Reference document (equivalent of 20 F in English). F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported 116 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Report Scope Chapter Page Boundary and/or page of DDR EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 149 F EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 150 NR Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage ADD EC5 at significant locations of operation 150 F Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at EC6 significant locations of operation 151 NR Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from EC7 the local community at locations of significant operation 151 F Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided EC8 primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement 153 P Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including ADD EC9 the extent of impacts 154 155 P 5.2. Environmental Aspects Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 160 P EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 160 P Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 161 P EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 161 P ADD EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 162 P Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and ADD EN6 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 163 P ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 163 F DDR: Reference document (equivalent of 20 F in English). F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported Danone Sustainability Report 2010 117 Performance GRI index and content Report Scope Chapter Page Boundary and/or page of DDR Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 164 P ADD EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 165 P ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 165 F Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected EN11 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 166 167 F Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 168 F protected areas ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored 169 NR ADD EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 169 170 P Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with ADD EN15 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 170 NR Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t CO2 eq) 171 P EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (t CO2 eq) 171 173 P ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 173 174 P EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 174 P EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 175 P EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 175 P EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 176 P EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 176 F Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous ADD EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage 176 NR of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related ADD EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water 176 P and runoff DDR: Reference document (equivalent of 20 F in English). F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported 118 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Report Scope Chapter Page Boundary and/or page of DDR Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent EN26 of impact mitigation 177 179 P Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by EN27 category 179 P Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations 180 F Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and ADD EN29 materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the 181 F workforce Overall ADD EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 182 F 5.3. Social Aspects Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 185 189 F LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 190 P Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or ADD LA3 part-time employees, by major operations 190 NR Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 191 P P Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is LA5 specified in collective agreements 191 DDR: Reference document (equivalent of 20 F in English). F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported Danone Sustainability Report 2010 119 Performance GRI index and content Report Scope Chapter Page Boundary and/or page of DDR Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker ADD LA6 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 192 P health and safety programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number LA7 of workrelated fatalities by region 192 P Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place LA8 to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding 193 P serious diseases ADD LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 193 P Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 194 195 F Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued ADD LA11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 195 F Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development ADD LA12 reviews 196 -197 P Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators 198 199 P of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 200 201 F 5.4. Human rights Aspects Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include HR1 human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 203 204 F Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2 screening on human rights and actions taken 204 205 F Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects ADD HR3 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 205 F employees trained DDR: Reference document (equivalent of 20 F in English). F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported 120 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Report Scope Chapter Page Boundary and/or page of DDR Non Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 206 F Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these 206 F rights Child Labour Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and HR6 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor 207 F Forced and Compulsory Labour Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or HR7 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or 207 F compulsory labor Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or ADD HR8 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations 208 F Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and ADD HR9 actions taken 208 NR DDR: Reference document (equivalent of 20 F in English). F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported Danone Sustainability Report 2010 121 Performance GRI index and content Report Scope Chapter Page Boundary and/or page of DDR 5.5. Society Aspect Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and S01 manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, 211 214 F and exiting Corruption Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to S02 corruption 214 P Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and S03 procedures 215 P S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 215 F Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and S05 lobbying 216 F Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and ADD S06 related institutions by country 216 217 F Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and ADD S07 monopoly practices and their outcomes 217 F Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions S08 for noncompliance with laws and regulations 217 F 5.6. Product Responsibility Aspect Consumer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services 219 222 F categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes ADD PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life 222 223 P cycle, by type of outcomes DDR: Reference document (equivalent of 20 F in English). F: fully reported (across the scope and boundary / perimeter of companies controlled by Danone) // P: partially reported // NR: not reported 122 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Report Scope Chapter Page Boundary and/or page of DDR Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage PR3 223 224 F of significant products and services subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes ADD PR4 224 P concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring ADD PR5 225 P customer satisfaction Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to PR6 226 228 F marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes ADD PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and 228 229 P sponsorship by type of outcomes Consumer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy ADD PR8 229 P and losses of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services 230 F Danone Sustainability Report 2010 123 Performance Validation of the report by an external third party Danone Head Office: 17, boulevard Haussmann 75009 Paris Limited assurance report on the Danone Way initiative results and a selection of environmental and social indicators of Danone for 2010. As requested by Danone, we have performed a review to enable us to provide a limited level of assurance on: • The results of the Danone Way initiative (“the Results”) presented on pages 83 and 84 of the Sustainability Report for 2010; • The environmental(1) and social (2) indicators for 2010 (“the Data”) selected by the group and indicated by the symbol √ presented on pages 156 to 201 of the Sustainability Report for 2010. This information was prepared under the responsibility of the group’s Social Affairs and Social Responsibility Department, in accordance with the internal methodological protocol “Danone Way Fundamentals” (“the Protocol”), which is available on request from that department. The methodological note “Report Parameters” presented on pages 134 to 139 provides further details on the consolidation scope, and on the definitions and methods used to collect data and calculate the indicators. It is our responsibility, based on the work performed, to express a conclusion on the Data and on the Results of the 2010 Danone Way initiative. The conclusions below only relate to this information, and not to the whole Sustainability Report 2010. This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. Total production, Total number of ISO 14001 certified sites, Thermal energy consumption, Electricity consumption, Water (1)  consumption, Total CO2 emissions, Final ejection of COD and Total quantity of waste generated (except for sludge from sewage plants). Total number of employees at 31st December, Average number of hours’ training per employee, Total employees trained, (2)  Frequency of work accidents and Number of accidental deaths. 124 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Limited assurance report on the Danone Way initiative results and a selection of environmental and social indicators of Danone for 2010. Nature and scope of our work We performed a review to provide moderate assurance that the Results of the Danone Way initiative and the selected Data do not contain any material misstatement. A higher level of assurance would have required a more extensive review. For the selected information, we: • Assessed the Danone Way Protocol with regard to its relevance, reliability, neutrality, understandability and completeness; • Conducted interviews with the persons responsible for implementing the Protocol in the group Human Resources, Social Affairs and Social Responsibility, and Nature Departments; • Conducted interviews and carried out surveys on the implementation of the Protocol in fourteen Country Business Units(3) for social data and the Danone Way initiative, and in twenty-seven sites(4) within these Country Business Units for environmental data; the choice of the sample was based on their contribution to the group consolidated data, their activity, their location and on the results of our work carried out last year; • Conducted consistency tests on Data consolidation and on the Results of the Danone Way initiative; • Reviewed the work performed by the internal audit relative to the Danone Way initiative. The contribution of the selected entities represents: • between 14% and 38% of environmental Data, or an average of 23%, • between 23% and 39% of social Data, or on average 33%, • and 17% of the turnover for the Danone Way initiative Results. Danone Tikvesli, Danone Hayat, Danone Argentina, Aguas de Argentina, Danone Poland, Zywiec Zdroj, Nutricia Opole (3)  Baby, Sari Husada, Nutricia Indonesia Sejahtera Baby, Danone Indonesia, Aqua, Robust, Dumex and HOD Mexico. Luleburgaz, Gonen*, Bolu, Adana-Pozanti*, Antalya*, Hendek*, Izmir*, Chascomus, Villaviciencio*, Longchamps, (4)  Varsovie, Bierun*, Jelesnia, Ciecina*, Miroslawiec*, Opole, Krotoszyn*, Sari Husada, PT NIS, Pandaan I, Zong-Shang, Shangaï, Toluca (HOD), Ochsenfurt, Hagenow*, Rosenheim*, Rotselaar. * For these sites, we did not perform any on-site work. Our audit was performed at Country Business Unit level. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 125 Performance Validation of the report by an external third party Limited assurance report on the Danone Way initiative results and a selection of environmental and social indicators of Danone for 2010. Comments on procedures We would like to draw your attention to the following developments: • A deeper involvement of the reviewed Country Business Units in the Danone Way initiative and a better understanding and implementation of the protocol; • The stronger involvement of the environmental directors of each division and of the human resources intermediaries enabled to improve the internal control regarding the environmental and social data consolidation at group level. In addition, we identified the following areas for improvements, which should be taken into account as part of an ongoing progress policy: • The calculation methods and definitions should be clarified further, in particular the indicators relating to the “Waste” and to the “Number of training hours”, to ensure more homogeneous Danone reporting practices; • The internal control system on environmental and social data should be reinforced further: having a better implementation of the controls procedures at each level of collection, implementing additional controls in the reporting tool for the safety data. • The criteria and definitions of some Danone Way initiative fundamentals should be clarified and more suitable to take into account the specificities of the recently integrated entities. Conclusion Based on our review, we did not find any material misstatements that could call into question the fact that the environmental and social Data examined presented on pages 156 to 201, identified by the symbol √ , and the Danone Way initiative Results presented on pages 83 and 84 of the Sustainability Report for 2010 were prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the above-mentioned Protocol. Paris La Défense, April 8th, 2011 KPMG Audit Department of KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Partner In Charge of the Sustainability Services & Climate Change Department 126 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 127 Performance Upstream and downstream impacts and responsibilities The following are potential accidental risks stemming from Danone’s direct activities: • water pollution (primarily organic and biodegradable pollution); • risks associated with refrigeration (ammonia and other refrigerants); • risks associated with the storage of raw materials and hazardous products, (acids or bases for cleaning and disinfecting facilities); • risks associated with on-site electrical installations. In addition to these accidental risks, the group’s daily activities also have various impacts on the environment, which are identified and managed at each stage of the value chain, from upstream to downstream. The group responds to each environmental impact by making responsible decisions. The following is an overview; for more detailed information, see the sections on the Nature Strategy (pages 40 to 53) or the Danone Way (page 81) and Respect programs (page 86). 128 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 1 Supply of raw Industrial and packaging materials Production 2 Impacts Impacts • Economic impact: In 2010, Danone purchased • Economic impact: Danone produces 4.5 billion euros worth of raw and packaging locally for local markets: 186 production sites, materials, including: with 100,995 employees (including Unimilk and 2.8 billion euros worth of raw materials, with milk 220 sites other than plants, head offices, warehouses, etc.) accounting for the major share. The milk comes from one at end-December 2010. million cows belonging to 24,000 producers in 30 countries. • Sites’ main environmental impacts: energy and water 1.7 billion euros worth of packaging divided among the consumption, waste emissions, wastewater discharges, Dairy products (59%), Waters (31%) and Baby nutrition storage of potentially hazardous products, noise pollution, and Medical nutrition divisions (10%). and greenhouse gas emissions from all of these activities. • Agriculture’s main environmental impacts: pollution from • Social impact on 100,995 employees as well as companies fertilizers and pesticides and methane emissions from cattle and other public and private organizations affected by (methane is a greenhouse gas). Rising farm productivity and Danone owing to their location near one of the group’s sites. related standardization measures lead to pressure on the natural environment and a reduction in biodiversity. • Packaging’s main environmental impacts: consumption of nonrenewable resources (petroleum for plastic) and renewables (wood, recycled paper for cardboard) and greenhouse gas emissions related to suppliers’ activities. • Mineral waters’ main environmental impacts: mineral waters come from natural reserves, which the group has the exclusive right to operate. • Danone also has a social impact on all of its suppliers, whatever they do, and especially milk producers. Responsibilities Responsibilities •P  urchase raw materials at prices that are sufficiently profitable •E  nsure compliance with basic social rights and for producers and suppliers and provide a quality and promote efforts to further social progress at group competitive supply to our plants, while ensuring respect for sites. our partners’ basic social rights. • Contribute to local communities’ economic and • Ensure the safety, quality and traceability of raw materials. social development. • Be familiar with working conditions and the environmental • Control the plants’ environmental impact and impact of farm production while working to improve them. related industrial risks. • Ensure the long-term viability and protection of the water • Promote working methods (business travel, etc.) reserves the group operates. that minimize employees’ environmental impact. • Reduce packaging without affecting the services they provide, including food and transportation safety, preservation and consumer information. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 129 Performance Upstream and downstream impacts and responsibilities 3 Shipping Sales 4 Impact Impact • Subcontractors transport nearly all products, which are shipped • Economic impact: with commercial operations in by road, rail, sea and air (minimal). In Europe, trucks carry 130 countries, Danone generated 17,010 million euros in 95% of dairy products freight, while 55% of water is shipped revenue in 2010. Products are sold through a variety of by truck and 45% by train. distribution channels, including supermarkets, superstores, • Main environmental impacts: energy consumption, convenience stores, hospitals and drugstores. greenhouse gas emissions, air pollutants, biodiversity • Major environmental impacts: energy consumption and and noise. greenhouse gas emissions from refrigeration equipment and • Social impact on providers of these various forms of customer travel to retail outlets. transportation. Responsibilities Responsibilities •M  inimize the impact from shipping products and raw • Ensure compliance with the cold chain and product materials by limiting the distances traveled and encouraging traceability. the use of rail transportation. • Ensure that the products are physically accessible, especially • Ensure compliance with the cold chain and product in emerging countries. traceability. • Ensure the safety of people handling Danone products • Encourage compliance with the basic rights of transportation by incorporating appropriate design features. service providers, particularly in the road transportation industry. 130 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 6 5 Consumption End of product lifecycle Impacts Impacts • Economic impact: four business divisions in 2010: •P  roduct consumption generates packaging waste, which is Dairy products (57% of revenue), Waters (17%), then recycled, landfilled or incinerated depending on locally Baby nutrition (20%) and Medical nutrition (6%). available options. • Main environmental impacts: energy consumption and • Main environmental impacts: ground, air and water pollution, greenhouse gas emissions from refrigeration of fresh dairy which varies depending on the waste treatment method. products and shipping of products to places where they are • Social impact of populations dedicated to managing consumed. packaging waste. • Social impacts: product quality and safety, impact on eating habits, product availability and affordability by expanding distribution in emerging countries and by adapting products prices and conception to economic and social levels of local populations. Responsibilities Responsibilities •E  nsure product quality and safety. • Reduce packaging’s end-of-lifecycle impact by considering • Foster the development of healthy eating habits and meet these concerns right from the design stage. local nutrition needs both quantitatively and qualitatively. • Participate in the growth of public or private waste collection • Provide transparent information to consumers, act organizations. responsibly in communicating with children and promote • Foster the development of recycling resources for packaging consumer dialog. waste. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 131 2010 Sustainability REPORT PERFORMANCE Company profile and report parameters Company profile 133 Report parameters 134 External controls 139 132 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Company profile The information relative to this section of the report The figures and data in the present report are (company profile) is available in the group’s Registration communicated, unless otherwise specified, for a Document. References to the relevant pages are indicated worldwide body of companies controlled by Danone in the GRI index on pages 114 to 123 of the current (list of consolidated companies in the Registration report. Document); the complementary Registration Document and Economic and Social Report are available for This report covers Danone’s economic, social and download at http://www.danone.com. environmental performance for the period from January 1 to December 31, 2010. The indicators and Awards received during the management systems described in this report were reporting period prepared in compliance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI 3). These provide a balanced • In March 2010 Danone was awarded and reasonable presentation of the group’s economic, the French Order of Statutory environmental and social organization. The indicators are Accountants’ prize for best presented using the GRI 3 references (e.g. EC2. Financial Sustainable Development Report implications and other risks and opportunities for for the April 2009 edition. This prize the organisation’s activities relating to aims at rewarding companies that climate change). have implemented relevant, transparent and reliable sustainability In compliance with the GRI criteria, strategy. Danone gave itself a rating of B+. www.experts-comptables.fr/csoec/ Le-7-mars-vous-etiez-nombreux-aThe indicators also meet the information assister-a-la-11e-ceremonie-de-remiserequirements of article 116 of the French du-Trophee-de-la-Qualite-des“New Economic Regulations” (NRE) law of May 15, informations-environnementales-et2001 and its implementing decree of February 20, 2002 sociales. and take into account the “annual social indicators” • Danone was included in the Dow jointly agreed upon by the IUF (International Union Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) of Food workers) and Danone in September 2004. for the twelfth consecutive year. • Danone is also included in the major A portion of the employment and environmental data sustainable development indices: published in this document was verified by KPMG Ethibel Sustainability Index and Audit with an opinion published on pages 124 to 126. ASPI Eurozone. The previous report covering the period from January 1 Detailed results of Danone’s to December 31, 2009 was published for the performance in 2010 in the major Shareholders’ General Meeting on April 22, 2010. indices are presented in this Report, on pages 89 to 91. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 133 Company profile and report parameters Report parameters This section of the report corresponds to GRI indicators For this scope, employment, environmental and safety 3.1 to 3.11 (see GRI index on pages 114 and 115 of the datas are 100% integrated (complete integration of data). Report). In order to allow for disparities in data reporting, a Consolidation scope coverage rate is calculated for each indicator published. The financial data included in this report corresponds to Variations in scope consolidated historic data from the 2010 Registration Document. It has been prepared in compliance with Scope variations arise from CBU creations, acquisitions, IFRS accounting standards as adopted by the European disposals or liquidations. The following rules have been Union on December 31, 2009. established for financial, social and environmental data: • acquisition: data for the acquired entity is included in The workforce at 12/31/2010 includes all globally the consolidation scope from the date the group took consolidated Danone Country Business Units (CBUs), control; whatever their activity (production sites, research sites, • creation: the entity’s data is included in the scope from logistics bases, administrative headquarters, etc.). the date of creation; In 2010, social indicators are reported without Unimilk, • disposal/liquidation: data for the relevant entities is Yocream and Womir SPA subsidiaries recently acquired, withdrawn from the consolidation scope at the effective leading to a coverage rate of 98% ; except for indicators disposal or liquidation date in the current financial year. related to head-counts on 2010, December 31st, for which the coverage rate is 100%. Concerning social indicators, “like-for-like basis” indicates that data from the previous year has been restated based Safety indicators also cover all globally consolidated on the consolidated scope at December 31, 2010 in order Danone CBUs except certain entities which were not yet to allow comparison between this year’s data and that of integrated into safety reporting in 2010, which gives a the previous year on a consistent scope. coverage rate of 81% of the head-counts on 2010, December 31st. The environmental indicators only cover the impacts of production plants, with the exception of Unimilk due to its acquisition in December 2010, which gives a coverage rate of 98% of the 2010 turnover and 94% of production sites. The environmental impact of the administrative headquarters and logistics bases are not included in the consolidation scope (except for certain indicators, when the logistics bases are adjacent to an industrial site). 134 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Selection of indicators Shared data collection tools are also in place to facilitate data reporting: The employment indicators presented: • employment data: a specific bundle in the Magnitude • correspond to Danone’s human resources policy in financial data reporting system generally makes it terms of monitoring staff and employee management possible to collect employment indicators for all and development performances; Danone units. In addition, safety indicators are • take into account cultural specificities and local monitored and consolidated every month at group differences (varying national legislation, legal level in a specific format (Safety barometer). obligations, etc.). • environmental data: the environmental indicators presented in this report are generally collected with The environmental indicators presented: the specific Enablon tool developed by ERM. • correspond to Danone’s environmental policy and reflect the progress made by production plants; these These two tools provide a systematic presentation of data indicators are relevant to the group’s business; from the previous year to facilitate data input and control. • make it possible to monitor Danone’s environmental performance with regard to its primary environmental Specifications challenges. and methodological limits Data reporting guidelines The methodologies used for certain employment and environmental indicators may involve de facto limits: To ensure the homogeneity of indicators across the • due to the absence of shared national and/or reporting scope, shared data reporting guidelines for international definitions; employment and environmental data are transmitted • due to the need to estimate, the representative nature and updated each year following data consolidation of measurements or the limited availability of external and input from contributors. These guidelines specify data needed for calculations; the methodologies to use for reporting indicators: • due to practical data collection and input modalities. definitions, primary methodologies, calculation formulas, standard ratios, etc. This is why the definitions and methodologies used for the indicators below are specified. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 135 Company profile and report parameters Report parameters Workforce Frequency of workplace accidents • A negligible portion of the managerial workforce is not The frequency of workplace accidents is the number of collected in the data reporting framework (a few cases accidents with work stoppage of one day or more that of internationally mobile employees on assignment to occur over a twelve-month period, for every one million other group entities). hours worked. The hours worked are real hours worked; • Short-term contracts and movements within the group by default, the theoretical hours worked are taken into are not included in the entries/exits. account based on a 40-hour workweek. Indicators for • Long-term leave is not always accounted for homogeneously workplace accidents also include accidents impacting by the various Country Business Units (CBUs). temporary personnel working at the sites. Accidents on the way to and from work are not included in this Average number of training hours / Number of indicator. employees trained • Training data from French CBUs includes training Packaging consumption categorized as ongoing professional training as well This indicator is also estimated at the global level based as other types of training. on consolidated data provided by the Procurement • Disparities in the inclusion or non-inclusion of certain department. Monetary data is converted into tonnage training courses may remain, particularly with regard based on average prices. It includes purchases of rigid to “work station” training sessions and internal training. and flexible plastics, cardboard, paper, PET, lids and • The average number of training hours per year per wrappings, which represent the majority of packaging employee is calculated based on the number of training used by Danone. hours that took place during the year, divided by the average workforce (the average workforce is calculated Recycling rate as the average long-term and short-term workforce The rate of recycling of packaging by European end excluding temporary workers at the end of each month). consumers is calculated based on national plastics and cardboard recycling data provided by Pro-Europe and Employees with disabilities weighted by the respective production in each country. It should be noted that this indicator covers employees Certain countries have a recycling rate higher than 100% declared as disabled workers. The definition of a person because they import packaging for recycling. This explains with disabilities is determined by local regulations in the the excellent recycling rate. different countries. In addition, due to local regulatory specificities, certain countries include both externally documented disability recognition and disability recognized internally by the on-site occupational physician. 136 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Waste CO2 emissions Reporting of waste data is based on nine different Atmospheric emissions of CO2 (scopes 1 and 2) for 2010 categories of waste (glass, PET, various plastics, paper/ are calculated using the methodology and data of the cardboard, wood/pallets, mixed packaging, materials 2010 GHG Protocol Initiative. waste, non-hazardous industrial waste and hazardous industrial waste). It is possible that some waste not Direct emissions (scope 1) are emissions arising from included in these categories is not reported. However, consumption of fuels or energy (coal, natural gas, the quantities involved are negligible. propane, heating oil and fuel oil) and consumption of refrigerants (only consumption of HFCs and PFCs Water consumption is included). No Danone group site uses PFCs. Consumption of well or surface water may be estimated when sites have no meters. The definitions and methods Direct emissions are calculated based on emission factors(*) for accounting for various uses of water (including runoff, per fuel and the global warming potential(*) (GWP) i.e. water pumped into the river) are specified in the of HFCs. It should be noted that a single GWP technical environmental guide and the specific software corresponding to the GWP value of the HFC gas most tool developed by Enablon. The calculation method used commonly used at group sites (R134a) is applied. by the group is to subtract the volumes of water entering into products (particularly bottled water) from the volume 2009 data was restated based on this methodology. of water removed from nature, but certain Country Emissions related to HCFC and CFC consumption are Business Units (CBUs) may still apply slightly different therefore not taken into account, and emission factors methods. have been updated. Indirect emissions (scope 2) are emissions from other energy sources purchased externally Energy consumption (electricity and steam). By definition, the environmental indicators only cover the impact of production sites. When Research and Indirect emissions from materials transport are not Development centers or other non-industrial sites are included in CO2 emissions calculations. Danone is located adjacent to production sites, estimates may be currently integrating emissions from owned or managed made by the production sites to only take into account vehicles, from recently acquired sites and/or those that the energy consumption (estimate and deduction of have no access as yet to Danone’s internal environmental energy consumed by the non-industrial site adjacent reporting system, as well as from offices and distribution to the production plant). centers. Consumption of refrigerants Consumption of refrigerants (CFC, HFC and HCFC) is calculated based on the quantity of gas loaded into facilities, which generally takes place every two year. * I PCC is the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The emission factors used in calculating emissions arising from energy consumption correspond to data in the 2006 ( ) IPCC guidelines (2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories). The GWP used to calculate emissions arising from HFC consumption corresponds to data from the 2007 IPCC guidelines (Global Warming Potential Time Horizon 100 years). Danone Sustainability Report 2010 137 Company profile and report parameters Report parameters Waste water During consolidation, data consistency is checked by The data presented corresponds to wastewater after the group’s Human Resources and Nature departments. internal or external treatment. If no information about external treatment is available, a purified output of 90% These controls particularly involve comparisons with is applied. the previous year and calculation of specific ratios to detect anomalies. Any difference considered significant Consolidation and internal control is investigated and if necessary corrected. Danone’s Human Resources department and the Environment department (called Nature department), respectively consolidate employment and environmental data based on the information reported from production sites and group Country Business Units (CBUs) around the world. Employment datas are collected in each CBU of the group. Reported data is generally derived from wage payment systems installed in the CBUs. Data consistency is verified and then approved by the Human Resources department in each CBU before publication in the Magnitude tool. Datas concerning safety are collected on each site of the group (production sites, headquarters, distribution sites, etc). They are consolidated by the Safety department of the group. Environmental data is collected at each production site by the Environment manager. It is controlled and approved by the CBU’s Environment coordinator before consolidation in the Enablon tool by ERM. In 2010, the Environment Directors for each division verified and approved consolidation of environmental data before its final approval by the group’s Nature department. 138 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 External controls To receive an outside opinion on the reliability and robustness of the group’s social responsibility data reporting processes, KPMG Audit was mandated to verify a selection of employment and environmental indicators in the current report, identified with the following symbol: √ . Their audit report detailing the work undertaken and their comments and conclusions can be found on pages 124 to 126. KPMG Audit also reviewed and approved the Danone group’s self-evaluation of its application of GRI (B+ according to the version 3.0 guidelines). Adjustment of previous data Certain reporting errors made during previous financial years may be detected during the course of the current year’s reporting. If this situation arises, historic data is readjusted to allow better interpretation of results and trends. This did not occur in 2010. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 139 2010 Sustainability REPORT Performance Governance, Indicators Commitments and Engagement Governance 141 Commitments to externals initiatives 142 Stakeholder engagement 144 140 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Required information on corporate governance based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines 4.8 (indicators 4.1 to 4.10) is available in the Danone Internally developed statements Reference Document. References to the relevant pages of mission or values, codes of are indicated in the GRI index published on pages 115 and conduct, and principles relevant to 116 of this report. economic, environmental and social Danone’s corporate governance strategy and the highlights performance and the status of their of 2010 are further discussed on pages 104 to 117 of this implementation Report (for more information, see 2009 Sustainability Report, pages 29 to 39). Danone Way was developed to meet the goal of managing Danone impact and relations with the company’s stakeholders, both early and late in the process (see page 81 of the report), including social and environmental performance policies and criteria. Many initiatives and complementary programs have been set up in the areas of environmental and social policy and supplier relations. For more information on these initiatives, see the chapters on Environmental (pages 157 to 183), Human Rights (pages 203 to 209) and Social performance indicators (pages 185 to 201). See also Nature and People strategies and dashboards of Environmental, Employee and Community commitments (pages 72, 74 and 70). Danone Sustainability Report 2010 141 Governance, Commitments and Engagement Commitments to externals initiatives 4.11 4.12 Explanation of whether and how the Externally developed economic, precautionary approach or principle environmental, and social charters, is addressed by the organization principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes Consumer protection is based on the principle of due or endorses diligence, which is supported at Danone by a team of in-house scientific experts and an outside network of Danone’s commitments, as defined in the Business international experts. Food Safety Management Systems, Conduct Policy, are guided by principles based on the based on international standard ISO 22000, ensure that following international documents: measures are taken to manage related risks in all business • Universal Declaration of Human Rights; activities. Moreover, by periodically reviewing the risks • international conventions of the International Labor involved in key processes at each country business unit Organization; (Vestalis approach), Danone ensures that the proper • the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and precautions are taken to limit identified risks. Development’s guiding principles for multinational corporations; This question is also discussed in the PR1 indicator, • the UN Global Compact on human rights, rights at relative to consumer health and safety. work, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. Danone has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2003 and reaffirmed its commitment in 2009. In 2005, 7 Fundamental Social Principles drawn from International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions were incorporated into agreements signed by Danone and the International Union of Food Workers (IUF). In addition to its Country Business Units (CBUs), Danone has chosen to apply these Fundamental Social Principles to its suppliers by setting up the RESPECT program. Since 2009, this program has been expanded to include the ethical and environmental principles that all suppliers must follow. 142 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 These commitments are rooted in Danone’s values and serve as the basis for the Danone Way program. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such They apply to all employees of companies controlled by as industry associations) and/or Danone worldwide. national/international advocacy Danone is committed to promoting these principles in all organization companies in which it holds a stake. Danone’s policy is to hold membership in all recognized, legally constituted, national and industry-wide trade associations representing the food industry. The group encourages its managers to actively participate in these associations at both the local and corporate levels. Danone and its Country Business Units are, for example, members of all national associations representing the food industry in the European Union countries in which the group operates. Danone belongs to the Confederation of the Food and Drink Industries (CIAA), which represents manufacturers in the EU. Danone is a member of more than 100 associations of this nature. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 143 Governance, Commitments and Engagement Stakeholder engagement 4.14 4.17 List of stakeholder groups Key topics and concerns that have engaged by the organization; been raised through stakeholder example of stakeholder groups engagement, and how the are: communities, civil society, organization has responded to those customers, shareholders and key topics and concerns, including providers of capital, suppliers, and through its reporting employees, other workers and their trade unions A key aspect of Danone’s sustainable development strategy is listening to stakeholders to better understand the Danone Way was created in 2001 to meet the goal expectations of customers, consumers, employees, of managing the group impact and relations with the suppliers, scientists, local residents, government officials company’s stakeholders, who were defined as such from and non-governmental organisations. Stakeholder the outset: consumers, suppliers, environmental groups, expectations are the cornerstone of the Danone Way employees, shareholders and local communities program, launched in 2001 and deeply rooted in Danone (scientists, local residents, government officials and culture and society approach. Danone’s stakeholder non-governmental organizations). engagement strategy is discussed in greater detail on page 97 of this report. Danone has been actively engaged in dialog with civil society players for a number of years. The goal is not only Danone’s approach is to foster dialog with stakeholders in to pay close attention to stakeholder developments and the Country Business Units’ (CBUs) local area; the group expectations, but also to involve the company in does not centralize all of the projects conducted by its partnership programs, even a co-development partnership, various CBUs. as exemplified by the many initiatives undertaken in partnership with NGOs (for further information on the Danone has, however, developed special discussion tools Danone approach with its stakeholders, see the Strategy to support CBUs as they interact with various local chapter, pages 97 of this report). stakeholders: • the “stakeholders mapping” tool helps the company identify stakeholders, analyze issues and expectations, and set communication priorities. It also presents current best practices in countries where Danone operates. Every year, all CBUs are asked to complete the “stakeholders mapping” tool, which is used to assess Danone Way (local community) fundamentals. • in addition, plant managers take a training course on the local environment to help them explain their roles and responsibilities regarding the local environment, to identify the main stakeholders and to lay the foundations of their plant’s action plans. 144 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Danone Social Innovation Lab (SIL), a major This unique event gave participants an opportunity to event dedicated to dialogue and creation with meet and share best practices and co-development ideas. the stakeholders Fifty people represented partner NGOs, which included To establish a co-development approach with a focus on Oxfam, Naandi-India Foundation, Heifer International, dialog and to share best practices in cooperating with civil CARE, Poland’s Food Bank and the Algerian Red society organizations, Danone has been organizing an Crescent. innovative event for four years where Danone staff meets with social change agents (NGOs, social entrepreneurs, Forty cases were presented during the July 2010 event international organizations, etc.) from all over the world. compared to 15 in 2009, which illustrates the SIL’s growing popularity and the rising number of initiatives In July 2009, the Social Innovation Lab (SIL) brought on various topics, such as access to healthy food, access together 150 participants, who planned co-development to water, and the setting up of cooperatives for small, projects. The SIL’s goal is to take advantage of replicable isolated farmers, with Danone providing stable, models and nurture co-development expertise in sustainable income. Danone’s Country Business Units (CBUs). The latest event in July 2010 took a different turn. Out of a desire to spread the word over the Web about this exceptional exchange of socially innovative ideas, the SIL welcomed some 20 bloggers, opinion leaders in this field. Three of them came specially from the United Kingdom for the event. Among the participants, for example, were the managers of Ecolo info, Farming First and Agir pour la planète. Overall, 216 guests from 30 countries came together at this fourth Social Innovation Lab to discuss the following topic: “How can we share our experiences to broaden the scope of our projects?” Danone Sustainability Report 2010 145 2010 Sustainability REPORT Performance Economic Indicators Economic Performance 147 Market presence 150 Indirect and economic impacts 152 146 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Economic performance EC1 EC2 Direct economic value Financial implications and other generated and distributed, risks and opportunities for the including revenues, operating organization’s activities due to costs, employee compensation, climate change donations and other community Risks associated with environmental regulations investments, retained earnings, The group’s environmental policy aims to respond to the and payments to capital concerns of many different parties in this area, especially providers and governments consumers, who are increasingly focused on the environmental impact of products, while controlling risks. For data relating to direct economic value generated, Environmental expenditures and investments are presented economic value distributed and economic value retained, in the 2010 Registration Document, Section 7.5. refer to the 2010 Registration Document, Sections 4.1 and 5. The group’s activities are subject to numerous laws and regulations (which mainly relate to water, air, the use of natural resources, noise and waste). They are becoming more and more stringent and are constantly evolving. These activities are, in particular, subject to obtaining authorizations or making prior declarations: • in Europe, pursuant to applicable legislation concerning installations classified for environmental protection and; • in other countries, pursuant to similar regulations. Access to water sources and resources is sometimes linked to national or local regulations. Changes in these regulations could negatively affect the availability of water intended to be bottled and marketed by Danone. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 147 ECONOMIC Performance Indicators Economic performance Packaging is subject to specific regulations and in particular Risks associated with consumers’ choices, European Directive 94/62, as amended in 2004, relating preferences or environmental considerations to packaging and packaging waste, which requires Consumers’ purchasing preferences, notably in the most reductions at the source, reductions in the toxicity of developed countries, are increasingly influenced by hazardous substances, recycling, and recovery. Danone’s environmental concerns (in particular greenhouse gas activities are in fact subject to the European Waste emissions and the preservation of water resources), and Framework Directive 2008/98/EC. such preferences are at times supported by NGOs (NonGovernmental Organizations). Distributors also pay an The group’s activities are also subject to, on the one hand, increasing amount of attention to the communication the European Directive of 2003 establishing a trading towards the consumers (in particular the labelling of the system and, on the other, quotas for greenhouse gas carbon footprint of products). If the group is unable to emissions and the transpositions of the National Allocation anticipate changing consumer preferences, in particular Plans in the European Union. Four of the group’s sites in through the implementation of measures associated with the European Union are thereby subject to quotas (whose reductions and communication on environmental impact on the group’s financial situation is not significant), consequences, its results could be negatively affected. while the other sites are currently below the minimum eligibility threshold. If, in the future, the group is unable Consequently, the group undertakes continuous efforts to limit the emissions of these five sites and comply with to reinforce its corporate commitment and improve the allocated quotas, it will incur a fine and would have to management of its business activities with respect to every purchase the shortfall on the market for greenhouse step of its products’ life cycle. Danone carefully ensures gas quotas. that all environmental claims made in connection with its products are well founded. When the group is unable to reduce its environmental impact through direct action, notably in the agricultural and water preservation areas, it undertakes to help players in various areas, such as research and education, and any other actions that favour reductions in its environmental impact. The environmental action plans are presented in the 2010 Registration Document, Section 7.5. There is no significant provision for environment-related risks and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010. 148 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Other environmental risks The principal potential other risks are water pollution (essentially organic and biodegradable pollution), risks EC3 related to cooling installations (ammonia and other cooling Coverage of the organization’s liquids), and risks related to the storage of raw materials or defined benefit plan obligations products for the cleaning and disinfection of the group’s plants (acid or basic products), especially when these Approximately 200 executives who hold the status of installations are located in inhabited areas. In the event Senior Manager in the group and who were covered by that the group’s environmental responsibility is called into French pension schemes as of December 31, 2003 are, question, resulting from a significant accident or case of under certain conditions (particularly seniority and pollution, its results could be adversely affected. continuing employment conditions), eligible for a defined benefit pension plan. Tools and process for measuring environmental footprint are detailed in environment indicators EN16, EN17,EN18, see This plan provides for a pension based on years of service pages 171 to 174. and the amount of final salary, under the condition that the beneficiary is still in the group’s employment at the time of retirement. The pension is paid after deducting certain pensions (corresponding, with respect to a first category of Senior Managers in the group, to the full amount of retirement benefits they acquired over the course of their professional career and, with respect to a second category of Senior Managers in the group, to the full amount of retirement benefits that they acquired due to the implementation of an additional retirement plan paid for entirely by the Company), and may reach a maximum of 65% of final salary. In the event of leaving the group before the age of 55 or in the event of death before retirement, the employee loses all benefits under this plan, it being specified that if the employee is laid off after the age of 55, the plan benefits are preserved, subject to the employee not taking any salaried position in the future. This pension plan was closed to new participants on December 31, 2003. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 149 ECONOMIC Performance Indicators Economic performance Market presence The amount accrued for under this plan represents the obligation of the group as of December 31, 2010 for the payment of annuities calculated on the basis ADD EC5 of life expectancies derived from mortality tables. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local As of December 31, 2010, the portion of the total amount minimum wage at significant of the group’s obligation which relates to the Company’s executive directors and officers under this pension plan locations of operation amounted to 40.2 million euros. This data is taken from Magnitude, the group’s HR management information system. The total amount paid out by the Company with respect to this pension plan for the benefit of the members Number of Total % of of the Board of Directors (based on the duties they have CBUs employees completed within the group, currently Mr. Christian CBUs with a CBU minimum LAUBIE and since the beginning of his retirement wage / legal minimum wage 123 83,3% on April 1st 2010, Mr. Jacques VINCENT) amounted ratio greater than 1 to 1.3 million euros in 2010. CBUs with a CBU minimum wage / legal minimum wage 24 15,3% ratio equal to 1 EC4 CBUs to which no legal minimum wage applies 17 1,4% Significant financial assistance The reporting entity comprises 164 Country received from government Business Units (CBUs) consolidating this data and This indicator is not monitored by Danone. covering 79,771 employees (14 CBUs did not consolidate this information, representing 4,626 employees). The standard entry-level wage is higher than the local minimum wage in the great majority of our CBUs (123), employing over 83.3% of our staff. It is equal to the legal minimum wage in 24 CBUs, i.e. 15.3% of employees. Lastly, there is no legal minimum requirement for 17 CBUs. 150 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 EC6 EC7 Policy, practices, and proportion of Procedures for local hiring and spending on locally-based suppliers proportion of senior management at significant locations of operation hired from the local community at locations of significant operation This indicator is not monitored by Danone. Danone is above all a local employer hiring 95.4% of its 13,984 managers and senior managers from the local community. Danone’s target is to reach 80% of locally-hired managing executives on all Executive Committees. At end 2010, 74.6% of our senior managers were hired locally. 2010 Total Managers 13,984 Including international managers 649 % of international managers 4.6% % of local managers 95.4% Executive Committee Members 879 (excluding Executives) Including international members 234 % of international members 26.6% % of local members 73.4% Danone Sustainability Report 2010 151 ECONOMIC Performance Indicators Indirect and economic impacts EC8 • I n the Operations department of the Baby nutrition division, the environmental «Green Planet Happy Children» project was developed in partnership with Development and impact of SOS Villages d’Enfants (an association dedicated to infrastructure investments and children in France and worldwide) in Kenya, involving services provided primarily for all employees working in operations at each plant. public benefit through commercial, Les Restaurants du cœur: Successful second round! in-kind, or pro bono engagement In 2010, Danone’s partnership with the Restaurants du Cœur association in France was a huge success: Danone is committed to public-interest projects relating 1,124 Danone employees participated in the food drives to its core mission and develops partnerships with private in Carrefour and Carrefour Market stores, compared with and public organizations in the countries in which it does 1,054 in 2009. They helped collect the equivalent of 1.5 business to improve health through food and to combat million meals. One million meals were co-financed by malnutrition. Danone and Carrefour after a promotional operation in stores. This partnership has also led to a skills sponsorship The Danone Supporting Life platform (see page 65) program with eight professionalization sessions for includes the Country Business Units’ (CBUs) various Restaurant du Coeur volunteers organized by Danone local initiatives in support of local communities, in employees, and professional immersion experiences for alignment with this commitment. Restaurant du Coeur beneficiaries at Danone French Dairy CBU. The partnership will continue in 2011. Today there are 47 initiatives in place, some of which represent a “triple win” approach combining development Share your Meal of the CBU’s business, increased incentive for Danone Share your Meal is a social employees through their commitment, and local program launched by Danone development benefits in the areas that relate to our Poland in 2003, which took expertise: nutrition and health, partnership with nature, place for the eighth time in access to food and water, and promoting the well-being 2010. This year, children of children and the elderly. The goal is to move all suffering from malnutrition initiatives towards this triple-win approach to maximize were served one million meals, their impact. bringing the total to ten million meals since the program began. A few examples: The program is founded on a cause-related marketing • In the Baby nutrition and Medical nutrition divisions, approach in which consumers can help children suffering a joint program was launched to improve access from malnutrition by purchasing Danone products. to medical education in South Africa, in which each Today, 84% of Poles are familiar with the Share your Meal Nutricia SA employee serves as a personal mentor program thanks to communication efforts and television to one student. advertising. Danone Poland’s visibility as the project organizer has grown from 44% in 2009 to 50% in 2010. 152 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 The Country Business Unit (CBU) involves various The Danone Institutes stakeholders in the project, mainly its employees, whose The Danone Institutes are non-profit organizations that commitment rose from 23% in 2009 to 36% this year, bring together more than 250 independent experts, contributing to the collection of 488 tons of food including scientists, physicians and food sector nationally. personalities with the goal of: • supporting nutrition research; Milky Start • informing and training health professionals Milky Start, the first product associated with a social on food-related topics; mission in Poland, was launched by • participating in improving eating habits through Danone and its partners education and information campaigns (Biedronka and Lubella, as (to learn more, go to www.danoneinstitute.org). well as the Mother and Child scientific institute) in 2006, Since 1991, nearly 1,000 research projects have been and this year registered financed by the Danone Institutes, and more than 10,000 portions purchased 18 million euros distributed in the form of research per day by the lowest-income awards and grants. In 2010, nearly 1 million euros were families in the country. contributed to support nutrition research. This milk porridge was formulated for children in the The Institutes also organize around fifteen scientific and lowest socio-economic category who often suffer from practical conferences annually and publish numerous health problems caused by malnutrition. Milky Start is books and information letters to share the latest scientific enriched to provide up to 25% of daily recommended advances in nutrition with practitioners, journalists and values of certain vitamins and minerals. Its increased sales education professionals. in 2010 (+177% compared with 2009) were made More information on www. danoneinstitute.org possible by key initiatives launched in 2009: improved product formulation, introduction of new flavors, as well as various advertising campaigns. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 153 ECONOMIC Performance Indicators Indirect and economic impacts ADD EC9 Danone implements numerous initiatives in its Country Business Units (CBUs) (for example, APIEME at Evian, CEPIV at Volvic, the AQUA factory in Klaten, Indonesia, Understanding and describing etc.) to support the economic and social development of significant indirect economic the regions where the group is present. impacts, including the extent The group decided to organize these many initiatives of impacts and to expand their scope by founding the Danone Danone has always had a vision of its business Ecosystem Fund in April 2009 (see pages 62 to 65). that integrates both economic factors (wages paid, procurement and subcontracting, local taxes, etc.) This Fund aims to expand the dual economic and social and social considerations (employment, contributing projects to strengthen and develop business for Danone’s knowledge, training, support for local initiatives, support partners, which are its ecosystem: agricultural producers, for education in its areas of expertise, partnerships around suppliers and subcontractors, transport and logistics environmental causes). The company’s ability to develop operators, and distributors. positive relationships with its local environment plays a significant role in its overall performance. Danone must The Fund is financed by an initial endowment of continuously strive to find the right balance between this 100 million euros and an annual contribution of one social commitment and the economic purpose that is its percent of net profits. It supports diverse initiatives primary mission. selected by the CBUs in their own regions: skills development programs for local suppliers, support Danone’s commitment to local communities is part of its for new businesses in connection with Danone’s own “dual economic and social project”, which involves: activity (such as food distribution micro businesses), • knowing the local players and developing sustainable employment integration programs near the plants. relationships with them; • participating in the economic and social development At end 2010, 20 projects had been approved, representing of its labor market; 11.4 million euros and 12,000 beneficiaries. The interest • developing products that are affordable by the greatest shown by CBUs in these co-development projects and the number of people, and in particular low-income quality of the initial ideas are the driving factors that must consumers; be leveraged. This approach modifies the way social • participating in maintaining local economies and responsibility is perceived within the CBUs and helps employment by reindustrializing group sites that to change practices in procurement, distribution and have undergone restructuring. product offers. 154 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 RTENAIRES/ ONG. The Danone Ecosystem Fund M€ 11,4 Engaged, 34 Projects, 12,000 Direct 16 Partners/ 20 Validated Beneficiaries NGO’s H Recycling Validated projects n Area Projects under study l Distribution Ideas Q Home Care Services s Supplies Danone Sustainability Report 2010 155 2010 Sustainability REPORT Performance Environmental Indicators 2000-2010 Objectives 157 Materials 160 energy 161 water 164 biodiversity 166 Emissions, effluents and waste 171 Products and services 177 Compliance with legislation 180 transport 181 Overall 182 governance 183 156 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 3,0 1,0 100 84,1 85,8 86,1 0,0 80,6 82,3 80,0 64,3 VALORIZED 400 2009 2008 WASTE 2000-2010 Objectives 238 231 200 Quantitative objectives were set for the entire group in EN21 Overall 0 2000 consumption 2006 2007 2008 of2009thermal2010 2010 2001 for the 2000-2010 period (“lean plant” program): energy in our plants Dechets Goal 20% reduction in energy consumption, 30% reduction in water0 consumption, 10% reduction in packaging weight, and 80% recovery of manufacturing waste. Thermal energy intensity (in KWh/metric ton of product) The reporting process was enhanced in 2010 thanks to a 200 169,3 stronger involvement of each division to ensure that all environmental data for the group’s production Réel 2009 plants is Objectif 2009 130,6 132,5 118,5 THERMAL reported. The coverage and data reliability were also 108,6 ENERGYs 0 EN21 93,7 improved by better reporting preparation. Coverage of 100 Responsabilités 90,0 Danone participating -2 plants rose from 86% to 94%, leading to a change in the energy mix. The additional plants are located in -particular 4 in China, Iran, the Republic of Korea, the USA, Mexico and Denmark. 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 5,0 Goal -6 Water consumption in our plants -8 7,4 The group reduced the intensity of its thermal energy Water consumption in our plants (1.3 m3/t) decreased by consumption to 90.0 KWh/t in 2010, a 3.9% reduction 11% in 2010, mainly due to good performances in the compared with 2009. Waters and Baby nutrition divisions. 300 275,0 2010 goal compared 226,1 with 2000 (-30%): 118,5 kWh/t 218,2 220,0 Water use intensity in the production process The 30% goal was exceeded,186,2 with a 47% reduction in 200 TOTAL (in m3/ton of product) intensity. 163,3 158,9 ENERGY 2,5 2,22 2,0 100 2,0 1,8 1,7 TOTAL 1,5 1,56 1,5 WATER 1,3 0 1,0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 Goal 0,5 0,0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 Goal 2010 goal compared with 2000 (-30%): 1,56 m3/t The 30% reduction goal was exceeded, reaching 41%. 100 84 90 90 81 81 78 75 75 80 Profil p127 67 65 66 67 68 100 70 84,1 85,8 86,1 60 80,6 82,3 80,0 50 64,3 40 VALORIZED WASTE 30 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 157 20 200 2,5 2,22 Environmental 169,3 Performance Indicators 2,0 2,0 1,8 1,7 TOTAL 130,6 132,5 1,5 1,56 118,5 THERMAL 1,5 WATER 1,3 108,6 ENERGYs 93,7 90,0 100 1,0 2000-2010 Objectives 0,5 0,0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 Goal 0 Total2000energy 2006 consumption 2007 2008 2009 in2010 our2010 Goal Waste recovery in the plants plants Intensity of total energy consumption Waste recovery in our plants (in KWh/metric ton of product) 300 100 275,0 85,8 86,1 84,1 82,3 80,6 80,0 226,1 218,2 220,0 64,3 200 186,2 TOTAL VALORIZED 163,3 158,9 ENERGY WASTE 100 0 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 Goal Goal 2010 goal compared with 2000 (-20%): 220 kWh/t The group continued its waste recovey policy in 2010, The 2008-2012 Nature Plan to reduce carbon dioxide achieving an 86.1% recovery rate. Recovery takes place (CO2) emissions helped propel production plants more through recycling, reuse of waste, composting, spreading 200 quickly towards better energy performance. The goal of for fertilizer, 169,3 or waste-to-energy incineration. reducing energy intensity by 20% was exceeded, with a 100 132,5 42% decrease.84 90 2010 goal: 80% 130,6 recovery of production plant waste 118,5 THERMAL 90 81 81 108,6 80 78 75 75 The Profil p127 2010 goal was exceeded, with the 93,7recovery rate ENERGYs 68 100 90,0 70 67 65 66 67 reaching 86.1% in 2010. 60 50 40 30 0 20 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 Goal 10 0 Domaine Domaine Domaine Total Économique Environnemental Social Score minimum DJSI Monde Score Danone Score maximum DJSI Monde 300 275,0 Weight (g) 226,1 218,2 220,0 36 32,0 Font Vella 186,2 32 30,0 30,0 30,0 200 TOTAL 28,5 163,3 158,9 ENERGY 28 27,5 26,5 24 100 20 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2009 2010 158 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 Goal Number of ISO 14001-certified sites The continuous improvement process is supported by Danone Danone bases its environmental management policy on investments the international ISO 14001 benchmark. Numerous published guidelines based on this standard help In 2010, investments targeting environmental protection industrial sites progress towards certification. ISO 14001 amounted to 30 million euros (compared with 34 million certification is a prerequisite for achieving the highest euros in 2009 and 38 million euros in 2008). performance level in the GREEN environmental audits carried out by ERM (see page 42 “Manage and strengthen These investments involve (in order of importance): the fundamentals”). At end 2010, 88 of 157 plants were • energy savings and transition to renewable energies (in ISO 14001 certified. particular through waste processing in waste treatment facilities); The rate of coverage of sites reporting data rose from 86% • sustainable management of water, soil, air and waste; in 2009 to 94% in 2010 (+8 points). • eco-design of products and packaging. In the tables below, 2009 and 2010 data is historic data: • for 2009 data, the coverage rate represents 95% of the group’s 2009 revenues; • for 2010 data, the coverage rate represents 98% of the group’s 2010 revenues. 2009 2010 Total number of sites 167 157 Total number of 85 88 ISO 14001-certified sites √ Percentage of 51% 56% ISO 14001-certified sites Coverage (percentage 86% 94% of sites reporting data) √ 2010 figures have been verified by KPMG Audit. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 159 Environmental Performance Indicators Materials EN1 EN2 Materials used by weight or volume Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 2009/2010 2009 2010 change Around one third of primary and secondary packaging is Total production 22 587 26 472 +17% made from recycled materials in the Waters and Dairy (thousands of metric tons) √ products divisions. Cardboard used in the Waters division is more than 80% recycled, and this rate is 99% in the √ 2010 figures have been verified by KPMG Audit. Dairy products division. Total production in metric tons rose by 17%, due in For its plastic packaging, the group is working to increase particular to increased production by the Baby nutrition the percentage of recycled PET (rPET) used in its bottles. division. Several brands in the Waters division, including Volvic, Evian and Bonafont are already using rPET. At end 2010, Total production (in thousands of metric tons) the global share of rPET was 10%. For example, Evian bottles contain, depending on their format, between 35% and 50% rPET. 30 000 2009 2010 26 472 Waters division 2008 2009 2010 2011 goal 22 587 EN1 % rPET (g rPET/g PET) Production 4% 8% 10% minimum 20% 20 000 10 000 Thermal energy (with steam) Electricity 180 163,3 158,9 160 EN4 140 Energie 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2009 2010 160 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Energy EN3 EN4 Direct energy consumption by Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source primary source MWh 2009 2010 2009/2010 MWh 2009 2010 change Natural gas 1 394 304 1 502 693 Thermal energy Fuel oil 354 226 351 496 2 116 476 2 383 532 13% (with steam) Heating oil 44 971 85 028 Electricity 1 573 049 1 822 740 16% 30 000 2009 2010 Butane/propane 81 871 71 888 √ 26 472 Coal 183 031 243 194 Total energy 3 689 525 4 206 272 14% 22 587 EN1 Other sources 30 747 20 907 √ 2010 figures have been verified by KPMG Audit. Production 20 000 Thermal energy consumption 2 116 476 2 383 532 (with steam) √ Energy efficiency continues to progress. A 2.7% improvement was registered in 2010 compared with the previous year, √ 2010 figures have been verified by KPMG Audit. despite an unfavorable energy mix effect (integration of 10 000 new plants into the report). See indicator EN16 for more The increase in volume of thermal consumption (+12.6%) information. was lower than the overall increase in the group’s production (+17%). Total energy intensity (KWh/metric ton of product) This reflects improved thermal energy intensity, which measured 90.00 KWh/metric ton of product in 2010, a Thermal energy (with steam) Electricity 180 3.9% improvement. This change is the result of continuous 160 163,3 158,9 improvement plans and the implementation of more 140 EN4 Energie environmentally-friendly solutions. 120 100 Cogeneration is being developed to support a more favorable 80 energy mix in our factories. 60 40 20 Thermal energy consumption indicated in table EN3 includes 0 purchased steam, presented under indicator EN4. 2009 2010 2,4 2009 2010 2,2 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 161 2,0 EN8 Environmental Performance Indicators Energy ADD EN5 The “Energy Radar” initiative in the Baby nutrition division also aims to optimize energy consumption in Energy saved due to conservation production plants. An energy manager is designated at and efficiency improvements every site to identify waste and propose solutions that are more efficient and respectful of the environment. Each Better management of energy was achieved through two energy manager commits to sharing the best practices main approaches: implemented at his or her site with the rest of the • Optimizing energy production at the plants: network, twice annually. One of the best practices For example, thermal energy efficiency improved by 9.6% identified optimizes the milk pasteurization process. in the Dairy products division. • Optimizing energy use: These efforts have improved total energy efficiency by For example, electricity intensity improved by almost more than 6% for the Dairy products division compared 4.7% in the Baby nutrition division. with 2009. Sharing best practices and fostering emulation between plants strengthened this improvement process in 2010. The rollout of energy training known as “Energy Campus” in the Dairy products division continues to bring energy experts into play to support implementation of best practices in all production plants. To date, this approach has helped identify 63 best practices. In 2010, seven meetings were held at various sites in Russia, Turkey, South Africa, the Czech Republic, Spain, Canada and Indonesia to mobilize every geographic region. At each meeting, the host site was audited and an action plan developed. This process, applied in a spirit of collaboration and cross-regional fertilization, helped connect the best practices shared through the group network to concrete efforts for improvement on the ground. 162 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 ADD EN6 ADD EN7 Initiatives to provide energyInitiatives to reduce indirect efficient or renewable energyenergy consumption and reductions based products and services, and achieved reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives See indicator EN6. Several sites chose to install cogeneration facilities in order to produce electricity or steam without fossil fuels. At the Bierun plant in Poland (Dairy products division), this practice prevents emission of some 5,400 metric tons of CO2 each year. In Brazil, a biomass production project to replace the fossil fuels used for electricity and heat production should be operational by 2012. This project is based on renewable biomass available in large quantities. It only uses certified sustainable natural resources and should prevent emission of 18,000 metric tons of CO2. The carbon footprint of biomass is around 15 g CO2/KWh, while that of fuel is estimated at 300 g CO2/KWh. This project also has a positive local impact by providing more secure market opportunities for local farmers. Two similar projects have undergone advanced feasibility studies, in Ireland in the Baby nutrition division (Macroom) and in France in the Waters division (Volvic). These two projects have not yet been implemented as the conditions for economic viability are not yet in place. Two new projects are being explored. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 163 Environmental Performance Indicators 30 000 2009 2010 26 472 Water 22 587 EN1 Production 20 000 EN8 All divisions continued policies for improved management and use of water resources. The water consumption ratio Total water withdrawal by source 10 000 improved by 11% from 2009 to 2010 (1.3 m3/t), notably thanks to good performances in the Waters and Baby Thousands of m3 2009 2010 nutrition divisions. Total water withdrawn from 50 204 56 253 the surrounding environment Best practices in the Dairy products division, in particular (Water for production and products), including: the use of water in cleaning cycles, are consolidated in the Thermal energy (with steam) Electricity NEPTUNE tool and rolled out to all plants. 180 water · well 163,3 36 526 41 366 158,9 160 · municipal water 10 312 11 470 EN4In the Waters division, the water footprint measurement tool 140 Energie 120 water · river 3 367 3 417 developed in collaboration with Quantis (DROP) is based on 100 a life cycle analysis approach. It inventories consumption at Total80 water withdrawn includes both water used in the each stage of production (ingredients, packaging, production), 60 production process, and water used in product formulation. and for transport, consumer use and end of life. The impact 40 of this consumption, whether quantitative (availability) 20 0 Thousands of m 3 2009 2010 or qualitative (pollution) is measured in m3 equivalent, 2009 2010 taking into account local “water stress” where the impacts Water consumption in the 33 334 34 850 are generated. Compensatory measures directly related to production process √ product formulation (protection policy or CSR program) √ 2010 figures have been verified by KPMG Audit. are also evaluated in the form of m3 equivalent credits. This new, exhaustive and regional approach to assessing the “water footprint” is part of current discussions for drafting ISO Water use intensity (in m3 per metric ton of product) standards (which should be finalized in 2013). 2,4 2009 2010 This tool has already been tested for several products in 2,2 France and Argentina, and will be rolled out across the EN8Waters and Dairy products divisions in order to identify 2,0 1,8 levers for improving our water footprint throughout our Consommation eau 1,6 products’ life cycles. 1,4 1,2 1,0 Total water withdrawn Water for production process 2009 2008 700.000 600.000 544.767 EN16 C02 Emitions totales 499.400 500.000 164 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 400.000 ADD EN9 ADD EN10 Water sources significantly affected Percentage and total volume of by withdrawal of water water recycled and reused See indicator EN8 for the various sources of water used. Production plants use water for production line cooling systems. This water is reused in almost all cases (open Of the 56 million m3 of water withdrawn, Danone cooling systems are the exception and not the rule). uses some 21 million m3 for manufacturing its finished products (not including water used in production Investments have been made at several plants to improve processes), mainly coming from 81 bottling sites. water recuperation, particularly at Bailleul in France. This plant has made changes to its CIP (Cleaning-In-Place) The group has set a goal of ensuring the protection of facility to bring consumption below the threshold of 2m3 the source (rainwater catchment area), the transition per metric ton. zone (path taken by the water in the rock layers) and the emergence area (exit zone for the spring). Additionally, every source area is operated in compliance with rules established by the group, in particular with regard to long-term sustainability of volumes. Danone has drafted a charter titled “Groundwater protection policy” signed by Franck Riboud in October 2004. This policy defines our commitment to sustainable management of groundwater in terms of managing natural and heritage resources. It restates the core objective of protecting springs and describes in detail the principles for implementation by all Country Business Units around the world. These principles are systematically assessed for each spring, giving rise to specific action plans. Site evaluation is based on the SPRING tool, which defines management standards for each source of spring water bottled by the group. This tool has been rolled out in 100% of the Waters division sites. The Waters division has established a national and regional availability map, to identify pollution risks, risks of water scarcity and priority action zones. See the programs for protection of biodiversity zones under EN11. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 165 Environmental Performance Indicators Biodiversity Biodiversity refers to all components of living systems, at species, gene and ecosystem levels. The publication of the EN11 Millennium Ecosystem Assessment report in 2005, Location and size of land owned, sponsored by the United Nations, highlighted the leased, managed in, or adjacent to, important tasks accomplished by ecosystems. The report protected areas and areas of high identifies and categorizes different types of services: • supply services (food, wood, etc.), biodiversity value outside protected • regulatory services (water cycle, climate regulation, etc.), areas • support services (primary production, soil, etc.), • cultural services (education, recreation, etc.). The group’s sites are located in very diverse ecosystems and climates. Among these sites, many benefit from an Danone’s businesses depend directly or indirectly exceptional environment and specific protections; this on these services (e.g. supply of natural mineral water, is true for the Waters division sites in particular, whose energy supply for production sites, and raw materials rainwater catchment areas are being carefully managed. supply). The group’s businesses are by nature Projects begun over the past several years continue. interdependent with ecosystems. This is why Danone has made preserving biodiversity one of its priorities, In France, together with the Association for the Protection including beyond the scope of its own production of rainwater catchment for Evian mineral waters operations, through protection initiatives in partnership (APIEME), Danone has been implementing protective with numerous NGOs. measures in collaboration with local partners since 1992. This strategy is not limited to Evian, but today covers 80% of the group’s springs. In 2009 the Evian spring was added to the list of wetlands covered by the Ramsar Convention (United Nations program), which aims to ensure sustainable management of these regions that are key to maintaining biodiversity. One of the key approaches is to work together with farmers to promote sustainable agriculture. This involves avoiding the use of pesticides and fertilizers that might infiltrate the water table. 166 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 In 2010, Evian, the APIEME, the council of HauteIn Indonesia, Danone, the CIRAD and a local NGO have Savoie and the Community of Municipalities of the Evian joined together for a reforestation project using local region signed a framework agreement on “Environmental species in the Klaten catchment area. In China at the management of winter road maintenance in the Evian Longmen site near Shenzhen, a pilot project was launched Canton.” The agreement seeks to minimize the use of salt in cooperation with agronomy institutes, local authorities on the roads in wintertime, to prevent soil and water and populations to eliminate the use of pesticides by supply contamination by chloride compounds. The mandarin tree producers in the catchment area. signing of this agreement is a concrete illustration of evolving highway management practices at local level, In the Dairy products division, the Molay plant in France which will have a positive impact on biodiversity. was upgraded into a Natura 2000 area in 2009. Along the model of the APIEME in Evian, the CEPIV in Volvic and the Lanjaron association in Spain, Badoit and the municipalities of Saint-Galmier, Chamboeuf and Saint-Médard-en-Forez created the “Green bubble” association in 2010. This initiative aims to implement policies to ensure the sustainability of natural mineral water resources. Several policy priorities have already been identified, in particular wastewater management and agricultural activities. Concrete achievements are expected beginning in 2011, in particular initiatives to renovate the purification network and to provide assessments of livestock farming. In Argentina, the Villavicencio site extends into a nature reserve of more than 70,000 hectares. In close proximity to the Andes, the site is home to a wealth of biodiversity and initiatives have been taken to ensure sustainable management of the area and protection of water resources. Ecotourism and environmental awareness projects are developed in the reserve. In Uruguay, the Salus spring in the Sierra de la Coronilla is also located in a nature reserve that is very isolated and particularly well preserved. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 167 Environmental Performance Indicators Biodiversity EN12 Danone makes full use of experts to ensure the rational and sustainable operation of our springs. For each site Description of significant impacts under operation, replacement of the natural resource is of activities, products and services the primary factor. We never withdraw more than what the spring can naturally produce. on biodiversity in protected areas The water’s consistent composition is checked through and areas of high biodiversity value regular sampling by certified independent laboratories. outside protected areas Bottling is carried out according to strict hygiene procedures, and water quality is monitored daily. To minimize our impact on biodiversity and to contribute to restoring ecosystems, Danone seeks to adhere to the • In the areas of agriculture and milk supply, the Dairy precautionary principle and to collaborate with leading products division launched the FaRM initiative with its experts in the field. farmer partners in 1997 (see indicator EN26 concerning initiatives taken to promote sustainable agriculture), to • In the Waters division, protection of biodiversity is help improve and audit farms’ environmental practices one of the core elements of the strategy for (energy and water consumption, use of fertilizer and protection of natural water resources. manure, waste, animal well-being, etc.). New Operation of a spring depends on its intrinsic quality. biodiversity indicators were added to this approach in The spring must offer excellent geological and natural 2010. This tool encourages farmers to leave hedges and protection. The Evian mineral spring, for example, is grassy stretches on their land, particularly adjacent to protected by a waterproof layer several dozen meters streams, to protect biodiversity. thick and has an average renewal period of 20 years. Each spring is subject to intensive geological research as Danone also supports projects that foster sustainable use well as environmental studies to identify risk factors in of pesticides and fertilizers in the fields, and more the area and implement measures to protect natural and integrated (Bleu Blanc Cœur, etc.) or organic (“Les deux rural resources. The group relies on local and national vaches” initiative, Stonyfield farms, etc.) agricultural legislation and on contractual agreements to obtain models. operating rights, which may include restrictions (drilling prohibitions, regulation of polluting activities, etc.). Water catchment takes place primarily through drilling within a closed perimeter inaccessible to unauthorized persons. Catchment facilities ensure the hygiene and consistency of operations, and are adapted to the resource’s hydrodynamics. 168 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 ADD EN13 ADD EN14 Habitats protected or restored Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts See indicator EN11 concerning the groundwater protection on biodiversity program. Biodiversity is one of the five strategic priorities of the group’s Nature Plan. Sustainable agriculture Several initiatives aim to develop environmentally respectful agricultural practices, in partnership with group suppliers. Intensive use of pesticides and fertilizer has been identified as one factor in the loss of soil fertility, and also affects biodiversity. Since 2006, Danone is therefore sponsoring a thesis with the INRA on the impact of meadow land biodiversity on the micro-nutrient content of milk. This research could lead to development programs for meadow land, a biodiversity habitat. Danone contributes to the development of organic farming through its Stonyfield CBU in the USA and in France. Stonyfield is the world-leading producer of organic yogurts. Danone Nature Fund initiatives To effectively implement its offset projects, Danone developed a “home made” tool in 2008, the Danone Nature Fund, in partnership with IUCN and the Ramsar convention. The fund seeks to support projects that combine water resource management, biodiversity conservation, quality improvement of food resources from wetland ecosystems, and improved natural capacity to store large quantities of CO2. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 169 Environmental Performance Indicators Biodiversity The Danone Nature Fund initiated two new programs in India in 2010. Danone supports an NGO that works ADD EN15 with local communities in the Ganges delta to restore Number of IUCN Red List species the Sundarbans mangroves. This region is home to great and national conservation list biological diversity, both plant and animal, including the Bengali tiger. In the Araku Valley, Danone has begun species with habitats in areas an agroforestry project in support of local producers in affected by operations, by level partnership with the Naandi foundation. In Africa, the of extinction risk Danone Nature Fund continues to support the NGO Oceanium project for restoring mangroves in Senegal. The group has no production plants within protected areas where species on the IUCN red list are located. In Cambodia, Danone also supports the GERES (Renewable Energies, Environment and Solidarity Group) Certain areas outside the plants but still necessary to the in the distribution of improved cooking stoves to help group’s business are subject to increased protection. This is limit deforestation, including in the Tonle Sap lake area. true for rainwater catchment areas needed by the Waters This lake was named a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve in division, as many springs are located in nature zones 1997. Danone also supports an agroforestry program on whose preservation is a primary goal. the Bateke plateau in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In partnership with the Bird Protection League (LPO), Volvic takes part in a program to protect the Red Kite and Water and biodiversity several species of bat in the Massif Central in France. See indicator EN11 concerning the groundwater protection program. 170 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 EN17 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight gas emissions by weight Total emissions in tCO2e kg eq. CO2/kg of 2009(*) 2010 (Kyoto Protocol scope 1) product in Danone’s scope of responsibility CO2 emissions 490 396 526 604 Goal Actual Cumulative (production plants, 2008/2012 2009/2010 2008/2010 packaging and end CH4 emissions 1 160 1 255 of life, transport and N2O emissions 553 532 storage) HFC emissions 1 355 2 301 Danone 30% 9% 22% Total emissions 493 463 530 692 √ The 7% goal was exceeded in 2010 with a reduction √ 2010 figures have been verified by KPMG Audit. of 9%. Goals have been set for all group Country Business Units for 2011 targeting an average reduction (*) Values recalculated according to 2010 GHG Protocol Initiative methodology. Emissions related to HCFC and CFC consumption are not therefore taken into of around 7%. account, and emission factors have been updated. Danone’s carbon footprint Total emissions by the plants have increased with the In 2010 particular attention was paid to measuring group’s rising production levels (+17%) compared with greenhouse gas emissions. The group aims to 2009. However, production plants’ carbon intensity systematically and strictly calculate, monitor and analyze continues to improve, registering an 8% reduction under emissions throughout its products’ life cycle, similar the 2008-2012 reduction plan. to what is achieved for cost analysis in finance. Detailed knowledge of emission sources is a prerequisite to effective management of emission reduction policies. Efforts over the past year therefore focused on the following: • clarifying rules for emissions calculation; • creating a methodology to consolidate CO2 data at division and group levels; • ensuring reliability of data reported by the CBUs; • aligning internal calculation rules with the various existing protocols in the market. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 171 0 Milk 6 Other raw materials Environmental Performance Indicators Packaging 12 Production Logistics 43 Retail sales Empreinte Ca 13 Packaging end of life 2 Emissions, effluents and waste 0 Product Milk end of life 6 Other raw materials 18 Packaging 12 6 We also obtained the following estimates in g equivalent Dairy division carbon footprint (in %) Production Logistics CO2 per kg of product for the group and by division. 43 Retail sales Empreinte Ca 13 Packaging end of life Milk This data serves as the basis for establishing Nature plan 2 2 Productrawendmaterials of life Other objectives (Danone’s definition of direct responsibility 8 Packaging includes all emissions arising from transport, packaging, Production 10 18 production plant, distribution and packaging end of life 6 Logistics activities). 51 Retail sales DAYRI 10 Packaging end of life Empreinte ca The largest impact comes from the use of agricultural Product Milk end of life raw materials, followed by packaging and transport. 2 2 Other raw materials 13 8 The impact of production accounts for 13% of the total. Packaging 4 10 Production Logistics 51 Retail sales DAYRI 10 Packaging end of life Total scope: 1,619 g eq. CO2/kg product Other raw materials Empreinte ca Product end of life Packaging Danone’s scope5 of direct responsibility: 6 Production 593 g eq.13CO 2 /kg product Logistics 4 Retail sales Danone’s carbon footprint (in %) Waters division carbon footprint (in %) 42 28 DAYRI 2 Empreinte ca 0 Other raw materials Milk Packaging 5 6 Other raw materials 6 Production Packaging 10 12 19 Logistics Production Retail sales Logistics Retail sales Empreinte Carbone de Danone, 12 42 43 28 13 DAYRI Packaging end of life Empreinte ca Product end of life 2 2 Milk 15 4 Other raw materials 18 6 19 Packaging 16 Production Empreinte ca Logistics Nutrition Infa Retail sales Total scope: 539 g eq. CO2/kg productMilk 55 6 Packaging end of life Scope of Danone’s8 2 2 direct responsibility Other raw materials Total scope: 124 2 g2 eq. CO2/kg product Product Milk end of life (production plants, packaging and end of life, Packaging Danone’s scope of direct responsibility: 4 Other raw materials transport 10 and storage): 240 g eq. COProduction 2 /kg product 112 g eq.15CO2/kg product Logistics Packaging Retail sales 16 Production 51 Empreinte ca DAYRI Logistics Nutrition Infa 10 Packaging end of life Empreinte carbone PLF Product end of life Retail sales 55 6 2 Packaging end of life Milk 172 Danone 13 Sustainability Report 2010 Product end of life 6 Other raw materials 4 6 Production 13 Logistics 4 Retail sales 42 28 DAYRI Empreinte carbone Other raw materials Packaging 5 6 Production 19 Logistics Retail sales 28 Baby nutrition division carbon footprint 42 (in %) ADD DAYRI Empreinte carbone EN18 2 2 Milk Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas 4 Other raw materials emissions and reductions achieved 19 Packaging 16 Production Our carbon footprint is measured using the Danprint tool Empreinte carbone Logistics developed Nutrition Infantile for all Danone Country Business Units, which 55 Retail sales has now been deployed throughout the group. 6 Packaging end of life 2 2 Product end of life Milk With this tool we can assess our progress in reducing 15 4 Other raw materials greenhouse gas emissions compared with goals defined in Packaging the Nature Plan for all activities in Danone’s direct scope 16 Production of responsibility Empreinte carbone (production plants, transport, packaging Logistics Nutrition Infantile and packaging end of life). Consolidated reduction of Total scope: 6,410 g eq. CO2/kg 55 product Retail sales emissions measured 9% in 2010 compared with 2009. 6 2 Packaging end of life Danone’s scope of direct responsibility: Milk Product end of life 1,819 g eq. CO 6 2/kg product Other raw materials In addition to the 2008-2012 plan for reducing 11 15 Packaging greenhouse gas emissions by 30%, Danone works together Production with its suppliers to reduce the carbon footprint Logistics Medical nutrition division carbon footprint (in %) throughout the value chain by implementing Carbon Empreinte Carbone de Danone Retail sales 14 49 Pactsmédicale Nutrition which include a reduction commitment and an 2 action plan over three years. These pacts were Milk implemented in the Dairy products division in 2009, and 6 Other raw materials serve as a tool for suppliers who want to commit to better 18 Packaging 11 managing their emissions with a view to reducing them. Production Logistics To date, 66 carbon pacts have been signed by suppliers in Retail sales the Dairy Empreinte products Carbone de Danone division, representing 50% of sales 49 Nutrition médicale 14 value for packaging and raw materials suppliers. Continued rollout in 2010 led to the signature of 33 carbon pacts in the Baby and Medical nutrition 18 divisions, covering 37% of the sales value of packaging and raw materials. A plan for implementation in the Waters division has begun and will continue in 2011. Danone’s ultimate goal is to work with all of its strategic Total scope: 2,844 g eq. CO2/kg product suppliers. Danone’s scope of direct responsibility: 884 g eq. CO2/kg product Danone Sustainability Report 2010 173 Environmental Performance Indicators Emissions, effluents and waste Two examples of Carbon Pacts: EN19 Graham: an action plan to reduce emissions from Emissions of ozone-depleting packaging substances, by weight In June 2010, Danone packaging supplier Graham committed to a carbon footprint analysis with the support t eq. CFC 2009 2010 of the ADEME to identify its main emission sources. CFC 0,44 0,58 Graham announced reduction goals, and several Danone sites supplied by Graham have already seen the packaging HCFC 0,39 0,46 portion of their carbon footprint go down: At Rotselaar in Belgium the reduction is estimated at 5% between 2009 Emissions arising from the use of refrigerants increased and 2010, and a reduction of around 13% has been this year, due to the fact that refrigerant use is not regular, achieved in Aldaya in Spain. Improvement is significant and several sites needed to replenish their stocks in 2011. for several products, including Danacol, with a reduction Certain refrigerants have an impact on the ozone layer, of 5.2 g CO2/bottle over the same period. particularly CFCs. Danone has committed to ultimately using only natural refrigerants and technologies that Agrana: an action plan to reduce emissions from respect the environment. transport and energy In October 2009, Danone fruit supplier Agrana Studies carried out by the Dairy products division in 2010 implemented a multi-year action plan in France with reveal that the cold chain accounts for between 5% and ambitious goals. The supplier is committed to reducing its 12% of the total CO2 footprint, depending on the teq. CO2 emissions from transport by 20%, and those country. A case study of Activia yogurts in Germany arising from energy use by 16%. These objectives showed how emissions are distributed across the chain in implemented within its direct business scope represent an retail storage (50% to 70%), warehousing (10% to 16%), overall decrease estimated at 7.5% over a five-year period. and Danone production plants (5% to 20%). The Dairy products division is already ahead of the curve for the ban on R22 refrigerant greenhouse gases (freon) in France, set for December 31, 2014. Our five production plants in France have replaced freon with ammonia, a natural refrigerant. Under a policy known as the BCool initiative, Danone began updating its refrigerator fleet (estimated at 150,000 units) in 2010 to ensure that only natural refrigerants based on CH or CO2 technologies are in use. This results both in reduced energy consumption and a reduction of ozone-depleting emissions. 174 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 EN20 EN21 NO, SO, and other significant air Total water discharge by quality and emissions by type and weight destination t eq. NOx ou SOx 2009 2010 Thousands of metric tons 2009 2010 Consumption of NOx 1 206 1 334 Final discharge of Chemical 5, 139 5, 320 Consumption of SOx 2 688 2 998 Oxygen Demand (COD) √ √ 2010 figures have been verified by KPMG Audit. The net COD ratio (net COD / production) after treatment continued to decrease significantly in 2010 for a total drop of 11.7%. Several plants have modified their sampling methodology to improve the measurement’s accuracy. Some sites have also implemented original approaches by using gross COD for energy production. The Stonyfield plant in the United States adopted a method in which dairy waste from the production process is directly released into wastewater. This leads to an increase in gross COD, which is utilized in a procedure for producing biogas (biomethanization). With this system the plant recycles its organic waste as well as gaining greater energy autonomy. Stonyfield shrank the plant’s carbon footprint by 30% while drastically reducing its sludge treatment load (-98%) and operating costs. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 175 Environmental Performance Indicators Emissions, effluents and waste EN22 ADD EN24 Total weight of waste by type and Weight of transported, imported, disposal method exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the 2009 2010 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and Total quantity of waste generated 238 277 VIII and percentage of transported (in thousands of metric tons excluding sludge from WWTP) √ waste shipped internationally Total quantity of waste eliminated by a specific method (in thousands of metric 204 238 This indicator does not concern Danone. tons excluding sludge from WWTP) Share of waste diverted by a specific 85,8% 86,1% ADD EN25 method (excluding sludge from WWTP) √ 2010 figures have been verified by KPMG Audit. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly EN23 affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water Total number and volume of significant spills and runoff A chemical product spill occurred in 2010 at a Dairy See indicators EN9, EN11 and EN14 concerning water supply products division location. The accident was rapidly sources and protecting biodiversity. brought under control and effectively managed with the local authorities; no significant environmental impact resulted. 176 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 200 186,2 TOTAL 163,3 158,9 ENERGY 100 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2010 100 Products and services 90 Goal 84 90 81 81 78 75 75 80 Profil p127 67 65 66 67 68 70 60 EN26 This 50 reduction was achieved through various innovations that 40 optimized the application of the PET plastic in the Initiatives to mitigate environmental 30 mold 20 used to form the bottle. Some additional “tweaks” impacts of products and services, concerning 10 100 notably the base of the bottle and the shape of 90the neck contributed to90 reducing the amount of81 and extent of impact mitigation 0 Domaine 78 84 81 Domaine Domaine Total plastic 80 used. Économique Environnemental Social 75 75 Profil p127 67 65 66 67 68 70 Danone’s initiatives for reducing the Score minimum DJSI Monde Score Danone Score maximum DJSI Monde 60 impact of its packaging 50 The evolving weight of the Font Vella bottle (1.5 l) 40 Weight (g) 30 Innovative practices to reduce packaging weight 20 36 Reducing packaging and packaging weight is among 10 32,0 Font Vella 32 30,0 30,0 30,0 Danone’s priorities. A number of noteworthy 0 28,5 27,5 28 Domaine Domaine Domaine Total 26,5 improvements were initiated in 2010. Reducing the Économique Environnemental Social 24 weight of yogurt pots in the Dairy products division was Score minimum DJSI Monde Score Danone Score maximum DJSI Monde 20 made possible with a new technique (FOAM) in which air 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2009 2010 bubbles are injected into the pot to reduce the amount of plastic used. This technique was implemented on around Weight (g) 40 production lines in 2009, and 55 lines were In 36France, the Volvic bottle shrank from 38 g in 2000 to 32,0 operational in 2010. Conversion of another 15 lines is 30.5 g (g)in Weight 32 201030,0(-19%). 30,0 The techniques 30,0 that made this Font Vella 28,5 planned in 2011. This technique has already reduced the possible 40 28 are similar to those applied by Font 27,5Vella and26,5 38,0 carbon footprint by 40,000 metric tons equivalent (teq) primarily 38 24 involve optimizing the application of PET 37,0 Volvic CO2. plastic 36 20 in the mold. Further weight 34,0 reduction projects are 34 planned 2000 in the coming 2002 2004years.2006 2008 33,0 2009 2010 32 30,5 Two of the group’s flagship brands, Activia and Taillefine, 30 2000 2001 2005 2008 2010 eliminated the cardboard wrap around their yogurt pots The evolving weight of the Volvic bottle (1,5 l) (4-pot format) in April 2010. This change impacts around Weight (g) fifty different products and avoids the use of 1,600 metric 40 38,0 tons of cardboard, or 2,500 teq. CO2 each year. Where 38 37,0 Volvic cardboard is still needed, it is 99% derived from recycled 36 34,0 34 33,0 fibers. Additional major projects are planned in 2011. 32 30,5 30 Ever lighter bottles 2000 2001 2005 2008 2010 From 2000 to 2010, the Font Vella bottle (Spain) lost 17% of its weight, dropping from 32 g to 26.5 g. The weight of the new Evian 1.5 l bottle dropped 12% from 2009 to 2010, for a cumulative weight loss of more than 40% since 1995. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 177 Environmental Performance Indicators Products and services Use of recycled materials In the Dairy products division, Stonyfield uses PLA plastic Expanding the use of recycled materials has been a major derived from corn in some of its production lines. strategic objective for the group for several years, whether Additional initiatives will be launched in 2011. through improved collection or optimized packaging end of life. The group is strongly committed to a responsible Initiatives taken by Danone to circular “from the bottle to the bottle” approach, and aims support farmers in developing to increase the proportion of recycled PET (rPET) used in its bottles. Several brands in the Waters division, including sustainable agricultural practices Volvic, Evian and Bonafont are already using rPET. The that respect the environment average rate of rPET incorporation in the Waters division Sustainable agriculture is competitive and productive was 10% worldwide at end 2010. For example, Evian agriculture that, in addition to producing high-quality, bottles contain, depending on their format, between 35% safe food, takes into account the balance between: and 50% rPET. • respect for the environment; Recycling as a lever for local development • local economic and social impacts; Through its Danone Ecosystem Fund, Danone supports • the farm’s profitability. projects that encourage recycling, particularly of rPET The FaRMS program. which has a positive impact on local economies. In The FaRMS program (Farmers Relationship Management Indonesia for example, Danone supports the Pemelung Software) was expanded during 2010 in the Dairy community of waste pickers who are active in the informal products division with the participation of new countries economy, by helping them organize into a cooperative and including Turkey and Argentina. To date, more than developing a model for equitable collection and recycling. 6,500 dairy producers are involved in this approach. There A similar project was implemented in Mexico with the were 3,373 farm visits (audits) in a dozen countries in Pepenadores, leading to the launch of the first 100% rPET 2010. At least three new countries (Mexico, Brazil and bottle by Bonafont. Another project is under development Ukraine) will join the program in 2011. in Argentina with the Cartoneros. These projects combine social and environmental goals and allow Danone to This program supports producers to implement best increase its use of rPET while also improving working practices that are respectful of the environment, and conditions and compensation for waste pickers. ensures systematic monitoring of farms with respect to ten Plant-derived materials environmental criteria such as waste management, the use Danone promotes the use of packaging materials made of phytosanitary products, and energy and water from renewable resources with concrete initiatives. Volvic consumption. launched the first mineral water bottle made with plantderived PET in 2010. Volvic’s 50 cl bottles already use 20% plant-derived PET from sugar cane residue. This bottle is 100% recyclable. 178 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 The Sustainable Agriculture Initiative platform Danone was a founding member of the Sustainable EN27 Agriculture Initiative (SAI) platform in 2002. Among Percentage of products sold and the SAI’s focus areas in 2010 were measuring greenhouse their packaging materials that are gas emissions from livestock farming. It contributed to the report published by the FAO in April 2010. reclaimed by category See indicator EN2 on the use of recycled PET. The SAI comprises 25 member companies and aims to: • expand and share knowledge between agri-food businesses; • ensure uniform definitions in sustainable agriculture; • approve and develop sustainable agricultural practices; • communicate with decision-makers and consumers; • involve other agri-food industrialists and agents in the industry. Six specialized work groups were formed within the SAI (dairy, fruits, vegetables and potatoes, grains, coffee and water). Danone is an active member of the dairy, fruits and water groups. These working groups aim to transform sustainable agriculture principles into farming practices, which have begun implementation for the more advanced groups as global pilot programs. The COw2 project Danone published a method for evaluating methane emissions based on measurements of certain fatty acids in milk, in collaboration with the INRA, in October 2009. This method is designed to help milk producers manage their carbon footprint through animal feed. A pilot phase for monitoring this measurement was launched in nine countries in 2010 (including France, Spain, Hungary, Canada, Brazil and the US) with a group of volunteer producers. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 179 Environmental Performance Indicators Compliance with legislation EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Danone paid a total of 111 thousand euros in the form of penalties, fines and third-party damages related to environmental issues at a single site in 2010. 180 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Transport ADD EN 29 Optimizing road transport In the Dairy products division, the Ecodrive project Significant environmental impacts in Germany and Spain trains our drivers in safer and of transporting products and other greener driving. In Spain it should generate a 15% reduction in emissions in four years. goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and The Hero project uses innovative co-logistics practices transporting members of the to streamline logistics, and in particular to optimize truck workforce loads and transport schedules: Danone and Arla have joined forces in the United Kingdom to leverage all Transport is a major source of greenhouse gas emissions. possible synergies between their businesses. While milk supply is by nature a local activity (extending a distance of 56 km on average from production sites The “CoCo” tool (Cost/Carbon) for modeling various in France), Danone seeks to formulate optimal solutions distribution logistics options was developed by the Dairy with its transporters for all of its activities. A number products division to help select the most efficient logistics of good practices have been developed in this way. in both economic and environmental terms. This tool is being deployed in 15 countries. Rail transport Mass rail transport is a major strategic focus for the In a similar approach, Danone Waters France has Waters division. Evian is the largest private train station implemented “carbon monitoring” for all flows managed in France. Evian’s “rail/road” ratio was 59% at end 2010, with two strategic logistics partners, Norbert and Volvic’s 34%. The Quicksilver project pooled rail Dentressangle and Geodis. transport between Volvic and Germany with the installation of a “rail hub” warehouse. This project Maritime shipping prevented the release of some 13,000 metric tons Collaboration with Maersk (particularly to select the of CO2 (equivalent to 26,000 truck trips). most efficient vessels, apply “slow steaming,” etc.) helped reduce the carbon footprint for Evian and Volvic by 5% Similar projects have been implemented by the Dairy in 2010, which is half of the total carbon footprint products division in Canada and the United States and reduction in the area of logistics. others are being explored in Italy and Indonesia. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 181 Environmental Performance Indicators Overall ADD EN30 Environmental expenditures rose overall, a reflection of growing societal concern with environmental issues, Total environmental protection and the resulting response from public authorities. expenditures and investments Our taxes and duties rose by 12% and 5% respectively. Industrial treatment expenditures also rose, as did by type investments made in recent years in this area within our production plants. This also explains the significant Environmental 2009/2010 increase in depreciations related to these improvements. 2009 2010 expenditures change Contributions paid for pack54 818 61 568 12% In 2010 the group adopted a new mechanism for aging collection/recycling (Ecotax/DSD) financing its environmentally directed investments, “Green CAPEX” or “Green Investments.” The goal Taxes and duties 7 893 8 293 5% is to support investment in environmental projects with Fines and penalties 19 1 -96% a lengthier return on investment than that required for Third-party damages 10 107 941% standard investments. Green CAPEX makes it possible to invest in projects that would not be pursued if only Cost for industrial treatment 21 741 23 399 8% (waste, water, atmospheric traditional financial criteria were applied. Around ten emissions) projects were implemented using this approach in 2010. Other environmental costs 4 340 4 754 10% This change is a further indicator of Danone’s (consulting, ISO 14001, commitment to making decisions in support of certifications, etc.) including personnel costs sustainable development from a mediumand long-term perspective. Cost of obligatory CO2 29 9 -70% emissions trading Depreciation 3 740 5 339 43% Total 92 591 103 471 12% 182 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Governance Mobilizing to connect Nature and Responsible environmental Business communication To achieve its goals, Danone has transformed its Danone began reflecting on the group’s environment organization: appointment of two Nature sponsors claims in 2010 in collaboration with an external partner, to the group’s Executive Committee; creation of a central Futerra. This initiative aims to ensure that the group’s Nature department (with a Managing Director from the environmental communication respects strict guidelines business side) reporting directly to the group’s Executive in a number of areas: climate change, water, packaging, Committee; addition of Environment directors to each agriculture and biodiversity. In each case, the tool business; creation of a Finance Nature department. All identifies criteria that must be met when presenting an General Managers of Country Business Units and group environmental claim for a given product, and errors to directors now have a carbon footprint reduction goal be avoided. A “Nature Claim Management” tool will be as part of their bonus determination. Finally, the CO2 rolled out throughout the group in 2011. indicator is integrated into the company’s major decisionmaking processes (such as in the investment and innovation committee, etc.). A «Carbon Master» in charge of managing the Carbon Plan (measuring the footprint, defining three-year goals) has been appointed in each Country Business Unit to strengthen the organization of the environment contacts network. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 183 2010 Sustainability REPORT Performance Social Indicators Employment 185 Labor/management relations 191 Occupational health and safety 192 Training and education 194 Diversity and equal opportunity 198 184 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region As of December 31, 2010, the group had a total workforce of 85,073 employees (long and short-term contracts), not counting its Unimilk Country Business Units (CBUs) acquired during 2010 , and 100,995 employees including this acquisition. The table below indicates the breakdown of the workforce by geographic region and business division, with a comparison for the years 2008 to 2010. For the year 2010, the figures are provided with and without the Unimilk employees. Total workforce As of December 31 2008 (*) 2009 (*) 2010 with Unimilk 2010 without Unimilk Total number of employees 80 143 80 976 100 995 85 073 √ (excluding temporary) of which managers in % 16% 16% 15% 16% By geographic region France 10,9% 10,6% 8,7% 10,3% Rest of Europe 25,7% 26,1% 36,9% 25,1% China 9,9% 10,8% 9,1% 10,8% Rest of Asia Pacific 18,2% 17,8% 15,3% 18,2% North and South America 28,3% 29% 24,9% 29,6% Africa and Middle East 6,9% 5,7% 5,1% 6% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% By business division Dairy products 38,9% 38,7% 48,2% 38,5% Waters 41,2% 41,1% 35% 41,6% Baby nutrition 13,9% 13,7% 11% 13,1% Medical nutrition 4,4% 5% 4,5% 5,3% Central functions 1,6% 1,5% 1,2% 1,5% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% (*) Historical data. √ 2010 figures have been reviewed by KPMG Audit. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 185 Social performance indicators Employment Breakdown of workforce by geographic region in 2010 (in %, without Unimilk employees) France 6,0 10,3 Rest of Europe France China 6,0 10,3 Rest of Europe Rest of Asia Pacific China North and South America 29,6 25,1 Rest of Asia Pacific Répartition par zone Africa and Middle East North and South America 29,6 25,1 Africa and Middle East Répartition par zone 10,8 18,2 10,8 18,2 Breakdown of workforce by business in 2010 1,5 (in %, without Unimilk employees) Dairy products 5,3 1,5 Waters Dairy products Baby nutrition 13,1 5,3 Waters Medical nutrition Baby nutrition Répartition par activité 13,1 38,5 Central functions Medical nutrition Répartition par activité 38,5 Central functions 41,6 41,6 1 < 20 years 8 1 From 20 to 29 years < 20 years 1 From 30 to 39 years 8 28 From 20 to 29 years From 40 to 49 years Répartition par âge en 2010 1 From 30 to 39 years 23 28 From 50 to 59 years From 40 to 49 years > 60 ans Répartition par âge en 2010 23 From 50 to 59 years > 60 ans 40 40 186 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Breakdown of workforce by long-term, short-term and temporary contract This breakdown between long-term and short-term workforce (including short-term and temporary contracts) was calculated based on average workforce (the average workforce is calculated as the average of the total workforce at the end of each month). These figures exclude the Unimilk, Yocream and Womir SPA employees, acquired in 2010. Average workforce 2009 (*) 2010 Long-term Short-term Long-term Short-term employees employees employees employees Total 84% 16% 84% 16% Europe 89% 11% 89% 11% Asia 78% 22% 80% 20% Rest of the world 84% 16% 84% 16% By geographic region Africa and Middle East 89% 11% 87% 13% Asia Pacific 78% 22% 80% 20% Eastern Europe 88% 12% 88% 12% Western Europe 89% 11% 90% 10% Latin America 82% 18% 82% 18% North America 94% 6% 95% 5% By business division Dairy products 85% 15% 83% 17% Waters 85% 15% 87% 13% Baby nutrition 76% 24% 78% 22% Medical nutrition 87% 13% 91% 9% Central functions 94% 6% 94% 6% (*) 2009 figures on a comparable basis. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 187 27 80 62 66 55 59 60 U Social performance indicators Ages staff, 56 60 supervisors 40 et workers par zone 20 33 31 35 36 18 13 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Employment Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 30 years 30 to 49 years + 49 years Long-term, short-term and temporary contracts as of December 31, 2010 Breakdown of workforce by type of contract and geographic region (in %) 100 6 12 5 14 Long-term Short-term Temporary 17 5 3 employees employees employees 7 75 Total 82% 6% 12% U 50 Effectifs par Europe 88% 6% 6% 82 88 73 83 nature de contrats et Asia 73% 9% 17% zone 25 géographique Rest of the world 83% 3% 14% By region 0 Total Europe Asia Rest of the world Africa and Middle 86% 10% 5% Long-term employees Short-term employees Temporary employees East Asia Pacific 73% 9% 17% Eastern Europe 87% 5% 7% Western Europe 88% 6% 6% Net12 job creation 12,1 Latin America 81% 1% 17% 10 As of December 31, 2010, in historical data and excluding North America 93% 4% 3% 8 2010 acquisitions, 3,480 net jobs had been created, By business division 6 M representing a 5.1% increase over end-2009. Salariés à temps partiel Dairy products 82% 4% 14% 4 zone 2,7 géographique Waters 83% 7% 10% This2 was1,8due to: 2,5 Baby nutrition 76% 4% 19% • an increase in 0,1 the workforce in0,1three divisions: 0 MedicalAfrica & nutrition Asia (+12.2%), Eastern Waters (+6.2%), Latin North Western Medical nutrition 81% 14% 5% DairyMiddleproducts East Pacific(+4.6%);Europe America America Europe Central functions 93% 6% 1% • a stable workforce in Baby nutrition. 188 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 87 Ages managers 40 par zone 20 19 20 21 18 23 6 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 30 years 30 to 49 years + 49 years Full time / part time 2009 (*) 2010 (without acquisitions) 5 3 5 100 10 Full-time employees 26 Part-time employees Full-time employees Part-time employees 27 80 Total 97,0% 3,0% 97,0% 3,0% 62 66 55 59 60 U Europe 92,6% Ages7,4% staff, 92,3% 7,7% 56 60 supervisors 40 Asia 99,5% 0,5% et workers 99,9% 0,1% par zone Rest 20 of the33 world 31 35 36 99,5% 0,5% 99,4% 0,6% 18 13 By0region Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America Africa and Middle East 99,8% 0,2% 98,2% 1,8% 30 years 30 to 49 years + 49 years Asia Pacific 99,5% 0,5% 99,9% 0,1% Eastern Europe 97,2% 2,8% 97,5% 2,5% Western Europe 88,6% 11,4% 87,9% 12,1% Latin America 99,7% 0,3% 99,9% 0,1% 100 America North 6 96,9% 3,1% 97,3% 2,7% 12 5 14 17 By business 5 division 3 75 7 Dairy products 97,7% 2,3% 97,7% 2,3% Waters 98,0% U 2,0% 98,0% 2,0% 50 Effectifs par 82 88 73 83 nature de Baby nutrition 95,4% 4,6% contrats et 95,8% 4,2% zone 25 Medical nutrition 88,9% géographique 11,1% 89,0% 11,0% Central functions 91,1% 8,9% 91,8% 8,2% 0 Total Europe Asia Rest of (*) 2009 figures on a comparable basis. the world Long-term employees Short-term employees Temporary employees % of part-time employees by geographic region in 2010 This breakdown is calculated in relation to employees (excluding acquisitions) registered on the books as of December 31, 2010, 12 12,1 excluding acquisitions (Unimilk, Yocream et Womir SPA). 10 The use of part-time employees primarily concerns 8 Western Europe. 6 M Salariés à temps partiel 4 zone 2,7 géographique 2,5 2 1,8 0 0,1 0,1 Africa & Asia Eastern Latin North Western Middle East Pacific Europe America America Europe Danone Sustainability Report 2010 189 Social performance indicators Employment LA2 ADD LA3 Total number and rate of employee Benefits provided to full-time turnover by age group, gender, and employees that are not provided to region temporary or part-time employees, by major operations This indicator is calculated, as per our agreement with the IUF, by taking into account external recruitments and This indicator is not monitored at corporate level. departures. The annual turnover rate is 20%. Conditions are extremely varied by region: from 8% in Western Europe to 32% in Latin America. The high turnover rate reflects the high demand for qualified workers in this region. On a comparable structure basis, the turnover rate is stable from 2009 to 2010. 2009 (*) 2010 Turnover rate (**) (without acquisitions) Total 20% 20% Distribution of the partures (****) 2009 (*) 2010 By region By gender Africa and Middle East 15% 18% Women 14% 14% Asia Pacific 13% 17% Men 19% 18% Eastern Europe 20% 20% By category Western Europe 7% 8% WETS (***) Latin America 39% 32% of which women 15% 15% North America 12% 17% of which men 20% 18% By category Managers WETS (***) 21% 21% of which women 13% 12% Managers 13% 15% of which men 14% 14% (*) 2009 figures on comparable basis. (**) This indicator is calculated, as per our agreement with the IUF, by taking into account external recruitments and departure. (***) de sortie TauxWETS: Workers, 2009 (*) Employees,Technicians, Supervisors. 2008 (****)  Th Par sexe e exit rates, including all exit reasons, are equal to the number of exits per type or category over the total workforce, men and women and workers/employees/technicians staff/supervisors and managers, respectively, multiplied by 100. Par catégorie 190 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Labor/management relations LA4 LA5 Percentage of employees covered Minimum notice period(s) regarding by collective bargaining agreements operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective The tables below provide data on the percentage of agreements Country Business Units (CBUs) and employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Danone has signed a global agreement with the IUF specifically regarding consultation of employee CBUs covered by a collective bargaining agreement 2009 2010 representatives in case of operational changes with % CBUs 68% 68% consequences for employment (May 1997). It stipulates a minimum three-month notice period, Employees covered by and was revised in 2005. a collective bargaining agreement 2009 2010 % CBUs 82% 82% These figures are provided on a comparable structure basis and are calculated for the CBUs with at least 100 employees. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 191 Social performance indicators Occupational health and safety ADD LA6 LA7 Percentage of total workforce Rates of injury, occupational represented in formal joint diseases, lost days and absenteeism, management–worker health and and number of work-related safety committees that help monitor fatalities by region and advise on occupational health and safety programs The method for calculating workplace accidents is based on the number of accidents involving at least one day of work stoppage, compared with millions of hours worked, and The health and safety committees monitor proper operation including accidents involving short-term and temporary of machines and facilities, as well as compliance with employees and trainees. This approach also includes the standards. Managing safety requires the visible commitment employees of subcontractors working at Danone sites, since of management teams on the ground, training, and an 2009. ongoing safety dialogue between operators and managers. Data on health and safety committee coverage was reported The frequency of workplace accidents measures 3.0. by site in 2009, and is now reported by Country Business Unit (CBU). In 2010, 80% of CBUs of more than The WISE program, which allowed Danone to reduce the 100 employees had health and safety committees, and the frequency of accidents involving work stoppage by 50% percentage of employees with health and safety committees from 2004 to 2008, continues to bear fruit. After reducing in their CBU is rising rapidly (from 81 to 89%). We also frequency of accidents with work stoppage by 24% in 2009, note a significant rise in the number of employees whose Danone repeated this feat in 2010 (reduction of more than CBUs organize health and safety meetings every quarter. 20% compared with 2009), reaching a frequency of three accidents per million hours of work for the first time. 2009 2010 Number Number Frequency rate Number Number Frequency rate of of accidents 1 (FR1): number of of accidents 1 (FR1): number fatalitie (*) with at of accidents fatalities (*) with at of accidents least 1 day per million hours least 1 day per million hours Breakdown by business division of work stoppage worked of work stoppage worked Waters 0 274 3,3 0 197 2,3 Dairy products 4 323 5,0 3 254 3,8 Other 0 7 3,7 0 44 11,6 Baby nutrition 1 84 3,2 0 42 1,8 Medical nutrition 0 31 4,2 0 26 3,3 Total Business Lines 5 719 3,9 3 √ 563 3,0 √ Breakdown by geographic region Africa and Middle East 3 44 4,2 1 34 2,3 Asia Pacific 1 44 0,8 0 24 0,4 Eastern Europe 1 69 2,6 0 35 1,6 Western Europe 0 274 9,8 0 245 8,0 Latin America 0 280 4,9 1 216 3,6 North America 0 8 2,3 1 9 2,2 Total regions 5 719 3,9 3 √ 563 3,0 √ (*) The number of fatalities only includes Danone employees excluding subcontractors. √ 2010 figures have been audited by KPMG Audit. 192 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 LA8 ADD LA9 Education, training, counseling, Health and safety topics covered in prevention, and risk-control formal agreements with trade unions programs in place to assist Preventing stress at work, improving well-being and workforce members, their families, working conditions or community members regarding A French group agreement was signed with the trade serious diseases unions on March 11, 2010. This ambitious agreement is the result of intensive discussions with the unions since In 2010, 96% of Danone employees had insurance 2008. In each of the French companies, negotiations were coverage for major events (death, disability) and 82% had engaged to form a framework for concrete initiatives on supplemental health insurance in addition to the public the ground, coordinated by labor and management and health coverage systems. At the same time, health-at-work involving all players. Four main initiatives have been programs were organized in the various Country Business launched: Units (CBUs) (nicotine addiction, identification and prevention of cardiovascular disease, detection of melanoma, • systematic measurement of stress levels at all sites; seasonal flu vaccines, etc.) • implementation of a bottom-up feedback system at several sites; A group program was also rolled out in 2010 (Dan’Cares) • awareness and training projects for management and all to help each CBU improve the quality of services offered employees to enhance collective vigilance; to its employees in terms of access to health care. For • the use of human feasibility studies upstream of major major events such as hospitalization, surgery or childbirth, organizational changes, whose methodology is currently Danone supports its CBUs in providing quality solutions being formulated. for good access and low payment responsibility on the part of employees. All these initiatives need time to become part of the company’s processes, particularly for all those players involved to take these complex issues on board. Negotiations were also opened in 2010 with the IUF (International Union of Food workers) to sign a worldwide framework agreement on health, safety, working conditions and stress The draft agreement was finalized at end 2010 and should be signed in 2011. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 193 Social performance indicators Training and education LA10 Average number of training hours Total 2009 (*) 27 2010 31 √ Average hours of training per year WETS (**) 25 28 per employee by employee category Managers 41 46 Training indicators rose steeply in 2010 for the second Numbers of employees trained (***) 2009 (*) 2010 consecutive year, with a 29% increase in the average Total employees trained 74 936 83 285 √ number of training hours per employee over two years: WETS (**) 63 042 69 927 • the average number of training hours per employee rose Managers 11 894 13 358 from 27 hours in 2009 to 31 in 2010 (24 hours in Percentage of employees trained (****) 2009 (*) 2010 2008); • the number of employees trained, across all categories, Total employees trained trained 92% 99% rose from 75,000 to more than 83,000. WETS (**) 92% 99% Managers 92% 99% However, there is a disparity between regions: North (*) 2009 figures on comparable basis. America is in the lead, while Africa and the Middle East (**) WETS : Workers, Employees, Technicians and Supervisors. register the lowest levels. (***) To precisely measure the training effort, employees who received training, but were no longer with the group at December 31, 2010, are included in these figures. These figures are provided on a comparable structure (****) Percentage, where the base is the average workforce for the category. basis representing 100% of the Danone workforce at √ 2010 figures have been audited by KPMG Audit. December 31, 2010. 194 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Average number of training hours By geographic region 2009 (*) 2010 ADD LA11 Africa and Middle East 16 13 Programs for skills management Asia Pacific 29 30 and lifelong learning that support Eastern Europe 27 32 the continued employability of Western Europe 26 28 employees and assist them in managing career endings Latin America 27 34 North America 40 54 All the companies impacted by an aging workforce Numbers of employees trained (**) 2009 (*) 2010 (primarily Western Europe) have either signed agreements By geographic region (all the French companies) or implemented initiatives aimed at planning for aging and supporting the extended Africa and Middle East 2 754 3 356 working age, in particular through: Asia Pacific 22 199 25 220 • training (leadership, ergonomics, skills transmission, Eastern Europe 11 938 13 323 preparation for retirement); Western Europe 14 003 14 512 • reviews (mid-career reviews); Latin America 21 551 24 234 • work station adaptations to relieve physical and mental stress. North America 2 491 2 640 TOTAL 74 936 83 285 In addition, Danone’s industrial performance Percentage of employees (***) 2009 (*) 2010 management system, DaMaWay, applies to all production By geographic region sites in all Danone divisions. This system supports all Africa and Middle East 57% 67% operators of every age and qualification level, with training and initiatives to allow them to develop their Asia Pacific 97% 100% independence, work in a team and share expertise in Eastern Europe 86% 97% industrial performance. Western Europe 85% 90% Latin America 100% 100% For more details about the various skills development North America 100% 100% programs, see the 2009 Sustainability Report, pages 222 to 224. (*) 2009 figures on comparable basis. (**) To precisely measure the training effort, employees who received training, but were no longer with the group at December 31, 2010, are included in these figures. (***) Percentage, where the base is the average workforce for the region. √ 2010 figures have been audited by KPMG Audit. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 195 Social performance indicators Training and education ADD LA12 100 2010 2009 Percentage of employees receiving 90 regular performance and career 80 77 71 71 development reviews 59 A+B+C 60 Managers 48 RDP + IDP + OETAM 40 The Individual Development Plan (IDP) that allows every individual to look towards the future and define training 20 initiatives beyond the annual performance reviews, 0 continues to expand to all employees, with a coverage of Managers who Managers who WETS (***) who received had a PDR (*) had an IDP (**) an IDP less than 77% of managers (an increase of six points compared with 2 years ago 2009) and 57% of WETS (Workers, Employees, Technicians and Supervisors) in 2010 (an increase of (*) PDR: Annual Performance and Development Review. (**) 100 IDP: Individual Development Plan (career development and training review). 11 points compared with 2009). 92 (***) WETS: Workers, Employees, Technicians, Supervisors. 77 80 72 In the WETS categories, Asia on the one hand and the 67 D Baby nutrition division on the other are ahead of the 60 RDP managers other regions and divisions. 40 41 par zone 28 The “Managers having had a performance review” 20 indicator of the Development and Performance Review 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Latin North Western (PDR), in 2010, is not comparable to that of 2009. Middle East Pacific Europe America America Europe The reduction is due to a change in the definition of the criterion, amended with the additional wording “validated in the database.” 100 90 These figures are provided on a comparable structure 78 79 80 basis representing 100% of the Danone workforce at 60 E December 31, 2010. 60 55 RDP managers par pôle 40 d’activité 20 0 Fresh Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Products Nutrition Nutrition Functions 100 91 82 84 77 80 62 F 60 55 IDP managers par zone 40 196 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 100 92 80 75,000 2009 2008 100 69,743 201040 2009 100 100 40 9092 100 90 77 63,116 2009 2008 80 72 91 100 64 25 59,378 2009 2008 79 22,19 77 90 40 77 80 82 78 84 67 D 80 80 32 71 29 24 72 71 40 W 77 80 60 RDP 80 4820 78 27 67 27 2779 26 A + B + C Nombre 60 Emanagers 24 25 27 27 59 24 24 DManagersXmoyen 62 55 60 RDP 60 41 RDP Fpar zone 60 24 60 48 26 ERDP + IDPNombre Yheures 60 55 managers IDP 15 55 24 managers + OETAM moyen RDP % 40 60 32 28 par pôle managers 40 41 16 15 27 25 par zone heures managersSalariés 40 d’activité par zone 40 16 formation par pôle formés 40 10 28 11,884 10,365 d’activité 20 40 16 20 20 20 8 200 20 05 2,82 2,02Total 24 24 Africa & Asia Eastern Latin North Western 0 Staff, Managers 0 Middle East Pacific Europe America America Europe 0 0 Managers who salariés formés Managers who Supervisors WETS (***) who received 0 Fresh Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Africa 0 & Afrique Asia Asie Eastern Europe Latin (**) Amérique North Amérique WesternEurope 0 Middle East had a PDR (*) had an&IDP Workers an IDP less than Products Africa & Asia EasternNutrition Latin Nutrition North Functions Western Fresh Dairy Moyen PacificWaters etAfrique Asie Europede Pacifique l’Est AmericaAmérique Europe Baby AmericaAmérique latineMedical 2duyears Nordago Europe l’Ouest CentraldeEurope Middle East Pacific Europe America America Europe etOrient Products Moyen Pacifique de l’Est Nutrition latineNutrition du NordFunctionsde l’Ouest % managers who had a Hiris (****) validated PDR (*) in 2010 % managersOrient who had a Hiris (****) validated PDR (*) in 2010 by business division by geographical region 40 100 100 40 92 90 2009 2008 100 91 25 2009 2008 100 22,19 100 78 84 79 100 90 40 2009 77 2008 80 82 80 32 29 24 72 91 77 40 80 20 82 78 84 27 67 27 2779 26 79 60 81 E 80 100 24 25 24 77 24 D X 80 74 74 80 27 27 60 62 55 FRDP 60 24 RDP Nombre 55 65 managers 80 60 26 EmanagersYmoyen 60 IDP % Gpar pôle managers 60 15 62 41 16 15 27 25 55 55 57 24 57 Fpar zone Zheures RDP Salariés 60 IDP 60 55 55 IDP managers Comparai formation 40 d’activité 40 16 par zone managers 60 75 75 28 managers par pôle formés Hommes/ 40 88 88 par pôle 40 10 par zone d’activité 40 d’activité 40 20 20 408 20 5 2,82 20 2,02 24 24 200 20 200 45 45 43 43 0 0 Fresh Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Africa 0 & Afrique Asia Asie 25 Eastern 25 Europe LatinAmérique North Amérique Western Europe 0 Middle East Moyen Pacific 12 12 du Nord Europe Products Africa & Asia Eastern Nutrition Latin Nutrition North Functions Western 0 etAfrique 0Fresh Dairy Asie EuropeEurope Pacifique Waters l’Est America deBaby latine Amérique America Medical Amérique l’Ouest Central deEurope 0 Middle East Fresh Dairy Pacific Waters Europe Baby America Medical America Europe Central Africa &etOrient Products Moyen Hommes Femmes Asia Pacifique Easternde Femmes l’Est LatinFemmes Hommes Nutrition latine North du Nord Hommes Nutrition Femmes Western Functions de Hommes l’Ouest Products Nutrition Nutrition Functions Orient Middle East Directeurs Pacific Europe America Autres America Europe Total et Dirigents Dirigents Managers Managers % managers who had a IDP (**) in 2010 by business division % managers who had a IDP (**) in 2010 by geographical region 100 2009 2008 91 100 25 22,19 84 100 90 40 100 82 91 2009 2008 77 24 40 80 95 100 100 78 84 79 100 79 81 80 20 82 27 27 77 80 62 74 74 80 81 1 F 79 E Y 60 77 55 65 IDP 80 80 60 74 74 26 24 % 80 15 62 55 FRDP Gmanagers 60 27 25 65 57 57 ZSalariés 60 IDP 60 55 55 55 managers IDP Hpar zone 75 75 Gpar pôle Comparai formés 40 managers 60 1060 managers IDP Hommes/ 60 PDI pôle OETAM 40 88 88 d’activité par zone 50 par managers 40 managers d’activité 40 par zone 40 par pôle 20 40 36 40 5 2,82 d’activité 32 20 2,02 24 24 20 20 20 45 45 43 43 25 25 200 15 20 0 0 12 12 Africa & Asia Eastern Latin North Western Afrique Asie Europe Amérique Medical AmériqueCentral Europe 0 Middle East Pacific Europe America America Europe 0 0Fresh Dairy Waters Baby Fresh Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Africa &et Moyen Hommes Asia Pacifique Products Femmes EasterndeNutrition l’Est LatinFemmes Femmes Hommes North du Nord latineNutrition Hommes Functions Femmes Western de Hommes l’Ouest 0 Products Nutrition Nutrition Functions 0 Middle EastOrient Pacific Europe Baby America Medical America Europe Africa & Asia Eastern Latin North Western Fresh DairyDirecteurs Waters Autres Total Central Middle East Pacific Europe America America Europe Productset Dirigents Dirigents Nutrition Managers Nutrition Managers Functions %100WETS (***) who received an IDP (**) less than 2 years ago %100WETS (***) who received an IDP (**) less than 2 91years 2009ago 2008 by100business 79 division 95 81 by 100geographical 100 region 82 84 74 77 80 100 74 95 80 100 95 81 1 65 79 77 86 80 80 62 74 74 80 G F Z 55 55 77 55 65 57 57 60 80 IDP 60 80 IDP Comparai 69 69 Hmanagers 60 75 75 GmanagersHommes/ 60 PDI OETAM 60 88 88 IDP 50 Ipar pôle Hpar zone 40 managers d’activité 40 managers 60 PDI OETAM 60 40 par OETAM PDI pôle par zone 50 managers 40 36 managers 40 d’activité 32 par pôle par zone 20 36 20 40 45 45 43 36 43 40 d’activité 20 32 25 25 20 15 20 12 12 200 200 0 15 Fresh Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central AfricaFemmes & Hommes Asia Eastern Hommes LatinFemmes Hommes Femmes North Femmes WesternHommes 0 Products Nutrition Nutrition Functions 0 Middle EastDirecteurs Pacific Europe America AutresAmerica Europe Africa & Asia Eastern Latin North Western Fresh Dairy Waters Baby Medical CentralTotal 0 0 Products et Dirigents Dirigents Nutrition Managers Nutrition Managers Functions Middle East PacificWaters Europe America America Europe Africa & Asia Eastern Latin North Western Fresh Dairy Baby Medical Central Products Nutrition Nutrition Functions Middle East Pacific Europe America America Europe (*) RDP: Annual Performance and Development Review. (**) 100 IDP: Individual Development 95 Plan (career development and training review). 100 (***)100 WETS: Workers, Employees, Technicians, Supervisors. 95 100 95 81 79 (****)80Information system dedicated 77 to Human86 Resources. 80 100 74 74 95 6 3 5 77 86 65 100 80 H 80 G 69 10 69 60 21 22 PDI OETAM 80 60 IDP 80 50 Imanagers 69 Danone Sustainability69 Report 2010 197Hmanagers 60 PDI OETAM 60 IparOETAM PDI pôle 36 Spar zone 50 managers 40 60 managers 60 40 d’activité 6,0 10,3 Rest of Europe China Rest of Asia Pacific Social performance indicators North and South America 29,6 25,1 Africa and Middle East Répartition pa Diversity and equal opportunity 18,2 10,8 LA13 Age Composition of governance bodies 1,5 Almost 70% of Danone employees are younger Dairy products than 40, and breakdown of employees by across all categories, 5,3 with a population ofWaters workers, staff category according to gender, age and supervisors 13,1 younger than 30 that exceeds Baby nutrition30% in Medical nutrition group, minority group membership, Africa, the Middle East, Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin Répartition pa 38,5 Central functions America.The 2010 figures are not comparable to 2009, and other indicators of diversity due to changes made to employee categories. Gender diversity These figures are provided on a comparable structure basis representing 41,6 100% of the Danone workforce at The proportion of female managers at Danone rose 1% December 31, 2010. in 2010 to 45%. This reflects a significant increase in the lower management levels (28% in 2010 compared with 25% Distribution by age in 2010* in 2009) while the proportion of women in upper 1 management remained stable at 11%. < 20 years 8 From 20 to 29 years 2009 2010 (*) 1 From 30 to 39 years 28 From 40 to 49 years Women Men Women Men Répartition pa 23 From 50 to 59 years Total Managers 43% 57% 44% 56% > 60 ans Of which, Directors 25% 75% 28% 72% and Executive Of which, Executive 12% 88% 11% 89% Of which, 45% 55% 45% 55% 40 *rate of coverage 100% other managers (without acquisitions 2010) The comparison concerns the Managers category. (*) Workers affected by the 2010 acquisitions are excluded. < 20 years 4 10 From 20 to 29 years 13 From 30 to 39 years From 40 to 49 years Répartition pa From 50 to 59 years > 60 ans 42 31 198 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 managers 86 par I pôle 40 36 d’activité 60 PDI OETAM 80 managers 69 69 par pôle 20 40 36 Id’activité 60 PDI OETAM managers 0 20 par pôle 40 Fresh36Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central d’activité Products Nutrition Nutrition Functions 0 20 Fresh Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Products Nutrition Nutrition Functions 0 Fresh Dairy Waters Baby Medical Central Products Nutrition Nutrition Functions 6 3 5 100 10 Distribution 80 100 6 by age 3bracket by geographical 5 21 region (in %) 22 Other diversity indicators 10 S All employees63 in 2010 58 60 21 22 Ages salariés 60 68 80 6 3 5 61 62 par zone Indicators of minority membership cannot be consolidated 100 S 40 60 63 68 10 58 60 21 22 at global level given the differences in legislation (impossible Ages salariés par zone 80 20 32 35 61 62 S to carry out this type of ethnic census in France, for 40 31 29 60 60 63 68 58 18 16 Ages salariés par zone example). 0 61 62 20 Africa & Asia Eastern 32 Western 35 Latin North Middle 31East 29 Pacific Europe Europe America America 40 18 Disabilities 16 0 -Africa 30 years to 49 years Western 30Eastern + 49Latin years & Asia North 20 Middle 32 35 31East Pacific 29 Europe Europe America America 18 16 0 30 years Africa & Asia 30 to 49 years Eastern Western + 49 years Latin North In France, the rate of integration of people with disabilities Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America in the group’s French companies rose from 3.1% in 2007 to 30 years 30 to 49 years + 49 years 4.2% in 2008, 4.9% in 2009 and 5% at end 2010, with some Country Business Units (CBUs) exceeding the 6% Distribution by age bracket by geographical region required by French law. Integrating people with disabilities 100 Managers 12 in 2010 7(in %) 7 6 12 13 in the headquarters of the various companies is the most 80 100 difficult, given the gap between training levels and required 12 7 7 6 60 73 12 13 T qualifications. Many companies have signed specific three80 69 73 64 87 70 Ages year agreements with labor partners to support a sustained 100 7 7 6 managers 40 12 12 13 60 73 73 T zoneapproach to this issue. par 69 70 64 Ages 80 87 20 managers 40 23 par zone 19 20 21 18 60 0 69 6 73 73 70 64 T Ages Worldwide, the rate of integration of people with disabilities 20 Africa & 87 Asia Eastern Western Latin North 40 Middle 19East Pacific Europe 20 Europe 21 America 18 23 America managers par zone remains stable at 1%, for a structural scope of 58 CBUs that 6 20 0 -Africa 30 years & Asia to 49 years 30Eastern Western + 49Latin years North are subject to legislation (certain CBUs are not concerned or Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 19 20 21 18 23 are in countries that prohibit statistics on people with 30 years 6 30 to 49 years + 49 years 0 Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North disabilities). There are now 28 companies that subcontract Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 30 years 30 to 49 years + 49 years to the protected sector (work subcontracted to establishments employing people with disabilities receiving special support), a 33% increase over last year. Distribution by age bracket by geographical region WETS in 2010 (in %) 5 3 5 100 10 27 26 80 5 3 5 100 10 62 66 55 59 26 60 27 U 80 5 3 5 Ages staff, 100 10 56 60 supervisors 40 62 66 55 59 60 27 26 et U workers 80 par Ageszone staff, 20 33 35 36 56 60 supervisors 40 31 59 62 66 55 18 et workers 60 13 Upar zone 0 Ages staff, 20 Africa 33& Asia 31 35 Eastern 36 Western Latin 56 North 60 supervisors 40 Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America 18 America 13 et workers 0 -Africa 30 years to 49 years Western 30Eastern years + 49Latin par zone 20 & Asia 35 36 North Middle33East 31 Pacific Europe Europe America America 18 13 0 30 years 30 to 49 years + 49 years Africa & Asia Eastern Western Latin North Middle East Pacific Europe Europe America America 30 years 30 to 49 years + 49 years Danone Sustainability Report 2010 199 Social performance indicators Diversity and equal opportunity LA14 Directors excluding General Managers: internal Danone grades 6b to 5 (equivalent to grades 20 to 22 of the Hay system) Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Compta-ratio Managers and Directors categories Grade Women Men Total 5 1,04 1,05 1,05 The data is provided by the HIRIS information system for 6a 1,03 1,10 1,08 Human Resources management indicators. 6b 1,01 0,98 0,99 Total 1,02 1,03 1,03 The basis chosen for comparison is the “compa-ratio,” the total wages received by the individual compared to the Average age median wages established each year for all managerial and executive categories organized by grade. There are ten Grade Women Men Total grades (excluding the Danone Executive Board members) 5 44,1 45,2 45,2 in all 60 countries where we do business. The compa-ratio 6a 43,1 44,1 43,8 indicates this wage gap independently of the currency and 6b 42,2 42,6 42,5 country of reference. Total 42,8 43,6 43,4 Examples: Total workforce of 1,076 directors of wich 28,5% of women and 71,5% of men. • A compa-ratio of 1.0 means that the individual is paid exactly the median wage for his or her grade. The largest gap is at level 6a, with a 7% gap between men • A compa-ratio of 1.10 means that he or she is paid 10% and women, for a total 6a workforce of 311 people, more than the median. including 83 women and 228 men, women whose average age is one year less, which only partially explains this 7% gap. The next tables provide an overview of the gender gaps by level. 200 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Managers: Workers, Staff, Employees, internal Danone grades 9.9 to 7 (equivalent to grade 15 to 18 of the Hay system) Technicians, Supervisors Compta-ratio As the group does not have a single classification system for Grade Women Men Total these categories, and deployment of the IT system does not 7 0,95 0,97 0,96 yet cover all these job categories, data is collected from the internal Magnitude reporting system. 8 0,92 0,95 0,94 9 0,88 0,87 0,88 The male-female comparison is made using the median 9,9 0,95 0,95 0,95 annual male-female wage ratios. Total 0,91 0,92 0,91 In 2010 we increased reporting scope for this indicator Average age from 85 to 98%, with the following result: 50% of Country Business Units (CBUs) pay their male employees, Grade Women Men Total technicians, supervisors and workers 5% more than 7 39,3 41,0 40,3 women, on average, all levels and positions combined. 8 37,0 39,2 38,2 9 34,0 37,3 35,8 For the structural scope applied last year, the change on a 9,9 27,0 28,2 27,6 comparable structure basis shows a slight improvement for Total 34,6 37,6 36,2 workers and a slight drop for employees, technicians, supervisors (ETS)(*). Total workforce of 12,854 managers of wich 45,9% of women and 54,1% of men. This gap should be considered in the context of the differThe entry level (9.9), which is the hiring level for new ent types of jobs, particularly in the technical fields which graduates, is strictly identical between men and women. are very male-dominated (such as maintenance, process, Moving up the levels, a gap appears at levels 8 and 7, etc.). The real issue is to progress towards a better gender which can again be explained by the women’s younger balance in certain professions and in access for women to average age as well as a lower-level group overall: more skilled fields. For this reason certain CBUs, such as • grade 7: male-female breakdown of 1036/638; Danone Eaux France, have launched training and technical • grade 8: male-female breakdown of 1996/1722. diploma programs specifically targeting women. 2009 2010 % total 2010 % total Overall, the review procedures for compensation, on a employees new basis employees governed by group policies and including a comparison of comparable basis compensation for men and women, continue to direct attention to this issue where the gaps are small but real. Supervisors 1,02 1,06 85 1,05 98 ETS (*) Workers 1,05 1,04 85 1,05 98 (*) ETS : Employees, Technicians, Staff & Supervisors Workers. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 201 2010 Sustainability REPORT Performance Human Rights Indicators Investment and Procurement Practices 203 NON-DISCRIMINATION 206 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 206 Child labor 207 Forced and compulsory labor 207 Security Practices 208 Indigenous rights 208 202 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 • Th  e Danone Way Fundamentals (since 2001) comprising the 16 Corporate Social Responsability Percentage and total number of fundamentals at Danone (see page 81); significant investment agreements • The RESPECT approach (since 2006) which aims to support suppliers in applying the Fundamental Social that include human rights clauses or Principles, so that human rights are taken into account that have undergone human rights in all investment and purchasing decisions (see page 86). screening Danone’s commitment to human rights is expressed in: • Danone’s membership in the UN Global Compact since 2003 (see page 142); • Agreements between Danone and the IUF integrating the 7 Fundamental Social Principles (see below) drawn from International Labor Organization (ILO) conventions and applied worldwide; The 7 Fundamental Social Principles are: 1. CHILD LABOUR 5. HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK The company does not employ children aged under 15. If the law sets a higher The company ensures that the workplace and its environment do not endanger the minimum working age or compulsory schooling is to a higher age, it is this physical integrity or health of employees. Action to reduce the causes of accidents limit that applies. Educational programmes and training are not included in this and improve working conditions is the object of ongoing programmes. Sanitary limitation. equipment, canteens and housing provided to employees are built and maintained in accordance with applicable legal requirements. As a minimum, the company 2. FORCED LABOUR must provide employees with drinking water, clean toilets in adequate numbers, The company does not use forced or compulsory labour, meaning any work or adequate ventilation, emergency exits, proper lighting and access to medical service performed under threat or that is not consented to by the person concerned. treatment. 3. NON-DISCRIMINATION 6. WORK HOURS With due regard for applicable law, the company refuses to engage in any The company must ensure that applicable legal restrictions on working hours are discriminatory practices. Discrimination means any distinction, exclusion or complied with. The normal working week is 48 hours at most. Overtime is on a preference limiting equality of opportunity or treatment. It may be based on race, voluntary basis. Employees have at least one day off each week, except in exceptional colour, sex, sexual orientation, religion, political opinion, age, nationality, family circumstances and for a limited period. obligations or other considerations. 7. PAY 4. FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE The company ensures that: BARGAINING • no wage is lower than the applicable legal minimum; The company recognises and respects employees’ freedom of association and their • all employees receive a pay slip; right to freely choose their representatives. The company also recognises employees’ • employees receive a decent wage relative to country; right to collective bargaining. The company ensures that employee representatives • wage rates for overtime are in all cases higher than for normal hours. do not suffer any discrimination. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 203 Human Rights Performance Indicators Investment and Procurement Practices To ensure that all suppliers comply with these Fundamental Social Principles, Danone includes a specific HR2 “Fundamental Social Principles” clause in its General Percentage of significant suppliers Terms of Procurement. This clause is included in all and contractors that have contracts and is compulsory for all suppliers. undergone screening on human By signing the contract, suppliers undertake to: rights and actions taken • comply with the fundamental social principles; As part of the RESPECT initiative (see page 86): • promote respect for these principles among their • 100% of major suppliers have committed their signature own suppliers, subcontractors and partners; to the Fundamental Social Principles (see page 203); • allow Danone to verify the application of these • 50% of major raw materials suppliers, and a part of principles, in particular through audits; service suppliers are registered on the Sedex platform, • if non-compliance by a supplier is identified during for a total of 1282 suppliers. an audit, draft a corrective action plan targeting all Out of those 1282 suppliers, 103 SMETA audits have identified non-compliance issues for approval by been carried out (compared with 77 in 2009, a 60% Danone; increase) by external agencies with the following results: • if a supplier refuses to draft a corrective action plan, or if recurring non-compliance issues are raised in Breakdown of non-compliance issues identified by the audits several audits, recognize Danone’s right to terminate Topic Percentage of the contract with this supplier. non-compliance issues Health & safety 31% Since 2009, the scope of supplier responsibility has Working hours 23% been expanded to include the Environment and Business Wages 16% Ethics, and the contractual clause has been amended Forced labor 6% accordingly. For further information about these changes, Freedom of association 6% see the 2009 Sustainability Report, pages 63 to 69. Child labor 4% Discrimination 3% The 7 Fundamental Social Principles on Human Rights Environment 3% (see previous page) are included in every agreement Other 8% involving significant investments, encompassing: • 70% of sales agreements with customers • 100% of purchasing contracts with our major suppliers • 100% of majority share acquisitions in external companies • 100% of agreements concerning local community development, in particular with NGOs within the framework of Danone Ecosystem Fund projects. 204 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 The results in 2010 were comparable to those of the preceding year: health and safety, working hours and ADD HR3 wages remain the areas that generated the greatest levels Total hours of employees training on of non-compliance, while few audits indicated nonpolicies and procedures concerning conformities with child labor or discrimination. aspects of human rights that are For further information about the audit process, see the revelant to operations, including the 2009 Sustainability Report, pages 234-236. percentage of employees trained Human rights practices are brought to employees’ attention through: • The Danone Way Fundamentals (see page 81): the entire Danone workforce is targeted, and each employee has received the Danone Inside Pack documentation that describes in full the Danone Way policy. More specifically concerned are the 8 principles relating to “Human Rights” and “Human Relationships.” It includes explanations of Human Rights principles, particularly with regard to the abolition of child labor and forced labor, diversity and equal opportunity, and workplace safety. • RESPECT (see page 86) more specifically targets purchasing staff who manage supplier social responsibility compliance and in particular respect for Human Rights. A communication guide about RESPECT and the Fundamental Social Principles, which include Human Rights, was distributed throughout the purchasing function in 2010. 100% of the buyer target was informed in this way. However, the number of hours of training and/or information has not been consolidated at group level. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 205 Human Rights Performance Indicators Freedom of association Non-discrimination and collective bargaining HR4 HR5 Total number of incidents of Operations identified in which discrimination and actions taken the right to exercise freedom of association and collective An agreement was signed with the IUF concerning antibargaining may be at significant discrimination policy and promotion of diversity. risk, and actions taken to support Every year a Danone representative and an IUF these rights representative visit several countries and sites together in order to promote these framework agreements and An agreement concerning the right to union organization to check whether they are actually applied on the ground. has been signed with the IUF. No case of discrimination has been identified during Every year a Danone representative and an IUF these visits. representative visit several countries and sites together in order to promote these framework agreements and The Danone Way Fundamentals include prevention of international social dialogue, and to check on the ground discrimination, particularly through local implementation that the agreements have actually been implemented and of specific procedures and measures to identify and adapted to local conditions. In addition, the IUF notifies eliminate any discriminatory actions. central management if it is informed of a case of nonrespect for freedom of association. Aside from these joint visits, information about cases of discrimination may be reported up via various channels: Freedom of association in the workplace is also one of the • notification of the Human Resources Department of items addressed in all CBUs through the Danone Way each group Country Business Unit (CBU) Fundamentals (see page 81) which include a Social • notification of personnel representatives in the CBUs Dialogue Principle for promotion of social dialogue where they are present. in all group CBUs. Some CBUs in Indonesia, Mexico or the United States, Danone Way encourages CBUs to: have set up a “local ethics” phone line that includes this • create the necessary conditions for electing personnel type of communication. representatives, whether or not unionized, in compliance with local legislation; • guarantee personnel representatives’ independence from management teams and political parties through the organization of ad hoc elections; • hold economic and social information meetings between personnel representatives and management of each site, and with all employees; • confirm agreements between personnel representatives and management in signed negotiated agreements. 206 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Forced Child labor and compulsory labor HR6 HR7 Operations identified as having Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken of forced or compulsory labor, to contribute to the elimination and measures to contribute of child labor to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Respect for this principle is verified through the Danone Way Fundamentals approach (see page 81 of this report). This aspect is dealt with in the same way as the indicator All Country Business Units (CBUs) are required to put in for child labor (HR6). place the necessary procedures and tools to ensure that there is no child labor at their sites. All the CBUs that carried out the Danone Way assessment in 2010 were in compliance with this fundamental; no non-compliance incidents were identified. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 207 Human Rights Performance Indicators Security practices Indigenous rights ADD HR8 ADD HR9 Percentage of security personnel Total number of incidents trained in the organization’s policies of violations involving rights or procedures concerning aspects of indigenous people and of human rights that are relevant to action taken operations This criterion does not apply to Danone’s activities. Service providers in the safety sector commit to respecting the RESPECT initiative’s Fundamental Social Principles and are screened by the group manager in charge of life and property safety. 208 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 209 2010 Sustainability REPORT Performance Society Indicators Communities 211 Corruption 214 Public policy 216 Anti-competitive behavior 217 Compliance 217 210 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Communities S01 This strategy must address two specific challenges: first, it must align with the CBU’s strategic objectives and second, Nature, scope, and effectiveness it must meet its stakeholders’ expectations. of any programs and practices Based on feedback from Danone’s many CBUs involved that assess and manage the impacts in social and environmental projects, the SR was designed of operations on communities, with the aim of ensuring that best practices are shared by including entering, operating, all CBUs. and exiting The objective is to create a five-step sustainable The challenge common to all of Danone’s social initiatives development strategy: is to enhance staff skills in the following areas: • create a sustainability oversight committee; • a better understanding of social challenges and • identify sustainability issues specific to the CBU; stakeholders; • prioritize the challenges identified by the CBU; • assessment of the group’s social impact, • integrate stakeholders positions; • co-development and co-management, especially with • and design a relevant strategy that thoroughly addresses NGOs; the various challenges raised during the process. • involvement of Danone employees in the various programs; • internal and external communications, particularly “cause-related marketing” programs. A number of measures have been taken to meet these challenges and provide Country Business Units (CBUs) with the tools they need to take full advantage of their The 2011 objective is to encourage as many CBUs as local initiatives. possible to try out this tool and, by doing so, contribute to the exchange of best practices. Certain CBUs are A common tool for all platforms, the Sustainability already poised to create their own roadmap and thus Roadmap, was launched in 2010. increase the number of social and environmental initiatives offered by Danone. Professionalize the project approach in the sustainable development field to foster the transformation of business practices The Sustainability Roadmap (SR) is a tool that enables any CBU to develop its own sustainable development strategy and set it in motion with a detailed roadmap. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 211 Society Performance Indicators Communities Assess the social impact of ongoing projects Conduct extensive monitoring based on impacts The Danone Ecosystem Fund has focused its efforts on assessment research monitoring and assessing the social impact of projects The Ecosystem Fund is supporting two pilot projects to initiated by Danone’s Country Business Units (CBUs) assess their impacts on the ecosystems of the CBUs that that it supports. initiated them. DanFarm Egypte The project assessment grid below (see table on next page) (with EHESS – French School for Advanced Studies in assesses various social impacts based on key performance the Social Sciences) indicators. This ethnographic field study is based on the hypothesis that the DanFarm Egypt project will profoundly change These impacts are organized in four main categories, as traditional production systems. The idea is to determine well as sub-categories, as shown in the diagram below. how the local players react, how their perceptions are affected or changed by Danone’s project, the potential for Social impact assessment tool any conflicts in this new environment, and to what extent the local players can participate in the project. Pemulung Recycling Communities (with IRENE ESSEC Negotiation Research and Education Institute) For more information about the project, see pages 48 and 213. Two types of studies monitor and assess Danone’s social performance in Indonesia: 1. quantitative surveys of a random sampling of the affected population, which will provide an assessment of the program’s socioeconomic impact and social performance indicators, such as the escape from poverty and the factors that drive community involvement. 2. a qualitative study, i.e. sociological, cultural and political, of the social fabric and community relations, leading to a political analysis of governance and the interactions of the various players, with a view to improving processes (decision-making, participation, etc.); and a sociocultural analysis of social and economic networks for the purpose of optimizing company-stakeholders relations and contributing more effectively to stakeholders development. 212 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Project assessment grid OrganiType of project Country Members of the Sample group Type of workers Assessment date zation organization (number) of members (number) 4000-5000 Random AQUA Recycling Indonesia Recycler at Final Project (2014) pemulungs selection Question Measure BaseThematic Impact Indicators Questions Results Ambition Level Type Unit line Health and Beneficiaries who have Do you have a form of health Individual % 14 90 Nutrition insurance insurance? Quality of life Education Beneficiaries (12-15 years) Do all your children between Individual % 34 75 who have access to formal/ 6 and 15 year-old go to informal school primary school? Housing People living in accordance How many square meters Individual m2/ppl 6 12 to per square meter health per family head are there in standard your house? Empowerment Beneficiaries have long term Do you have a formal Individual Number of 0 2 000 contract or cooperative agreement or membership pemulung membership with the cooperative? Employment Work Conditions and time Employment Number of jobs created How many jobs or micro Organisation Number 0 300 footprint enterprises were created or strengthened along the program? Cooperation Number of KSP (self help How many KSP have been Organisation Number 0 80 groups) created and active settled? Local Organization at the end of the program Quality & Flakes quality What is the reject rate of the Organisation % 0 <10% Productivity rPET flakes coming from recycling Business Unit? Development Economical Pemulung total savings What is the organization Organisation MIDR 0 tbd value at KSP level annual turnover? Natural Resources Respect for nature Waste Eco-know how Organisation launched Has the organization Organisation Number 0 2 000 an eco-awareness training launched an eco-awareness of people program for the employees/ training program for the trained members employees / members? Danone Sustainability Report 2010 213 Society Performance Indicators Corruption The Danone Business Conduct Policy (BCP) was Finally, in 2005 the DIALERT whistle-blowing system revised in 2009. It comprises founding texts such was implemented to allow all employees to notify Danone as the Universal Human Rights Declaration, a list management directly and in confidence of any breach of: of Danone’s commitments within the United Nations • the group’s principles and procedures for internal control; Global Compact, OECD guidelines and the Fundamental • accounting and finance rules that could affect the Social Principles which directly addresses prevention truthfulness of accounts and the financial situation of the of corruption. employee’s company or of another company in the group; • anti-corruption rules. The latest 2009 version of the Business Conduct Policy was distributed to all directors and managers (and more The visibility of this whistle-blowing system is confirmed broadly still in certain Country Business Units (CBUs)) by every CBU audit. There is an internal control question by the Human Resources Departments of the CBUs, and (within the DANgo referential) that deals with this topic supported with special initiatives to inform employees. and for which each CBU must run an annual selfThis topic is included in the Danone Way self-assessment, evaluation. in the evaluation of CBU control environments through the DANgo initiative, in the internal employee survey, Since 2008, the DIALERT system has been extended to every two years, as well as in the internal audit program Danone suppliers (letter from the CBUs to every major each time a CBU audit addresses these subjects. supplier and systematic inclusion in the call for tender documents) to allow them to report in confidence any Since 2006, directors and managers sign a specific clause breach of the BCP rules with regard to themselves in their employment contracts stating that they are (particularly any cases of corruption). familiar with the Business Conduct Policy (BCP) and commit to compliance by themselves and their teams. A total of 27 notifications that could be processed were Various tools have been provided to support effective received in 2010. In each proven case of fraud related to application of these principles (presentations, posters, internal control, appropriate sanctions were applied. Questions-and-Answers booklets, etc.). Additionally, a specific program to prevent fraud was developed S02 in 2006 and has been expanded every year since then. An information booklet was distributed to the Percentage and total number of Executive Committees of each CBU recommending, among other things, an annual evaluation of fraud and business units analyzed for risks corruption risk in the CBU. There is also half-yearly related to corruption reporting of allegations and proven cases of fraud, in Within the group’s four divisions, every consolidated which corruption incidents are classified as “significant CBU (integrated into the Danone accounts) is covered fraud,” whatever the amounts involved, in order to collect by the group’s seven-point anti-fraud and anti-corruption complete information on this type of event. program. In particular, the first point of this program is an evaluation of internal and external fraud risk to be carried out annually in each CBU. 214 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 S03 S04 Percentage of employees trained Actions taken in response in the organization’s anti-corruption to incidents of corruption policies and procedures Danone strongly condemns all corrupt practices, as highlighted in its Business Conduct Policy distributed to All Danone employees were informed of the 2009 all managers, as well as to many employees in the group’s revision of the Danone Business Conduct Policy. CBUs. The sixth point of the anti-fraud program concerns This was achieved through training sessions, presentations the corrective measures and sanctions to be applied within and Question-and-Answer sessions, and distribution of each unit. For major cases, a cross-disciplinary committee documents with or without formal receipt. Managers, (risks, internal audit, HR, safety, etc.) meets monthly to and in particular the members of the Executive verify investigation quality, fairness of decisions and Committees, received more extensive training and relevance of sanctions. information. Since 2009, a handbook given to each new employee upon arrival has been drafted and sent to the Half-yearly reporting on internal fraud has been in place Country Business Units (CBUs). Titled “Danone Inside for five years, with the participation of 163 CBUs, or Pack”, it contains several pages covering the Business almost every CBUs in Danone. The number of suspected Conduct Policy. For the first time in 2009 the Danone and proven cases of fraud reported by CBUs has been Inside Pack was also distributed to all employees working stable for two years: in 2010, around 130 suspected cases in the CBUs. were registered each half-year, corresponding to around 80 proven cases every six months, a majority of which Additionally, in 2010, a major survey on business ethics were minor (products or equipment stolen, minor was carried out in more than 160 of the group’s CBUs. misappropriations). None of these cases of fraud had a A full 97% of CBUs replied to this very comprehensive significant impact on Danone’s accounts in 2010. In the questionnaire, which helped to pinpoint strengths and huge majority of cases identified, the employees involved areas for improvement in each CBU in terms of were terminated following the fraud investigations. familiarity with and distribution of these documents, Monthly monitoring meetings for cases of fraud are held and best practices relating to professional and business at group headquarters to verify their effective supervision ethics. Discussions were also able to raise new awareness and appropriate management in terms of ethics and of this topic among employees in the field; a summary internal control. For this purpose, detailed information on of results was considered at the highest levels of Danone’s the nature of the major cases is collected and analyzed by organisation. Action plans were drafted and are underway. the Risks, Control and Audit department. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 215 Society Performance Indicators Public policy S05 ADD S06 Public policy positions and Total value of financial and in-kind participation in public policy contributions to political parties, development and lobbying politicians and related institutions by country Danone views lobbying as positive action aimed at giving politicians and legislators the information they need to As indicated in the Danone Business Conduct Policy, the deal with current issues and define an appropriate use of funds or other group assets, either directly or legislative and regulatory framework for an ever more indirectly, to benefit organizations of a political nature complex environment. Danone has therefore restructured may only take place within the framework of the laws and its corporate teams in charge of public policy and regulations in effect in each country, and must be applied lobbying to better distinguish policy development from with complete transparency. This use is only possible with factors relating to the application and monitoring of management’s formal approval. In 2009, in the new regulations. The resources needed to extend these activities version of the Business Conduct Policy, this rule became to the Country Business Units (CBUs) have also been more restrictive. However, Danone encourages its defined. employees to be involved in their local community. In addition, Danone participates actively in the efforts of professional associations working to contribute to forming public policy at both national and international levels. And finally, the group and its CBUs maintain many direct relations with the national authorities in the countries in which they do business. These relations are maintained in compliance with the Danone Business Conduct Policy. 216 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Anti-competitive behavior Compliance The Danone Business Conduct Policy includes the prohibition of anti-competitive practices. Danone expects S08 its employee to observe applicable fair competition rules. Monetary value of significant fines No agreement or arrangement may be made with and total number of non-monetary competitors that serves to limit free competition. sanctions for non-compliance with The Business Conduct Policy is distributed to all directors and managers (and more broadly still in certain Country laws and regulations Business Units (CBUs)) by the CBU Human Resources At Danone corporate level, no significant fines Department, which have also given their additional or non-financial sanctions have been registered for support through appropriate initiatives to ensure that non-compliance with laws and regulations. all employees are informed. Since 2006, all directors and managers sign a specific clause in their employment contract stating that they are familiar with the Business Conduct Policy and commit to compliance by themselves and by their teams. Buyers are made aware of these issues through the regular distribution of a specific and more detailed Procurement function code. Key account managers in direct connection with mass retailing are also made aware of the topics. Regular training programs are also organized for Procurement managers and members of the Executive Committees. ADD S07 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes No legal proceedings are currently underway. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 217 2010 Sustainability REPORT Performance Product Indicators responsibility Consumer health and safety 219 Product and service labeling 223 Marketing Communications 226 Consumer privacy 229 Compliance 230 218 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Consumer health and safety PR1 Application of the commitments in the Food, Nutrition and Health Charter by the Country Business Units Life cycle stages in which (CBUs) is subject to annual self-assessment according health and safety impacts to the Danone Way Funda­mentals approach. of products and services are Two of the commitments in the Food, Nutrition and assessed for improvement, Health Charter directly involve products and their impact and percentage of significant on consumer health. products and services categories subject to such procedures 1. Propose nutrition solutions that are continuously tailored to nutritional needs and recommendations, tastes and incomes of the local people Impacts on consumer health This commitment requires detailed knowledge of nutritional needs, dietary intakes and consumers’ eating Consumer health is at the heart of Danone’s history and habits. The Nutripacks, bibliographic synopses including mission to “bring health through food to as many people expert opinions from local scientists, provide insight into as possible”. the nutritional, dietary and health situation and the Danone’s nutrition & health policy is not restricted to recommendations of local health authorities in the complying with existing regulations on nutrition & health countries where Danone does business, broken down (ingredients used, enrichment, claims, etc.), but rather by sex and age (children, adults, seniors). Twenty new includes more stringent voluntary internal commitments Nutripacks were released in 2010 and twelve were that respond more broadly to public nutrition and health updated, bringing the total number of countries for concerns and to societal expectations. These commitments which this information is available to 34. are defined in the Food, Nutrition and Health Charter at www.danone.com: With the NutriProgress program, the nutritional quality 1. propose nutrition solutions that are continuously of Danone products can be compared with those of its tailored to the nutritional needs and recommendations, competitors, and with the internal Nutritional Standards tastes and incomes of the local people; defined in accordance with public health authorities’ 2. develop products with relevant, scientifically proven recommendations. If necessary, it can be used to define health benefits and based on an appropriate nutritional goals for product (re)formulations that respond to profile; changes in local nutritional facts in each country. These 3. inform consumers clearly, factually and practice reformulation goals may include, for example, reducing responsible advertising; fat, sugar or sodium content, and/or enriching with 4. promote healthy diets and healthy lifestyles; specific vitamins and minerals. 5. address major healthand nutrition-related societal challenges. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 219 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Consumer health and safety • In 2010, among the Danone products whose Danone’s teams pay particular attention to the taste nutritional composition is not subject to strict experience offered by all their products (reformulations, regulations, 78% underwent nutritional assessment. innovations), as it is now widely accepted that taste is the This process revealed for example that 63% of dairy major factor in dietary choices. They constantly work to products analyzed are currently in compliance with improve their knowledge of consumer expectations, tastes Danone nutrition standards (a 30% increase over 2009). and preferences, and regularly carry out consumer choice • The 30-year movement in Germany to reduce sugar and tests (BEST program, for example). fat content in the children’s Fruchtzwerge dairy product (Danonino) was recognised a nutritional part of a Beyond their nutritional quality and functional benefits, balanced snack by the German Research Institute for Danone develops products that are accessible to as many Child Nutrition (FKE) in 2010 (Optimix snack defined people as possible both via affordable prices for lowby the FKE). income populations (see «For all» strategy section) and • In Great Britain, added salt has been completely through innovative distribution channels (see «For all» removed from Cow & Gate brand baby cereals. strategy and Ecosystem section). Numerous innovations were also launched in 2010: 2. Develop products with relevant, scientifically proven • The Taillefine with Stevia (natural sweetener) dairy health benefits supported by an appropriate nutritional products in France; profile • Ser Calci +, a yogurt containing 400 mg of calcium Danone very closely monitors changes in the health per pot (or 33% of RDA for women over 45) and issues confronting the countries in which the group 5 micrograms of vitamin D, which facilitates calcium does business through its Nutripacks, ongoing dialogue absorption; it targets women who want to protect their with researchers around the world, and by intensive bone health, in Argentina; participation in epidemiological studies. • Nutrilis Aqua, a gelatin with high water content for elderly people who have difficulty swallowing, In collaboration with scientific research teams around the in several European countries; world and with hundreds of clinics and hospitals, Danone • Nutrini Drink Smoothie, a fruit puree for children carries out more than 100 clinical studies each year, in suffering from undernutrition in Germany, strict compliance with international quality standards the Netherlands and the United Kingdom; and with local legislation. • C-Optima smoothie, a range of fruit purees containing 50% of daily vitamin C needs, in Belgium; Their results are widely reported in the major • Milks and nutritional supplements for pregnant women international scientific journals. (Gallia Grossesse) in France, and nursing mothers (Aptamil pregnancy and breastfeeding women’s For example, 45 studies using human subjects were supplement) in Ireland. conducted on Néocate infant formula to examine its ability to reduce allergy symptoms in children allergic to cow’s milk. 220 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Furthermore, Danone ensures that products making a The four divisions apply this policy based on the specifics specific health claim have a nutritional profile consistent of their respective businesses. Each division applies the with this claim. For example, the Danacol product policy in compliance with national legislation and is designed to help reduce cholesterol must contain no more responsible for integrating consumer expectations into than 1.5g of fat and 2.5g of sugar per 100g, and these product development. must not be saturated fats or cholesterol. Danone also promises healthy, safe products to its Consumer safety consumers. The company achieves this goal through outstanding assessment, and management of potential and Danone has developed a Quality and Food Safety actual risks, and impeccable food safety communication. policy rooted upstream in scientific research, and Within the quality department this task is assigned to the responding throughout the product life cycle to Danone Food Safety Center (DFSC), whose role is to consumer expectations. All employees responsible identify, assess, classify and help manage emerging and for quality are committed to this policy. existing risks (chemical, microbiological, physical and allergen risks). Quality management is organized according to the internationally recognized ISO 9000 and ISO 22000 The DFSC ranks risks by severity and frequency in norms, applicable across the entire production chain collaboration with each division. This phase identifies “from farm to fork”. the major risks specific to each division. The risks are categorized as chemical, physical, microbiological and % of plants with Compared allergen. Thanks to active scientific monitoring with ISO 22000 certification with 2009 the help of international experts, emerging hazards are Dairy products 95 +6% identified and specified as quickly as possible, based Waters 73 +22% on the latest scientific knowledge. The quality directors Baby nutrition 77 +30% of the divisions define the objectives and resources for Medical nutrition 100 +200% risk control. The Country Business Units (CBUs) apply the inspection plans and reinforce them if necessary to meet the specific requirements of their business and local At group level (Danone Corporate), the Quality environment. All food safety management system department lays out the group’s quality policy and verifies components are regularly audited to guarantee their its implementation: definition of standards, systems and effectiveness and relevance. performance indicators that are consistent between the different divisions. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 221 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Consumer health and safety To ensure the consistency of food safety management systems and to coordinate the requirements of the various ADD PR2 stakeholders, Danone actively participates in international Total number of incidents of nonforums such as the GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative) compliance with regulations and that brings together players from different links in the voluntary codes concerning health food chain. The goal is to form collaborative networks, to share knowledge and best practices and to harmonize and safety impacts of products and management systems internationally. services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes This shared platform also supports coordinated management of Danone suppliers according to recognized In the classification used by Danone, incidents occur rating systems together with Danone’s own specific at local level and are of limited scope; they are not requirements. consolidated as they do not lead to formal litigation or sanctions of any type. “Crises” however, do reach beyond the local level and can have repercussions outside the Country Business Unit CBU); they are thus consolidated at group level. The performance indicators for food safety – Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), Good Hygiene Practices (GHP), inspection and monitoring plans, HACCP (Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point), Biovigilance, Traceability, combined in the Food Safety Index are monitored daily at the plants and consolidated and analyzed at division level (Dairy products, Waters, Baby nutrition, Medical nutrition) by the relevant Quality departments and at group level for overall governance. The Food Safety Index improved in 2010 by 16% for the Dairy products division, 7% for Baby nutrition, 11% for Medical nutrition and 2% for the Waters division. This progress is strongly correlated to the increase in the number of ISO 22000 certified plants, improved CBU performance in external audits of “Pre-Requisite Programs” implementation, and better monitoring of key steps in the production process that ensure the safety of the final food products. The lesser progress in the Waters division is due to more exacting audit scales and evaluation methods. 222 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Product and service labeling Whenever a serious and immediate threat is posed to consumer health (precautionary principle), Danone PR3 initiates product recalls. “Incidents” are not consolidated Type of product and service at group level. Only significant events classified as “crises” information required by procedures, are reported. In 2010, 40% of crises and incidents and percentage of significant identified were related to product Quality and Food safety (slightly higher than in 2009, 37%). However, in absolute products and services subject to terms the number of crises and incidents related to such information requirements Quality and Food safety decreased by 40% compared with the preceding year (against a 35% decrease in 2009). One focus of the Danone Food, Nutrition and Health Charter directly deals with the information provided to consumers in the area of nutrition & health. Systematic nutrition information All Danone products provide detailed nutrition information to help consumers make informed food choices, even when no local regulatory requirements exist. In EU countries, for dairy products and beverages, Danone applies its own Nutrition Information Charter based on the voluntary scheme developed by the CIAA (Confederation of the Food and Drink Industries of the EU), which indicates calories and nutrients per portion, in absolute measures and as a percentage of Guideline Daily Amounts (GDA). An icon on the front of the packaging indicates the number of calories per portion and as a percentage of the GDA. A table on the back of the packaging indicates, per portion and as a percentage of GDA: calories, proteins, carbohydrates including sugars, lipids including saturated fatty acids, fiber and sodium. Danone also requires its Country Business Units (CBUs) to provide consumers ready access to off-pack information; at least, a mailing address or a website with nutrition information about the products sold in that country. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 223 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Product and service labeling In EU countries this type of information is provided on packaging for all fresh dairy products and beverages, ADD PR4 and on the internet for more than 67% of them. Danone Total number of incidents of is working to roll out this type of information in nonnon-compliance with regulations European Union countries where there is no voluntary and voluntary codes concerning code or local regulation. product and service information Information that is practical and easy to understand and labeling, by type of outcomes by consumers: Danone pays particular attention to providing practical In the classification used by Danone, incidents occur information that is easy to understand, to help consumers at local level and are of limited scope; they are not adopt healthy eating habits for themselves and their consolidated as they do not lead to formal litigation or families. The group therefore offers information programs sanctions of any type. “Crises” however, do reach beyond and educational tools ranging from paper and website the local level and can have repercussions outside the publications to discussion forums and call centers. Country Business Unit (CBU); they are thus consolidated These tools and programs are not limited to Danone at group level. product information, but also include dietary and nutrition advice in easy-to-read formats. The Baby In 2010, there was no incident inventoried under nutrition division, for example, has designed numerous indicators PR4 and PR7, which are difficult to distinguish multimedia programs to advise mothers-to-be about as most events relating to product information also relate their own diets, and parents about their children’s diets to advertising. at each stage of their development during the first years of life, which lay the groundwork for health later in life (www.laboratoire-gallia.com, www.bledina.com, www.cowandgate.co.uk, www.milupa.de/mil, www.dumex.com.my etc.). 224 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 ADD PR5 Danone Consumer Service Centers, access for the hearing impaired in France Practices related to consumer satisfaction, including results Danone’s French CBUs (Danone Produits Frais of surveys measuring consumer France, Danone Eaux France and Blédina) have been working with GuideCaro since December satisfaction 2008 to help hearing-impaired consumers access the Consumer Service Centers via a sign language service. The primary mission of Danone’s Consumer Services Center is to foster attention to and communication with Hearing-impaired consumers can now access all the consumers, and to develop and maintain relationships services available to any other consumer. By clicking with them. It is a tool that allows the company to offer on the “Sourdline” logo on the danoneetvous.com advice as well as information. The Center helps gather and bledina.com websites, a hearing-impaired person consumers’ comments, suggestions and reactions. It is a can contact one of Danone’s French CBUs via one of local service whose main objective is to rapidly respond six communication methods (webcam, chat, text to demands and to create added value for the brands. messaging, fax, email or form). The service is This service can answer any question about the products maintained by a hearing-impaired agent Monday and brands, and more generally about diet and nutrition. through Friday from 11:30 am to 2:30 pm. It is also responsible for processing complaints relating to product quality. In 2010, 400 contacts were registered on the “SourdLine” service. The Consumer Service Center can be contacted 24 hours/day on the internet, or by phone (the number is on the packaging). The mailing addresses of the Consumer Service Centers of Danone Country Business Units (CBUs) are also listed on packaging. In France, the Danone Consumer Service Center processes around 50,000 contacts per year by phone, traditional mail and email. Its scope of responsibility covers all Danone products sold on the French market. The Consumer Service was renovated in 2010, and it now includes custom nutritional advices resulting from the collaboration of Danone France, Danone Nutrition Service Research and MXS Company which has developed a tool adapted to each user needs, giving the possibility to plan balanced daily or weakly meals. Please consult: www.danoneetvous.com/Mon-alimentation Danone Sustainability Report 2010 225 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Marketing communications PR6 Responsible advertising and communication Danone has undertaken to comply with the Code of Programs for adherence to the International Chamber of Commerce for responsible laws, standards, and voluntary marketing practices for food and beverage products, as well as other national and regional standards, to avoid codes related to marketing for example any message that might encourage excessive communications, including consumption of one of its products and/or a lifestyle that advertising, promotion, and is not conducive to health. sponsorship Restrictions on advertising towards children and in Danone views the consistency of its advertising messages schools with the reality of its products in terms of nutritional Danone is committed to limiting advertising targeting content and health benefits to be of crucial importance. children under 12 years of age, to products whose It has set the goal for its advertising and communication nutritional profile is specifically appropriate for them, to be relevant, reliable and easy for consumers and to refrain from advertising its products in schools. to understand. This principle is applied throughout the European Union (EU pledge), where independent auditors Claims that are reliable and easy for consumers monitor compliance with our commitment, as well as to understand in the United States (US pledge) and Brazil. Danone Danone ensures that information about its products’ is working to expand this self-disciplined approach to benefits (claims) is reliable and expressed in terms other countries. that consumers can easily understand. The Danone Communication Guidelines help the marketing teams A strict voluntary code for communication in schools and advertising agencies express the benefits of a product Danone requires that its Country Business Units (CBUs) in language that consumers can understand, using participating in educational initiatives in schools comply illustrations, charts or scientifically valid symbols. with a strict in-house code in the countries where no The Danone Consumer Understanding Test verifies that official directive or requirement is in place for schools. consumer understanding of the claims is consistent with the scientific evidence supporting the products’ benefits. Responsible marketing for breast milk substitutes Finally, the internal claim approval procedure ensures the compliant with the WHO code accuracy of the nutrition and health claims of Danone The mission of Danone’s Baby Division is “To partner products. Danone makes no nutrition and/or health with parents and provide specialized nutrition to babies claim for its “indulgence” products. and toddlers to complement breast-feeding, for healthy growth and the best start in life”. 226 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 To ensure this mission is lived everyday, the Baby •F  eeding of infants and young children is influenced Nutrition division has committed to upholding the by a range of factors, including cultural traditions, following guiding principles: educational and economic opportunities, the availability • Committed to ethical marketing practices that promote of information, workplace support, and the time spent good health and safe nutrition for all infants and young by the mother away from the home. Danone actions are children. Ethical marketing and distribution practices undertaken in order that parents have the opportunity help to ensure that health workers have access to to make choices that are most appropriate for their accurate, science-based information; that parents have families; access to nutritious and healthful foods for infants and • Health workers should be able to provide objective young children, including breast-milk substitutes when advice about how and what to feed infants and young necessary and appropriate; and that such foods are children and for parents to make informed feeding prepared and used safely, appropriately and in a manner decisions. They must have access to truthful, sciencethat does not interfere with the protection and based information about all feeding options, including promotion of breast-feeding; breast feeding and infant formula, complementary • Acknowledgement of the importance, and respect the foods, and other milks. Appropriate marketing and Aim and Principles, of the World Health Organization’s distribution practices help fulfil this important aim; (“WHO’s”) International Code of Marketing of Breast• Ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and Milk Substitutes (BMS) and subsequent resolutions. regulations in the countries where Danone operates. The stated Aim of the WHO Code is “to contribute to Danone respects the role of national governments the provision of safe and adequate nutrition for infants to develop health policies that are appropriate to by protecting and promoting breast-feeding, and their social and legislative framework and overall ensuring the proper use of breast-milk substitutes, when development objectives. Danone believes that sound necessary, on the basis of adequate information and science should support all policies, regulations and through appropriate marketing and distribution”; standards governing infant and young child nutrition. • Support of the WHO’s global public health recommendation calling for breast-feeding during the first six months of life and acknowledge the superiority of breast milk as the best source of nutrition for infants. Danone encourages mothers to breast feed for as long as possible up to two years; Danone Sustainability Report 2010 227 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Marketing communications In addition to ensuring all Danone businesses adhere to this set of principles, specific actions have also been ADD PR7 undertaken, starting with ensuring a better understanding Total number of incidents of of the WHO Code on the Marketing of Breast Milk non-compliance with regulations substitutes (BMS) at all levels of the organisation. and voluntary codes concerning This has involved improving internal management system marketing communications, and including: including advertising, promotion, • Creation of a new role, (part of the Danone Baby and sponsorship by type of Nutrition Board), Vice President Quality & Public outcomes Affairs, having responsibility for Danone’s strategy regarding marketing & promotion of BMS; Danone’s commitment to limit advertising towards • Each Danone Baby Nutrition Country Business Unit children under 12 in the EU countries is audited annually (CBU) developed specific internal plans to ensure by external auditors in various European countries as part compliance with internal guidelines. Bi-annual reviews of the “EU pledge on advertising to children”. The report of internal monitoring is undertaken by Danone Baby published in 2010 indicates a rate of compliance by all Nutrition board; committed players with 2009 commitments of 99.4% • Appointment of an independent auditor to monitor in the media (TV, radio, print, web) and 92% in schools. marketing practices of Danone Baby Nutrition CBUs. For Danone, only 1% of television advertising analyzed in Poland was considered to be non-compliant. The marketing of breast milk substitutes continues to be Around ten cases of non-compliance were identified an extremely sensitive issue and Danone is committed to in schools (Italy, Belgium) and led to corrective actions. working with key stakeholders and industry alike, to It should be noted that none of these cases of noncontinually improve practises. compliance led to consumer complaints or challenges by the public authorities. 228 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Consumer privacy Consumers expect Danone to give them tools for underConsumer surveys standing nutrition, advice on developing daily menus that Surveys allow the Danone Group to gain specific meet their needs, and product information. Danone has information, such as how the consumer perceives product various tools for fostering close communication with quality, consumer expectations for new products, their consumers (website, magazines, consumer surveys, opinion of information tools or how they understand consumer service). The company protects consumer specific advertising. Research companies ensure the privacy and complies in every country with national anonymity of responses. Only the overall results are legislation governing personal data protection when transmitted to Danone. managing these tools. Consumer Service Center Consumer database The Consumer Service Center is a tool for information A database contains the names and addresses of all the about the company and for offering advice (more details, consumers to whom Danone and its brands send see indicator PR5). information and special offers in print or electronic format. Consumers may choose whether or not to leave their contact information. This information is used, with the Consumers may suspend their subscription at any time by consumer’s agreement, to send documentation, brochures simply indicating this to the management center (dietary advice, recipes, etc.) or coupons in response to a designated in the messages received. Only minimal data is complaint. No follow-up system is in place. Consumers required for registration, i.e. name and address. may request removal of their information from the database at any time, as stated in every communication Providing socio-demographic information (household they receive from Danone Conseils. members) and information on consumption is optional. ADD PR8 Sensitive information, such as credit card numbers, is not requested. Website Total number of substantiated There are around a hundred brand websites within complaints regarding breaches Danone. In most cases these are promotional or commerof consumer privacy and losses cial sites. For example, in France, Danoneetvous.com of consumer data applies an opt-in system in which consumers choose to have their data entered in the database if they so wish. This indicator is not consolidated by Danone. Consumers must also check a box giving Danone permission to communicate with them. Danone Sustainability Report 2010 229 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services At Danone corporate level, no significant fines have been registered for non-compliance with the laws and regulations concerning supply and use of products and services. 230 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 Danone Sustainability Report 2010 231 This Sustainability Report has been prepared with design, coordination and editing services provided by the Department of Social Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility. This report is also the product of an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. You are invited to share with us your comments and ideas on the manner in which Danone can improve its approach, via our website: www.danone.com or by mail: Danone Department of Social Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility 15, rue du Helder 75439 PARIS cedex 09 France or via our blog: http://lespiedssurterre.danone.com/ Contacts: Marc Grosser Social Affairs and Corporate Social Responsibility Director Nathalie Viel Corporate Social Responsibility Manager Myriam Cohen-Welgryn General Manager Nature Agnès Martin Global Nutrition and Health Affairs Director Photography credits: ©Aytunc Akad/SIPA, ©Guillaume Beguin, ©hellio-vaningen, Bernard Giraud Vice President Sustainability and Shared Value Creation Jean Bibard, ©Laurent Vautrin, ©Thomas Haley/SIPA, Danone. © Design: www.landmarks.be Self-evaluation of the Danone 15, rue du Helder 75439 PARIS cedex 09 France application of GRI according to version 3.0 guidelines for Visitors: 17, boulevard Haussmann 75009 PARIS the GRI with approval by KPMG Audit. Tel: +33 1 44 35 20 20 www.danone.com
