Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability Report 2011 03 16 25 37 Interview Sustainability Social investment GRI Content 05 20 28 58 Profile Energy Efficiency Internal Public ANNEX: SOCIAL INVESTMENT 12 23 32 – PROJECTS 2010 Management VALUE CHAIN MATERIALITY differentials 61 CONTACT 62 CREDITS Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 3 Interview with the President Prepared for another hundred YEARS In this interview, president João Carlos Brega talks about Embraco’s trajectory and its innovative spirit. What is your assessment of 2010? How does the company prepare itself for the future? We are living a special moment in Embraco. In 2011, the company celebrates The challenge is permanent. We want 40 years, and we have many reasons to build an increasingly more global to celebrate, both in terms of what we company, which is a much broader have already accomplished as well as concept than having an international regarding the future. In 2010 alone presence which requires a totally differthere were several achievements: we ent mindset. For this we seek to foster increased our capacity in China by 50%, diversity ensuring inclusion. Embraco we launched new products in Brazil and needs to reflect, at all levels and funcrenewed Slovakia’s entire product line. tions, the geographic diversity of its opOur perspective is to move forward on erations. We want all regions where we our path of growth, consolidating our are present to have a voice within the global presence. For this, we have a very company. This enriches our corporate well prepared team which year after culture and represents a competitive year has been able to make a difference advantage over competitors. and drive the business. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 4 What else can we highlight in this The new plant reinforces the global We operate in a society and we know our INNOVATION MUST MEET CUSTOMER regard? component of the company’s operaresponsibility. We are committed to doNEEDS AND IT MUST BE ACCOMPANIED tions and represents another important ing what is correct and legally appropriBY SIMPLICITY Another challenge, for which we prestep in improving the services supplied ate, while at the same time we want to pare ourselves constantly, is to maintain to our customers. In addition, the new contribute to the development of comtechnological leadership, since technolplant is already being formed under the munities. In all our units, we develop understand the solution we present and ogy is what enables us to develop and concept of environmental responsibilprojects with children and adolescents in be able to put it into practice. deliver innovative and smart solutions ity. Both the architectural project and the areas of education, health and envithat make a difference for our customproduction planning were designed to ronment. Each unit has the freedom to Is the company ready for another 40 ers’ business. reduce consumption of natural resourcdevelop their own projects depending on years? es such as water and energy. These the local need. On this point, we have one important concerns are present in all our units, Absolutely. My certainty is based on differential: energy efficiency, a flag that of course, but the fact that the change The focus on innovation is not new in corporate governance and the knowlthe company raised a long time ago and begins in the project allowed us to use the company, and consistent investedge it has of the market. We already which has been gaining visibility around modern techniques and achieve more ment in this area was reflected in mahave a consolidated history, a past. We world. Our leadership in this theme mulsignificant results. The reuse of water, jor advances in 2010, such as micro have faced different market conditions, tiplies our opportunities. The future of for example, will reach 90%. compressors, linear technology and and over the years, we have maintained the compressor industry should necesoil-free models. For Embraco, is innoourselves as the leader and have demsarily go through with lower energy conTHE FUTURE OF THE COMPRESSOR vation a fundamental aspect for the onstrated ability to grow. With flexibilsumption and smaller products besides INDUSTRY WILL GO THROUGH WITH business’ continuity? ity and planning we seek to anticipate using electronics. LOWER ENERGY CONSUMPTION trends and prepare ourselves for the fuNo doubt, but we do not want innovature. We are prepared for another hunIn 2011, Embraco initiates a new opIn the environmental area, you altion for innovation. The most important dred years! eration in Mexico. What is the role of ready mentioned two focuses of the thing for us is to ensure that innovation this plant for the company’s strategic company’s operations: reducing the meets customer needs and that it is acplans? direct impacts of production and the companied by simplicity. What makes commitment to energy efficiency. On something innovative to succeed, bethe social side, what role does the sides being new and relevant, is to be João Carlos Brega company intend to play? accessible to all. The customer needs to President Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 5 Profile WHO WE ARE We are world leaders in the manufacture of leaks. Looking to the future, we have of refrigeration compressors. Beyond the created and we are already testing miproduction capacity (32 million units in cro-compressors, which could be used to 2010), we are a reference in low energy cool electronic equipment and portable consumption models and we differenitems such as firefighter uniforms and in tiate ourselves through our innovative the medical field. (To learn more about character, the result of continuous inlinear technology and micro-compressors, vestment in research and development. see pages 21 and 22 of this report.) In 2010 we were pioneers in the developEmbraco is headquartered in Joinville, ment of a new technology, together with Santa Catarina (Brazil), where it was the company Fisher & Paykel, from New founded in 1971. In 2006, Embraco, unZealand, and the North American Whirltil then a publicly traded company, went pool Corporation. The new compressor through a reorganization that merged it combines high energy efficiency with a with the household appliance manufaclinear design, more compact, dispensing turer Multibrás, forming in Brazil, Whirlthe use of oil. Besides the obvious envipool SA, controlled by the U.S. Whirlpool ronmental benefit, the elimination of oil Corporation, shareholder of the two ormultiplies product application possibiliganizations since the 1990s. The two ties because it can be placed in any pooperations, household appliances and sition within the equipment without risk compressors continue to operate as independent business units while maintaining their specificities and peculiarities. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 6 Embraco Italy Riva Presso Chieri office and compressor factory Embraco North America Suwanne, Georgia warehouse and sales office Embraco Slovakia Spisská Nová Ves office and compressor factory Embraco MExico San Pedro García office Embraco China Beijing office, compressor factory and electronic component factory Our units are based in six countries, from which we serve 80 markets on all continents. We have four compressor factories, three factories for compressor componentes (parts and electronic controls) and a foundry. In 2011, this structure will be expanded with the opening of a compressor factory in Mexico, which should add 2.5 million compressors per year to our production capacity and enhance service to the North American market. Embraco Brasil Production capacity: 32 million compressors per year Joinville, Santa Catarina Employees: 10 thousand headquarters, office, compressor factory, Products: compressors for refrigeration equipment (refrigerators, wine cellars and cold electronic component factory and foundry rooms ), refrigeration systems and electronic temperature controls (for cooling systems) Itaiópolis, Santa Catarina Differentials: world leader in compress or market and benchmark in technology and component and cooling system factory energy efficiency Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 7 New brand For us, being leaders in the refrigeration Delivering Intelligent Performance: tence that we find in the midst of so future? It is with this questioning spirit market is the result of hard work, comWe believe in what we do, we undermany diverse people and cultures. that we invest in research and developmitment, strategic vision and boldness stand the market in which we operment in any economic scenario. to innovate. But in the same way that ate and thereby deliver answers, many Shaping the Global Scenario: We are leadership represents the recognition times to questions that did not even exleaders. Restless leaders, who underThe concept of Power to Change is a for what we already do, it also presents ist. Our intelligence is in the very close stand the responsibility of our position. catalyst for all actions driven by these itself in the form of a challenge: we need relationship with our customers, in the We know clearly that it is us who guide four values: as leaders, we want to moto anticipate trends, be ahead, lead the innovative solutions that we present, in and influence the world market. It is us bilize people and drive change. way and build today the company that the restlessness that makes us more that reinvent, that transform ... But our we want to be in the future. agile in responding to different needs. difference is that we have an open mind The new brand follows the company’s to the new, to cultural differences and evolution in recent years, at the same With our new brand positioning, launched Cultivating Passion: We formed a team this makes us understand that there is time serving as a reference for what we in July 2011, we seek to explain the esof extremely talented people, passionate always plenty to learn. want for the future. More than a graphic sence of this whole process. Each of the about what they do, who have in their symbol, it reflects an evolution of the values ​​of the new brand expresses the​​ DNA the spirit of winning, the drive to Transcending the Future: Inspired by company’s culture and must be present double idea of potential and challenge, overcome and to innovate. We are proud innovation, we anticipate trends. Who in everyone’s attitudes. present and future, concrete reality and of what we produce and of the compesaid it is impossible to transcend the flexibility for evolution. History 1971 Foundation In 1971, Empresa Brasileira de Compressores S.A. 1980 Technology independence In the beginning of this decade, we entered for the first compressor with 100% Embraco – Embraco was created, built in Joinville, a city into an agreement that would catapult and technology to reach the market. In this year located in the highly industrialized state of Santa stimulate our capacity for innovation. In 1982, we also participated in the UN’s Montreal Catarina in southern Brazil. Three years later, in 1974, we established the first technical cooperation Protocol, which seeks to eliminate the use operations began and the first compressors were agreement with the Federal University of of CFC (harmful to the ozone layer) and produced. In the first decade, we gave our first step Santa Catarina. The idea was to develop our opened a sales office in the United States. towards globalization. In 1977, we started exporting own technology to improve production. In compressors to Peru. A year later, the United States 1983, we formed the Research & Development and Canada entered the customer list. area. These two initiatives enabled, in 1987, Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 8 Corporate governance Teamwork, integrity, respect, spirit of winvice-presidents. That bring together key President ning and diversity with inclusion are the areas. Our goal was to put into practice João Carlos Brega values ​​that guide us in conducting busia new mindset on how to manage the ness, and with solid governance struccompany, promoting a balance between tures we seek to create value for shareroutine actions that ensure the results holders, customers, partners and society. today, with transformation initiatives that ensure the long-term results. At the 2010 was a year of changes in Embraco. directorship level, and in all leadership, Vice president: Vice president: Vice president: Vice president: To give more agility to decision-making the changes mean more autonomy and CFO and Human Business & Marketing Operations, Management R&D and processes, strengthen the strategic alignresponsibility for the joint construction of Resources Roberto Campos and Sustainability Procurement ment and meet the new market challengthe results. Henrique Haddad Lainor Driessen Márcio Todescat es, we improved our internal structures, and in early 2011 we began operating unIn this way, we seek to strengthen our der an even leaner and more agile model. ability to respond to the changing scenario and seize new opportunities of a In the new structure, the Executive Comglobalized and dynamic market. mittee, the main governance body, is composed by the presidency and four 1990 International operations This was the decade in which we We reached the mark of 50 million important decision for sustainability by consolidated ourselves in the international compressors produced in 1990. Two years creating, in Joinville, the Embraco Ecology market. In 1994, we hoisted flags in Italy, by later, the Brazil unit obtained ISO 9001 Award, an incentive for environmental acquiring the Aspera compressor plant. certification and started production for CFC education in learning institutions. A year later, we became pioneers in creating alternative gas compressors, pioneers in the first Brazilian joint venture in China, With the new acquisitions, by the end of Latin America. In 1996, we launched the Beijing Embraco Snowflake. In 1998, we the decade, we reached the mark of 21.7 VCC, which revolutionized the market for began operating in Slovakia. million compressors produced per year. energy efficiency. In 1993, we made an Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 9 Monitoring Risks and opportunities The Executive Committee oversees To manage and minimize risks every Embraco’s economic, environmental six months we review the risk spreadand social planning practice, the persheet following the Enterprise Risk formance of the organization and the Management methodology, which inexecutives themselves. Assessments cludes a description of each risk, the are quarterly, guided by our five strateprobability of occurrence, the impact gic pillars: revenue growth, technology if it occurs , activities to control it and leadership, operational excellence, susthe areas responsible for monitoring it. tainability and people. The same tool also guides the analysis of opportunities within each strategic The Committee is also responsible for pillar. In 2010, for example, focused identifying and managing issues relaton the sustainability pillar, the new ed to adherence and compliance with Mexico plant’s project, included reuse New factory adopted international standards in the of water and thermal insulation of the in Mexico company and internal codes and prinfacilities as well as accessibility to peoMoving closer to ciples of conduct. ple with disabilities. our clients 2000 Continuous improvement 2010 A new revolution We have deepened the strategy of being seeks to eliminate harmful substances from In 2010, we launched the microcompressor, a global company. We opened a sales the environment. In the same year, Embraco revolutionary product in the market allowing office in Mexico and become signatories Snowflake was certified by ISO 14001. In for the so-called portable cold. Furthermore, to the UN’s Global Compact. In Brazil, we 2003, we began the activities of Embraco we defined Embraco’s new brand which began operating with the corporate name Electronic Controls (EECON) to produce shows how we want to be seen by the world Whirlpool SA, in 2006, the same year we electronic components used in compressors. and how we are going to face the challenge started production at a new factory in China. Five years later, EECON opened a new of being an even more global company. In 2007, plants in Brazil, Italy and Slovakia factory in China. were certified by the QC 080000, which Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 10 ETHICAL CONDUCT The principles and values ​​that guide our We value ethics and integrity in Work drivers actions are brought together in the Letall OF OUR relationships ter of Organizational Values​​, the Code of Mission: Conduct and the Code of Ethics, to which Complaints can be made ​​by electronic all employees commit themselves. In mail or even through calls made using Offer innovative solutions for a better quality of life 2010, we reinforced the presence of the a specific line, ensuring the employee’s Code of Ethics together with our network anonymity. In the Brazilian unit there is of direct material suppliers, and most of also a network of computer terminals Values: the partner companies signed the docuavailable, the Open Channel, where Diversity with inclusion ment and adhered to its precepts. (For questions and suggestions can be sent Spirit of Winning more information about this initiative and to the board. Integrity Embraco’s work with its supply chain, refer to page 22.) From November 2009 to October 2010, Respect we received 14 contacts. The channels Teamwork To ensure alignment of the entire commostly used were committees and the pany, we maintain Ethic Committees, hotline (telephone channel). Pillars: which receive complaints, queries and Technology Leadership and provide information to employees. The Innovation committees also encourage employees to report any suspicion of irregularity to Operational Excellence leadership, and we continuously train Revenue Growth and Value leaders on how to act in these situaGeneration tions. General managers of the factoPeople ries, the legal sector, Human Resources Sustainability area and vice presidencies can also be contacted directly to receive and analyze complaints. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 11 Awards Quality and Innovation Professor Caspar Erich Stemmer Social responsibility and best Award for Innovation in Santa Catarina practices For the fourth time winner of the FINEP in the category Innovative Company Technological Innovation Award 2010, of Large/Medium Size. The initiative Top of Mind 2010 – A Notícia newspasponsored by the Ministry of Science is of the Foundation to Support Sciper and the MAPA Institute: Embraco and Technology. The company ranked entific and Technological Research of is the most remembered brand in sofirst in the categories Innovation ManSanta Catarina (Fapesc). cial responsibility, environmental presagement and Large Company, comervation and investment in culture. peting with 885 institutions throughCNI Award (National Confederation of out Brazil. Industry) Regional Stage for the QualAward of Best Strategic Cooperation ity Control Circle – Opening New Paths Project and Award of Innovative SupThird place in the ranking The Most (Anchor Ejector PW/4TM project). plier, granted by the Haier Group, in Innovative Companies in Brazil 2010, China, to Embraco China. conducted by the Época Negócios Embraco’s performance won magazine in partnership with the conseveral awards in 2010. Here are Outstanding Economic Contribution, sulting firm AT Kearney. The survey ingiven by the Administration Committhe main ones volved 120 organizations of different tee of the Economic Development segments. Zone of Beijing Tianzhu Airport to Embraco China. Vice-President For the fourth consecutive year winof R&D and ner in the Ranking Champions of Capital Civilized Company and NationProcurement Márcio Innovation 2010 in the category al Excellent employees’ Home Award, Todescat (right) Electro-Mechanics. The award is orgranted by the local government to ganized by the magazine Amanhã. Embraco China. receives the Finep Innovation Award 2010 from Finep Director Fernando Ribeiro Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 12 Management Embraco differentials Way of Management A company is like a living organism: it MORE THAN 90% OF OUR EMPLOYEES needs to change, adapt itself and seek RECEIVED TRAINING ON THE EWM strategies to overcome the challenges imposed by the world. With Embraco concept that we have of our company, it is no different. We systematically and ensure that the entire organization promote improvements in how we coninternalizes new processes. duct business by seeking to build value for our stakeholders, to ensure a comThe new management model was admon language throughout the orgaopted in 2009, with leadership training, nization and to balance the short and and in 2010 was consolidated in the long term results. company. We disseminated the concept to more than 90% of employees with As a methodology base for this search training in administrative and manufacwe count on the Embraco Way of Manturing areas. Throughout the year, close agement (EWM). With EWM, we want to 9,000 employees received specific to become more global and dynamic, training on the EWM, and the main condeepen relationships with our customcepts of the model have been reinforced ers and be in sync with market trends. within the routine communication and We know that to achieve these results strategic alignment of the organization strategic direction from top manageat events like the annual Leadership ment is not enough. It is necessary to provoke a cultural change, adjust the Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 13 Meeting and the Strategic Dialogues, Management by which involve the Executive Committee. processes To measure the efficiency with which EWM is integrated into our routine, we In the previous management model, the challenges that are required in impleFlexibility and Agility in the perform an annual assessment of the but already incorporated into the EWM, menting this cultural change, but since company with the Evolution we created the Evolution project to re2008, when it was launched, Evolution Project design the processes of our entire orhas visibly advanced. In 2010, we were WE WANT TO PROVOKE A CULTURAL ganization. The goal is to ensure more able to map and redesign six of the comCHANGE AND ENSURE THAT THE flexibility and agility to the company. pany’s 12 priority processes. In line with ENTIRE ORGANIZATION INTERNALIZES Instead of thinking in areas or sections our strategy to bring down the internal NEW PROCESSES with determined responsibilities, we walls and to think globally, the review iniprefer to see each of Embraco’s actions tiative itself was an example of managemanagement model. On visits to the as a complete process involving differment by process. The work was carried units, we measure the adequacy of proent teams in a harmonic way. out in Embraco’s different units in the cesses and results to EWM using a scale world and involved managers and profesof 0 to a thousand points. The 2010 asTo fully understand this idea, we can sionals from the company’s various areas. sessment showed improvements in all cite the example of our innovation prounits, and we reached our goal of achievcess. In the company, innovation is not Part of the finance process, for example, ing a minimum of 650 points in all of restricted to the staff of Research & was developed in Italy with the particithem. The corporate area (which brings Development (R&D), but counts on the pation of teams from all units. In China, together the company’s global manageparticipation of professionals from other we developed the first step in the Peoment teams) stood out for the maturaareas, such as employees from the facple process. In Slovakia, we made importion in one of the essential aspects of tory and marketing. Thus, we can captant decisions about the supplies prothe model, the cooperative work among ture far more ideas and develop more cess. After diagnosis and defining where the teams. In 2011, our goal is to further comprehensive and relevant actions. we want to go, we began to implement strengthen adherence to EWM and that changes in 2011 and we expect to conall areas reach at least 700 points in the The advantages of this new way of thinksolidate the execution of processes assessment. ing about business are proportional to throughout the year. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 14 Continuous improvement The Lean Thinking philosophy is our priLean philosophy contributes mary internal leverage in the effort for to making the company more continuous improvement focused on efficient combating waste. Lean means light, lean, without excesses. When applied to our work, this concept means avoiding In 2010, 478 kaizens were performed, unnecessary transport, eliminating re17% more than the previous year. works and adjusting production to the Among the concrete results, we had an pace of consumption, without excess inimprovement of 10.1% in the parts per ventory. The results are clear: productivhour index, equivalent to implementity increase, consumption reduction and ing one production line, but without the WE AVOID UNNECESSARY TRANSPORT efficient cost control. costs. Thanks to Lean, we also improved AND ADJUST OUR PRODUCTION TO production organization (layout of lines), THE PACE OF CONSUMPTION To achieve Lean in practice we follow a we raised levels of work safety and forsemi-annual plan: the Value Stream Map, mally implemented the help chain in all which acts as an X-ray of opportunities factories, a system that ensures a quick for improvements in different areas of response from the team in case of a the company and indicates the degree production stop. of priority for the action. Throughout the year, each area manager convenes specific meetings to address each opportunity. There are kaizens (Japanese term for continuous improvement), which last, on average, one week. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 15 Collective construction Examples Quality Control Circles (QCC), which tion to improving the company’s routine, Case: Brazil voluntarily unite employees with the the QCCs reinforce the commitment of aim of identifying opportunities for imall with the results and the culture of The work of two Brazilian QCCs colof 172 cubic meters, equivalent to the provement and finding solutions to the overcoming challenges. The contribution laborated, for example, to achieve the consumption of 31 people during one factories’ routine, worked as never beof the circles’ members has the comgoals of reducing water consumption. month1. The use of chemical products fore in 2010. pany’s recognition: there are prizes, gifts With the installation of a small piece also fell. From 236.64 kilos to 165.6 and opportunities to exchange informain the faucets, it was possible to inkilos, a reduction of 30%. Our goal was to increase from 40% to tion with other Circles. crease pressure in the pipe and reduce 60% the number of employees who are the flow by 40%. In one of Embraco To achieve these savings, it was only part of the QCC in Embraco Brazil. MisBrazil’s component washing systems, necessary to install inside the washsion accomplished. At the end of the a simple change reduced water coning tank a smaller container, formatyear 62% of professionals were part of sumption from 384 cubic meters to ted to the task’s necessity. some Circle in Brazil. There were 426 212 cubic meters per year a savings QCCs, 2,700 participants and 4,200 1 According to the Foundation for Consumer Protection and Defense of São Paulo projects. In China, the goal was to reach (ProconSP), the average monthly consumption of treated water per person is 5.4 m3. 45 groups, but the plant was able to form 63 teams and had the participation of 537 employees. Case: China The increase in the engagement of teams In China, one of the groups had the the job. The circle members created and employees in the QCCs is the result mission to develop an automatic a sort of automatic “drawer”. In adof direct leadership action, which encourequipment to reduce the operators’ dition to the positive impact in the aged employee participation and made manual work, who need to remove satisfaction level with the work envithem aware about the importance of compressors from the production ronment, the new system helped to each one in the company’s betterment. line. Each piece of equipment weighs increase the line’s productivity. The solutions found help to improve Em8 kilos, and the repeated effort durbraco’s performance worldwide. In addiing each shift led many to give up Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 16 Commitment Concrete to Sustainability results Sustainability is one of the pillars of on page 20.) In addition, we are innoour work. In business management, the vating by creating new compressors concept translates into reducing the that dispense the use of lubricant oil. environmental impacts of the production process and of products, encourWe are also systematically decreasaging best practices in the supply chain ing the amount of raw materials used and developing communities where we in the manufacture of compressors operate. A common feature of all acand reducing the use of rare metals or tions is education for sustainability that those which have few natural reserves, we seek to promote in all relationships like copper, for example. Our idea is to with strategic publics. replace them with lighter and more abundant alternatives. The replaceWith regard to products and investment ment process began some years ago in communities, our history is long and and brought good results in 2010. We full of achievements. Our compressors were able to produce 15% of all comare highlighted globally for energy efpressors using aluminum wire instead ficiency, which in practice means lower of copper. In addition to the environenergy consumption throughout their mental benefits, the financial impacts life cycle. (Read more about our initiawere immediate with significant cost tives in energy efficiency and innovation savings. Our goal is to reach 2013 with 40% of our compressors being manufactured with aluminum wires. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 17 Sustainability in practice In Italy, the solution was more profound were able to draw up policies to reduce Energy efficiency: save Reduce production Social investment: drive Supplier engagement: and required remodeling the plant’s the generation and ensure its correct energy during the comimpacts: less material, initiatives that take care encourage partners cooling system, which prevents madestination. We want to mature in the pressor’s useful life. less water and energy of the environment and to align with the chines from overheating. The Italian control of these three items (water, enconsumption, less waste promote health and company's sustainability unit had cooling capacity for eight proergy and waste) to define our strategy (Learn more on page 20.) generated. education of children parameters. duction lines, but only one was operatwith respect to the emission of greenand adolescents. ing. Operation of the complete system house gases. (Learn more below and on (Learn more on page 23.) caused waste. Once the problem was pages 21 and 24.) (Learn more on page 25.) noticed, we resized the system to just All together, our initiatives have resulted one line, and the plant’s total consumpin water savings of 106.7 million liters. tion fell by 28%. It is enough for the daily consumption Education for sustainability: of nearly 150,000 people for one year. raise awareness and mobilize people, sowing a new culture for the future. Still with a focus on managing the imIn energy, the savings was 32,376 MWh. (Learn more on pages 23 and 25.) pacts of the production process, we perThis is equivalent to an annual supply fected waste monitoring in 2010, and of a small city with more than 12,000 based on the information gathered, we inhabitants. Production process Operation Water savings (l) Energy savings In 2010, we moved firmly in reducing Also with an eye on the target, we exthe operation’s direct environmental panded the applications of our water (MWh) % impacts, beginning with the efficient use reuse system. Previously, reused waBrazil 27,569,355.01 25,195.83 12.9% of water and energy. All plants exceeded ter served for irrigation of plants, toilet their targets of reducing energy, which flushing and reservoirs in case of fire. In Italy 52,490,817.90 551.27 1.7% together meant a reduction of 9.1% per 2010, we began to channel it also for Slovakia 12,905,423.47 5,128.54 7.2% compressor produced. The performance the factory’s cooling system. With this was the result of a balanced mix of inmeasure, the Brazil plant was able to reChina 13,724,154.24 1,501.08 3.0% vestment in new equipment, review of use half of the water captured from the processes and awareness. public water supply network. Total 106,689,750.62 32,376.72 9.1% Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 18 Community The funding for social projects has macial resources to be used in the impletured since 1992, and in 2010 they mentation of their proposals. benefited approximately 25,400 people in Brazil, China, Slovakia, Italy and the Since 2009 we have also had the United States. (For more information Embraco Ecology award in Slovakia about our community investments, refer (learn more on page 26). to page 25 – Social investment.) These are initiatives that promote education, Supply chain environment and health actions for children and adolescents. We have taken important steps to take sustainability beyond our walls and proCompany culture mote the alignment of the entire supply The commitment to sustainability has exercises and discussions on our unIn 2010, the Embraco Ecology award chain. In 2009 we shared our Code of been part of the company’s practices derstanding of how to be a sustaincompleted 18 years. The idea of the Conduct with our direct materials supplisince 80s and has since been integratable company. From now on, the coninitiative is to awaken the new generaers (those that make up the final proded into management. We have worked cept will be disseminated in detail to tion’s respect for the environment. This uct) in the Americas, and in 2010 we exdiligently to ensure that the concept is all our employees. year the award has something new: it tended the process to supplier networks present in all corners of the company, began benefiting three competitors in in Europe and Asia. Most of them (92% and year after year we have recorded To intensify the process of transformthe Seed category, not only two, as it overall and 85% to 95% depending on progress towards this goal. In the area ing our corporate culture and strengthwas until 2009. In total, including the region) committed themselves to the of ​​training and engagement of the en the formal side of our commitment other categories there are eight windocument and have already made ​​the internal public, we took an important to sustainability, we have also inserted ning schools. self diagnosis of socio-environmental step in 2010, with the cycle of leaderthe theme into the management tools. practices. The next step, to be develship training in all operations. The objectives related to the reduction The Embraco Ecology award is disputed oped in 2011 and 2012, is to jointly conin water and energy consumption, for by elementary and early childhood edustruct action plans. (To learn more about This step is very important because example, are part of the company’s cation schools in Joinville, Brazil. In the the actions developed in partnership with they will be the main agents for disindicator panel, and the achievement last edition, there were 45 registered suppliers and customers, see item Value seminating the culture of sustainabilof the goals is directly reflected on the schools. The winners, in addition to the Chain of this report.) ity. The training was conducted with results of various professionals’ perforQuero-Quero1 trophy, also receive finan1 Name of a Brazilian bird. presential workshops, with practical mance assessment. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 19 Against the greenhouse effect Our concern with sustainability also exWhilst investing in energy New refrigerant tends to the care taken to slow down efficiency, we reduce the gases global warming, a result of greenhouse environmental impact of our gas emissions. Our search for solutions we invest in technology to products in its entire life cycle reduce the GHG emissions to this problem focuses on two strateof our products. gies. One of them is to develop products with greater energy efficiency. Indicontributes in reducing the impacts on to a perforation in the refrigeration sysrect emissions of CO2 generated by the the greenhouse effect, as it reduces the tems’ line, for example, a ton of R134 energy production needed to operate amount of gas used in the equipment. causes a damage equivalent to 1,300 any cooling equipment represent 80% tons of CO2. of the sector’s total impact on global In addition, we have a production line of warming, according to the TEWI index EK compressors, which use CO2 as its reThe demand for a CO2 based refrigera(Total Equivalent Warming Impact). frigerant gas. It may seem paradoxical, tor was indicated by Coca-Cola, our partTherefore, the less energy consumed, since CO2 is considered one of the main ner in the project’s beginning, when the the better it will be for the environment. “villains” of global warming. But it is compressors were used in the Beijing necessary to understand that this gas is 2008 Olympics. This kind of change reThe other strategy is to reduce the diused as a standard impact measure on quires time and adjustment of the marrect impact of the gases used, and we the greenhouse effect because it is one ket itself, but we are looking to advance are investing in cutting-edge research of the most present in the atmosphere, this trend. to develop equipment that operates but its potential effect can be more than with gases of less greenhouse effect a thousand times smaller than that of potential. Natural refrigerants, such as conventional refrigerants such as R134. propane, are increasingly used in comIn the case of fugitive emissions, when Innovation and technology mercial and air conditioning systems. there is the occasional release of fluid Our manufacturing technology for refrigerants into the atmosphere during can contribute to slow down compressors, lubricating oil free, also the replacement of a component or due climate change Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 20 Innovation and Innovation Energy Efficiency is in our day to day life The commitment to innovation defines Our compressors are among the best who we are, how we face the day-to-day in the world, and year after year we challenges and how we build opportuare moving forward in a cycle of connities. Formally speaking, it means the tinuous improvement, developing new systematic investment in research and technologies and anticipating dedevelopment (3% of annual net sales) mands to offer solutions that are each and in the team of professionals deditime more efficient and reliable for the cated to the subject (450 in total). needs of customers in each of the markets where we operate. But our focus on the future is not restricted to one area or one process. It In 2010, we applied Embraco’s VCC is integrated into our business culture, variable capacity technology in comwith visible results in the quality and mercial refrigeration equipment (resuitability of our products and producfrigerated counters, refrigerators used tion processes and in the awards won. in supermarkets) already used in the (Refer to page 11.) Approximately 70% domestic segment. of company revenues in 2010 were generated by new products launched from In this case, the machine remains on 2007 to 2010. During this period, we and adjusts itself to operate according filed 97 patents (25 in 2010 alone) in to the cooling demand, maintaining the major markets worldwide, shaping the temperature constant. By avoiding the portfolio of coming years. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 21 Constant evolution on and off of conventional compresequipment sold annually. In Embraco, Maintaining our products’ performance pressors is more efficient than the previsors, variable speed technology results its production has been reinforced. excellence is a dynamic process and ous one. Equipment launched in 2010 in a 35% energy savings with the same In China, we expanded from 400,000 to requires continuous improvement. We consumes 17.34% less energy than the cooling capacity. 800,000 annual production capacity of want to improve always, and nothing three previous generations, launched in this type of equipment in 2010, and in is left out of this quest, even products 2003, and the evolution process continEmbraco VCC equips the world’s most May 2011 we will reach 1.6 million. In that already stand out with the best reues. In 2011, we have already launched efficient refrigerators. In the most deBrazil the production line adaptations sults. In the VEM compressor line, for a new generation, reducing consumpmanding markets such as Japan, for will raise annual production capacity of example, each new generation of comtion by 4% compared to 2010. example, it represents up to 40% of all 1.6 million to 2.4 million still in 2011. 4% New technology 4% In partnership with the New Zeaand reduce the risk of contamination 2.11 land company Fisher & Paykel and in product disposal. For customers, 7% the Whirlpool Corporation, Embraco the main direct advantage is the ap2.03 launched a new technology in 2010 plication flexibility: the compressor EFFICIENCY w/w with the Linear Oil Free compressor. can be used in any position inside the 1.96 6% In addition to combining the most efequipment. ficient option in terms of energy consumption (variable speed technology) The Linear Oil Free underwent tests 1.83 with a linear and lean design, which in customers in 2010 and in 2011 is multiplies the application possibilialready being manufactured in a pilot 1.73 ties, the product also eliminates the production line installed in Embraco use of lubricating oil for its operation. Brazil. In total, the project involved the filing of 82 patents. To reach the Vem For the environment the new technolproduction stage has been the result Vemy VemZ VemX VemC DS ogy makes it possible to save non-reof five years of research and an investnewable resources in manufacturing ment of US$ 20 million. 2003 2006 2008 2010 2011 Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 22 We have built knowledge Portable cold partnering with universities in Can you imagine a portable compressor, We started imagining, believing, and The microcompressor has the potential different parts of the world the size of a permanent marker, able to for six years of work we invested time, to revolutionize diverse segments of the maintain a comfortable temperature staff and resources to make the microcooling market and offer an option that Partnership work inside the uniforms of those working in compressor project, a reality. The first is more practical, easy to use and with We innovate very much, but not alone. In extreme conditions such as firefighters, samples went into tests in customers at better results. The new equipment is order to develop high energy efficiency, miners or military? Or cooling electronic the end of 2010, and the pilot productwo to three times more efficient (consustainable products which meet needs devices that do not permit the use of tion line begins operating in the second sumes less energy for the same thermal and expectations we maintain partnerfans? We can. half of 2011. result) than the thermoelectric technolships with universities in several counogy, currently used in most applications tries, in projects that mobilize hundreds intended for the microcompressor. of people in knowledge production and sharing. The Federal University of Santa Catarina has a special role in this joint construction, with the POLO Laboratory, The product from the same university, dedicated to refrigeration and concentrates many of the development initiatives. Two versions: Uses battery: portable 2  .7cm diameter X 11 cm (the size O  il free: application flexibility, reThe union between academia and Emof a permanent marker) and duced consumption of a non-rebraco is also reflected in the labor mar .0 cm diameter X 14 cm long 5 newable material, reduced enviket, with benefits for both parties. About (smaller than a can of soda) ronmental impacts at the end of 40% of the professionals working in the useful life. company’s ​​Research & Development Applications: personal cooling, ele­ ctronics, medical equipment, au­ (R&D) area had their potential identified tomotive areas while carrying out projects together with universities. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 23 VALUE CHAIN Engaged suppliers Exercising our role as leaders, we want We also began mapping our partners’ to encourage other agents of the procompliance level to various socio-enviduction chain where we operate and ronmental parameters. Each company stimulate them to adopt sustainability was invited to complete a questionnaire initiatives. This is a work that must be about labor practices, respect to human built step by step, based on partnerrights and environmental management, ship and joint construction. In 2010, we among other topics. The self-assesscompleted the distribution of codes of ment was answered by 85% of suppliers conduct to all direct material suppliers in Asia and 95% of those based in Eu(those used in the final product). Among rope and the Americas. With this study the suppliers located in the Americas, in hand, we can help them construct the compliance rate was 85%, in Europe improvement plans, and the critical sup94% and reached 95% in Asia. In the enpliers will have periodic monitoring to tire network, compliance was 92%. assess progress. 92% of our direct material Since 2008, the certification of new supsuppliers have formally joined pliers, which already covered the assessour code of conduct ment of quality control and processes, Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 24 No waste Reused materials – 2010 began to include issues related to suscommitted to our common goals. An With the Top Green program, we reduce Copper Wire tainability, such as managing hazardous example was the Supplier Sustainabilthe generation of waste and promote 360 tons Cast Iron substances and the proper training of ity Award, sponsored by Embraco China recycling of raw materials such as steel, 696 tons employees. In 2012, the plan is to include 2010. A multidisciplinary team from copper, iron and aluminum. The program the same criteria for periodic audits. In the company analyzed documents and encourages refrigeration technicians to Oil this way, we want to make it clear to all evidence from 10 companies with the collect used compressors and deliver 116 liters partners how much the commitment to highest scores in the self-assessment them to shops accredited by Embraco. Aluminium sustainability drives our business. and the winner was the company RoParticipation in the initiative earns dis53 tons show Technology Co. Ltd. counts on new compressors. For the Encouragement and recognition company, it means an increase in the Steel Sheets In annual meetings with suppliers, when supply of raw materials, and for the en2,592 tons we assess improvements and business vironment, it means keeping non-renewopportunities, the commitment to susable materials in the production cycle. Total: 389,486 compressors tainability is always part of the discussion and motivates the exchange of In 2010, Top Green assured the reuse experiences. In 2010, the theme also inof materials from 389,486 compresspired the holding of a special meeting sors. The steel and cast iron are recycled in Brazil, with lectures and workshops on directly in the foundry and copper and sustainability in the supply chain. aluminum are sold to suppliers and reprocessed. Nothing remains. We further seek to value the initiatives of partners who are more engaged and The compressors’ lubricant oil is also recycled. In 2010, there were 116 liters. In We encourage our partners addition to reducing waste the program prevents the risk of improper disposal of in adopting good social and the compressors. environmental practices Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 25 Social investment People first and community We work to improve the efficiency of tives. We have made the difference in all our products to increase the company’s countries where we operate. revenues and to be recognized by the global market, but we also work (and a One example is the project “Prove – lot) to improve people’s lives, especially, A Different Day” held in the community those that live in the communities near of Paranaguamirim in Joinville, Brazil, our six plants. which has one of the worst Human Development Index (HDI) of the city. About We have a global social policy that is al70 employees and family members ways being revitalized. The 2010 target worked for days in the location, along was to increase by 10% the number of with members of nongovernmental orbeneficiaries. We achieved the target ganizations, schools and neighborhood and surpassed it with ease. More than residents’ association. 25,000 people have been impacted by Embraco’s social investment actions In 2010, our social investment in Brazil, Italy, Slovakia, China and the initiatives and volunteering United States. programs have benefited more We mobilized our employees for more than 25,000 people, making a than 2,000 hours of voluntary initiadifference in the community Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 26 Together, we created a community vegthe region’s landfill. There, they collectIn the United States, we etable garden, where once stood a vaed samples of small animals to examine organized a task force to cant lot, we cleaned some streets that the level of contamination and measure clean streets and sidewalks used to be a place to discard trash, and the damage that the waste can cause we reformed the neighborhood school. to the environment, in the school’s laboIn the school, the participants painted ratory. The proposal drew so much atthe walls, made the recreational space tention that a Slovak television station more beautiful and tidied up the chilbroadcasted ​​a report on the project. Cleaning streets dren’s playground. In the factory in the United States we Supporting local art put into practice the Adopt a Road projEmbraco Ecology Award Our presence in the community exect, which promotes the cleaning of has boosted the awareness tends to encourage artistic expression. streets and removal of trash and debris In Joinville, in Brazil, we supported the from sidewalks. There were four colinitiatives regarding waste publication of an illustrated book, broadlective cleanup actions throughout the in a school in Slovakia casting of a radio program on jazz and year, held every Saturday in Suwanee, dance performances. where Embraco is located. The work is More Energy Waste management quick, but intense. In less than one hour, for our Health The Povýšenia sv. Kríža, Smižany school Seven cultural projects approved by the the volunteers collected about 400 liters won the 2010 edition of Embraco SloCultural Foundation of Joinville, Brazil, of trash, especially fast food packaging. 69 refrigerators distributed in Brazil, vakia Ecology Award with a project to received benefits through the Municipal Slovakia and China raise awareness about waste and to Patronage Law – a fiscal incentive from Energy efficiency to the community implement internal management syscity hall. The More Energy for Our Health project tems. Teachers and students involved delivered 69 refrigerators to hospitals the waste generation theme in different We also renewed the partnership with in Brazil and Slovakia and to schools in disciplines such as science, mathematthe Bolshoi Theatre School, through China. The objective of this initiative is ics and Slovak. The importance of sepathe Rouanet Law. Close to 90% of more to reduce the entities’ electric bill and rating materials even inspired the crethan 200 students receive full scholarimprove the preservation of vaccines, ation of a poem. In one of the activities ships, as well as uniforms, transportafood and other products that require outside the classroom, students went to tion, food and medical care. quality refrigeration. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 27 Embraco goes to the hospital For seven months, volunteers from EmOne team, for example, chose to act through Embraco volunteers who are braco Brazil worked together to improve in the bidding process for supplies and specialists in different subjects. Volunteers from the management of the São José Mumedicines. Volunteers estimate that Embraco Brazil nicipal Hospital, in Joinville, in southern the time spent on the bidding process Under the program, the content of acteach workers from Brazil. About 60 employees devoted, could fall from 120 to 67 days, thanks tivities is jointly created between the a local hospital how to each one, more than 30 hours to disto the knowledge transfer on the use school and volunteers and the activities fight fire using the cover and develop management pracof Embraco’s kaizen tool, which aims to are carried out during class time. correct equipments tices to improve the entity’s service to streamline the work. the population. The initiative was a volIn China, our volunteer program called untary action designed to involve the Volunteers also applied a new methodWarm Hands, in 2010, gathered 61 volcompany’s leadership. ology for inventory management, which unteers, totaling 491 hours of work. In improves control of receiving and disone of the institutions in which we operAmong the volunteers were professionpatching materials. The methodology ate, Sun Village, volunteers tutored, told als specialized in various areas such as was applied in the hospital’s pharmacy stories to students, helped teachers and health, safety and quality coordinatand in the storeroom following the same cared for children whose parents are in ing actions on six workstreams: Invenprocess used by Embraco. prison. In total, 980 people were bentory Management, Quality Management, efited from the project. Waste Management, Fire Brigade, 5S Italy and China Program and Kaizen Processes. Volunteers also worked with great motivation in Italy and China. In Italy, the My Ecological School project counted on six volunteers who, for three months, Our volunteers are mobilized provided support to over 60 students from the Scuola Media Quarini di Anin all of the countries where dezeno. The project’s idea is to bring enwe are present vironmental education to a city school Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 28 Internal Public Global company From early on, our history has been We are building a broad concept of dimarked by the ability to break barriversity which aims to recreate in our ers and expand our boundaries. We offices and corridors the cultural diverbegan expanding our market, with exsity that exists in the world. We want ports starting in the 70s. In the 80s we to deepen the internationalization of brought down the technological barrier careers. This means taking Chinese to and in the 90s, driven by the market’s Brazil, Brazilians to Italy, Italians to Slochallenges and opportunities, we began vakia ... In this way, the global culture will constructing a global company. be much closer to our employees and will help us understand the world’s other The search for growth opportunities, stracultures and demands. tegic location, technology, professionals or raw materials led us to different parts We strive to create internally a diverse of the world. We have units in six counwork environment, which values ​​and tries and sell to 80 countries. In today’s develops the different potentials, in a Embraco, there is much of Brazil, China, strategy that matures and consolidates Italy, Slovakia, Mexico and the United day-to-day in the company. In 2010, for States and of the different ways to see the first time, we now have a local emthe world in each one of these countries. ployee in the factory’s highest position. We want to ensure that this cultural richIt is in Slovakia, where Norbert Brath asness helps us build the Embraco of the sumed the directorship. (See his interview future, and this goal is reflected in our on next page.) people management strategies. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 29 A Slovak director Norbert Brath is a mechanical engipy with this opportunity and I will give What are your main goals? neer, born in 1977, in Nitra, in westmy best to meet expectations. I count ern Slovakia. Since joining Embraco in on a very strong management team. The main objectives for Embraco Slo2000, he has built a solid career and We’re going to support each other and vakia in the coming years are to comhas invested in growth opportunities. continue to grow as a team. plete our vision of being a model comHe was Production Planner, Quality pany in all aspects of the business in Leader and R&D Manager, and in 2010 What are the main challenges in your which we operate. We need to deliver became the first career professional of position? values to all stakeholders, produce a factory to take over the directorship. products of impeccable quality, imThe main challenge is dealing with prove the level of our services to conNorbert Brath is part How does it feel being the first career people of different languages ​​and culsumers and continue to develop the of Embraco’s team since professional of a unit to take on the tures. About this it is great that Emcompetencies of our internal public. 2000 and, in 2010, became directorship of a factory in Embraco? braco is implementing a rotation sysWe will continue to grow our cooperathe director of Embraco tem among the plants. For example: tion with the community in the field Slovakia Embraco is a global company that oftoday our R&D Manager, in Spisska, is of sustainability and corporate social fers opportunities to all employees, Brazilian. Last year we had a logistics responsibility. no matter the nationality. We have colleague who was from the United many examples of this. We have an States. I had the opportunity to work Italian colleague leading logistics for six months in Brazil, understandprocesses and the Embraco Mexico ing the culture, people, processes, and project counts on the participation of learning the language. people from other plants. A strong point of Embraco is the inIt is a great honor for me and at the vestment in people’s potential. There same time I feel an immense responis always someone who can help consibility to manage a unit with more tribute, and everyone has the opporthan 2,000 employees. I am very haptunity to develop and to grow. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 30 Future talents The Trainee Program, which captures 2011. After the internship, if the profesIn 2010, we conducted audits of the young professionals with high potential sional complies with the requirements Global Standards of Health, Safety and from the market, was revamped in 2010, needed and shows to be a talent for the Environment in the Brazil and China with the increase of training hours and organization, we may invite him/her to units and began the implementation inclusion of international development stay in the company, whether in their of the Hazardous Energy Identification opportunities. home country or in any of our units. and Block program. We also started the With focus on continuous global BBS program (Behavior Based improvements, we have begun To the participants who best perform Health and Safety Safety). In the first step, we performed a global project of behavior their functions during the program, we Our employees’ health and safety is a a diagnosis of all units to identify the based safety are offering an opportunity to lead the priority, and in 2010, several operations strengths and opportunities for imcompany’s projects in other plants. This surpassed the mark of 2 million hours provement in behavior on safety issues. means a rapid and excellent chance to worked without accidents with days start their global careers. away (see table). In 2010, we also entered into a partnerOur factories have OHSAS 18001 certiship with a well-known international enfication, the main international standard Hours worked without accidents with time away1 tity, AIESEC, a non-profit institution presfor occupational health and safety manent in over 100 countries that promotes agement and year after year we seek Slovakia 2,000,605 professional exchange of students and to improve our internal procedures. The China 2,016,150 young professionals. theme is present in the team trainings, starting in the training carried out in EECON 2,653,252 Embraco China has already received two the integration of new employees, and young Brazilians. Embraco Brazil hosts is reinforced in periodic campaigns for Brazil (Joinville – compressors) 2,672,543 an Italian in Human Resources and a awareness and engagement. Brazil (Itaiópolis – compressors) 5,960,375 Chinese will start her activities in communication beginning in September 1 Totals registered in 2010. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 31 Valuing and recognition Our variable salary programs Our Profit Sharing Program (PPR), which value the efforts of everyone rewards performance against pre-estabin achieving our objectives lished goals, was perfected in 2010 to and goals become even more attractive and adjusted to the specificities of the different teams. The idea was to align it with Multiplying opportunities the market and to value those who perThroughout the year, we held three form in accordance with the company’s meetings of the Gender Forum in Brazil. culture and pillars. We also created a In these meetings, we discussed issues bonus program for the corporate area. about the differences between men This brought the managers even closand women. The idea was to deepen er to the company’s global goals and the knowledge of the characteristics of deepened their commitment to achieveach one, from the way of thinking to ing results. Thus, the objectives became the health and emotional differences of clearer, increasing the efficiency of our each one. efforts to reach the best final result. A good place to work We also promoted meetings for women In Slovakia, we participated in a study areas of people, work, compensation To further clarify the responsibility of only. Baptized as Roundtable for Women organized in 2010 by the consulting and benefits and quality of life. each one in the company’s results, the Leaders, the dialogues were attended by firm Hewitt Associates to assess the leadership promoted periodical conver20 people. This time was very useful for climate of companies in all European Embraco’s unit was one of the top 10 sations with the teams and discussed them, since the majority of the employCommunity countries, with 43 just in companies surveyed in Slovakia, and the application of global goals in the ees are men. With the roundtables, the Slovakia. The survey was focused on ranked second among large compawork routine. women took the opportunity to debate employee engagement and the level nies. From the results of the survey, this issue openly, commenting on their of satisfaction with people managewe identified opportunities for imperceptions, limitations, and detecting ment practices. The consultancy anaprovement and we have already beopportunities for improvement. lyzed the employee satisfaction in the gun an action plan. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 32 MATERIALITY STRUCTURED PROCESS Since 2005, when we adopted the GlobThe definition of material issues al Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodolofocuses on management and gy (to learn more about this metodology communication of sustainability and its application on this report, refer to page 36) as a base for developing our sustainability report, we have sought to To construct the materiality matrix we improve the publication every year, focounted on the support of an outside cusing on the quality of the indicators consultant, who based the work on two and in establishing a historical series of guidelines. The first is the AA1000 staninformation that allows the reader to dard – Accountability Principles Stanobjectively evaluate our trajectory. As dard 2008, which focuses on consultapart of this pursuit for constant improvetion and engagement of stakeholders ment, we conducted this year, for the and was developed by AccountAbility, a first time, a structured process to define British non-governmental organization those material themes for our business specialized in these themes. The other when it comes to sustainability. reference was the GRI methodology Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 33 The materiality matrix expresses 3.00 the company’s vision, sector drives and stakeholders’ opinion itself, which in addition to guidance on Eco-efficiency the construction process, also provides guidance on the use of the result of External axis (society) Sustainable energy solutions materiality in the sustainability report. 2.00 Respect and valuing diversity As component elements of the matrix, we have used: national and internaEthics in business tional studies, our principles, internal codes and strategic plans and consulPeople development and training tations with specialists and two of our Minimize environmental impact key stakeholder groups, employees and 1.00 the community. (See the complete list on Health and Safety page 35.) Product quality and customer satisfaction indexes Results Through the process, we defined the 10 Development of products with lower environmental impact key themes for Embraco, available in the matrix aside. Recycling 1.00 2.00 3.00 Internal axis (Company) Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 34 “The issues raised by the Application consulted stakeholders are The process of defining materiality was These themes will be deepened by the aligned with our sustainability conducted in parallel with the prepacompany’s leadership globally so that ration of the report, without affecting we plan and implement concrete acvision and will be considered for the previous selection of GRI indicators tions with a focus on each of them. the definition of our strategy.” that would be reported, which is based “We believe this first on our historical reporting. However, in the final stages of publication, the consultation is an important themes defined guided the selection MATERIAL THEME PAGES milestone for the company and and editing of the content and we seek we understand that the process Eco-efficiency 17, 20 and 21 to give consistent responses to each of should be deepened in the coming them (see table). Sustainable energy solutions 20 and 21 years in order to strengthen the relationship with our publics In addition to giving focus to sustainabilRespect and valuing diversity 28, 31 and 54 ity reporting, the definition of materiality and improve the incorporation Ethics in business 10 will serve to improve the management of society’s demands into our of the theme in the company. Based on People development and training 30 and 53 business.” the results, our four vice-presidents considered priorities five of the themes. They Minimize environmental impact 16, 17 and 19-21 Lainor Driessen are: eco-efficiency and minimizing the Vice PRESIDENT OF Operations, Health and Safety 30 and 57 environmental impact of operations; Management and Sustainability products with lower environmental Product quality and customer satisfaction indexes 4, 20 and 57 impact and high energy efficiency; respect and valuing diversity; quality of Development of products with lower environmental impact 20-22 products and services and customer Recycling 24 satisfaction; and health and safety. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 35 Matrix components Studies and publications Development with Less Carbon – A  nalysis of internal documents that deThe decision to consider the internal pubIn the process’ first stage, the analysis Latin America Answers to the Chalpict the company’s formal commitment lic in the external axis of the matrix aimed of studies on sustainability in the supply lenge of Climate Changes publication to sustainability: Letter of Organizationto identify their opinion as individuals, chain has enabled us to define the 37 developed by the World Bank in 2009, al Values​​, Code of Ethics, Embraco Leadwith their own and independent opinions themes with the greatest potential imwhich demonstrates the impact of huership Agenda 2011, Embraco Supplier of the organization. pact on our business. Organized in the enman activity to climate changes and Code of Conduct, Information Disclosure vironment, community, employees, supalternatives for building an economy Policy and Social Responsibility ManageInterviews with specialists: to give an pliers, customers, business management with less environmental impact. ment Manual. Weight: 50% in-depth and technical view about Emand government macro-issues, this list braco’s challenges related to sustainserved as the base for the evaluation of  AM Sustainability Yearbook: publicaS External axis able development, four specialists were all information sources used in the matrix. tion launched in 2011 with sustainabilComposed of three elements with differconsulted on issues of product life cycle, ity practices and cases in 58 sectors. ent weights: sustainable retailing and role in the comSupply Chain Sustainability: focused The material was produced by Sustainmunity. Weight: 25%. on the impact of a companies’ supability Asset Management (SAM), the  urvey with employees: counted on the S ply chain for sustainable development, investment group focused exclusively participation of 70 professionals from Interviews with community representashowing the main critical issues and on sustainable investment. the company in Brazil, China, Slovakia, tives: our company has a strong connecsuggestions for action. The material the United States and Italy. Weight: tion with the community, due to the numwas developed by the Global Compact, Internal Axis 50%. We seek a balanced blend of ber of employees, economic impact in the a United Nations agency for compaTwo elements, with equivalent weights employees from administrative and region and relationship. In order to present nies that are committed to social rein the composition of the matrix: production areas, and this criterion ditheir views on the company’s operation, sponsibility practices and by the BSR, rected invitations for participation and we consulted representatives of three oran organization that brings together Interview with our President, João Carthe form to present questionnaires (in ganizations: United Nations Development over 250 companies worldwide to delos Brega, focused on the company’s an online and printed version, to enProgramme (UNDP), Department of Social velop business strategies for sustainstrategy and plans. Weight: 50%. sure participation of areas that do not Welfare in Joinville (Santa Catarina, Brazil) ability. It was released in 2010. have computers). and Department of Education of Joinville (Santa Catarina, Brazil). Weight: 25%. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Supply Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 36 Methodology GRI Application Levels The publication followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines, C C+ B B+ A A+ the leading global benchmark in sustainability reporting. According to our G3 Profile Respond to items: Respond to all criteria listed Same as requirement for self-assessment of Embraco, the report 1.1, for Level C plus: Level B reached an application level B of the 2.1 to 2.10, 1.2, guidelines, with complete or partial re3.1 to 3.8, 3.9, 3.13, sponse to 24 core performance indica3.10 to 3.12; 4.5 to 4.13, tors and 3 additional performance indi4.1 to 4.4, 4.16 and 4.17. cators. (See next page.) 4.14 and 4.15. With External Verification With External Verification With External Verification The definition of the publication’s conG3 Not required. Information on the Management Approach Report content tent was guided by a materiality process management Management Approach for disclosed for each indicator conducted by an external consultancy. approach each indicator category category. (More information on pages 32 to 35.) G3 Performance Respond to a minimum Respond to a minimum of Respond to each core G3 Indicators & of 10 performance 20 performance Indicators, and Sector Supplement Sector Supplement Indicators, including at including at least one of Indicator (whenever there Performance Indicators least one of each of the each of the following areas: is a final approved version) following performance economic, environmental, with due regard to the areas: social, economic and human rights, labor pracmateriality principle of one environmental. tices, society and product of the following forms: (a) responsibility. responding to the indicator or (b) explaining the reason for the omission. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 37 GRI Content Complete Parcial GRI Items Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO or president-director about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. Refer to pages 3 and 4. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Refer to pages 3 and 4. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. The organization’s name is Whirlpool SA, and Embraco is how we are known in the market. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Refer to page 6. 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating units, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Refer to page 6. 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters. Joinville, in Santa Catarina (Brazil). 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to sustainability. Refer to page 6. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Refer to page 5. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). Refer to page 6. 2.8 The company’s size (number of employees, net sales, total capitalization, total assets). Data on the total number of employees are on page 50. As we are a business unit of Whirlpool LAR, our financial information is not disclosed separately. To know the consolidated data of Whirlpool Latin America, see the electronic address http://www.whirlpool.com.br/investidor.aspx. 2.9 Major decisions during the reporting period regarding location or changes in operations, including opening, closing and expansion of operational units. Refer to pages 3, 4 and 6. 2.10 Awards received. Refer to page 11. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 38 Complete Report Parameters Report Profile Parcial 3.1 Reporting period covered by the report. We seek to focus the report in the period from January 1 to December 31, 2010, especially with regard to the GRI performance indicators. However, in some sections of the text, to give greater context to information, allow a broader analysis of the trajectory or to add data in relation to goals and future projections, we do not follow this temporal parameter. All cases in which this occurs are easily identified, and the time period to which the information relates is clearly specified. 3.2 Date of the previous report. 2009. 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Refer to page 61. Report Scope 3.5 Process for defining report content, including the process for determining materiality and prioritization of issues within the report and identifying the stakeholders that the organization expects to use the report. Refer to pages 32-35. 3.6 Boundary of the report (countries/regions, divisions/facilities, joint ventures/subsidiaries). We included all Embraco units which were in operation in 2010, during the reporting period. In order to know what these units were, see page 6. 3.7 Statement of any specific limitations on the scope of the report. In response to all indicators, we seek to follow the defined scope for the report, consolidating the data by country to allow a more detailed analysis. However, many of the information relating to performance indicators are more relevant in the manufacturing units and, therefore, our monitoring systems do not cover commercial operations in the United States and Mexico. For being very small units, with 63 and 6 employees, respectively, we believe that the absence of the information does not compromise the accuracy of the account. Furthermore, we present specific data on these units where it was possible to collect the information. 3.8 Basis for report elaboration relative to joint ventures, non-integral subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other situations that can significantly affect comparability between periods or between reporting organizations. As stated in items 3.6 and 3.7, whenever possible, the indicators cover all the operations, not having, therefore, the risk of affecting comparability. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. The responses to the performance indicators follow the GRI protocols with respect to data measurement techniques and compilation, and are based on our internal monitoring systems. The cases in which the values ​​come from estimates are indicated in the text. 3.10 Explanation of the nature and consequences of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports and the reasons for such restatement There was no restatement of data, but the Report 2010 corrects misinformation that had been disclosed in the 2009 publication in relation to company performance on indicators EN8 (page 45) and LA13 (page 54). 3.11 Significant changes compared to previous reporting periods in regards to scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Although there has been no change in basis of calculation, measurement techniques and scope adopted, the report reflects the increase in business registered by the company in 2010. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 39 Complete GRI Summary 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report. Parcial Refer to pages 37-57. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking independent verification for the report. If not included in the opinion accompanying the report, explain the scope and basis of any external verification provided, as well as the nature of relationship with the auditor. The information disclosed did not have an audit Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Refer to page 8. 4.2 Indicate whether CEO or the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, in which function and the reasons for this arrangement). Refer to page 8. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent or non-executive members. There are no independent or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Whirlpool SA, which includes Embraco`s operation, holds annual meeting with shareholders and offers on its website, a telephone channel and an e-mail address to receive recommendations.  For more information, visit http://www.whirlpool.com.br/investidor.aspx On Embraco`s day to day, employees submit suggestions via the ombudsman, the Open Channel. In order to inform staff and stimulate them to be part of strategic business decisions, we conducted a large annual meeting (Leadership Meeting), which brings together at the company`s headquarters the leaders of the operating units worldwide. In addition, each area of the ​​ company carries out alignment meetings with varying frequency. In the Procurement area ,​​ for example, meetings are annual, and in Communications, biennial. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the high management body, senior managers, and executives (including departure/decision arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). The variable remuneration systems, described on page 31, are focused, especially, on economic targets, ensuring coherence between the evolution of the company’s performance and leadership compensation. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Refer to page 10. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for defining the organization’s strategy, including issues related to economic,environmental, and social performance. Refer to pages 8 and 9. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 40 Complete 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission and values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance, as well as the status of their implementation. Parcial Refer to page 10. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including identifying and managing relevant risks and opportunities, as well as adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. Refer to pages 8 and 9. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, especially with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Refer to pages 8 and 9. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is used by the organization. We do not fully adopt the precautionary principle, but we seek to act with environmental responsibility by eliminating from the products and processes substances proven harmful to the environment. Commitments to external initiatives 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, sets of principles, or other voluntary initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Since 2004, Embraco is a signatory to the Global Compact, a movement led by the United Nations (UN), which promotes social inclusion, environmental sustainability and reducing inequality. In 2008, Embraco Slovakia also adhered to the initiative. 4.13 Significant participation in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations. Among the main entities in which we participate, we can mention: CAP – São Francisco do Sul Port Authority ABINEE – Brazilian Electrical and Electronic Industry Association CEACEX – State Council for Foreign Trade Advancement ANPEI – National Research, Development and Engineering Association of Innovation CEAJ – Joinville Architect and Engineer Center Companies CEBC – Brazil-China Business Council CNI/CEB – National Confederation of Industry / Brazilian Business Coalition CIESC – Center of Industries of the State of Santa Catarina ELETROS – National Association of Manufacturers of Electro-electronic Products CELESC – Electricity Utility Company of Santa Catarina CERTI Foundation – Center of Reference in Innovative Technologies Among the main entities in which we participate or with which they interact, we can Joinville – Spisská Nová Vês Sister City Committee mention: Honorary Consulate of the Slovak Republic in the South of Brazil ABA – Brazilian Association of Advertisers Itaiópolis Volunteer Fire Brigade ABERJE – Brazilian Business Communication Association FIESC – Federation of Industries of the State of Santa Catarina ABIFA – Brazilian Foundry Association Forum of Business Leaders ABRAVA – Brazilian Refrigeration, Air Conditioning, Ventilation and Heating Association Forum of Social Leaders ABRH – Brazilian Human Resources Association MCE – Santa Catarina Movement for Excellence ACII – Itaiópolis Commercial and Industrial Association SINDITHERME Employers’ Federation ACIJ – Joinville Corporate Association SINTIMESC – Inter-municipal Union of Workers in Metallurgical, Mechanical, and AEB – Brazilian Foreign Trade Association Electrical Material Industries of Santa Catarina ALAINEE – Latin American Electrical and Electronic Industrial Association Joinville Volunteer Fire Brigade APSSOJ – Occupational Health and Security Professionals Association of Joinville and Sociesc – Santa Catarina Educational Society Surrounding Areas SECESU / SC – Informatics and Telecommunications Users Society Brazil-México Chamber of Industry, Commerce and Tourism Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 41 Complete Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Parcial Our main stakeholders are customers, suppliers, employees and communities surrounding our operations. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders to be engaged. The strategic importance to our business is the main criterion for defining priority publics to be engaged. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder groups. The approaches and the main dialogue channels with our stakeholders are described on pages 23 (focus on suppliers), 25-27 (community), 28-31 (employees) and 57 (customers). 4.17 Main issues and concerns that were raised through stakeholder engagement and what measures the organization has adopted to address these issues and concerns Refer to pages 33 and 34. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Management Approach Refer to pages 5, 23 and 31. Economic Performance EC3 Coverage  of the defined benefit pension plan obligations that the company offers. Our pension plans vary according to and are adapted to the different market characteristics of the countries where we operate. In Brazil, for example, there is the Open Benefit Generating Plan (PGBL), with participation voluntary and open to all positions. Embraco contributes with values ranging ​​ from 1% to 5.5% of the employee`s gross monthly salary according to the salary range. The employee contribution follows a progressive scale linked to age: the minimum represents half the amount paid by Embraco, and the maximum, double. The investment focuses on fixed-income holdings, and based on market projections, we estimate a rate of return of 11.30%. The plan covers the normal retirement (at 60 years old), early (at 55 years) and by disability, in addition to death benefits, payable to the spouse and children. There are two types of pension. One is managed by a committee of employee representatives (nationwide), with a minimum employee contribution equivalent to 6.91% of gross salary and a company contribution of 1.20%. The other is based on private pension funds, for which only the employee contributes (with 6.91% of gross salary). The pension plan adopted in China follows the local laws, with monthly contributions made by the company and the employee to the Social Security Office of the Government. The rate paid by the employee corresponds to 8% of the salary, and that paid by the company is 20%. The pension plan is also a legal requirement in Italy, and the contributions of the company and employees vary according to the position held. For the directors, Embraco contributes with 27.81% of the salary while the employee pays 13.19%. In managerial and administrative positions, the company contributes with 25.01%, and the employees, with 10.39%. We do not offer a pension plan in Slovakia, and what was offered in the sales office located in Mexico was terminated in 2010 due to the installation of a new plant in the country. Amounts invested in 2010 (US$) Brazil China Slovakia United States Italy Mexico Total Embraco 1,997,765 4,097,678 0 65,862 5,185,606 0 11,346,911 Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 42 Complete Market Presence EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community in important operational units. Parcial We do not have local recruitment policies. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. In partnership with the inspection agency of Joinville (SC), we installed a traffic light for pedestrians at the corner of the company contributing to the safety of all who cross the street. With a specific focus on our internal team, we conducted an awareness campaign about the importance of traffic signs. In both initiatives, the investment reached approximately US$ 10,000. Also in Joinville, we have invested US$ 7,500 in the Flower Joinville Project, sponsored by the municipal government to stimulate companies to adopt green areas and assume the costs of maintenance. We have adopted a square and a public garden in the city. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Management Approach Refer to pages 17, 19 and 24. Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Materials used (t) 401.0 354.6 341.8 312.3 285.7 4.2% 2.8% 2.9% 2.5% 2.6% Renewable materials Note 1 Considers the main materials used in the manufacturing processes steel, copper, aluminum and casted and the wood packaging used for transporting products. Note 2 Data through 2009 only consider the operations in Brazil. Those concerning 2010 include all Embraco plants in the world (Brazil, China, Italy and Slovakia), and reflect the increase in production recorded in the year. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 43 Complete Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary energy source. Parcial EN4 Indirect energy consumption broken down by primary energy source. Driven by increased production (28%), the total direct energy consumption in 2010 grew by 21% compared to the previous year, but the consumption per compressor produced fell by 5%. In the consumption profile, the major changes with respect to 2009 were the reduction in the use of propane, the increased consumption of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and the elimination of kerosene from the company`s energy matrix (see table). Natural gas continues to be the main source of direct energy in all operations and the only one used in factories. Indirect energy consumption is concentrated in the purchase of electric energy, and reflecting the increased production, grew by 17% in absolute terms in relation to 2009, with significant differences among the various units. The foundry, located in Brazil, had the highest increase (25%), and Embraco Italy, the lowest (9%). Despite the increase in absolute consumption, the relative consumption (indirect energy/compressor produced) fell 9.1% in the global operation. For 2011, the target is to further increase production eco-efficiency: we want to reduce consumption by 10% per compressor produced, considering the main energy sources used, natural gas and electricity. The projects that will help us achieve this goal are already in progress, and include: identify consumption by equipment, conduct an annual energy audit and establish an improvement plan; optimize the production plan and the use of air compressors, replace low yield motors and improve the HVAC systems. Energy consumption (MJ) Brazil China Slovakia Italy Total Embraco 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Direct Energy Natural gas 175,133,910 224,060,655 64,949,605 69,893,635 83,917,486 108,406,072 64,595,895 67,008,830 388,596,896 469,369,192 Methanol 372,842 411,840 7,603 0 0 0 0 0 380,445 411,840 Propane 3,716,471 3,032,424 0 0 0 0 0 0 3,716,471 3,032,424 Kerosene 0 0 115,232 0 0 0 0 0 115,232 0 LPG 9,099,830 12,978,919 0 0 0 0 0 0 9,099,830 12,978,919 Diesel oil 1,477,594 1,786,200 0 205,442 1,210,519 1,974,861 0 0 2,688,113 3,966,503 Gasoline 77,795 122,706 0 1,115,925 1,377,387 1,170,369 0 0 1,455,182 2,409,000 Total 189,878,442 242,392,744 65,072,440 71,215,002 86,505,392 111,551,302 64,595,895 67,008,830 406,052,169 492,167,878 Indirect Energy Electric energy 568,752,462 666,968,951 91,260,000 107,927,640 98,256,294 119,348,590 51,674,386 51,679,717 809,943,142 945,924,898 Total 568,752,462 666,968,951 91,260,000 107,927,640 98,256,294 119,348,590 51,674,386 51,679,717 809,943,142 945,924,898 TOTAL 758,630,904 909,361,695 156,332,440 179,142,642 184,761,686 230,899,892 116,270,281 118,688,547 1,215,995,311 1,438,092,776 Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 44 Complete It is important to note that the total consumption in Brazil includes, in addition to the compressor factory, located in Joinville(SC), two other units that provide materials for the company`s global operation; a foundry, also in Joinville, and a component factory, in Itaiópolis. The graphs below represent the share of each unit in the consumption. Parcial Direct Energy 91.4% 3.1% 5.5% Indirect Energy 61.0% 2.0% 37.0% Compressors Foundry Components EN5 Energy savings due to improvements in conservation and efficiency. We carried out several projects aimed at energy efficiency in our units, such as the campaign to reduce the consumption of compressed air in the Brazil plant, for example, but there is no exact information on the savings from these initiatives. In China’s case, we were able to quantify the savings in 17,754 GJ in the year as a result of monitoring. A plan focused on increasing eco-efficiency of the factories is in progress and aims to reduce by 10% the electricity and natural gas used in the manufacture of each compressor in 2010. For more information, see the answer of the indicators EN3 and EN4. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 45 Complete Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source (m3). Parcial Through initiatives for the efficient use of water in our operations, the absolute consumption in 2010 grew only 4.44% in comparison with 2009, while global production increased by 28%. This means a reduction of approximately 22% in the use of water per compressor produced, and the goal is to continue reducing the relative consumption by 10% each year until 2012. To learn more about the initiatives on this topic, see the item Production Process (page 17) in this Report. Brazil China Slovakia Italy Total Embraco 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Wells 205,210 264,925 0 0 0 0 125,786 78,062 330,996 342,987 Water supply 98,820 89,586 127,855 136,482 75,209 90,796 15,519 18,675 317,403 335,539 networks TOTAL 304,030 354,511 127,855 136,482 75,209 90,796 141,305 96,737 648,399 678,526 Consumption Brazil – 2010 (m3) Compressors1 233,661 Components 13,043 Foundry1 107,807 Wells Water Supply Networks 1 This corrects and updates the information reported in the Embraco Sustainability Report 2009. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 46 Complete EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled. Only our units located in China, Foundry in Joinville (SC) and the compressor factory in Joinville (SC), reuse water, in percentages ranging from 22% (China) to 55% (compressor Parcial factory in Brazil). In 2010, the use of recycled water fell in the three units, as well as the percentage of recycled water used for consumption in production. In the group of units monitored, the recycling of water represented 28% of consumption in 2010. In 2009, it was 36%. Use of recycled water (m3) 2009 2010 China 35,698 30,026 Compressors (Brazil) 137,323 128,443 Foundry (Brazil) 60,312 34,103 TOTAL 233,333 192,572 Use of recycled water (%) (%) 70% 61% 55% 32% 28% China 22% Compressors (Brazil) Electronic components (Brazil) 2009 2010 Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 47 Complete Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Parcial Following the consumption profiles, the water discharge is higher in the compressor factory located in Brazil. In 2010, 233,590 m³ were discharged, of which 55% for recycling in the effluent treatment process. In all units, we invested in the treatment of waste water, and therefore, the discharge is done mostly at the collection point, according to the following table. Discharge total (m3)1 Brazil China Slovakia Italy Total Embraco 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Discharge to collection point 115,550 136,114 89,243 103,726 0 69,325 134,240 91,900 339,033 401,065 Public Sewer Systems 0 0 0 0 75,209 0 0 0 75,209 0 Evaporation 66,725 45,086 1,279 0 0 0 7,065 4,837 75,069 49,924 Irrigation 0 0 1,662 3,139 0 0 0 0 1,662 3,139 Recycling (from process 121,754 169,410 35,672 29,617 0 0 0 0 157,426 199,027 effluent treatment) TOTAL 304,028 350,610 127,855 136,482 75,209 69,325 141,305 96,737 648,399 653,155 1 Estimate based on water consumption. The following table provides detailed information on the water disposal in the three units located in Brazil, with variations due to differences in the types of business. Discharge in Brazil (m3)1 Compressors Components Foundry 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Discharge to collection point 56,821 72,435 6,423 6,541 52,306 57,138 Public Sewer Systems 0 0 0 0 0 0 Evaporation 54,862 32,712 2,981 2,672 8,882 9,702 Irrigation 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recycling (from process efflu84,252 128,443 0 0 37,502 40,967 ent treatment) TOTAL 195,935 233,590 9,404 9,213 98,690 107,807 1 Estimate based on water consumption. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 48 Complete EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. From 2009 to 2010, waste generation in the company increased 40% in absolute terms and in relative terms 9% (weight of waste generated for each compressor produced). Parcial Our target is to readjust the waste management systems in 2011 all production units. Waste disposal (kg) Brazil China Slovakia Italy Total Embraco 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Hazardous wastes Landfill 200,464 400,863 0 0 141,020 199,150 0 0 341,484 600,013 Incineration 464,500 1,537,950 98,210 74,178 0 0 0 0 562,710 1,612,128 Environmental Recycling1 80,236 128,891 0 0 1,381,570 1,840,796 55,986 381,022 1,517,792 2,350,709 Economic Recycling 2 260,339 194,149 0 0 0 41,400 0 0 260,339 235,549 Others 0 0 160 0 0 0 0 0 160 0 Total 1,005,538 2,261,853 98,370 74,178 1,522,590 2,081,346 55,986 381,022 2,682,484 4,798,399 Non-hazardous waste 77,795 122,706 0 1,115,925 1,377,387 1,170,369 0 0 1,455,182 2,409,000 Landfill 12,838,368 17,146,051 795,070 771,157 681,700 821,980 0 355,410 14,315,137 19,094,598 Environmental Recycling 1 26,550 24,910 1,080 0 0 0 5,608,828 10,420 5,636,458 35,330 Economic Recycling2 44,236,671 64,197,647 10,528,448 12,492,920 12,515,740 19,069,570 0 5,898,740 67,280,859 101,658,877 Remediation of building 116,600 140,110 0 0 0 0 0 0 116,600 140,110 waste Total 57,218,189 81,508,718 11,324,598 13,264,077 13,197,440 19,891,550 5,608,828 6,264,570 87,349,054 120,928,915 TOTAL 58,223,727 83,770,571 11,422,968 13,338,255 14,720,030 21,972,896 5,664,814 6,645,592 90,031,538 125,727,314 1 Environmental recycling: reusing the material in Embraco`s production process. 2 Economy Recycling: selling the material for reuse by another organization. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 49 Complete The following table details the waste disposal in the three units located in Brazil. Parcial Waste disposal (kg) Compressors Components Foundry 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Hazardous wastes Landfill 168,321 369,870 8,173 7,629 23,970 23,364 Incineration 464,500 1,537,950 0 0 0 0 Environmental Recycling 1 64,082 62,346 16,154 9,895 0 56,650 Economic Recycling 2 233,235 187,103 7,040 4,134 20,064 2,912 Others 930,138 2,157,269 31,366 21,658 44,034 82,926 Non-hazardous waste Landfill 877,100 1,134,590 14,640 7,972 11,946,628 16,003,489 Environmental Recycling 1 0 0 0 0 26,550 24,910 Economic Recycling2 43,735,427 63,585,114 378,736 463,342 122,508 149,191 Remediation of building waste 116,600 140,110 0 0 0 0 Total 44,729,127 64,859,814 393,376 471,314 12,095,685 16,177,590 TOTAL 45,659,265 67,017,083 424,742 492,972 12,139,719 16,260,516 1 Environmental recycling: reusing the material in Embraco`s production process. 2 Economy Recycling: selling the material for reuse by another organization. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 50 Complete SOCIAL PERFORMANCE – LABOR PRACTICES Management Approach Parcial Refer to pages 28, 30 and 31. Employment LA1 Total number of employees broken down by employment type, employment contract and region. In 2010, total number of employees grew 15%, a reflection of the increase in business. Brazil China Slovakia United States Italy Mexico Total Embraco 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Employees Full-time 4,820 5,735 1,303 1,588 1,685 1,617 59 59 621 617 6 6 8,494 9,622 Temporaries 854 582 589 23 152 176 10 4 0 4 1 0 1,606 789 Trainees 10 11 0 6 6 8 0 0 1 5 0 0 17 30 Total 5,684 6,328 1,892 1,617 1,843 1,801 69 63 622 626 7 6 10,117 10,441 Outsourced 300 570 0 621 0 309 0 0 0 28 0 0 300 1,528 TOTAL 5,984 6,898 1,892 2,238 1,843 2,110 69 63 622 654 7 6 10,417 11,969 Total number of employee Breakdown of employees1 (2010) 11,969 13% 10,417 3% 57.6% Brazil China 87% Slovakia 97% 0.6% 18.7% 17.6% 5.5% Italy Company`s employees Outsourced United States and Mexico 1 Includes outsourced. 2009 2010 Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 51 Complete LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Parcial Employees who have resigned Brazil China Slovakia United States Italy Mexico Total Embraco 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 By gender Men 536 781 182 502 97 30 6 2 47 10 0 0 868 1,325 Women 141 164 43 21 68 23 4 3 24 3 0 0 280 214 By age group Less than 30 years old 301 510 162 496 65 14 NA 1 0 0 0 0 NA 1,021 Between 30 and 50 years old 326 363 35 27 77 26 NA 4 49 8 0 0 NA 428 More than 50 years old 50 72 28 0 23 13 NA 0 22 5 0 0 NA 90 Total 1,354 1,890 450 1,046 330 106 10 10 142 26 0 0 2,286 3,078 Employees who were dismissed Brazil China1 Slovakia United States Italy Mexico Total Embraco 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 By gender Men 282 1,102 514 779 26 131 3 2 3 5 0 0 828 2,019 Women 65 387 38 119 4 60 2 4 0 4 1 0 110 574 By age group Less than 30 years old 243 1,066 526 821 18 113 NA 1 0 2 1 0 NA 2,003 Between 30 and 50 years old 99 413 26 77 10 70 NA 4 3 7 0 0 NA 571 More than 50 years old 5 10 0 0 2 8 NA 1 0 0 0 0 NA 19 Total 694 1,489 1,104 1,796 60 382 5 12 6 18 2 0 1,871 5,186 NA: data not available. 1 The strong production seasonality in China boosts the numbers of dismissals and hiring. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 52 Complete Breakdown (%) of turnover in 2010 Parcial Brazil China Slovakia United States Italy Mexico Dismissed Resigned Dismissed Resigned Dismissed Resigned Dismissed Resigned Dismissed Resigned Dismissed Resigned By gender Men 74 83 87 96 69 57 33 40 56 77 0 0 Women 26 17 13 4 31 43 67 60 44 23 0 0 By age group Less than 30 years old 54 72 91 95 59 26 17 20 22 0 0 0 Between 30 and 50 years old 38 28 9 5 37 49 67 80 78 62 0 0 More than 50 years old 8 0 0 0 4 25 17 0 0 38 0 0 NA: data not available. Labor and Governance Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. The inclusion of employees in collective bargaining agreements follows the rules and specificities of each country where we operate. In Brazil, China and Italy, all employees are included, while in the United States and Mexico, by the very nature of the market and the lack of legal obligation, there is no such agreement. Freedom of association is guaranteed to employees and union participation, in 2010, reached 100% in China, 41% in Italy and 19% in Brazil. Brazil China Slovakia 1 United States Italy Mexico 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Employees (%) covered by collective 100 100 100 100 NA NA 0 0 100 100 0 0 bargaining agreements Empregados (%) filiados a sindicatos 27 19 100 100 NA NA NA NA 46 41 NA NA NA: data not available. 1 By Slovak legislation, information about the coverage of collective agreements and membership of employees to trade union organizations are confidential. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 53 Complete LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region. Parcial Rate of absenteeism1 (2010) brazil 1.31% china 0.63% Slovakia 1.88% Italy 3.61% Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee broken down by employee category. Average training (h) 89 78 70 38 40 38 21 18 2010 2 3 2 0 2009 BraZil CHINA SLOVAkia UNITED ITALY mExico STATES Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 54 Complete Parcial Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of bodies responsible for corporate governance and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minorities, and other indicators of diversity Participation of women in the workforce (%) Brazil China Slovakia United States Italy Mexico 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Vice-presidency, board and management 6 30 41 12 12 NA 1 0 0 0 0 9,21 Supervision and leadership 9 41 26 122 12 NA 9 15 14 1 0 Teams 19,7 23 14 10 34 35 NA 36 30 32 3 25 NA: data not available. 1 In the Brazil plant data for high and middle leadership are computed together. 2 This corrects information disclosed in the Embraco Sustainability Report 2009. Participation of people with disabilities in the workforce (%) Brazil China Slovakia United States Italy Mexico 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Vice-presidency, board and management 0 2 10 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Supervision and leadership 0 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Teams 5 5 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 Workforce breakdown by age group (%) 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 5 5 6 8 12 16 12 11 11 29 27 40 60 68 63 66 63 74 86 89 More than 50 years old 65 65 60 Between 30 and 50 years old 27 33 40 22 21 12 Less than 30 years old 3 0 Brazil China Slovakia USA Italy Mexico Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 55 Complete SOCIAL PERFORMANCE – HUMAN RIGHTS Management Approach Parcial Refer to pages 23 and 24. Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that were subjected to human rights screening. All significant investment agreements include human rights clauses. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and the measures taken. Of Embraco`s 416 suppliers throughout the world, 92% have formally adhered to the company’s code of conduct, which have human rights clauses. These suppliers have undergone assessment, in the form of a questionnaire, on this subject. None of the assessments conducted in 2010 indicated violations of human rights. Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor and measures taken to contribute to the abolition of child labor. We have not identified risks of using child labor in our supply chain, and the theme is part of the sustainability checklist adopted in the preliminary assessment for the accreditation of partners. This risk may exist between some companies that supply to our partners. In our networking meetings, we encourage companies to adopt Embraco`s sustainability parameters in their own value chains through meetings of awareness. Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. We have not identified risks of use of forced or compulsory labor in our supply chain, and the theme is part of the sustainability checklist adopted in the preliminary assessment for the accreditation of partners. This risk may exist between some companies that supply to our partners. In our networking meetings, we encourage companies to adopt Embraco`s sustainability parameters of in their own value chains through meetings of awareness. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE – SOCIETY Management Approach Refer to pages 10, 40 and 56. Corruption Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 56 Complete SO2 Percentage and total number of business units submitted to risks assessments related to corruption. All our units undergo periodic operational audits. They are determined by the corporate audit committee at the end of each year from risk assessment interviews carried out with Parcial the president and vice presidents. Additionally, our units in Brazil, Slovakia, United States and Italy are within the scope of the Sarbanes-Oxley Law (SOx). This means that they have strict internal control regarding financial reports. Employees involved in this process receive specific training, presential or online, through Whirlpool’s Virtual University. The performance and effectiveness of control systems related to the adequacy of SOx are tested by the Internal Auditors of the company and undergo independent external verification. In 2010, we monitored a total of 31 cases (see table). Brazil Slovakia United States Italy Cases evaluated (absolute number) 10 8 5 8 Cases evaluated (% of total number of cases existing in the unit) 32 26 16 26 SO3 Percentage of employees trained on anti-corruption policies and procedures of the organization. Embraco`s positioning against corruption can be found in the Code of Ethics, distributed to all employees, and the integration training courses for new employees covers themes such as money laundering and anti-trust actions. Among the administrative and managerial positions, these themes are subject to periodic training, which may be in the presential or online format. In 2010, trainings on preventing money laundering covered 100% of the public. The trainings on antitrust cases involved 2,128 employees of all units in 2010, including 1,054 in Brazil. By incorporating the theme in the integration training, the percentage of coverage was near 100% on this theme. SO4 Measures taken in response to incidents of corruption. As in 2009, in 2010 there were no recorded cases of corruption. To avoid this type of conduct, we have made available to the internal public our Code of Conduct, and direct everyone to report any violation of the principles explained in the document. The complaint may be made directly to a superior or via a Hotline, a toll free telephone line with attendants in Portuguese, English and Spanish. The complaints made by employees to this channel remain anonymous and checking the complaint occurs confidentially. Public Policies SO5 Positions relative to public policy and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Through various forums, we participate in the discussion of public policy and seek to collaborate with the development of the sector where we operate with actions aligned to our strategic planning. In Brazil, for example, Guilherme Lima, manager of Institutional Relations, is vice president of the National Research, Development and Engineering Association of Innovation Companies (Anpei) that brings together companies, representatives of ministries and development public bodies. He also serves on the Advisory Board of the Research and Projects Financing (FINEP), the Thematic Council of Industrial Policy and Technological Development of the National Confederation of Industry (Copin-CNI/Anpei) and the Advisory Board of the Center for Strategic Studies and Management (CGEE / Anpei). We maintain an ongoing dialogue with trade associations (see complete list on page 40) to ensure that decisions follow legal and ethical standards adopted by us, always focusing on economic, social and environmental sustainability. Through Embraco Slovakia, we support projects developed in partnership with local authorities. In Mexico, the dialogue with the National Council of Science and Technology with the state government of Nuevo Léon aims to collaborate with the construction of public policies related to innovation, energy efficiency, tax issues, product regulations and certifications. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy Supply VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI GRI differentials Efficiency chain CHAIN investment Public Content Content 57 Complete SOCIAL PERFORMANCE – PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Parcial Management Approach Refer to pages 47 and 57. Customer Health and Safety PR1 Products and services life cycle phases whereby health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement, and the percentage of goods and services subject to these procedures. In developing new products we take into account the health and safety of employees and customers. In the phases ranging from idealization to customer delivery, for example, we seek to identify and reduce the risk of toxicity based on a list of 546 hazardous substances that must be avoided in our processes and products. Some have already been banned and others are being progressively eliminated. The process is certified by the QC80000 standard and involves testing carried out internally and by external partners, providing greater transparency and quality. Throughout product design and manufacture, we apply simulation tools to test performance under extreme conditions, with safety factors that reproduce the time of use for more than 10 years. The goal is to eliminate safety fault risks even after the end of life cycle planned for the product. These procedures are complemented by a fault detection process, which follows the perspective of customers and evaluates field products (those that were on the market and were returned to the company for review). The goal is to identify faults and to act preventively; reducing impacts on customers and providing feedback to development area for product improvement. This assessment is performed in 100% of the compressor families produced by Embraco, following statistical sampling representative of each compressor model and family, and contributes with information that advances the product development and improvement cycle. We have also created a series of manuals and catalogs that guide customers on how to properly and safely use the compressors and refrigerant gases. With a focus on responsible disposal, the manuals and packaging contain information on the optimal disposal procedure and the chemical compatibility of waste. Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of information about products and services required by labeling procedures, and the percentage of products and services subject to such requirements. All compressors are accompanied by handling guidelines, data relating to components and, of course, a guide on the proper disposal without harming the environment. This information can also be found on our website and are essential for the customer to use the product in the best possible way. The guidelines that accompany the products marketed by Embraco also extend the identification to outsourced components. The care is not limited to the internally developed production phases, and we seek to identify the use of harmful substances throughout the supply chain to strictly comply with international standards and legislation. Electronic products, for example, comply with international legislation that controls the presence of harmful substances to health and the environment. Every year, our business units in Brazil, China, Slovakia and Italy are audited and evaluated according to criteria in the standard QC 080000 HSPM (Hazardous Substance Process Management). PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including surveys results which measure this satisfaction. Every three years we conduct a worldwide survey on Embraco`s Customer Satisfaction, in partnership with an outsourced company. In the latest survey, carried out in 2008, we interviewed 206 people. The results were encouraging. 91% of respondents would recommend Embraco to their own customers and partners. Among products and services, quality and good origin were the aspects most cited, with 33%. Technology, good services, affordable prices and also trust deserve highlights. In the same year, Embraco was seen as the largest compressor supplier for 91% of respondents. With the result in hand, an internal committee reviews the data, identifies gaps and forwards to the areas responsible for the definition and implementation of improvement plans with the aim of improving our relationship with customers. The next survey is already scheduled: it will be in 2011. Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 58 Annex: SOCIAL INVESTMENT – PROJECTS 2010 Fiscal Year 2010 Cash and In-Kind Donations (US$) Fiscal Year 2010 – Cash Donations Embraco Brazil Embraco Italy Embraco Slovakia Embraco China Embraco U,S, Education 56,471 5,642 4,363 7,800 1,150 Housing 7,800 7,626 Environment 1,412 18,445 8,351 800 Other 83,028 7,800 TOTAL 140,911 24,087 28,314 7,800 9,576 Fiscal Year 2010 – In-Kind/Product Donations Education 6,842 2,000 860 Housing 43,628 Environment 1,590 390 Other 3,636 180 3,200 TOTAL 12,068 2,000 44,668 3,200 390 Fiscal Year 2010 – In-Kind/Product Donations Education 176,471 Housing Environment Other 121,664 TOTAL 298,134 0 0 0 0 Total 2010 Volunteering Activity Embraco Brazil Embraco Italy Embraco Slovakia Embraco China Embraco U,S, Hours of community service 1,578 415 655 491 210 Number of volunteers 296 12 19 61 30 Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 59 Annex: SOCIAL INVESTMENT – PROJECTS 2010 2010 Main Projects’ Indicators Embraco Brazil Embraco Italy 2,599 people benefited (teachers and students) 65 students from Secondary School benefited Embraco Ecology Award US$ 78,582 invested Environmental Education 6 volunteers invoved 7,965 people benefited (activities for community) (Joinville and Itaiópolis) with local schools 8 projects finalized on “My Ecological School: sustainable solutions for 1,578 hours of community service a eco-compatible school” Volunteer program 269 volunteers in 2010 US$ 6,986 invested 519 people benefited (activities for community) 45 hours of community service 60 Volunteers in 2010 Environment Day Hospital Management Project 16 volunteers activities 2,000 hours of community service US$ 11,000 invested 1,137 people benefited in Joinville and Itaiópolis (activities for community) Digital knowledge space US$ 6,455 invested Clean the world initiative 320 students involved 312 people benefited in Joinville and Itaiópolis (activities for community) Sports schools US$ 35,474 invested 300 students participating of the Award Poetry award US$ 4,500 invested 231 people benefited (activities for community) Support to Resgate Project US$ 56,470 invested US$ 3,550 invested Orphanage Hesed 10 volunteers involved 1,240 people benefited (activities for community) 148 hours of community service Embraco Teather group 10 children from Africa sponsored (educational program) for one year 8 volunteers in 2010 Sponsor a Child US$ 10,164 invested US$ 4,200 invested 4,510 people benefited (activities for community) 77 hours of community service Embraco Choir 19 volunteers in 2010 US$ 6,350 invested Interview Profile Management Sustainability Energy VALUE Social Internal MATERIALITY GRI differentials Efficiency CHAIN investment Public Content 60 Annex: SOCIAL INVESTMENT – PROJECTS 2010 Total 2010 Volunteering Activity Embraco Slovakia Embraco China 460 people benefited (activities for community) 980 people benefited (Sun Village, Global Village of Beijing,) Volunteer program 655 hours of community service 491 Hours community services of the whole year in total Volunteer program 16 volunteers activities in 2010 97% community satisfaction Earth Hour 418 signatures promising they will switch off lights that hour 2,600 people benefited (2 schools project, 1 joined project prepared by Refrigerator Donation Project US$ 3,200 invested 8 schools for ZOO) Embraco Ecology Award 95% community satisfaction US$ 8,351 invested Sponsorship in Behang 22 people benefited University US$ 7,800 invested 20 hours of community service (dealing with christamas collection) Spisska Nova Ves Hospital 98% community satisfaction US$ 47,990 invested Embraco U.S. 530 people benefited (support for 5 nurseries) US$ 7,626 invested Support to nurseries 94% community satisfaction March of Dimes 197 participants US$ 1,587 invested 1,150 people benefited (Foster house Mlynky Biele Vody, website visitors) Parents needed initiative 45 hours of community service 91% community satisfaction 319 hours of community service Clean the Slovak Paradise 56 volunteers participating 97% community satisfaction 61 Sustainability Report 2011 ContaCT This publication is Embraco’s responsibility. If you have questions, suggestions or comments, please contact: accs@embraco.com.br Corporate Communication and Sustainability Management Rua Rui Barbosa, 1020 Caixa Postal 91 CEP 89219-901 Joinville – SC – Brazil 62 Sustainability Report 2011 Credits General coordination Graphic Design and Layout Embraco – Corporate Communication and Sustainability Report Comunicação – www.reportcomunicacao.com.br Office Photos GRI consultancy, materiality, writing and editing Ricardo Correa Report Comunicação – www.reportcomunicacao.com.br Marcelo Caetano English version Spin Traduções & Consultoria
