Masili Communication on Progress 2011/2012 www.zonafrancamasili.com 1 Table of Contents Letter of Commitment............................................................................................................................ 3 Zona Franca MasiliOur Story................................................................................................................. 4 Our Company (Structure)……………………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 6 Our Approach to Fair and Ethical Trade………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 7 Zona Franca Masili Facts .......................................................................................................................... 8 Location .................................................................................................................................... 8 Employees ................................................................................................................................ 8 Supply Chain ............................................................................................................................ 9 Our Commitment to the Ten Principles of the Global CompactPast work and Actions planned............. 10 Human Rights (Principles 1 &2) .............................................................................................. 10 Labour Standards (Principles 3-6) ........................................................................................... 11 Environment (Principles 7-9) .................................................................................................. 13 AntiCorruption (Principle 10) ............................................................................................... 14 Annex: Our Code of Conduct ................................................................................................................. 15 2 Letter of Commitment 3 Zona Franca MasiliOur Story In 1998, various Central American countries – including Nicaragua – were devastated by Hurricane Mitch. Many families had been living on the bank of Lake Managua without a lot of economic resources. When Hurricane Mitch hit, the lake flooded and thousands of people lost their houses. Many were relocated. One such new area was a new urbanization called “Nueva Vida” (New life) in Ciudad Sandino. Located 7 miles west on the outskirts of Managua, Ciudad Sandino has the densest population in the country: more than 3,000 people per KM live in the town. Zona Franca Masili (from now on refered to as Masili) was set up by 11 women following Hurricane Mitch (1998) with the vision of being the first Fair Trade Women's Sewing Cooperative. It was started as women were in need of jobs and a livelihood in their new, government-allocated relocation village at Ciudad Sandino. The cooperative was supported by an NGO called Centro pro Desarrollo en Centroamerica, Jubilee House Community (CDCA-JHC), who were investigating ways in which to tackle the 80% unemployment in the area. In Nicaragua there are many Free Trade Zones, which employ mainly women. In many of these factories, clothes are made under unjust working conditions, the workers work many hours, and many are single mothers. Zona Franca Masili was initiated to be differentto be able to provide what is necessary for our workers' families. Hence we chose the term Fair Trade Zone . The original group of cooperative members each worked 640 hours in the construction of the building and organizing the project. The worksite was literally built from the ground up. For a period of more then 2 years, each person worked 20 hours every week without yielding any salary to be able to pay the social fund of the cooperative. As single mothers, we had to work half a day mixing cement and digging holes in the morning, and in the afternoon went out to work to earn some money and to help our families – many worked selling goods in the streets. This was the most challenging phase for the women. Many of our families told us that we must be mad to invest so much in a project that would never have results. But when we look back at our successes, it fills us with pride in our work and hope for the future of our cooperative. In February 2001, our small group of women officially organised itself as a cooperative (though our legal status has subsequently changed to that of a regular company). OUR SWEAT, OUR SALE, OUR SUCCESS Learning To Sew 4 Many of the women had never worked in a Free Trade Zone and did not have experience with industrial machines. We had a preparation program and practiced with our machines, making organic hair scrunchies for Maggie’s Organics in Michigan. By August we had learned 15 different operations that a shirt required and we made our first small order of organic shirts for Maggie’s! In the following year the original group of members worked most of the time on small orders of organic shirts, paying ourselves $2 a day. Since we did not have much work making orders, we often met as a cooperative and practiced how to make clothes. Collectively, the members realised we could achieve better ends and hence the strength of the cooperative. Initially, Masili developed the the name ComamnuviRL. This was based on the roots of words: Co (cooperative) Ma (Maquiladora) M (Mojares) Nuv (Nueva Vida) I (international) R.L (Limited Responsibility) = Comamnuvi RL. Fair Trade The second goal was to obtain the funds to certify the Cooperative as the first Free Trade Zone in the world to be operated by its workers. On July 1st, 2005 our cooperative begin to work as a Free Trade Zone, which allows us to compete globally with “sweatshops” while continuing to pay fair salaries under secure working conditions, where workers are in charge of the work place. This is why we call ourselves the “Fair Trade Zone.” Future For members of the Cooperative, our dream for the future is to increase production levels to give full-time jobs to more families in the community. All of the people who work in our cooperative have the opportunity to become a member, as long as they have the same common interest in the success of the Cooperative. As members, we have had to make many sacrifices to maintain our Cooperative. However, we have continued working in the factory towards a goal of leaving the extreme poverty in which we live in Nueva Vida. We are working together to create sustainable jobs in the community so that we can support our families. Recently, the company has changed its registration from a cooperative to a privately registered company still with a cooperative decision-making process (please see organogram). This is to keep in line with national legislation in Nicaragua. 5 Our company 6 Our Approach to Fair and Ethical Trade OUR SWEAT, OUR SALE, OUR SUCCESS From the outset, the primary objective has been to empower the women of the area by providing jobs and a stable income. The current objectives are looking at growth through new market growth and creating not only more income, better jobs but more jobs too. Masili want to improve the living conditions of where we live. All members rely on their development as a company and most are heads of their households. Sulaema (Head of Human Resources) takes time to help illiterate employees to learn how to read, while facilities such as a computer are available on-site allowing workers to use the internet and other functions. Associates are also trained in issues such as the environment, gender, motivation, accounting and quality control. As members see their position as a blessing, we are commited to the improvements in the broader community. There is much work to do as this is one of the poorest parts of Nicaragua leaving plenty of room for improvement. The aims go beyond the company and extend to wanting to give the children better conditions, with members supporting extra-curricular activities such as soccer kits for the kids. In the neighbourhood, rubbish/trash is a large problem, and members encourage people to get re-usable rubbish so locals can make cards and other goods to sell. The management of Nueva Vida are proactive with the city hall and apply political pressure regarding the rubbish issue. From experience as a company Masili use communication ethics to bring our communities together. 7 Zona Franca Masili Facts Location Employees Currently, there are 32 full time workers at Masili. 16 of these are women and 16 men. In the management team 11 are female and one male. During peak seasons we employ up to a further 30 women from Nueva Vida for temporary work. Like all of our workers they are offered a fair wage and comfortable working environment. 8 Source of Products and Certifications: -Cotton: Peru (Fully USDA Organic Certified Cotton) -Fabric production: Costa Rica (Öko Tex 100 Compliant, Fully Fair Trade Certified) Zona Franca Masili Supply Chain TUSA COTTON S.A, CIA TEXTIL CENTROAMERICANA S.A, ZONA FRANCA PERU MASILI, NICARAGUA COSTA RICA 9 Our Commitment to the Ten Principles of the Global Compact Please note that our Code of Conduct is added as an appendix and reflects our manifesto and commitment to ethical and fair trade. Below are some of our improvement targets for our next Communication on Progress: Human Rights (Principles 1 &2) Our Commitment and Actions planned for 20011/2012 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights Abuses FACT: Nicaragua is widely called the poorest country in Central America and second only to Haiti in the entire Western Hemisphere. Besides widespread poverty, unemployment around 50%i according to USAid and this is especially problematic in the area of Nueva Vida. Actions until now Zona Franca Masili was set up by women of Nueva Vida with the primary aim of tackling a lack of jobs and aiming to create more meaningful and ambitious livelihoods. This now means that 32 people are working full time earning a reasonable wage and a good, optimistic working environment. Our recent Code of Conduct shows our continued support and reasoning that ethical and fair trade is crucial to our future existence and growth. 10 Actions Planned for 2011/2012  We are pursuing Fair Trade certification which requires high levels of commitment and assessment on our commitments to Human Rights  Grow our business and thereby create more jobs in our community  Despite large Human Rights abuses at other Free Trade Zones in Nicaragua, we will continue to stand as a beacon of how these zones could and should be run  Continually checking the certification of our suppliers Labour Standards (Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6) Our Commitment and Actions planned for 20011/2012 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. The effective abolition of child labour 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation FACT: Despite promising economic growth in other parts of Latin America, Nicaragua continues to face many challenges. A lack of jobs is leading to high unemployment, poor job opportunities, deepening poverty and acceptance of desperate working conditions. 11 Actions until now Our Code of Conduct is explicit on each of the labour standards. Freedom of Association and extracurricular activities of our workers are encouraged. This is crucial to their involvement in the community. Discrimination according to sex, ethnicity or any other area stands completely against the beliefs of Masili. We proudly advance the opportunities of women, particularly maginalised groups and single mothers. It is the very pride that marginalized groups can take in their work which makes our ladies so good at their work! Forced and compulsory labour has been avoided as there has been a constant interest of the women of Nueva Vida in working for us. As the women are so central to Masili’s products, so too are their families and children. In our experience, many women find it important that they can have daily contact outside of their homes with other like-minded women. Actions Planned for 2011/2012  Create more jobs and thereby hire more people from our local and marginalized communities. Their economic empowerment is our pride  Carry on our policy of no child labour and likewise educate our local communities in the importance of their children attending and finishing school  Continuing our work towards full Fair Trade certification 12 Environment (Principles 7, 8 & 9) Our Commitment and Actions planned for 20011/2012 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies FACT: Despite the largest economies of the world having the largest negative environmental impacts, it is the poorest countries which most suffer nature’s backlash. Masili was created by women effected by natural disaster, and we consider it important that nature is respected and protected Actions until now As victims of natural disaster, the founding members of Masili were always highly aware of the importance of caring for our environment. For this reason, Masili has worked avidly with the concepts of Organic materials and continue to produce with only 100% USDA organically sourced cotton. Additionally, our fabric suppliers ensure the use of Ökotex 100 compliant dyes. We are highly supportive of the interest of international markets in organic goods. On our working site, we also work very hard to ensure our environmental footprint is minimal. We have undergone rigourous checks by the Nicaraguan department for Health, Safety and Environment, which have been very pleased with our work. We have a low amount of waste and a relatively efficient water-use system. Our current electrical use is being reviewed and we are aiming to introduce some improvements in the near-future. Actions Planned for 2011/2012  Continue to work with organically sourced materials  Review our electrical system  Continue dynamic ideas for the use of unused fabric waste which can be used for alternative goods. Currently this includes making hammocks, needle cushions and other possibilities are being considered.  Continue our careful water management and sewage systems  Pursue the improvement targets that the Nicaraguan department of Health, Safety and Environment have set out to us. 13 Anti-Corruption (Principle10) Our Commitment and Actions planned for 20011/2012 10. Business should work against corruption in all of its forms, including extortion and bribery FACT: Despite the liberalization of the Nicaraguan economy, corruption continues to be one of the primary hindrances of sustainable economic growth in Nicaraguaii Actions until now Masili was set up with the initial aim of operating as a cooperative. This was thickly rooted in our belief that we should have a transparent and hands-on involvement in our communities also. By having a large management structure we also have a good insight into our legal obligations and tax requirements. Recently, we have been registered as a regular company rather than a cooperative and this means that we are openly accountable in Nicaragua for our taxes and place in the community. Actions Planned for 2011/2012  Continuing political pressure for the empowerment of our communities and rights to livelihoods  Continuing political pressure for good living conditions and access to education for our families and communities  Sharing our annual reports with business partners 14 ZONA FRANCA MASILI CODE OF CONDUCT This Code of Conduct (CoC) describes and sets out the ethical principles of the business carried out and conducted by Masili. Masili strongly believes that these are important for our company and workers. A copy of this CoC read aloud to new (and at the first time also to existing) workers and placed at a visible and easy accessible place for the workers. The purpose of this CoC is to ensure an ethical and fair business of all parties and people involved. We believe that a strong focus and continuous improvement of an ethical business and compliance to the principles below will ultimately benefit all parties– both economically and socially. The general principles 1-10 are the standards of the World Fair Trade Organisation (WFTO). THE 10 STANDARDS OF FAIR AND ETHICAL TRADE HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR STANDARDS, ENVIRONMENT AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Standard One: Creating Opportunities for Economically Disadvantaged Producers (see also Global Compact Principles 1 & 2: Human Rights) Poverty reduction through trade forms a key part of Masili’s aims. We support marginalized small producers, whether these are independent family businesses, or grouped in associations or co-operatives. We seek to enable them to move from income insecurity and poverty to economic self-sufficiency and ownership. The trade supports community development. Standard Two: Transparency and Accountability (see also Global Compact Principle 10: AntiCorruption) We are transparent in our management and commercial relations. We accountable to all of our stakeholders and respect the sensitivity and confidentiality of commercial information supplied. We find appropriate, participatory ways to involve employees, members and producers in decision-making processes. We ensure that relevant information is provided to all trading partners. The communication channels are good and open at all levels of the supply chain. Standard Three: Trading Practices (see also Global Compact Principles 1 & 2: Human Rights) We trade with concern for the social, economic and environmental well-being of marginalized small producers and do not maximize profit at other people’s expense. We are responsible and professional in 15 meeting our commitments in a timely manner. Our suppliers respect contracts and deliver products on time and to the desired quality and specifications. Where Masili receive a pre payment from buyers, we ensure that this payment is passed on to our workers and cooperative. We maintain long term relationships based on solidarity, trust and mutual respect that contribute to the promotion and growth of Fair Trade. We maintain effective communication with our trading partners. We seek to increase our volume of trade as a means of growing Fair Trade for the producers in order to increase the income of our cooperative. We avoid duplicating the designs of patterns of other organizations without permission. Standard Four: Payment of a Fair Price (see also Global Compact Principles 1 & 2: Human Rights) A fair price is one that has been mutually agreed by all through dialogue and participation, which provides fair pay to the producers and can also be sustained by the market. Fair pay means provision of socially acceptable remuneration (in the local context) considered by producers themselves to be fair and which takes into account the principle of equal pay for equal work by women and men. Standard Five: Child Labour and Forced Labour (see also Global Compact Principles 4 & 5: Labour Standards) We adhere to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and national / local law on the employment of children. We ensure that there is no forced labour in our workforce. Standard Six: Non Discrimination, Gender Equity and Freedom of Association (see also Global Compact Principles 3, & 6: Labour Standards) We do not discriminate in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on race, caste, national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership, political affiliation, HIV/Aids status or age. We provide opportunities for women and men to develop their skills and actively promotes applications from women for job vacancies and for leadership positions in the organization. We take into account the special health and safety needs of pregnant women and breast-feeding mothers. Women fully participate in decisions concerning the use of benefits accruing from the production process. We respect the right of all employees to form and join trade unions of their choice and to bargain collectively. We ensure that representatives of employees are not subject to discrimination in the workplace. Standard Seven: Working Conditions (see also Global Compact Principle 1: Human Rights) We provide a safe and healthy working environment for employees and / or members. Working hours and conditions for employees comply with conditions established by national and local laws. We seek, on an ongoing basis, to raise awareness of health and safety issues and improve health and safety practices in producer groups. Standard Eight: Capacity Building (see ALL Global Compact Principles) 16 We seek to increase positive developmental impacts for small, marginalised producers through Fair Trade. We develop the skills and capabilities of its own employees or members. We develop specific activities to help workers improve their management skills, production capabilities and access to markets – local / regional / international / Fair Trade and mainstream as appropriate. Standard Nine: Promotion of Fair Trade We raise awareness of the aim of Fair Trade and of the need for greater justice in world trade through Fair Trade. We provide our customers with information about ourselves and our products. Honest advertising and marketing techniques are always used. Standard Ten: Environment (see also Global Compact Principles 7, 8 & 9: Environment) We maximize the use of materials from sustainably managed sources in their ranges, buying locally when possible. We seek to minimize the impact of our waste stream on the environment. We give priority to buying products made from raw materials that originate from sustainably managed sources, and have the least overall impact on the environment. i http://www.usaid.gov/policy/budget/cbj2005/lac/ni.html ii http://www.business-anti-corruption.com/country-profiles/latin-america-the-caribbean/nicaragua/snapshot/ 17
