Global Compact Annual Communication on Progress (COP) Scanprint A/S Date: 11. August 2011 Jens Juuls Vej 2 Membership date: 24. DK-8260 Viby J September 2010 Denmark Number of employees: 53 Mogens Larsen Sector: Printing CEO +45 8733 6638 Short description of Scanprint Scanprint A/S’ core competence is graphic services. We are specialists in developing and producing high quality magazines, books and posters, and we print almost anything! Because Scanprint offers solutions which make us able to handle all steps in the production – from development of ideas and concepts, drawing up of articles, photos, layout, distribution to printing. Scanprint A/S has a strong environmental profile and hold the Nordic environmental label, Svanemærket, and an EMAS certification as well as being certified to print according to the FSC-scheme. Quality is one of Scanprint’s values, which is why we hold an ISO 9001 certification. To ensure a high and uniform quality in the distribution of the printing inks, we hold an ISO 12647 certification. We believe that good working conditions result in committed and happy employees and lesser riscs of errors. Consequently, we work continuously on improving our working environment and we have achieved a Smiley with a crown from the Danish Working Environment Authority. However, we have chosen to do even more for our environment. By preparing environmental accounts, buying quotas, and buying certificates through our cooperative partner, Dong Energy, we can offer climate neutral printed matter, which will reduce the carbon emission. One of Scanprint’s basic values is a commitment to ensure that our employees work under decent conditions and to make sure that our cooperative partners offer equal standards. Not just because we feel that this is the right thing to do, but also because we believe that it is the most sensible thing to do from a business point of view. Statement of support Scanprint is pleased to confirm that Scanprint A/S supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We continue our strong focus on CSR activities. Specially regaring working conditions, the environment and taking actions on reducing our energy consumpsion. The Communication on Progress describes our initiatives and actions for the year 2011. Signature Position Financial Manager 1 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Our commitment or policy Scanprint A/S recognises cultural differences and support internationally proclaimed conventions on human rights and workers’ rights, including the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/index.shtml and ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, http://www.ilo.org/declaration/lang--en/index.htm. Reasonable working conditons All employees are entitled to a binding contract of employment describing the most important terms of their employment, for instance working hours, salary and other benefits, overtime pay, vacation, child-care leave, breaks, access to company equipment etc. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Our employees are acquainted with and respect the national and international standards for the prevention of discrimination. Scanprint is not located outside Denmark, but has recently entered into a strategic cooperation with Shehala, an IT company with grafic skills, situated in Bangladesh. Our primary contact person is Danish. Our R&D manager is the primary contact to the IT company. When the cooperation agreement was made COC was signed too. Actions implemented in the last year/ planned for next year At the moment we have no changes of procedure etc. planned, as we do not consider this nessecary. Scanprint respects Shehala’s working methods and we have ascertained that all rules and human rights are met and the employees work under good working conditions. Principle 2 Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our commitment or policy Health and safety in the work place All employees are entitled to a healthy and safe working environment. This means that the employees must have access to the necessary protective equipment as well as being trained for the tasks/work they are performing. We believe that good working conditions result in committed and happy employees. Consequently, we work continuously on improving our working environment and we have achieved a Smiley with a crown from the Danish Working Environment Authority. The Smiley indicates that we hold a recognised health and safety certificate and that we have made an extraordinary effort to ensure a high level of health and safety. A brief description of our Processes or Systems • Involvement of employees. We work with suggestions for improvements made by the employees on all levels in the company; this is the case when working with LEAN principles in particular. The idea is that the employees are familiar with the daily working processes. How could the working process become easier for the employee and at the same time reduce routines/strained movements and unnecessary processes? • Working environment group with representatives from the staff and the management working together on health and safety at work. • Fresh fruit daily • Bread each morning from 9.00 • Choise of home work • First aid course offered to all employees • Appraisal interview once a year • Cooperation with an external consultancy firm in relation to layout of the workplace, office equipment adjusted to each individual employee etc. 3 Actions implemented in the last year/ planned for next year • ISO 18001 certification means a continuous effort to improve the working environment. Scanprint live up to this principle. Internal and external reviews are carried out on an ongoing basis to ensure that we always comply with the certification criterea. Workplace assessments are conducted once a year, as are appraisal interviews at which both the physical and the men tal working environment are discussed. We work continuously with LEAN principles, which often include suggestions to improve the health and safety at work. Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Our commitment or policy All employees are members of a trade union at their own accord. This means that our employees are aware of their rights as employees and are able to negotiate salary and working conditions, and they have the opportunity to involve their trade union at any disputes. The company is a member of the Graphic Association of Denmark (GA). A brief description of our Processes or Systems We recommend that all employees become members of a trade union to ensure their right to collective bargaining. Measureable Results or Outcomes Our employees are through their membership of an unemployment insurance fund covered financially in case of redundancy. Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination af all forms of forced and compulsory labour Our commitment or policy Scanprint is against all forms of slavery and torture as well as cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment and working conditions, which are a threat to life or health. We are against child labour. We are against irreparable damage to the environment. We will assess the consequences in relation to human rights when making important business decisions, and enter into dialogue with interested parties in the external environment and the local community in which we operate. It is important to us that we are a workplace, where the employees enjoy spending their time. It is important to maintain the balance between family, work and leisure time, and that the management strive at creating a framework for good working conditions. A brief description of our Processes or Systems One of Scanprint’s policies is to improve the working environment, internal and external, on an ongoing basis. Our goal is to reduce the impact on the environment in cooperation with our employees, customers and suppliers. This makes it even more important that our employees are happy and motivated and considering themselves to be a part of Scanprint. No employee is forced to take on work or be held against his or her will. 4 ENGAGEMENT ENVIRONMENT INNOVATIVE Measureable Results or Outcomes We do not tolerate slavery, wrongful forced overtime work, forced captured labour, withholding identity papers, human trafficking or repayment of debts through labour. Our employees are allowed to move freely around the workplace and to leave when they have finished working. When entering into cooperation with foreign suppliers, we demand, at a minimum, that these meet the requirements of CSR or COD and comply with current Danish legislation. Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Our commitment or policy Declaration on child labour Scanprint A/S ensure that: • all members of staff are over 13 years old • employees 13-15 years old only do light work • employees 13-15 years old work no more than two hours a day • parents of the 13-15 years old employees have been informed of the work and the working conditions • employees under the age of 18 do not carry out harzardous work or work at night • all trainees at Scanprint A/S are over 14 years old and work at Scanprint for a brief period of time in connection with their education Scanprint A/S is acquainted with and respects the prohibition against child labour as stated in the Danish Working Environment Act, consolidated act No. 268 of 18th March 2005 and in Consolidated act on juvenile labour No. 519 of 14th June 1996. Danish legislation is in compliance with EU directive 94/33/EF of 22nd June 1994 on the protection of young people at work, UN Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 16 December 1966, ILO Convention No. 138 of 26th June 1973 concerning Minimum Age for Admission to Employment, ILO Convention No. 182 of 17th June 1999 concerning The Prohibition and Immediate Action for the Elimination of the worst Forms of Child Labour and UN Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20th November 1989. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We see it as part of our responsibility towards society to comply with the legal terms and conditions protecting children and young people at work. Current legislation is included in the daily routines. Furthermore, COC is available to our suppliers, customers and staff on our website. Measureable Results or Outcomes The management has no knowledge of any discrimination having taken place. In the event of discrimination, this will be recorded and further action will be taken. Principle 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our commitment or policy Scanprint finds any kind of discrimination unacceptable, whether it is based on sex, age, sexual orientation, religion, political opinion, education, social or ethnic background. It is the responsibility of the management – but a common task – to ensure that discrimination does not take place. This is why we do not participate in or support discrimination based on race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, caste, national or social background, property, birth, membership of an association, sexual orientation, health, family obligations, age, disabilities or other distinctive characteristics. Appointment, pay, insurance, education, promotion, pension or other work-related decisions should be based on relevant and objective criteria. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Scanprint has created the framework for a good working environment and we constantly strive at improving the working conditions for our employees. Scanprint A/S hold an OHSAS 18001:2008 certification and in our work with LEAN principles we find it very important that all staff members are involved and co-responsible for the day-to-day routines, with particular focus on improving the information flow in order to avoid further strain on the individual employee. We believe that one of the strengths of our company is diversity, and we aim at being a flexible and elastic workplace. 6 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary appoach to environmenal challanges. Our commitment or policy Scanprint keeps a high environmental profile within several areas: • ISO 14001 Eco-management • EMAS certification • The Nordic eco-label, the Swan • FSC certification IISO 14001 is an internationally approved certification for eco-management. Scanprint is certified through Norsk Veritas and our environmental policy is available in our external material. Eco-management under EMAS holds a range of characteristics We are required to: • carry out a preliminary survey of the environment • continually improve the environment beyond legal requirements • specify a level of ambition for the environment in terms of environmental policy and goals • publish an annual environmental statement describing Scanprint’s environmental conditions and work by way of the ecomanagement system and activities included in our action plan. • involve our staff. 7 The Nordic environmental label, the Swan Scanprint holds the Nordic eco-label, the Swan. We are certified to print on swan-labelled paper. Holding the Swan label means that we are required to meet the strict requirement in relation to: • using environmentally sound paper • using vegetable-based and water-based printing inks • recycling of printed matter • reducing paper waste and other types of waste • energy savings and using renewable energy • consideration for the chemical working environment and reducing the risk of inhaling organic solvents. A brief description of our Processes or Systems • ISO 14001 Eco-management • EMAS certification • The Nordic eco-label, the Swan • FSC certification • Environmental policy Measureable Results or Outcomes • Active cooperation with Dong Energy to cut carbon emission and to take steps to ensure a high level of energy efficiency. • Review of electricity usage and heat, and optimising ventilation systems. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmenal responsibillity Our commitment or policy Please see principle 7 A brief description of our Processes or Systems Please see principle 7 Measureable Results or Outcomes Following our EMAS certification we publish an annual EMAS statement. In relation to this statement, we set new environmental goals, which will assist in improving the surrounding environment as well as the working environment. • We have entered into a partnership agreement with Dong Energy • We have cut our carbon emission and work on further optimising our electricity and heat usage. • We offer climate neutral printed matter • We work continually on improving the working environment • We have chosen to submit an application to participate in Global Compact. Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy We shall comply with the Environmental Protection Act at all times. Scanprint A/S find the following points to be of great importance: • Safe storage of flammable liquids • Proper waste sorting • Safe storage of chemical waste • Wastewater discharge We shall always know what impact our actions have on the environment. Consequently, we register the annual usage of energy, heat, water and raw materials as well as the amount of various types of waste. Scanprint has set goals and action plans describing the improvements we commit ourselves to carry out when working with eco-management. 8 Actions implemented in the last year/ planned for next year Goals for 2011 Faulty printing plates Reduce the number of faulty printing plates. The goal is that the number of faulty printing plates must be no more than 1.5% of the total number of plates made. Make-ready time Reduce the make-ready time on our 3 printing presses by further 10 sec. for each machine on the 2009/2010 figures. Failure costs The total failure costs are reduced to index 27.25 based on index number 100 in the 2007/2008 statistics of failure. Reduction of energy consumption A survey of the leakage in the compressed air system has been carried out, and new servers will be installed to optimise the cooling system in the server room. Furthermore, the ventilation system in the office area will be optimised. Measureable Results or Outcomes As a result of our work with LEAN, the company’s production has been optimised and made more efficient. The basic principle is that aiming at reducing waste is advantageous to the company because it yields a more profitable production and so makes the company more attractive to customers. Reduced waste also mean a more environmentally sound production. Furthermore, we have invested in energy saving printing presses and do not use alcohol in the damping solution. This shows that it is possible to be LEAN and eco-conscious at the same time. We work on improvements on an ongoing basis, including environmental improvements. We have invested in a new project, Scanprint Online, which is a company-based web portal. The web portal has the following features: • A proofing system where customers can upload and approve files, and place an order for proofs, if needed. • The system provides a unique opportunity to follow the proofing process. • Possible to approve the job with the correct colour rendering. • The environmental savings are considerable when using online proofing as this often means that there is no need for printing and sending proofs by post. 9 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Scanprint do not accept corruption • We do not give gifts to our customers in return for favours • We do not donate money to customers, sub-suppliers, political parties etc. When entering into cooperation agreements with foreign suppliers, which have not formulated a CSR or COC we require, at a minimum, that a signature is put to our COC to ensure compliance with our principles. We are in an ongoing process of dialogue with our suppliers in relation to Scanprint’s values and principles, and so far, this has not resulted in any sanctions. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Our business strategy is based on openness, tolerance and responsibility to employees, customers, suppliers and other interested parties. This means that all cooperative agreements are based on the same principles. When entering into cooperation agreements with foreign suppliers, which have not formulated a CSR or COC we require, at a minimum, that a signature is put to our COC to ensure compliance with our principles. The majority of cooperation agreements regarding for instance refinement and graphic finishing are with Danish suppliers. Suppliers of machinery, inks and digital machines are larger international companies all of which have formulated COC or Social Responsibility principles. Actions implemented in the last year/ planned for next year • We have drawn up a Code of Conduct, which will be implemented further in the company • The Code of Conduct will be put on our website and will be used in our internal and external information material • Introduction of a registration system to facilitate following up on occurrences and preventing new ones from happening. Measureable Results or Outcomes • Occurrences will be reported and acted on. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? We will make the Communication on Progress report available to all Scanprint’s stakeholders via our website. All stakeholders will have equal access to the report and will be able to follow our work on social and environmental responsibility. We would like to have the possibility of using our membership of the Global Compact network in the ways listed below: • Presentation material • Tender documents • In articles in various trade journals • Attaching the logo to our email signature • Company brochure 10 RESPONSIBILITY The ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Businesses should support effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater enviromental responsibity. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly tech nologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. This Print is ISO 9001 Quality certificate ISO 14001 environment certificate EMAS-approved Swan FSC-Certificate regarding GA climate calculator OHSAS 18001 Danish Occupational Registration-no. approved Licens no. www.ga.dk/klima Health and Safety certificate DK-000001 Licens no. 541 006 SW-CoC-001221 12
