IEWC HOLDINGS CORP. 2011 Communication on Progress Period Covered From: September, 2010 to September, 2011 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am proud to present IEWC’s first Communication on Progress (COP) report. IEWC is committed to good corporate citizenship in the global community. This report reinforces our commitment to ensuring the UN Global Compact and its principles are part of IEWC’s strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. One of IEWC's most valuable assets is its integrity. Protecting this asset is the job of everyone in IEWC. To that end, we also expect that those with whom we do business (including our agents, consultants, suppliers and customers) will also adhere to our guiding principles, and the principles of the UN Global Compact. As a new member of the UN Global Compact, we will continue to communicate and advance these principles within our own organization and sphere of influence. Sincerely, David Nestingen President & CEO BACKGROUND IEWC, founded in 1962, is a privately held, employee stock ownership company. It is a premier global supplier of wire, cable and wire management products to manufacturers and sub-assemblers. It operates distribution centers in more than 16 locations throughout the world. The company serves more than 5,200 customers worldwide. IEWC, Inc. | 2011 Communication on Progress 1 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals IEWC supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. IEWC is committed to providing a work environment that is free of discrimination and harassment, and to provide a means of dealing with such incidents should they occur. In situations of harassment, investigations will occur and initiators will be subject to disciplinary actions, depending upon the circumstances. Implementation  IEWC supports this principle with a defined statement of values used as a guidepost for our business behavior.  IEWC has a written Code of Conduct policy that is reviewed and signed annually.  All employees have annual review sessions.  IEWC follows privacy in human resources and personal matters.  IEWC offers health and dental coverage, a 401(k) retirement plan, flexible spending accounts.  IEWC offers company-paid benefits such as life insurance, and long-term disability  IEWC offers paid time off, fair vacation time off, leave and company-paid holidays.  IEWC offers a qualified retirement plan through the employee stock ownership plan. Measurement of outcomes We adhere to all government requirements in the area of Human Rights. IEWC, Inc. | 2011 Communication on Progress 2 LABOR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals IEWC is an equal opportunity employer and does/will not discriminate against employees, prospective employees, customers or vendors and will make all employment and business decisions in accordance with all applicable laws and statutes prohibiting employment discrimination. It is the policy of the company to provide and maintain a safe place of employment. Implementation  IEWC has an open door policy where employees are free to discuss with their supervisor any problem or question they may have regarding policies and procedures of the company.  All employees are classified as under certain employee categories and will have a service date which will govern their eligibility for various benefits such as vacation and participation in qualified retirement plans.  Employees are paid an amount that is considered to be fair compensation for the services he/she provides, and to progress to proper compensation levels representative of their performance.  All non-exempt employees are entitled to overtime pay for hours worked in excess of forty hours in a weekly pay period.  Employees are given appropriate breaks and rest times for lunch, holidays are recognized and are considered paid time off, personal time is afforded to the employees.  All employees are eligible for personal leave, bereavement leave, military leave, jury duty, education leave and parental leave. IEWC, Inc. | 2011 Communication on Progress 3  IEWC supports the federal Family and Medical Leave Act (“FMLA”) that allows employees to balance their work and family life by taking reasonable unpaid leave for certain family and medical reasons.  IEWC offers an Employee Assistance Program (EAP) that is available to all employees and their immediate families. The EAP is a strictly confidential program designed to help resolve personal problems, and is available twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. Measurement of outcomes IEWC complies with all country and state regulations relevant to Human Rights. We are certified to ISO 9001:2008 and AS 9100. IEWC has passed all ISO and OSHA audits during the reporting period. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the diffusion and development of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, policy and goals IEWC recognizes that the world's natural resources are limited and fragile. IEWC considers environmental protection to be consistent with its overall goals and values and an important consideration in its total activities. This commitment to environmental protection is reflected in our policies, programs and practices for conducting operations in an environmentally, as well as economically responsible manner. Implementation  IEWC established a Green Team to motivate employees to recognize and take responsibility for their environmental impact in the workplace. This team works together to create programs and initiatives that will help employees be more environmentally conscious, in the areas of energy conservation, paper reduction, recycling, reusable glassware and utensils, and transit IEWC, Inc. | 2011 Communication on Progress 4 Specific programs include a carpool program, green audit of departments and buildings and a Sharepoint site to encourage the exchange and collaboration of green ideas.  IEWC has an active recycling program for the following waste streams: cardboard, plastic, paper, printer toner and ink, and raw materials. In addition, IEWC is an active recycler of wood pallets.  Energy efficient lights have been installed in several of our locations in both office and warehouse settings.  IEWC is participating in LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) which is an internationally-recognized green building certification system developed by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC). IEWC is LEED compliant in several of its buildings.  IEWC is active in compliance with REACH (Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) which is the European Union’s single regulatory system for chemical management. Measurement of outcomes  Eliminated paper usage by 36% as a result of paper recycling, double sided printing, and electronic billing.  Decreased paper cup usage by 50% in each office.  Provided all US employees with public transit and bike commuter information for their respective city/state.  Reduced average kilowatt hours by 20% by installing energy efficient lighting. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals IEWC is committed to full compliance with both the letter and spirit of the laws and regulations in all countries in which it operates. It is of the utmost importance to IEWC to conduct its business with integrity in accordance with the IEWC Code of Conduct and applicable laws and regulations. IEWC, Inc. | 2011 Communication on Progress 5 Implementation  IEWC operates under a global Code of Conduct. The Code applies to every officer, director and employee of IEWC. This policy is reviewed, trained to and acknowledged by signature annually.  We also expect that those with whom we do business (including our agents, consultants, suppliers and customers) will also adhere to the Code. Measurement of outcomes  We comply with all Federal, State and Local legislation. IEWC, Inc. | 2011 Communication on Progress 6
