WIPRO’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2009-10 Living the future LIVING THE FUTURE ‘Living the future’, the theme of this year's report is inspired by the countries, another part is to find enough number of teachers who can vision of a sustainable future as much as it is by the urgency of the provide quality education to millions of children, many of whose need to act now. The challenges before humanity are well defined parents would rather that they work and add to the family's income. providing food, energy, water, shelter, education to a world population Finding answers to these deep rooted problems, even partially, will that touches 7 billion in late 2011 and that is set to grow to 9 billion by require a mindset of deep, fundamental rebuilding, and not one of 2050….. and doing this in a manner that is economically optimal, myopic, problem fixing. This will require honest soul searching and prevents further ecological degradation and bridges the social questioning of the way we think about and run our institutions, our inequities which exist today on wealth, health, dignity and governments, our businesses and at deeper level, our own lives. opportunities for advancement. ‘What will it take to get us there?’ is a A world that balances economic wealth with social equity, question that has many answers, some of which are clear, some of ecological well being and cultural vibrancy may seem a utopian which will emerge only in the decades to come and some which will dream, but we owe it to our future generations to start chasing this seem to be in conflict with each other. If one part of the riddle is to dream without further ado – while we must reflect and learn from our find disruptive technology breakthroughs on clean energy, another past and look ahead in a holistic, integrated way, we must also not part is to reinvent a new economics that seeks to maximize collective allow ourselves to be held captive to the tyranny of cynicism and that well being without endangering the spirit of innovation and the of the search for the perfect solution. It is well said that a journey of a fundamental human rights of freedom and democracy; If one part of thousand miles starts with a single step – therefore, we must act now the riddle is to provide jobs for the growing youth force in developing and start living the future. CONTENTS 1. Letter from the chairman 3 2. Report profile and assurance approach 7 a. Report profile 9 b. A note on the data metrics in this report: Methodology, protocols and systems 16 c. Wipro's approach to report assurance 17 d. Annexure: Correlation between Materiality Dimensions and GRI Indicators 19 3. Wipro: An organizational profile 20 a. Spirit of Wipro, our foundation of values 24 b. Our business profile 27 c. Good governance and management practices 31 4. Sustainability: Wipro's strategic perspective 43 a. The metaphor of the sustainability mobius 44 b. Business and the sustainability megaforces 45 c. Sustainability strategy and governance at Wipro 49 5. Wipro and its stakeholders 57 a. Stakeholder engagement framework 59 b. Employees & sustainability at the workplace 63 c. Ecological sustainability at Wipro 98 d. Customer stewardship 131 e. Sustainability and the responsible investor 145 f. Ethical supply chain 163 g. Education and the community: The force multipliers for change 175 Note: This report contains frequent reference to our previous h. Advocacy and public policy 201 Sustainability Reports and the Annual Report for 2009-10. The URL address where these documents can be viewed and downloaded are 6. a. Assurance statement by DNV AS 209 I. www.wipro.org/sustainability/sustainability_disclosures.htm b. Feedback and communication 211 for our previous Sustainability Reports II. www.wipro.com/corporate/investors/annual-reports.htm 7. a. Index of GRI indicators 213 for Annual Report 2009-10 b. Glossary 226 1. LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Fellow Stakeholders, In the year 2009-10 alone, our energy efficiency initiatives Welcome to our Third Sustainability Report. In the three years helped us save 15 million units of electricity with a corresponding since we started sustainability reporting, we have crossed several reduction of 12000 tons of GHG. We have set for ourselves a milestones. More importantly, we have identified many more five-year GHG reduction program that is very ambitious and milestones for the future. These milestones form part of our calls for significant effort from us in terms of investments and vision of the role that Wipro should play in shaping a sustainable implementation. While energy efficiency is a crucial plank of our and inclusive world. The theme of this report, 'Living the Future', GHG reduction plan, there is equal emphasis on clean energy, reflects the urgency of advancing this vision – for the challenges knowing the limitations of energy efficiency. that humanity faces today are in the nature of tectonic forces and We are committed to the accelerated adoption of clean energy we cannot afford to wait for the future to unfold. We must act in our operations. Our ability to execute this plan effectively is now and start living the future. linked to government policies – both for generation and Let me begin by sharing some of the highlights of our distribution of clean energy. While we appreciate the sustainability journey. Government of India's bold vision behind the national missions Making sustainability integral to what we do on solar energy and energy efficiency, we hope that the vision gets The energy efficiency of our operations has shown a translated rapidly into coordinated, comprehensive policy and cumulative improvement of about 20% over a six-year period action. I refer only to the Indian regulatory environment because from 2004 to 2010. This has been the result of our early our energy-related footprint is substantially in India. investments in green building design (with LEED standards), Water scarcity as a global problem is even more immediate and continued improvements in cooling infrastructure and the urgent. Managing water well has to be one of the top three adoption of best practices in our internal IT infrastructure like priorities. Our food security depends on the adequate availability virtualization and Energy Star computers. Today, we have 16 of water as do issues of community health and gender equity. LEED-certified campuses with the commitment that all our Between 30-50% of populations in developing countries does not future campuses will be designed on the equivalent of at least have access to clean water and it is the women in the villages who LEED Gold standards. end up bearing the burden of walking miles to find potable water. 3 At Wipro, we recycle 32% of our current water consumption recently set-up division, Wipro EcoEnergy. On our green and reuse it for landscaping and sanitation. In addition, we have computers, I am pleased to share that we have made consistent invested in extensive rainwater harvesting in our campuses, and steady progress on the three pillars of phasing out toxic aggregating to nearly 2% of the total water requirement. We have chemicals, making our computers more energy-efficient and set a goal of improving our water efficiency per employee by 5% assuming extended responsibility for the safe disposal of year on year which we plan to achieve through better computers at end-of-life. While all our computers are 100% conservation practices and further investments in recycling. RoHScompliant, we went a step ahead, when in early 2010, we Our goal on waste management is that by 2013, not more than launched the first PVC and BFR-free model of desktops. 100% 5% of the total generated waste from our operations should end of our laptop models and 60% of our desktop models are Energy up in landfills. We have made visible progress on this goal with Star 5 certified, translating into energy savings of 10-12% for our 76% of our waste getting recycled, either internally or through customers. The Greenpeace global 'green electronics' rating of external partners. We run two biogas plants in different locations companies ranks us the joint No. 1 globally. that convert food waste into a source of cooking fuel and help We have always been proud of the diversity in our organization; avoid the consumption of nearly 50 tons of LPG in a year with a over the past couple of years, we have progressed significantly corresponding GHG emission of 100 tons. The paper recycling through coordinated initiatives to increase diversity on gender plant at our Bangalore campus processes about 20 tons of waste and people-with-disabilities. Women comprise 29% of our paper in a year, effectively saving 50 tons of dry timber and workforce, a metric that has been continuously rising for the last 500,000 gallons of water. few years. As a global organization, more than 70 nationalities are The multiplier effect of sustainability comes from how represented in our workforce. We think that we are just at the effectively one can enable and influence other stakeholders in beginning of the road on each of these dimensions of diversity their own journeys. For our customers, we offer an integrated and we have an ambitious path ahead to traverse. portfolio of solutions that aids their environmental goals in Our diverse workforce is also high on awareness of different ways. The portfolio covers green computing, IT for sustainability. ‘Eco-chapters’ – the employee engagement green and clean energy solutions the last named through our program focused on sustainability, which started two years ago, 4 has gained strength and momentum on different dimensions. building of partner organizations working in the education sector What began with six chapters in India has expanded to ten – this has a multiplier effect. Our partner network has more than chapters with a presence now in Europe and North America. 30 committed organizations – and we are working on growing With nearly 4000 enrolled members, the chapters have engaged this. ‘Mission10X’, our second program on quality of education, in more than 50 projects and activities since inception, both addresses the issue of quality of engineering education in colleges within the organization and with communities outside. and has worked with more than 10000 faculty members in 300 Wipro and Education colleges across 17 states in India. I believe that India's much-talked-about “demographic We have taken the first steps for similar social engagements, dividend” will never fulfill its potential unless its education across multiple nations that we operate in, and we shall continue system improves to deliver high quality, equitable education for to strengthen these initiatives. all. In a country of 1.4 million schools and 220 million students Disclosures and transparency in those schools, where education is made even more complex by A central driver of our sustainability journey has been our clear socio-economic disparities and cultural diversity, improving commitment to transparency and disclosures. We see external learning outcomes can be a torturously slow process. It is because reporting and disclosures as an important catalyst for selfthe problem is so complicated that business must partner with improvement and transformation. Our inclusion in the Dow government and civil society in addressing this challenge as it is Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is testimony to this impossible for any single agency to get this done on its own. The commitment – this fact makes us that much more conscious of same is true for India's higher education sector. our responsibilities as a sustainability leader. Our programs in education are focused on helping improve the Living the future quality of education in India. ‘Wipro Applying Thought in As a co-chair at the World Economic Forum conference at Schools’ is an initiative that works on systemic reform in school Davos in early 2010, I had the opportunity to lead the discussions education. It has worked with over 2000 schools and 750,000 around sustainability. Coming soon after the economic crisis and students. Its primary strategy is to support and help with capacity the Copenhagen conference on climate change, the theme of the 5 conference ‘Improve the State of the World: Rethink, Redesign, Let me end with Mallory's famous words. When asked why he Rebuild’ emphatically reflected the task at hand for all of us. It is wanted to climb Mount Everest, he replied “because it's there”. clear to me that while our world seems to be broken in many places, a 'fix it' mindset will not work anymore. I feel the same way. We must work on social issues “because they are What is needed is a mindset of deep, fundamental rebuilding. there” if we want to be leaders in the world of business or in society. This will require honest soul-searching and questioning of the way we think about and run our institutions, our governments, With Best Wishes our businesses, and at deeper level, our own lives. But even as we Azim H. Premji grapple with the difficult questions that face us, we must strive to seek out the solutions to these and act on them. A world that balances economic wealth with social equity, ecological wellbeing and cultural vibrancy may seem a utopian dream, but we owe it to our future generations to follow this dream and to start acting now. Let me reiterate that business must lead the charge in bringing about the change that we want to see. In response to the question that people may ask 'Why should business engage with difficult social issues when it not its purpose to do so?’, I think there are three reasons: Because it is the right thing to do, because the issues are too complex for any one agency to handle, and third, because eventually all social and environmental issues will directly affect business. 6 2. REPORT PROFILE & ASSURANCE APPROACH An overview of the proﬁle of our Sustainability Report for 2009-10. A key topic discussed in this section is Wipro’s Materiality approach that helps determine the priorities of our sustainability program and the corresponding disclosures. Social & Human Rights. The report details the initiaTime Period. The reporting period for this sustainability report tives of Wipro in ensuring the social and human rights of is the fiscal year 2009 10. all its stakeholders. The report also details the initiatives of Wipro in adhering to ecological guidelines while ensuring delivery of its financial responsibilities. Wipro received an A+ certification, based on an independent assurance by DNV. Measuring Materiality. The Materiality of a particular issue is rated on two axes: stakeholders’ interest and priority & relevance to Wipro. Scope of the Report. It extends to all of Wipro’s IT businesses. 7 8 2A. REPORT PROFILE A key topic discussed in this section is Wipro’s Materiality to report assurance, a key determinant of the quality and approach that helps determine the priorities of our transparency of any report. sustainability program and the corresponding disclosures. The profile of our sustainability report is covered under the In the latter part of this section, we articulate our approach following heads: Profile Parameter Brief Description Time Period Provides information on the reporting period and frequency of publishing the report Scope and Boundary Provides the scope of the report in terms of business divisions that are covered and the sustainability topics covered in each Content In this sub-section, a framework is articulated for determining the relative materiality of different sustainability areas for Wipro – this largely determines the depth of coverage of these topics in the report Data Methodologies Provides a contextual framework of the underlying processes, systems and empirical assumptions for the data and metrics published in this report 9 Reporting period This report’s scope, content and boundary The reporting period for this sustainability report is the fiscal The process for defining the scope of this report is based year April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2010, referred to hereafter in broadly on the guidelines provided by the GRI framework (G3 short as ’09-10. guidelines). The content of the report is based on the following Date of the most recent previous report: Our most recent guiding principles: sustainability report was for the fiscal year 2008-09, released in Scope and boundary: Wipro Ltd is a diversified conglomerate March 2010. with a strong presence in the IT Services, Consumer Products Reporting cycle: Our sustainability report is published on an and Infrastructure Engineering markets. This report is primarily annual basis. for Wipro’s IT businesses. The chart on the next page provides a visual representation of Wipro’s business divisions with the broad scope of reporting for the IT business: 10 TABLE SHOWING THE SCOPE AND COVERAGE OF THE REPORT Consumer Care Infrastructure IT Business & Lighting Engineering IT Services IT Products Software Services (WT) BPO Services (WBPO) Wipro Infotech (WI) • Consulting • Business Process • Enterprise Products • Personal Care Products • Hydraulics • Package Implementation • Outsourcing • Personal Computers (PCs) • Lighting • Water Treatment Primary • Application Development • Network Products • Furniture • Clean Energy • Maintenance Offerings • Testing Services • Technology Infrastructure • Product Engineering • Americas • India • India • India • India Geographical • Europe • Americas • Southeast Asia • Europe • India • Europe Presence • Japan • Middle East • Asia Pacific • Financial performance indicators for all • Financial performance indicators for all • The IT products division • The sustainability • The sustainability Scope of geographies geographies serves only the India market; disclosures of this disclosures of this • Environmental performance for India only • Environmental performance for India only therefore, wherever the report division are not division are not Reporting • Employee metrics for all geographies • Employee metrics for all geographies contains specific reference to covered under this covered under this • Social programs cover primarily India • Social programs cover primarily India data on IT products, it is for report report • Other qualitative reporting covers all • Other qualitative reporting covers all the Indian geography geographies (unless otherwise specified) geographies (unless otherwise specified) 11 SPOTLIGHT: MATERIALITY DETERMINATION That sustainability reporting cannot happen in a vacuum and a. Direct feedback from the stakeholder, e.g., Employee is but a faithful reflection of an organization's vision, plans and perception survey, customer feedback, feedback from one-onprogress on the different dimensions of corporate sustainability one interaction with the government and civil society. seems almost axiomatic. Therefore, determining the material b. Indirect inference from public sources of information, e.g., issues to include in this report really stems from the CSR survey results in the public domain. sustainability issues that are the most material to Wipro, the IT c. Informed dialog and discussion between Wipro leaders industry and the geographies where we have a strong presence. and employees in meetings, open houses, blogs, etc. Our Materiality Determination framework is driven by what A detailed delineation of the primary sustainability issues for issues hold more importance for our stakeholders. Our seven each of the above stakeholders is available in Section 5 of the The Materiality of a particular sustainability stakeholders are: report. sustainability dimension is based on i. Employees The distilled outcomes of the above processes are represented the combination of two criteria: • The stakeholders’ interest in the issue ii. Current and Future Generations in the two matrices on the next page – one for Social and Human • Its relevance/priority to iii. Customers Rights and the other for Ecological & Economic factors. The Wipro’s IT business. iv. Investors materiality of a particular sustainability dimension is based on v. Suppliers the combination of two criteria the stakeholders’ interest in the vi. Education and Community issue and its relevance/priority to Wipro’s IT business. vii. Government and Policy Makers The sixteen sustainability dimensions eight in each category The identification and relative prioritization of material issues are really an aggregate of more granular parameters and factors is based on a combination of the following three factors. Further, that are part of the GRI framework. The Annexure at the end of it is important to recognize that these issues and their relative this chapter details the correlation between each of the sixteen importance are not static and are likely to change with time. dimensions and multiple GRI indicators. 12 The content of this report believe that the stakeholder format is more appropriate for This is our third sustainability report and, like in our previous drawing attention to concrete sustainability issues for each reports, we continue to adopt the stakeholder format of of the stakeholders. In doing so, we are cognizant of the risk reporting. This format is different from the classical triple that some of the broader sustainability issues may fall through bottom line format of reporting in that the stakeholders form the cracks or may not fall under the ambit of any particular the fulcrum around which all issues are analyzed and reported. stakeholder and we have tried to ensure that these are covered Given that stakeholder inclusion and engagement is such a as relevant to the report. crucial cornerstone of the AA1000 and the GRI frameworks, we Materiality Ecological / Economic Goals Materiality – Social / Human Rights High High Safety & Health Product / Service Public Policy Quality People development Voice of the Relative Relevance to Wipro Relative Relevance to Wipro Climate Change Resource Efficiency Workplace Stakeholder Benefits Pollution Diversity Medium Medium Biodiversity Economic Freedom of Disclosures Association Human Rights Public Benefit Anti-Corruption Low Medium High Low Medium High Stakeholders’ Interest Stakeholders’ Interest 13 The Materiality matrices for 2009-10 do show visible changes the business as well as a distinct change in thinking on the part of in the positions of some of the dimensions with regard to our our stakeholders. The table below highlights the most visible previous sustainability report (Please refer Page 5 of our report shifts in position: for 2008-09). This is a reflection of both the dynamic nature of Sustainability Matrix Position Matrix Position Remarks Dimension in 2008-09 in 2009-10 Resource M-M* H-M From both a broader sustainability perspective as well as a narrower business viewpoint, the vital importance of resource efficiency Efficiency has never been higher. Conserving energy, natural resources and public goods like water and clean air is good for the community and for business. The financial case for resource efficiency has always been strong – its sustainability case keeps getting stronger Public Policy M-H H-H For a country like India, which has the golden opportunity to carve out a sustainable, low-carbon development path, the role of enlightened public policy cannot be overemphasized. While Wipro has always attached great importance to this dimension, there is an increased recognition from government and policy NGOs of the need to engage with business on sustainability policy Diversity M-H H-H Wipro's focus on diversity ramped up significantly during 2009-10 and we initiated several concrete programs for the physically challenged. This was in addition to the gender diversity program that further accelerated its momentum in the year Note: The indicator 'Employment Terms' of the previous report has been renamed 'Workplace Benefits' in this report as the latter term is a more appropriate representation [* The legend should be read as ‘Relevance to Wipro’ and ‘Relevance to the Stakeholder’ in that order] 14 The nine most material issues for this year remain the same as These nine sustainability dimensions – and the balance seven enumerated in the previous report – these are in the top right as well – are covered in detail in the rest of this report where we quadrant of the two matrices and reflect high relevance for both articulate Wipro’s vision, goals and performance on these. Wipro and its stakeholders: i. Product and Service Stewardship ii. Employee Health and Safety iii. Voice of the Stakeholder iv. Climate Change v. People Development vi. Workplace Benefits vii. Resource Efficiency viii. Pollution ix. Diversity 15 2B. A note on the data metrics in this report: Methodologies, protocols and systems This report contains several data metrics and numerical integrity of financial data. indicators – these are placed against the larger context of the iii. While our Environmental IT systems are not of the same relevant articulation of different sustainability issues. These maturity as our Financial and HR systems, we have been metrics and numbers are: making steady progress in the automation of these systems. • Either derived from IT systems or manually calculated The recording of all key EHS parameters in Wipro-owned (largely in MS Excel ) campuses is done in a central IT system. We have taken the • Either based on standard protocols or on organizationfirst few steps in using tools for GHG analysis – however, this specific rules Changes with regard to the last report continues to be a priority action area for us as we plan to invest • Sometimes based on assumptions and rules of thumb There are no significant changes in the scope, in more sophisticated automation in these areas. Further, it is important to take note of the following points in boundary or measurement methods in this iv. Instead of laying out all the details of protocols, assumptions the above context: report as compared to our first report. I. Wipro maintains a sophisticated infrastructure of internal IT and rules of thumb in this sub-section, they have been applications – based on SAP R/3 and satellite systems detailed out in the respective stakeholder sections, starting where most of the enterprise data and information are from 5b onwards. An annexure at the end of each section captured, collated and analyzed. These systems cover illustrates the underlying methodologies for the reported financial, HR, sales, delivery, and procurement processes. data of that section. ii. Our financial systems comply with Section 404 of the Data Cluster Computation Process Protocols Followed Assumptions and (IT Systems or Manual) Rules of Thumb Sarbanes-Oxley framework. This implies a high degree of rigor and a robust system of checks and balances that ensure 16 2C. WIPRO’S APPROACH TO REPORT ASSURANCE Our approach to report assurance right from our first year of Our report assessment and GRI Application Level reporting has been to subject our report to the highest standards We have assessed our report at A Level as per the GRI of independent, third-party scrutiny. This, we believe, will aid Application matrix below. This report has been independently our objective of continuous learning and incorporating verified and assured by Det Norske Veritas AS and the assurance improvements in Wipro’s sustainability program. We continued engagement is for Type 2 and Moderate Level as set out in the to engage the services of DNV AS (Det Norske Veritas) to audit AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008. The independent assurance and assure our report. is presented in Sec 6.0 of this report. 17 WIPRO’S GRI APPLICATION LEVEL: INDICATED IN THE MATRIX BELOW Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for 1.1 for Level C plus: OUTPUT Level B G3 Profile 2.1 2.10 1.2 Disclosures 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures Not required Management Approach Management Approach OUTPUT G3 Management Disclosures Disclosures Approach for each Indicator Category for each Indicator Category Disclosures Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Respond on each core G3 G3 Performance Performance Indicators, Performance Indicators, at & Sector Supplement.* OUTPUT Indicators & including at least one from least one from each of: Indicator with due regard to Sector Supplement each of: social, economic economic, environment, the materiality principle by Performance Indicators and environment human rights, labor, society, either: a)reporting on the product responsibility Indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission *Sector supplement in final version Mandatory Self-declared Third-party checked Optional GRI-checked 18 2D: ANNEXURE: CORRELATION BETWEEN THE MATERIALITY DIMENSION AND GRI INDICATORS Materiality Dimension Corresponding GRI Indicators Human Rights LA5, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8 Workplace Benefits LA1, LA3, EC3 Safety and Health LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9 People Development LA10, LA11, LA12, HR3 Anti-Corruption SO2, SO3, SO4 Economic Disclosures EC1, EN30, EC4, EC9, SO6 Public Benefit EC6, EC7, SO1, SO5 Public Policy EC7, EN28, EC5, EC8, PR2, PR4, PR6, PR7, PR8, PR9, SO7, SO8 Voice of the Stakeholder LA4, LA2 Product / Service Stewardship PR1, PR3, PR5, PR8 Diversity LA13, LA14, EC7 Resource Efficiency EN1-10, EN26-27 Pollution EN19-26, EN29 Climate Change EC2, EN16-18, EN29 Biodiversity EN11-15 Freedom of Association LA4, HR5 19 3. WIPRO: ORGANIZATION PROFILE The distilled essence of Wipro’s culture and values is represented by the Spirit of Wipro, which is reﬂected in every aspect of our behaviour as a company and as individuals: in every country we operate in, in every business we are present in, in every single interaction inside Wipro and between Wipro and the outside world. Spirit of Wipro comprises Intensity to Win, Act with Sensitivity, and Unyielding Integrity. 20 Wipro has been showing growth in every parameter over the last few years. Revenue, for example, showed a CAGR of 29% in the last 6 years for IT services alone. Wipro won 27 significant international and Indian awards for excellence in diverse fields over the year. Integrated risk management is one of the Wipro’s business comprises IT Services, two cornerstones of Wipro’s drive to the ITEnabled Services, IT Products, Consumer future. Care & Lighting, and Infrastructure Engineering. Wipro has investors from 24+ countries, A strong code of business conduct and ethics presence in 35+ countries, serves customers in combined with a rigorous ombudsprocess over 50 countries with a workforce drawn ensures that all employees, customers and from 50+ countries! stakeholders are treated fairly. governance, which in turn comprises 5 elements: board governance, shareholder governance, checks and balances, Ombudsprocess, codes of conduct. 21 22 3. THE ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE OF WIPRO The organizational profile of a global firm like Wipro Wipro's corporate profile. includes many dimensions. In this section we have followed the The information for each building block is detailed on Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) guidelines and constructed our website www.wipro.com as well as in our Annual Wipro's organizational profile from the building blocks Financial Report 2009-10, which can be downloaded from described in the pages that follow. In the pages that follow, we website, www.wipro.com/corporate/investors/index.htm provide a summary overview of each of these elements of Foundation of Values Corporate Governance Practices Markets Served Wipro Profile Brand Services & Products Offered 23 SPIRIT OF WIPRO OUR FOUNDATION OF VALUES Values define character – of an individual, an institution or a way every Wiproite thinks and acts. The Spirit of Wipro is the business organization. The distilled essence of Wipro's values is indivisible synthesis of three values Intensity to Win, Act with represented by the Spirit of Wipro, something that drives the Sensitivity and Unyielding Integrity. 24 OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT Wipro Limited, the legal entity, is a company registered under has 76 subsidiaries of which 6 are Indian companies and the the Indian Companies Act, 1956, with its shares listed on the remaining 70 are registered outside India. Headquartered in National Stock Exchange and Bombay Stock Exchange in India Bangalore, India, Wipro has operations in over 50 countries with and on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), USA. Wipro a predominant presence in the Americas, Europe and India. • Presence in 54 countries Global Footprint • Global workforce of 70+ nationalities • Investors from 24+ countries Wipro has investors from 24+ countries, presence in 35+ countries, Europe Rest of World serves customers in over 50 countries •Revenue share 26% •Revenue share 9% • Asia Pacif ic •No. of employees 5% •No. of employees 6% India with a workforce drawn Japan from 50+ countries! • Europe China UK Australia Germany Singapore France Malaysia Sweden Taiwan Americas Netherlands Hong Kong •Revenue share (USA) 57% Finland India New Zealand •No. of employees 8% Switzerland •Revenue share 9% • Americas Romania •No. of employees 81% United States of America Portugal Canada Austria • Middle East Brazil United Arab Emirates Saudi Arabia Qatar Bahrain Oman Kuwait Egypt 25 OUR GROWTH STORY Sustained growth 4380 4390 CAGR of 29% in the last 6 years for IT services. 4256 Strong service delivery methodologies. Revenues 3128 2185 (in USD mn) Partner to industry leaders 863 845 Over 150 global Fortune 500 clients. 743 845 active clients. Clients 494 620 Global footprint Listed on NYSE, NSE and BSE. 53 72 Presence in 54 countries. Global 50 72 global development centres. Development 44 46 Centres Diverse talent pool 67 nationalities with high gender and cultural diversity. 93 108 2600 domain consultants. Employees 92 Diversified skill base across service lines. 57 73 (In Thousands) 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 26 SERVICES AND PRODUCTS OFFERED Wipro's IT business comprises the three primary pillars of IT enterprise infrastructure. Services, IT Products and IT-Enabled Services (or Business The majority of our customers are large business enterprises in Process Outsourcing BPO). These products and services form the global markets that we operate in. Our customers in the a critical part of our customers' IT and process infrastructure. A Indian market also include government and non-government significant part of our software and BPO services is executed institutions and a small segment of retail / individual customers from offshore centres in India. for our desktops and laptops. The visual below illustrates how In addition to software and total outsourcing services for the IT services business is organized as a matrix containing the Indian market, we offer a wide range of IT products and industry verticals and technology horizontals: IT Services BPO Services IT Products Technology Vertical Domains Service-Lines Manufacturing, Pharma Enterprise application Customer Enterprise and Life Sciences services services services Banking, Financial Services Technology Technical help desk Desktops, laptops and Insurance infrastructure services Technology, Media Product engineering Finance and accounts Network technology and Telecom services outsourcing products Retail, CPG, Transportation, Testing services HR outsourcing Storage products and Services Business Energy & Utilities Procurement outsourcing Software products technology services Consulting Specialized services 27 Key Organizational Metrics 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Sales (INR Billion) 107.6 152.7 203.9 259.6 271.4 PAT (INR Billion) 20.7 29.4 32.8 39.0 46.3 Market Capitalization (Including Debt) 798 816 773 600 966.5 Total Capitalization (Including Debt) (INR Billion) 799 820 818 657 800 Total Asset (INR Billion) 66.9 99.8 161.9 193.4 245.3 Number of Shareholders 155,832 197,774 232,932 228,456 179,438 Beneficial Holding of the Largest Shareholder, 81.44% 79.6% 79.5% 79.3% 79.6% Mr. Azim Premji, Chairman Number of Employees (Total for IT and non-IT) 76,260 94,152 98,521 108,000 Geographical Break-up of Revenue India 21% 21% 24% 21% 23% Americas 50% 48% 44% 45% 44% Europe 23% 25% 24% 22% 21% ROW (Rest of the World) 6% 6% 8% 12% 12% Further details of Wipro's f inancial performance for 2009-10 can be found in our Annual Report (AR) 2009-10 at www.wipro.com/corporate/investors/pdf-f iles/annual-report/wipro_annual_report.pdf 28 AWARDS AND ACCOLADES RECEIVED DURING THE YEAR 2009-10 Business innovation and excellence • Wipro won 'Confederation of Indian Industry's (CII) 6th • Equaterra's 2010 UK IT Service Provider Study ranked National Award for Water Management' in 2009 for its EC Wipro No.1 in client satisfaction, applications and Chennai units management, • Wipro won the 'CII EHS award' for the year 2009 for its infrastructure management, price, and governance excellent work on Environment, Health and Safety • Wipro rated No.1 research and development (R&D) • Wipro won 'SRISHTI G Cube Award for Good Green services provider in the 'Global R&D Service Providers Governance' in 2009 Rating' by Zinnov, a leading management consulting • Wipro won ‘United Nations Habitat Award Business Firm, 2010 Award' for LEED Certification for the year 2009; it also • Wipro's CIGMA won NASSCOM Award for Process won the award under the 'Good Practices' category for its Innovation, 2010 Biogas Plant • Wipro Infotech was the Indian IT Company of the Year • Wipro 's Kochi Development Centre was awarded the 2009: Springboard Research chooses Wipro for '5(*****) BEE STAR LABEL for Office Buildings' for its impressive revenue growth, client acquisitions and push excellent contribution in Energy Management towards green technologies • Wipro was rated India's No. 1 Green brand and in the top 5 • Wipro Technologies: Winner of the Global, Asian and globally as per Greenpeace guide to greener electronics Indian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) People and workplace award for 2009 • Wipro won the American Society for Training and Environment and ecology Development’s, ASTD BEST award for the seventh time in 29 THE WIPRO BRAND While the Spirit of Wipro is our internal values compass, the Wipro brand is the composite of everything that we stand for – the rainbow flower symbolizes the energy of our diversity and the dynamism of Team Wipro, whereas 'Applying Thought' is our credo and our commitment to all our stakeholders. For a complete lowdown on the Wipro brand, its history and evolution through the years, please refer www.wipro.com /corporate/brand/index.htm 30 GOOD GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT PRACTICES An organization's license to operate in the long run – social, showing the organizational architecture of Wipro illustrates this ecological and environmental – is dependent on the soundness point – most of the boxes reflect a long-term orientation that a of its governance and management practices. The visual below company needs to assiduously build and ingrain into its DNA. Linked to Regular reviews by Planning Strategic planning Operational planning Board and CEC Policies People Environment Security Procurement Practices Innovation Quality Customer-centric Knowledge management People Continuous learning Empowered workplace Leadership development Diversity and inclusivity Shared services Robust checks and Processes Talent supply chain Global delivery ( Wiwidus) balances Enterprise risk Codes of business Governance Ombudsprocess Board governance Internal audits management conduct and ethics Sustainability Resource and cost Ecological footprint Education and Transparent disclosures e? ciency reduction community Many of the box elements above are elaborated in the sections that follow in the report. In this section, we provide an insightful summary into two mutually reinforcing elements Enterprise Risk Management and Corporate Governance. 31 ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT Wipro's ERM journey started more than five years ago in 2005 and has evolved rapidly in maturity and scope as shown in the visual representation below: 2005-07 2007-09 2009-10 and beyond Initial Repeatable Defined Managed Optimizing • Ad hoc • Intuitive • Qualitative • Quantitative • Continuous • Low institutional • Process • Quantitative • Risks measured feedback capability established • Defined policies, enterprise-wide • Risk • Reliance on processes & management people continues standards a competitive advantage 2005-06 2006-07 2007-09 2009-10 the way forward • ERM started • Expanded team • Risk team in all key BUs • Structured risk charter and policy • Few team • Quarterly top • Virtual risk team • Consistent ERM practice members 10 risks business risk champions across BUs 15 enabled • Risk reviews • Risk reports to • Focus on top 15 risks • Focus on top 15 risks • Report to audit audit committee • Mitigation projects in large • Key risk indicators and automated committee • Four priority programs, IP, people, track of risk and mitigation risk projects compliance risks • Assurance to customers, • Risk and compliance Board audit committee training at all levels • Partner business in growth by optimising risks Wipro's Enterprise Risk Management office is at the center of ERM process and the focus on 'awareness' and 'advocacy', are our ERM program, which it drives in an integrated manner with the key building blocks of our integrated risk management all key business stakeholders. This, along with our structured approach. 32 WIPRO'S TOP 15 RISKS (2009-10) • Risk capture Reviews, Discussions with Process • Establish processess, controls Finance, owners, incidents, survey • Stakeholder ownership Treasury, • Risk prioritization Pricing, Reporting Legal Strategic Management, AWARENESS Identification & ADVOCACY Mitigation Assessment Operations, Planning Review Monitoring Corporate ERM Internal Audit Info Security • Management attention • Reporting mechanism • Mitigation vs risk appetite • Highlight mitigation progress (Data IP) • Revisit plans for corrections • Structured reviews Operation (Project Awareness Leadership Training Sessions, Manuals, Workshops Delivery, Quality HR, etc.) Advocacy Risk Newsletter, Portal, Industry benchmarking/Forums For an updated overview of our ERM initiatives, please refer No. 1 risk of the previous year, continues to be a significant risk at page 39 of Wipro's Annual Financial Report 2009-10. The top No. 2. We started including climate change risk from 2008-09 15 identified risks are shown on the next page. Reflecting the onward. For the reporting year climate change and related global scenario of a slow recovery from the economic crisis the sustainability risks continue to be part of the Top 15 risks at No.1 risk that we see is that of consistent business growth and No. 14. customer creditworthiness. Physical security, which was the 33 10. Governance 2. Physical security 1. Business growth/ V. High policy & process customer creditworthiness compliance 7. Regulatory 3. Large project delivery compliance 4. Information security High 8. M&A integration 5. IP exposure (customer, 9. Team sizing competitor, Wipro IP) The matrix to the right shows the Business Impact top 15 risks assessed for Wipro. 13. Recruitment 11. Business 6.Forex volatility & Though climate change risks 14. Climate change & continuity & disaster treasury management Medium were assessed for the first time, sustainability recovery they feature in the list at No. 14. 15.Emerging technologies (Cloud, SoA, SaaS) 12. Employment Low & taxation law Minor Very low Very high Probability of Occurrence 34 SPOTLIGHT ON GOOD ERM PRACTICES • Our Chief Risk Officer (CRO) reports to the Chief Finance disaster recovery. The transferred risks are those where we Officer, an executive member of the Board. Our CRO share a significant part of the responsibility with third parties reports to the Board Committee on Risk and Compliance on that have expertise in handling these risks. a quarterly basis. • We follow Rio Principle 15 – also known as the • We have started using 'Risk Maps' as an analysis tool for precautionary principle – in our green computing design financial risks. We use 'correlation analysis' and 'sensitivity principles of energy efficiency, 100% toxics elimination and analysis' for financial risks associated with exchange and e-waste management. While energy efficiency has clear interest rates. payoffs on the bottom line and for energy security at the • Our risk-response strategy primarily comprises: (a) Risks national level, at Wipro, we also see it as having a strong Retained, and (b) Risks Transferred. In the first category are bearing on our GHG reduction goals. While there is no risks pertaining to customer creditworthiness, information universal consensus on how the effects of climate change will security and Internet Protocol (IP) exposure while in the play out, our actions on Energy Star computers is an example second category are risks pertaining to physical security of the application of the precautionary principle. (partially), foreign exchange (FOREX)/ treasury and 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE While good management creates value for the business, good stakeholders of the company by institutionalizing a strong governance preserves this value. The primary purpose of good system of checks and balances and by promoting transparency in corporate governance is to protect the interests of all the the company's disclosures. • Board committees • Board diversity Board • Assessment of Board effectiveness Governance • Code of business conduct • Annual General Meeting (AGM) and ethics Shareholder Code of • Postal ballot results • Code of conduct for principal Conduct Governance • Quality and frequency finance officers Corporate of communication Governance • Ombudsprocess for both employees • Compliance oversight and non-employees • Prevention of insider trading Ombuds Checks & • Online portal for registering • Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) and tracking complaints process Balances compliance 36 THE EVOLUTION OF WIPRO'S CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES Wipro has a long legacy of pioneering and maintain good inception, we were one of the first to introduce stock ownership governance practices. As the visual below shows, while we had for senior managers in 1985 and to set up an Audit Committee instituted the practice of an independent Board of Directors since and a Compensation and Benefits Committee in 1986. Continuous stock ownership program Report on segmental Set up audit business results committee and (1993) ESOP for senior compensations management (1985) and benef its Promoter shareholders committee (1986) have held <30% Published consolidated of board seats accounts since 1983-84 Independent board the first instance of Directors since of an Indian company inception before requirements became mandatory 37 SPOTLIGHT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT WIPRO: Details of our four-layer corporate governance structure and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics: Wipro's Code the update for 2009-10 can be found on Pages 57-84 of Wipro's of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE) is a formal Annual Financial Report, 2009-10 and at www.wipro.com articulation of our approach and position on multiple A detailed overview can be found at www.wipro.com/ dimensions of business ethics and integrity. The COBCE, along corporate/investors/corporate-governance.htm. Some of the with our environment, health and safety policies, provides policy highlights include: shelter on a wide range of issues of ethics, labor and human • Our Corporate Governance (CG) guidelines rights. The COBCE covers human rights, prevention of • Code of Ethics for principal finance officers fraudulent and corrupt practices, freedom of association, • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE) elimination of child and forced labor, advertisement and media • The NYSE Corporate Governance report for 2009 and 2010 policy, avoidance of conflict of interest, prevention of sexual • The charters of the three Board committees on 'Audit/Risk harassment, and unyielding integrity at all times. The COBCE and Compliance', 'Compensation' and 'Board Governance/ is socialized at multiple points of an employee's lifecycle – it is Nomination’ first covered as part of the induction program of new hires and • Wipro's Ombudsprocess subsequently every employee has to take an online test annually • Results of the postal ballot for 2010 to assert his familiarity with the tenets of the COBCE. We have Lead Independent Director: Our Corporate a zero-tolerance policy for noncompliance with the COBCE, Governance guidelines require at least 50% of the Board to be especially on non-negotiable factors – e.g., child labor, antiindependent directors, of which one member is to be designated corruption, etc. The COBCE is applicable for all our employees as the 'Lead Independent Director'. The Lead Independent across all business units and operations, and suppliers are Director's primary role is to coordinate the responsibilities and mandatorily required to comply with the COBCE as a activities of the other independent directors. During 2009-10, requirement for empanelment. Mr N. Vaghul was designated the Lead Independent Director of The Ombudsprocess: In Wipro, our Chief Risk Officer Wipro's Board. is also the Chief Ombudsperson who works with designated 38 ombudspersons in each Business Unit (BU). The process ensures ombudsman-process-non-employees.pdf confidential and anonymous submissions regarding The Ombudsprocess. Having a robust whistle-blower policy (I) Questionable accounting or auditing matters, the conduct of that employees and other stakeholders can use without fear or which results in a violation of law by Wipro, (ii) Substantial apprehension is a sine qua non for a transparent and ethical mismanagement of company resources, (iii) Any instance of company. Wipro's Ombudsprocess is designed to be this and sexual harassment or any other form of discrimination, and (iv) more. It allows and encourages any affected stakeholder to More details of the COBCE are Any violation of human rights as articulated in the COBCE and report breaches of the COBCE and any other matter of integrity available at www.wipro.com /corporate/investors/corporateas per the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. to the concerned Ombudsperson. governance.htm During 2009-10, the entire Ombudsprocess was automated as Ombudsprocess statistics for 2009-10 are provided on the part of the intranet portal. next page. In line with the trend of the previous two years, Complete details of the Ombudsprocess for employees around half of the employee complaints pertained to workplace is available at www.wipro.com/corporate/investors/ issues. Of the action-categories for resolving complaints, there pdf-files/ombuds-process.pdf and for non-employees at was a significant increase in the use of counselling. www.wipro.com/corporate/investors/pdf-files/wipro“Sprit of Wipro and our Code of Business Conduct both lays prominent • Increasing the controllership team size to staff additional review points emphasis on Ethics. We take breaches of integrity very seriously. Actions The employee directly involved died after the embezzlement was discovered. include disciplinary proceedings at an individual level and systemic response on Our senior leadership and Audit Committee closely reviewed these changes in processes and strengthening controls, by enhancing checks and actions.KPMG India voluntarily reported the results of its investigation, to the balances. SEC. We have received a voluntary document request from the SEC's Division In this context, we would like to disclose an act of financial embezzlement that of Enforcement. The document request includes, among other things, issues was committed by one of our junior level employees during the period from relating to auditor independence. We are cooperating with the SEC's request. November 2006 to December 2009. In response to this discovery, our Audit The outcome of the SEC's review of this matter is uncertain. A conclusion by the Committee commissioned an investigation. Based on a review of the SEC that differs with the conclusions reached by KPMG India and our Audit investigation findings , it was decided that the amounts embezzled were not Committee could have a material adverse effect on us and could, among other material. On the other hand, several systemic changes to address the underlying things,require us to retain new auditors and have our financial statements for one causes of this case were implemented. Main focus of these changes was or more years re-audited. prevention by: More Details are available in the 20F filing with the SEC at • Enhancing Segregation of Duties in the controllership function www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1123799/000095012310105019/f55982e20 • Building stronger Marker-checker controls vf.htm#118 • Implement stronger Password controls to access Financial Systems 39 Break-up of Complaints Received through the Ombudsprocess Types of Complaint 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 TED / HR / People Process Violation 50% 52% 57% COBCE / Security Policy Violation 16% 13% 13% Harassment (Sexual / Otherwise) 7% 9% 12% Fraud / Financial Impropriety 3% 6% 8% Aggressive / Hostile / Biased Behavior 17% 9% 4% Others 7% 11% 6% No. of Ombuds Concerns Received 451 502 341 Analysis of Action Type 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 Separation 6% 10% 11% Warning Letter 6% 5% 8% Counseling 35% 24% 21% Process / Policy Change / clarifiations 20% 26% 33% Minor Issue / clarifiations 22% 23% 15% Others 11% 12% 12% 40 Diversity of our governance bodies: Our topmost various issues on account of their varied backgrounds and governance bodies comprise the Board of Directors and experience in managing businesses across a spectrum of Corporate Executive Council (CEC). We value the diversity of industries. The table below provides the slices of the diversity in our governance bodies as it provides different perspectives on the above governing bodies: Experience Diversity of the Board Experience Diversity of Wipro’s Corporate Executive Council (CEC) Category No. of Directors Experience in Wipro Former CEOs FMCG 2 Experience >20 years 10-20 years 1-10 years Total Former CEOs Technology 2 No. of Members 5 3 3 11 Former CEOs Financial Services 1 Legal 1 Academia and Consultant -Marketing Strategy 1 Tenure in Wipro Board Executive Management 4 Duration 0-5 years 5-10 years >10 years Total Total 11 No. of Directors 5 1 5 11 Wipro’s CEC includes one senior female executive 41 42 A central part of the sustainability process is goal One of the central aspects of Wipro’s Sustainability setting. Strategy is the respect for human rights expressed in the divesrity and inclusivity of its workforce A key aspect of Wipro’s strategy is the recognition thatwe can’t do it on our own.We Sustainability governance occurs at nedd to build an eco-system with multiple multiple levels across the organisation: stakeholders to meet our objectives board, senior leaders, employees, eco-eye,eco-chapters... 4. SUSTAINABILTY STRATEGY The Mobius strip is a metaphor for the multi-dimesional challenges of sustainability. Like the mobius strip, sustainability challenges do not have deﬁned start and end points and there are no clearly deﬁned boundaries between the dimensions of any problem Without monitoring and metrics, there can be no progress in the journey. Eight megaforces are going to impact the world in the coming decades: climate change, the looming water disaster, sustainable cities, universal education, diversity, inclusivity and human rights, transparency, sustainable food security, eliminating poverty. How we handle all these will determine the future 43 4A. THE METAPHOR OF THE SUSTAINABILITY MOBIUS From our First Sustainability Report, we have been using the mobius shape as a metaphor for the multi-dimensional challenges of sustainability. Like the mobius, sustainability challenges do not have defined start and end points and there are no clearly defined boundaries between the economic, social and ecological dimensions of any problem. While this poses a challenge of a high order, it is also an unprecedented opportunity to create a new world order that combines economic prosperity, ecological balance and social equity. Governments, businesses, research and academic institutions, citizen groups, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) all need to come together to craft this new world. In our previous report, we had identified eight sustainability megaforces. In this report, we retain the number but have rationalized the list – the ‘Human Rights’ megaforce is now logically merged with that of ‘Diversity and Inclusivity’ while a new megaforce of ‘Sustainable Food Security’ has been added. Below we provide an update on each of these forces along with our articulation of how the business sector should engage with each of these. 44 4B. BUSINESS AND THE SUSTAINABILITY MEGAFORCES Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update What the Business Sector can do The Climate Change Crisis That the Copenhagen Climate Change meet did not provide a Of the Indian government’s National Action Plan on Climate clear direction on the way forward is as much a reflection of the Change, the two missions on Solar and Energy Efficiency have underlying political complexities as it is a pointer for the need gained significant traction. The business sector must involve for direct action from other players on the ground. itself and take advantage of the several opportunities that these missions will generate. The controversy around the Intergovernmental Panel for Business must set ambitious goals for itself on GHG reduction Climate Change (IPCC) notwithstanding, the majority of the and energy efficiency and back it up with the necessary scientific community is in consensus on the gravity of the investments. Green buildings and IT infrastructure, more climate change threat. In fact, a growing number of scientists are efficient factories and smart grids are some of the multiple levers of the opinion that the safe limit for Greenhouse Gas (GHG) for reducing a business’s GHG footprint. concentration in the atmosphere must be revised down sharply Business must proactively engage with government and policy to 350 ppm – something that the world has already exceeded. influencers in shaping the right policies that will accelerate adoption of clean technologies. Visionary companies are making early moves in research and in developing new low-carbon products and services. The Looming Water Disaster The number of people globally without access to clean drinking Agribusinesses and biotech companies must step up research on water or sanitation continues to rise. Of the 1.1 billion people water-efficient seeds and crops. This will have a cascading impact across the world who do not have access to clean water, 400 on water availability as agriculture accounts for more than 80% million are from India. India is widely recognized as a globally. water-stressed country with withdrawal to availability ratios Water-intensive industry, while continuing to reduce its water ranging from 0.5 to 0.8. Access to clean water is intricately consumption, must ensure that community water resources are linked to issues of gender equity, higher life expectancy and not depleted. improved child mortality. The business sector must further the agenda with policy makers Of the several actions required around water, that of appropriate on restoration and preservation of public water sources in cities and equitable pricing is often ignored. Making water available to and on an equitable pricing framework for water. those who need it the most at cost-effective rates is a problem waiting immediate resolution. 45 Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update What the Business Sector can do Sustainable Cities With more than 50% of the world’s population living in cities The business sector is one of the prime drivers of increased today, and with another 1.2 billion people set to join the ranks of urbanization and therefore has a major stake in accelerating city dwellers by 2025, cities are going to emerge as power centers sustainable urbanization. in their own right much like the city states of ancient Greece. Business must partner with city governments in public-private On the crucial question of how to manage this upsurge in partnerships on green infrastructure. It must also continuously urbanization in a sustainable manner, experts hold multiple shape policy in this direction. opinions, e.g., a new body of thinking suggests that tall, densely Sustainable infrastructure – building materials, energy and packed cities that reduce the need to move people around will be water-efficient assets, mass transit systems, dense vertical much more energy-efficient than the sprawls that many cities are buildings, and Information and Communication Technologies today. (ICT) – in smart cities must be driven by the business sector as Not only are entirely new cities being built on green principles – research leaders and as first movers in adoption. e.g. Dongtan, Songdo – but many existing cities are charting a new course of becoming sustainable cities of the future, e.g., Vancouver has set a goal of becoming the ‘greenest’ city by 2015. Universal Education That education is the most powerful force multiplier in the fight As the biggest customer for the education system’s output, against poverty and inequity is almost axiomatic. Even though it business must partner with government in addressing the is one of the eight United Nations’ Millennium Development different challenges of education. This will call for investments Goals (UN MDGs) and high on the priorities of most and a willingness to get involved in a sector where the processes governments, yet achieving universal education has proven to be of change can be gradual and fuzzy and where outcomes will an elusive goal for most developing countries. become visible only over decades. With nearly 35% of children in Class 5 in India not able to read or write, we have a long road ahead. Business must recognize that solving the seemingly intractable problems of education cannot be the government’s job alone. 46 Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update What the Business Sector can do Diversity, Inclusivity and That diversity is the engine of innovation has been long known The business sector must engage in strong affirmative action to Human Rights to business and social historians. promote diversity and inclusivity at the workplace. The Closely linked to diversity are the twin issues of Inclusivity and dimensions must include gender, nationality, physical disability, Human Rights – eliminating discrimination on any ground and and economic status at the minimum. including disadvantaged minorities in mainstream social Further, business must oversee its supply chain to ensure that processes is a crucial driver of more diverse and vibrant schools, basic human rights are protected without exception – in colleges, workplaces, and cities. But even on the basic dimension of gender diversity, the latest particular, child and forced labor must be avoided without UN MDG report indicates that progress is slow. In 42 exception. developing countries, girls on an average spend two years less in school than boys. Women continue to be over-represented in vulnerable jobs and under-represented in mainstream jobs, e.g., the proportion of women employees in industry has not changed from 30% between 1999 and 2008. The literacy and education levels of women have shown to be closely correlated with the prevention of human rights abuses like child labor. Transparency While transparency is traditionally associated with anti-bribery A recent Reuters survey disclosed that public trust in business in and anti-corruption in governments, the word has assumed a the US tumbled by 14% in 2010. This is symptomatic of the much broader meaning in recent times, especially when applied broader trend worldwide. to business. Transparency in business implies true disclosures Therefore, one of the business sector’s primary tasks is to restore about all that matters to its customers, employees, suppliers, trust in itself. This it must do through transparent disclosures investors, and other stakeholders. The sub-prime crisis that about its products, what it is doing to protect human rights triggered the recent global economic chaos is seen as an example within and outside the company, and with its zero tolerance for of the repercussions of opaqueness within the financial sector. bribery and corruption. 47 Sustainability Megatrend Summary Update What the Business Sector can do Sustainable Food Security Rising food inflation in India and in many other parts of the Biotech companies must engage and listen to the concerns of world over the last three years is seen by experts as symptomatic environmentalists, nutritional scientists and citizen groups as of a deeper malaise with agriculture and the food supply chain. they try to develop solutions for crop productivity. And as the global population rises from 7 billion to 9 billion over Food logistics companies must continuously reduce wastage in the next four decades, the problem of feeding the world not only the supply chain. seems scary but is further compounded by considerations of Business must collaborate with academia and research institutes equity and sustainability. While genetically modified food holds for ways of preserving and enhancing soil fertility for that holds promise, it must satisfy environmental and nutritional concerns, the key to sustainable food security. not all of which are even known. At over 80% usage, agriculture is the biggest consumer of water. Reducing the intensity of its water consumption is crucial to water security in many countries. Other sustainability challenges include improving crop productivity without the use of soil-depleting pesticides and fertilizers. Eliminating Poverty The number of people living in extreme poverty has actually Business – in consonance with government – must address risen in the last three years. Fuelled by the economic crisis and poverty elimination in two ways. First, it must place job creation rising food inflation, living on less than USD1.25 at 2005 prices as one of its central responsibilities and second, it must address – as extreme poverty is defined – is a reality for nearly 2 billion underserved and unserved markets with appropriate products people living on this planet. Linked with extreme poverty are and services, e.g., microfinance, products made with local and higher infant and maternal mortality, lower life expectancy and low-cost technology, extremely affordable healthcare, etc. poor levels of education. Eliminating poverty poses a stringent The fact that addressing these markets has a strong business case mobius challenge though rising economic prosperity is almost should be further reason for the business sector to embrace the certainly likely to accelerate ecological degradation unless radical poverty challenge whole-heartedly. and disruptive innovation happens in all spheres. Wipro is deeply aware of these sustainability forces and the complex most of these forces, especially on the issues of climate change, water stress, education, inter-relationships between them. We are engaged with some degree of intensity with diversity, and inclusivity and transparency. These are detailed in the rest of the report. 48 4C. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE AT WIPRO The unique characteristic of corporate sustainability – that it straddles both the but crucial element of any good sustainability program. The cornerstones of good worlds of mainstream business and the social arena outside – can result in its confused sustainability governance are shown in the visual below, along with how we have positioning within the organization. Thus, it is critical to get both strategy and execuoperationalised these at Wipro. tion right, for which setting up effective governance structures is an often-overlooked Note: More details of our sustainability governance are available on Pages 25 to 27 of our Sustainability Report 2008-09  ecoeye and Wipro’s Finance group have created a policy and decision A compelling vision  Wipro’s conviction that the next few decades will comprise the ecological era framework that provides guidelines for evaluating internal investment Create a robust that has leadership  Our belief that business must get involved in social issues because it is the investment decision proposals on sustainability ; the framework balances the need for backing right thing to do, and not because of compliance pressures framework accelerated implementation of sustainability programs with the need to stay focused on financial prudence  Eco Eye carries the primary responsibility for Wipro’s sustainability program  All sustainability programs of Wipro follow the regular planning and at the corporation level. It plays the combined role of an orchestrator and Integrate into Prime accountability mainstream planning, budgeting cycles of the corporation internal think-tank with direct execution responsibility for some of the with a distinct group programs. WATIS and Wipro Cares carry distinct responsibilities for budgeting and review  The sustainability program is reviewed quarterly at multiple levels – by education and community care programs processes the Board, by the Corporate Executive Council and by the Chairman  For ecological programs, Wipro’s Facilities, EHS and Civil Infrastructure  Formal training programs are conducted for EHS, HR and Finance Committed involvement groups are key custodians and hold execution responsibility, while for Create capacity and managers at regular intervals of key internal functions social programs, Human Resources plays a central role involvement at all levels  A strong employee chapter program that is based on voluntary but  Finance and Corporate Communication are also deeply involved committed participation  We have clearly defined five-year goals for Energy, GHG reduction,  Our stakeholder ecosystem includes customers, suppliers, government, A compelling vision Water, Waste and Biodiversity. These goals have year-wise milestones and Learn and continuously academia and industry networks that has leadership are part of all our public disclosures improve by partnering backing with multiple external  We participate in multiple disclosure frameworks at the global and  Similar goals have been articulated for Health & Safety and Diversity stakeholders national levels. These act as catalysts for continuous improvement 49 THE WIPRO SUSTAINABILITY DASHBOARD FOR 2009-10 For sustainability to be institutionalized within an organization, the same rigor of goals this year on Wipro’s GHG reduction reflect a vastly more mature understanding goal-setting, measurement and review is necessary as is common in business of this space. At the same time, we think that we are some distance from an enterprise operations. Over the last two years, we have been improving and refining the process sustainability model that can stand the scrutiny of more mature business frameworks of goal-setting and measurement on our principal sustainability dimensions, e.g., our and we will continue to work on this aspect with intense focus. The dashboard below provides a summary of Wipro’s sustainability goals and performance in 2008-09: Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2009-10) Vision and Goals for the Future Energy and GHG Intensity R5 ). 5 (,!35 Ń#(35 (5 5 '#--#)(-5 )15 (5 R5)5,/5#*,)]-55#(.(-#.35.)5h8k5.)(-5*,5'*&)3535 improvement compared to the previous year – energy efficiency 2015 (All emissions) stood at 269 units per employee per month (pepm) vs 274 units R5)5 #055.).&5,/.#)(5) 5kkfff5.)(-5 ,)'5. 5-5ŀ!/,5 pepm for 2008-09 of 455000 tons (2008-09) by 2015. This figure is for all Wipro R5 5 '#--#)(-5 ),5 . 5 5 /-#(--5 ,/5 ,)'5 iom6fff5 businesses (IT, WIN, Wipro Consumer Care and Lighting metric tons in 2008-09 to 363,000 mt in 2009-10. WCCLG) Corresponding GHG intensity per employee reduced from 4.33 R5Ļ5 *,)$.5 (,!35 Ń#(39(1&5 (,!35 '#25 ),5 to 3.72 , #(!5. 5)05!)&5#-5jf9lf5 Water efficiency R5Ļ5)(-/'*.#)(5#(.(-#.35) 51.,5*,5'*&)35,/5 ,)'5 R5 )5 #'*,)05 )/,5 1.,5 Ń#(35 35 kz5 3,7)(73,5 -5 19.2 kL in 08-09 to 14.7 kL in 09-10. This was possible through '-/,5)(5(5*,5'*&)35-#-5B-53,95hffn7foC continuous improvements in the efficiency of common water R5)55(-/,515)(-/'5)(&35,-*)(-#&51.,65#8865. .5&&5)/,5 usage, e.g., landscape, sanitation water is procured from responsible sources R5ihz5) 5. 5.).&51.,5,+/#,'(.51-5'.5. ,)/! 5,3&#(!5 R5)5(-/,54,)5#'*.5)(5!,)/(1.,5&0&-5#(5. 5,-51 ,5 of waste water we operate in by recharging an equivalent (or more) amount of water that is drawn from the ground 50 Sustainability Dimension Key performance Highlights (2009-10) Vision and Goals for the Future Waste Recycling and R5mlz5) 5. 5.).&5!(,.51-.5#-5,3&5@5#. ,51#. #(5)/,5 R5)5(-/,535hfgi5. .5().5'),5. (5kz5) 5. 5.).&51-.5 Pollution Mitigation premises or externally through vendors. Our conservative reaches landfills, 95% of the waste to be processed within Wipro position on the balance 24% waste is that it reaches landfills itself or through partners – and either recycled for further use or (though the actual figure is likely to be lower) safely disposed of R5Ļ,5,5.1)5#)!-5*&(.-5. .5,5)*,.#)(&8535)(0,.#(!5 food waste to a source of cooking fuel, a total of 100 tons of GHG emissions was avoided R5Ļ5 **,5 ,3&#(!5 *&(.5 #(5 (!&),5 ,3&5 hf5 .)(-5 ) 5 waste paper into notepads, effectively saving 50 tons of dry timber and 0.5 million gallons of water Employee Health and Safety R5 Launch of EHS portal in India with focus on the policies, R5 ')(-.,.5 1&&7#(!5 -5 5 0&/5 *,)*)-#.#)(5 .)5 '*&)3-5 procedures, regulatory requirements, and guidelines as per the and to our clients and their business ISO 14001 and the Occupational Health and Safety Advisory R5 '*&'(.5#(()0.#051&&(--5*,)!,'-5.)5#(/&.55 &. 35 Services (OHSAS) 18001 management systems. This portal acts lifestyle and improve productivity as a central repository for all management system requirements R5 ,)0#5 5 - 5 (5 &. 35 1),%*&5 .)5 #(-.#&&5 (5 ( (5 and, in addition, hosts an Audit Tracking System employee confidence R5Launch of the People With Disability initiative, for making the R5/**&'(.5&. 5(5 .35,)!,'-51#. 5)(!)#(!5#-%5 workplace accessible. 11 of our campuses were modified on the principles of a barrier-free environment and audited policies Assessments based on the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD) R5Prevention of Work Place Harassment training was provided to all managers R5We scaled up our Mitr conseling initiative by tying up with an external agency to reach out to a wider audience. Mitr Plus, as we now call it, is available 24X7 in-person and on phone and includes counseling for legal and financial issues, apart from emotional support 51 Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2009-10) Vision and Goals for the Future Diversity and Inclusivity #!(#ŀ(.5*,)!,--51-5'5)(5#Ŀ,(.5 .-5) 5#0,-#.39 R5)5)(.#(/5.)5-.,(!. (5(5&,.5)/,5#0,-#.35*,)!,'5 R5)'(5 )(-.#./.5 hoz5 ) 5 . 5 1),% ),5 @5 (5 #(,-5 ,)'5 on gender, nationality and physical disability as part of our 27% in 08-09 overarching vision of being an equal opportunity employer with R5 gfz5 ) 5 . 5 1),% ),5 )'*,#--5 ()(7 (#(5 (.#)(&#.#-5 a workplace that is diverse and inclusive representing 70 countries. 98% of the workforce of our overseas BPO centers comprise local talent R55 ,'*5 /*5 . 5 *,)!,'5 )(5\)*&5 1#. 5 #-#&#.#-]5 )(5 multiple fronts. Most buildings were made accessible for the physically challenged. Our building guidelines now include standards for people with disabilities. More than 55 physically challenged people were recruited into mainstream roles People Development R5#*,)5 ,-]5/&#.#-5,7,.#/&.5.)5#(),*),.5*#,#.5) 5 R5)5*,)0#5 ),5)(.#(/)/-5&,(#(!5(5!,)1. 5)**),./(#.#-5 Wipro as well as Sustainability under Unyielding Integrity to every employee R5 (.),#(!5 ),5.)*5.&(.51)'(5&/(  R5)5/#&55*5*#*&#(5) 5&,#*5.&(.5,)--5&&5&0&R5 (5 &,.5 ,#*5 0&)*'(.5 ,)!,'5 B C5 was launched for high potential leaders. A significant dimension of the program was a separate track on ‘Sustainability’ Customer Stewardship R5 &&5 ')&-5 ) 5 #*,)5 &*.)*-5 (5 -%.)*-5  #05 gffz5 R5 #&5)(.#(/#(!5.)5)(-)&#.5. 5. ,5*#&&,-5) 5)/,5,(5 Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) compliance PC program – Chemicals Management, Energy Efficiency and during 2009-10 – an additional 21 toxic chemicals were phased e-Waste Management – in our next phase, we will extend our out from these products program to include supply chain responsibility. The scope of this R55 &/( 5 )/,5 ŀ,-.5 75 (5 7 ,5 -%.)*5 #(5 ,&35 will include the reduction of suppliers’ ecological footprint and 2010 – one of the first models in the world the protection of human and labor rights R5#!(#ŀ(.5*,)!,--51-5'5)(5. 5(,!35.,5$)/,(351#. 5 100% of laptop models (16) and 60% of desktop models (19) achieving the highest level of Energy Star 5 ratings R5/,571-.5*,)!,'5(,&35)/&5. 5)&&.#)(5) 571-.5 from 4000 kg per month to 7700 kg per month during 2009-10 52 Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2009-10) Vision and Goals for the Future Education and R5Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) expanded the R5#*,)5**&3#(!5Ļ)/! .5#(5 ))&-95Ļ5*&(5 ),5. 5(2.5.1)55 Community Initiatives program on holistic school education – 10 of the 22 long-term years is to consolidate the projects started in 2009-10 and to projects were initiated around this central theme initiate new projects around understanding and creating good R5 WATIS supported a two-year project for writing a educational literature and methods well-researched book by Kamala Mukunda, ‘What Did You Ask R5To initiate programs that blend sustainability in education, e.g., at School Today’. The book, published by Harper Collins, was citizen science programs in nature conservation released in 2009 R5 #--#)(gf95Ļ5*,#',35!)&-5) 5 -5h5) 5 #--#)(gf5,5 R5 Aided by new affiliations with reputed universities, .)9 Mission10X reached a cumulated total of 7777 engineering Create 250 more academic leaders faculty from across 19 states who have been empowered by our Facilitate deployment of 2500 Unified Learning Kits learning workshops Empower 25000 more engineering faculty R5 A total of 3370 learning assets in 18 engineering disciplines have been created till now by the institutions we engage with R5 Wipro Cares, our decade-old community care program, launched Project Sanjeevani, its first healthcare project at Waluj, Aurangabad R5 In line with our approach of supporting long-term rehabilitation – rather than short-term relief – for disaster-hit areas, we ran a pilot project on ecological infrastructure in the areas affected by the Kosi river floods in Bihar. The infrastructure included eco-sanitation, solar lights, rainwater harvesting, cobbled streets, and cleaned open wells. The objective was to make this idea a part of the government’s reconstruction polic 53 Sustainability Dimension Key Performance Highlights (2009-10) Vision and Goals for the Future Advocacy and Public We continued to closely engage with government and policy R5 To further India’s agenda for inclusive growth by actively Policy influencers on energy and climate change policy participating in and contributing to forums that influence R5Provided detailed inputs to the Finance Ministry for the Union policies in this direction Budget on clean energy fiscal policy R5 To initiate new advocacy platforms on identified issues of R5Authored a position paper on ‘Clean Energy as an Enabler of sustainability Inclusive Growth’ for the climate change secretariat R5 To consolidate partnerships that further research on select R5 Authored paper on ‘Green IT Policy’ for the Ministry of areas of clean energy, conservation and biodiversity Environment and Forests (MoEF) R5Hosted public seminar on ‘Clean Energy’ that was attended by senior leaders from the Karnataka government, academia and research NGOs R5Co-hosted a public seminar on climate change at the Indian Institute of Science R5Wipro was part of the core working group of Digital Energy Solutions Consortium (DESC) that researched ICT solutions for sustainability. The report was released in mid-2010 R5 Strengthened collaboration with the Center for Science and Technology Policy (CSTEP) during the year. Supported CSTEP’s international conference on ‘Climate and Energy Futures’ in October 2009 R5Wipro’s senior leadership participated actively in sustainability advocacy at the World Economic Forum (WEF) summit in Delhi and at Davos. At Davos, our Chairman was the co-chair of the ‘Sustainability’ stream 54 SPOTLIGHT: ALIGNING WITH SUSTAINABILITY CHARTERS AND NETWORKS Sustainability is a multi-stakeholder game and collective action is the only effective some of our own programs. We continue to be deeply engaged with the networks way to address its challenges. Since inception, we have believed that subscribing to that we started out with. We provide below the updated summary of our associations select charters and aligning with the right networks can be a force multiplier for (5(.1),%-5. .5#-5(5/*.50,-#)(5) 5. 5.&5#(5)/,5*,0#)/-5,*),.5B!5hnC9 Charter /Network /Association Brief Description Wipro’s Engagement The Digital Environment BDESC works with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Wipro is part of DESC’s core working group that is researching Sustainability Consortium sustainability forum on the charter for ICT (Information and the role of ICT in addressing climate change and related (DESC), India Communication Technology) as a driver for India’s national sustainability solutions. Our Chief Technology Officer is the goals on climate change as articulated in the National Action co-chair of the task force that released the report in mid-2010. Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) The report can be viewed and downloaded from www.digitalenergysolutions.org/india/desc-india/ CII Mission for Sustainable CII, India’s premier industry network, launched the Mission for Wipro was one of the first signatories to the CII Code for Growth Sustainable Growth (MSG) in 2008 with the core purpose of Ecologically Sustainable Business Growth. The code seeks championing the conservation of natural resources without voluntary commitments from companies towards reducing compromising on high and accelerated economic growth specific consumption of energy, water and other natural resources India Green Building Council The IGBC was formed under the aegis of the CII in 2001 with Wipro is one of the executive members of the IGBC panel that (IGBC) the goal of ushering in a ‘Green Building’ movement in India evolved the Green Building standards for India 55 Charter /Network /Association Brief Description Wipro’s Engagement India’s National Action Plan on The NAPCC comprises eight missions on different aspects of Wipro has partnered with CSTEP in researching and publishing Climate Change (NAPCC) sustainable development and is India’s official charter on a paper on the roadmap for the National Solar Mission (NSM) climate change The Carbon Disclosure Project The Carbon Disclosure Project was launched in 2000 to collect Wipro has been an active participant in the CDP disclosure (CDP) and distribute high-quality information that motivates investors, program since 2008. We have now participated in three editions corporations and governments to take action to prevent of CDP – the sixth, seventh and eighth. Our carbon disclosure dangerous climate change. More than 2500 companies from 60 is available for public viewing at the CDP site countries measure and disclose their GHG emissions through the CDP Indian Society for Technical The ISTE is a nodal group at the national level that furthers the Wipro’s Mission10X is a member of the ISTE Education (ISTE) cause of engineering education in the right direction. Please visit www.isteonline.in/ for details UN Global Compact (UNGC) The ten principles of the UNGC act as both a policy platform Wipro became a formal signatory to the UNGC in September and a practical framework for companies that are committed to 2008. Our first Communication on Progress (COP) was sustainability published in July 2010 UN Millennium Development In the year 2000, the UN defined eight Millennium Wipro endorses and supports the UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Development Goals (MDGs) to be achieved by the year 2015. Goals. In our own way, we continue to contribute strongly to at least These goals form the blueprint for the world’s countries to meet three of the MDGs – Universal Education, Gender Equality and the needs of the poorest. For more details, visit www.un.org/ Environmental Sustainability millenniumgoals/ 56 5. WIPRO AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS The primary point of departure of a sustainability-centric model does not require a deep supply chain, the rapid expanapproach to business from a more conventional lens is that the sion of this sector in the last two decades has resulted in a spotlight is not on the investor alone, but includes a variety of variety of ancillary services, e.g., bus transport, housekeeping, other stakeholders. Not all these stakeholders may have a canteen and security. Thus, services suppliers / contractors direct business engagement with the organization and yet they have become critical stakeholders for our operations. As the assume significance in the broader sustainability context of the case study on the Wipro Green PC in Section 5d shows, our industry sector and the geography in which the organization suppliers have played a strategic role in the success of our green Wipro & its Stakeholders. Here we outline our strategic perspectives, engagement approach, key performance highlights operates. For example, if a company runs operations in a computing journey. In progressing toward the goal of a and primary future goals for eight major stakeholders: water-stressed area, the local community becomes an imporsustainable and inclusive world, government, academia and Customers; Employees; Investors; Suppliers; the Education tant stakeholder for the organization to engage with on water research play a crucial role – the government by effecting Ecosystem; Communities & NGOs; Policy, Research & Advocacy; and Current & Future Generations. management. progressive policies and the academic / research worlds by t Spotlight: At Wipro, we have always viewed our customdriving fundamental innovation. Over the past three years, ers, employees and investors as strategic partners and stakeWipro has started engaging and collaborating closely with holders. Over the last decade, our deep outreach into education government and policy bodies on matters related to energy, and community care has brought us in close engagement with water and ICT in governance. During this period, we have also two new stakeholders – partners in the education ecosystem started collaborative partnerships with research and and proximate communities. While the IT services industry academic institutions. 57 We use websites, blogs, mail, newsletters and To these stakeholders, we have added another stakeholder ing ‘Education Ecosystem’ as a separate stakeholder group. This other online devices to stay connected with our stakeholders. just for the purpose of sustainability planning and reporting – stakeholder has been very much an integral part of our previCurrent and Future Generations. We think that the future ous reporting and we are only giving it a separate identity. The generations must be informed of our thinking and actions on ‘Government’ stakeholder of the previous reports is being sustainability more than anything else, otherwise our vision renamed ‘Policy, Research and Advocacy’ to reflect the fact that will stop short of being truly sustainable. Therefore, while this effective policy-making and regulations on core matters of stakeholder group may not have as tangible and as real a face, sustainability cannot happen in isolation but must be informed it acts as an anchor for our decisions. by deep empirical research and that business and civil society In our previous Sustainability Reports, we had identified must be part of a larger advocacy exercise. seven stakeholders – Customers, Employees, Investors, SuppliThe following table is a summary representation of our eight ers, Government, Communities and NGOs, and Current and stakeholders, the modes and frequency of our engagement Future Generations. From this report, we are modifying the list with them, the major issues of engagement that have emerged of stakeholders, not so much in substance but in form – over a period of time, and the primary internal custodians considering the breadth and depth of the work that we do in within Wipro for each of these groups. education and which is primarily partner-led, we are introduc58 5A. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Major Issues of Engagement Primary Internal Custodian Customers Modes: Strategic and operational -Quality and timeliness of Chief Strategy Officer, Chief reviews, customer meets, formal delivery Global Delivery Officer, Chief customer feedback, and surveys -Impact on customer’s business Quality Officer, and their teams Frequency: Ongoing reviews; metrics Surveys are annual and project-Does Wipro meet the norms based on environment, labor and human rights and corporate responsibility? Employees Modes: Open houses, perfor-Empowerment, continuous The Human Resources group, mance reviews, 360-degree learning , quality of work, EHS group (joint responsibility feedback, all-hands meet, focus work-life balance for health and safety) groups, leadership webcasts, blogs -Compensation and benefits, and discussion groups, perception workplace facilities surveys Health and safety, counseling Frequency: Ranges from daily and advice (blogs) to annual (360-degree Diversity in the workplace feedback) Career planning, appraisal and feedback Integrity and transparency at the workplace, the company’s Sometimes, face-to-face contact is the best way of sharing larger vision on sustainability delight and concerns with our stakeholders. and social issues Investors Modes: Annual General Meeting, -Company strategy and perforInvestor Relations team Annual Report, investor meets, mance, future plans analyst conferences, roadshows, Returns to shareholders shareholder voting, investor -Corporate governance complaints standards Frequency: Ranges from -Top risks and the company’s quarterly to annual; Analyst meets approach to risk mitigation and roadshows may be periodic depending on situational requirements 59 Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Major Issues of Engagement Primary Internal Custodian Suppliers Modes: Regular operational -Quality and cost-effectiveness The Central Procurement Office, reviews, supplier meets, vendor of services Wividus Shared Services, survey -Innovativeness of delivery Facilities Management Group, Frequency: Will vary from -100% compliance on labor and Legal Group monthly to annual human rights; Must subscribe to Wipro COBCE Zero tolerance for lapses in integrity -Alignment with Wipro expectations on ecological sustainability The Education Modes: Periodic meetings and -Systemic reform in India’s Wipro Applying Thought in Ecosystem discussions, regular e-mail school education system: Schools (WATIS) for school exchanges, annual education Curriculum and assessment education forum, faculty workshops, interventions, teacher capability, Mission10X for engineering Mission10X collaborative portal advocacy education Frequency: Varies from weekly to -Improving the quality of annual engineering education through both curriculum interventions and faculty training Communities Modes: Periodic meetings with -Continuing education for Wipro Cares, Location leaderand NGOs partners, open meets with children of migrant labor ship community, partner newsletters -Primary healthcare for rural Frequency: Varies from monthly communities to quarterly -Environment issues that affect disadvantaged communities (water) -Long-term rehabilitation for disaster-affected areas 60 Stakeholders Modes and Frequency of Engagement Major Issues of Engagement Primary Internal Custodian Policy, Research Modes: Planned meetings, -India’s policies on climate Eco Eye , Corporate Affairs, and Advocacy workshops, taskforces and steering change, energy efficiency, water, Senior Leadership committees of industry network e-waste and ICT bodies -Policy research on energy Frequency: Varies from monthly options for India to annual -Advocacy papers and reports on different sustainability challenges Current Modes: Indirect inference from -Sustainability of planet earth Eco Eye, Human Resources and Future our school interventions -Reforms in governance and Generations mentioned above, published rooting out of corruption sociological research and analysis -Meaningful work of emerging generation Sections 5b to 5h that follow provide extensive details of each continue to report on our Education and Community Care of the stakeholder programs. For reasons of consistency, we programs in one section. 61 We use websites, blogs, mail, newsletters and To these stakeholders, we have added another stakeholder ing ‘Education Ecosystem’ as a separate stakeholder group. This other online devices to stay connected with our stakeholders. just for the purpose of sustainability planning and reporting – stakeholder has been very much an integral part of our previCurrent and Future Generations. We think that the future ous reporting and we are only giving it a separate identity. The generations must be informed of our thinking and actions on ‘Government’ stakeholder of the previous reports is being sustainability more than anything else, otherwise our vision renamed ‘Policy, Research and Advocacy’ to reflect the fact that will stop short of being truly sustainable. Therefore, while this effective policy-making and regulations on core matters of stakeholder group may not have as tangible and as real a face, sustainability cannot happen in isolation but must be informed it acts as an anchor for our decisions. by deep empirical research and that business and civil society In our previous Sustainability Reports, we had identified must be part of a larger advocacy exercise. seven stakeholders – Customers, Employees, Investors, SuppliThe following table is a summary representation of our eight ers, Government, Communities and NGOs, and Current and stakeholders, the modes and frequency of our engagement Future Generations. From this report, we are modifying the list with them, the major issues of engagement that have emerged of stakeholders, not so much in substance but in form – over a period of time, and the primary internal custodians considering the breadth and depth of the work that we do in within Wipro for each of these groups. education and which is primarily partner-led, we are introduc62 5B. EMPLOYEES & SUSTAINABILITY AT THE WORKPLACE 2009 was a tough year for Wipro and our employees. But ﬂexibility in policies, proactiveness in communication and support on the ground ensured that we got through the year with much Wipro wheels aims to reduce the optimism for the year to come. carbon footprint of employees and the company by encouraging people to cycle to work. This year’s Wipro Run was held worldwide and attracted 7000 participants! New Rewards & Recognition programmes continued to motivate employees to excel. Mitr, a counselling programme, was more accessible than ever before. Leadership Blogs ensured that everyone at Wipro was aware of their company’s performance and direction. The Women of Wipro (WOW) continued to build on past successes in increasing gender diversity. Wipro Advantage is an internal shopping/exchange portal that gets great discounts and deals for Wiproites. Wipro’s Pandemic Response was geared up to face the threat of H1N1 as well as other possibilities. Encouraging feedback from employees is an ongoing process at Wipro. Wipro continues to reach out to diﬀerently abled people, oﬀering both employment & disabled-friendly infrastructure and technology. 63 “The year 2009-2010 was a tough and demanding period with challenging business conditions. The global economic slowdown brought the inevitable pressure on cost and productivity. It called for a sensitive balance between keeping employee morale high and yet delivering the higher efficiency and productivity that business demanded – the right mix of short-term benefits and long-term planning. In the light of restricted budgets for salary hikes, limited growth opportunities as well as business and role uncertainty, this was a year for consolidation for building deeper roots and a stronger foundation. Our objective was not just to recover from the slowdown but to also emerge more prepared for the future. As the year rolled out, we focused on some key themes employee feedback and support programs, communication, employee engagement, and process improvement initiatives, with a continued emphasis on Diversity and the Spirit of Wipro.” Pratik Kumar, EVP Human Resources. 64 ENGAGING TALENT AND BOOSTING EMPLOYEE MORALE The organizational and business changes that occurred in Best Human Resources Department for Team of the Year 2009 had the potential to create workplace stress and category. demotivate employees. Our first priority was to nurture our The Meet Your People Program, which consists of a suite of talent pool during this tough year. We achieved this through engagement programs, focused on keeping employees updated Various account-level open houses, strengthening of communication channels, employee connect about the business outlook through quarterly Business Unitluncheons with leaders, round table with the senior leadership team and improvement of existing wide All Hands Meets (AHMs). People’s Week, BU Day, long discussions and coffee sessions with processes for induction, re-skilling, managing performance, service celebrations, team building and social events were also HR as well as business leaders were seeking feedback from employees, succession planning, conducted in each BU to create enthusiasm amongst the regularly organized to ensure two-way innovative recognition processes, and continued employee employees. communication. engagement. We won recognition for our efforts through Various account-level open houses, luncheons with leaders, international business awards: the Stevie Award for Human round table discussions and coffee sessions with HR as well as Resources Executive of the Year 2009 was given to business leaders were regularly organized to ensure two-way Pratik Kumar. The Wipro team also featured as a finalist in the communication. 65 Induction programs welcome the new hires and integrate them in the company. We continued to hold our monthly new hire orientation Globally, a total of 36115 campus and lateral hires in the IT programs for all employees hired in geographies outside India, business went through different induction programs in the apart from the weekly induction sessions in India. Amongst the year 2009-10. different induction programs we conduct, a program that stands Training out is the Global Assimilation Program (GAP) for senior clientWipro has always invested proactively in human capital facing employees. GAP is a 2-week intensive induction program development. Our multipronged training programs focus on Globally, a total of 36115 campus and hosted in India and is conducted every quarter. It’s been running holistic employee development throughout their careers in lateral hires in the IT business went since the year 2006. This program provides an opportunity to Wipro. through different induction programs participants to interact with the senior-most Wipro executives In the year 2009-10, we expanded the reach of these programs in the year 2009-10. across businesses and functions. It also helps new hires to build by launching an online Integrated Talent Management System vital networks with Wipro teams in India that will help them (ITMS) that offers approximately 5640 courses to employees in succeed and to present Wipro in a credible manner to client Wipro Technologies, our global IT services business. The ITMS teams. In the year 2009-10, we covered more than 70 senior has an Annual Development Plan for every employee consisting client-facing employees hired outside India under this program. of Personal Learning (Individual Learning Plan-ILP), Our weekly induction programs for lateral hires and the mandatory courses and statutory courses like Information induction programs for campus hires in India continued to Security Training. 66 Under the Individual Learning Plan (ILP), training courses locations outside India, grew tremendously in terms of employee are identified based on the competency assessment of the participation through last year. This is a business executive-led employee in the annual performance appraisal. The employee is communication exercise that provides employees outside India required to complete all these courses during the year. with quarterly updates on Wipro business results, key location Completion of previous year’s ILP is one of the events and account-specific activities. It ensures that employees objectives and each employee is rated on this who work from client locations stay connected with Wipro and objective. Though it is difficult to track the exact remain aware of changes that affect them. We also introduced hours of e-learning though ITMS, total online “themes” like Eco-Eye and Diversity in each session. This learning time for every employee is estimated to created awareness about and elicited active participation from be between 4 to 9 hours. We plan to cover the employees in key focus areas for the organization. entire IT business through this system in the In a year of uncertainty, this communication platform was year 2010-11. more important than ever and reassured employees about In the next few years, we plan to grow our Wipro's ability to weather the economic crisis. This program leadership development programs to a new has run for 12 successive scale through the Wipro Leadership Institute. This institute quarters for more than 7000 IN SYNC program has run for 12 successive quarters for more than would be a dedicated facility offering the best-in-class programs, employees outside India in 7000 employees outside India... infrastructure, and faculty to nurture the leadership pipeline at 2009-10. in India, similar programmes are different levels to meet the business ambitions of Wipro In India, similar called All Hands Meets. Corporation. programs are done at Communication account level. These programs are called IN SYNC, our key employee communication program for All Hands Meets. 67 Seeking employee feedback communication was led by Business Unit Heads through eThe employee perception survey, Voice of Wipro (VOW), has mails, open houses and employee meetings. 52% of the global always been the most effective way of gathering employee views. Wipro IT business workforce participated in the survey and the This survey was launched in November 2009 with the overall engagement scores in Wipro improved by 11 percentage conviction that collection of frank, albeit tough, feedback from points over the earlier survey completed in 2007. employees was more critical than ever in an environment of Social responsibility rapid change and heightened expectations. A revised This was identified as one of our key areas of strength with engagement model, in congruence with research, reflected 21 63.3% employees at Wipro level agreeing or strongly agreeing In the Employee perception survey, levers of engagement arising from the four focal points of with our approach on social responsibility. After the survey, we 63% of employees identified Organization, Job, Manager, and Team. This survey also conducted a qualitative study in collaboration with an external social responsibility as one of included questions on some key organizational initiatives such agency. Through this study we reached out to employees to our key areas of strength. as social responsibility, health and safety and diversity. Questions validate some of the findings of the survey and to explore some also captured employee opinion on the company’s customerareas in greater depth. Some of the employees who had not service orientation. responded to the online survey, expressed their opinions in these The survey was launched by the Joint CEOs and subsequent face-to-face meetings. Action Presentation Identify Administration Analysis Qualitative planning and of action levers of of online of results study validation plans to engagement survey of ideas leadership Overall, social responsibility, team spirit, diversity and empowerment emerged as areas of strength, while rewards and recognition, strengthening middle management, communication, career opportunities as areas of weakness. 68 We went a step further Spirit of Wipro Run in involving employees in The annual Spirit of Wipro Run has become a tradition at the change process by Wipro over the last few years, with a steady increase in the inviting them to design participation from Wiproites each year. In 2009, more than the change they wanted. 7000 Wiproites took part in this run across locations. Both Each improvement area the preparation for the run and the actual event bring about a was identified from the tremendous sense of camaraderie and team focus – with a terrific survey and the qualitative study was opportunity to live and reinforce the three core Wipro values adopted by one business unit head. These business heads invited i.e. demonstrating the intensity to win, acting with sensitivity, Wipro BPO was ranked amongst the employees across the company to volunteer for action teams to and displaying unyielding integrity at all times. This year, Top 3 companies in Dataquest Top 20 design and implement improvement actions. From printed t-shirts were replaced with t-shirts bearing the hand Best Employers Survey 2009. the 2000 applications, action team members were shortlisted, imprint of the individual runner, thus personalizing the based on their responses. Many of these action team members memento and saving energy. Wipro also planted a tree for every reached out to more employees for further discussions on participant who ran. specific action areas and to get their views suggestions on Voice of Wipro 2009 possible actions. At present, the teams are developing action 90 Participation Engagement 78 plans and reviewing them with business leaders. 80 71 72 70 66 62 60 53 52 Over 7000 employees worldwide took part in the Spirit Of Wipro Run 49 50 40 30 20 10 0 Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech WBPO IT Business 69 IDENTIFYING AND REWARDING HIGH PERFORMERS Performance management there is now an equal focus on both goals achieved and As the business environment grew more competitive, the need competencies displayed. Another change was movement from a for stronger performance management 4-point rating scale to a 5-point scale. This increased. After the business restructuring change has enabled sharper differentiation in of April 2008, we also felt the need for a performance levels. Finally, completion of the single, uniform performance management Individual Learning Plan under the Integrated system for the corporation so that Talent Management System (see training employees across Wipro have the same The new performance management section earlier in this section) was made a system provides employees with higher yardsticks of performance. The new mandatory objective in appraisals, thereby transparency and visibility to the performance management system that strongly linking appraisals and employee evaluation and rating process used by rolled out in March 2010, provides development. These changes, along with other managers. employees with higher transparency and standardization initiatives, have facilitated visibility to the evaluation and rating the easy movement of talent between group process used by managers. Employees now companies. In a year with slow business growth, get a 5-day time window to view the comments given by these changes were particularly important as they helped to their managers and give any relevant additional information identify good performers who were impacted by external to managers before they finalize the performance rating. conditions beyond their control and allowed the organization With the introduction of overall rating on competencies, to find suitable roles and rewards for high performers. 70 Wipro Leadership Qualities Survey Rewards and recognition The 360-degree feedback process for leaders was strengthened The Sustainability Report for 2008-09 carried references to to increase alignment of leadership development to current and the Applied Innovation Awards, Wipro Infotech Solitaire emerging business priorities. The Wipro Leaders’ Qualities were Awards, Business Unit Awards, Encore Awards, Long Service revised to reflect renewed levels of maturity attained by the Awards, and The Best People Manager Award that recognize organization as well as new areas of challenge visualized for the performance, team work, camaraderie, service continuity, and future qualities that can be observed in action and will create people management abilities of Wiproites. Despite the business impact. The Spirit of Wipro was added to the set of core recessionary pressure built in the last year, all these listed award leadership qualities and Sustainability was included in the same. categories were continued in FY ‘09-10. In addition, a new set of Sustainability was also woven into qualities such as team awards was introduced for the IT Business in 2009, titled Achievement Orientation and Talent Building that affect ‘Joint CEO Awards for Exemplary Performance’. business outcomes. This change has set the tone for sustainability to get institutionalized at the hands of leaders who are most favorably positioned to influence the strategic, operational and cultural reality, on a day-to-day basis. The transformation of the Wipro Leaders’ Qualities, the leadership feedback process and related development processes, has been participative and transparent. Changes have been based on inputs from senior leaders across geographies and businesses as well as external benchmark inputs. 71 There are two broad categories of the Joint CEO Awards – priority. We would find alternative options of reducing costs Evergreen Awards and the Special Theme-based awards that are and layoffs would be our last option. We modified two of our specific to the year’s special initiatives. The 9 Evergreen Awards existing policies of sabbatical (unpaid study leave of maximum are Best Managed Account, Best Innovative Solution, Best 2 years) and part-time work and made them available to a large Outsourcing Deal, Best Large/Complex Project Execution, Best section of employees. Two options were introduced: First, Transformational Deal, Best Non-Linear Solution, Best employees could opt to work for 8-10 days in a month and get Function, Best Business Unit, and Excellence Award for 50% of their salary for a period of 6 months. Diversity. The measure of performance and the assessment This payout would become 40% of salary if the employee criteria for this set of awards were published in the beginning of continued this arrangement after 6 months. Second, employees the financial year so that Wiproites could aspire for and work could take a 12-18 month sabbatical and get 25% of their salary Two broad categories of the Joint toward winning the awards. during this period. Employees on these particular programs were CEO Awards: Evergreen Awards A total of 140 nominations were received across the award given the option to simultaneously work elsewhere in a nonand the Special Theme-based awards that are specific to the year’s special categories. The winners were chosen by a Jury comprising conflicting area, e.g., teaching in a college or work with an NGO. initiatives. internal leaders: Jt. CEOs Suresh Vaswani and Girish Paranjpe, This ensured that the employees had an alternate source of EVP-HR Pratik Kumar, CFO Suresh Senapaty and two income. external members from the industry (Noshir Kaka – Country Special technical and behavioural training programs were Head, McKinsey and Siddharth Pai – Country Head, TPI). launched for these employees with the objective of skill The gala awards night was held in April 2010 and the grand upgradation, in order to be deployed in new projects. A total of felicitation ceremony for the award winners happened at the Q4 2643 employees opted for these programs. All these employees Board meeting dinner. were given full benefits like other employees such as life Workforce optimization insurance, medical insurance, no disruption in perks, no delay in The business landscape of 2009-10 was full of layoffs. Wipro vesting of stock, etc. These programs were in response to the too was under the pressure of workforce optimization. Our specific business environment last year and were formally closed response was that safeguarding employee jobs was our first by end of March 2010. 72 DIVERSITY Through all our other initiatives, the overarching focus remained on increasing and nurturing Diversity, and making Wipro a more inclusive workplace. We made progress on all four pillars of the Wipro Diversity charter: gender, nationalities, people with disabilities, and underprivileged sections. Some of the initiatives are described in subsequent paragraphs. Hiring a global workforce business, we have 98% local talent comprising of 27 nationalities In line with our recruitment philosophy, we brought a diverse in 15 centres across: the Americas, Australia, Central and talent pool into Wipro through last year. In 2009-10, 28% of the Eastern Europe, and Asia. The BPO division won the Global workforce in the IT business consists of women, up from 26.8% Impact Awards 2009 from the Metro Atlanta Chamber of in 2008-09. 7% of the workforce of the IT business is nonCommerce for Economic Development for successful job Indian as against 5% in 2008-09. Of the total IT business creation and the resulting positive impact on Atlanta’s economy. workforce outside India, 39% are local nationals. In newer As our workforce becomes more global, managers need to locations like Romania, we had an active presence among job increase their skills of working with and managing cross-cultural fairs and career events in Bucharest and offered jobs to 130 teams. An online training program is now available on ITMS (BPO recruitment poster in Romania). FTEs. We also opened an office in Timisoara, Romania for 450+ (see section on training) to learn the cultural dimensions of employees and two other offices in Sebu, Manila and Okinawa, conducting business in 40+ countries across the globe. Japan. We also continued to build diversity at the top management level. Our country heads in China, Japan, France, Germany, the head for Europe geography, and the head for Global Media and Inauguration event at Telecom business are all local national hires. In our BPO Timisoara, Romania 73 Manager training along with other celebrations for International Women’s Day. We have introduced Prevention of Workplace Harassment This program matched high-potential women in the middle training sessions, classroom and online both, for managers, management cadre with senior executives who are at The representation of women in senior and top level positions in to sensitize them on the nuances of diversity and antileast 2 levels above, for a mentoring relationship lasting 6-12 IT business has also increased from discrimination. months. The mentors were both men and women. We chose 8.46% in 2007-08 to 9.27% in Online programs are available in USA and will soon be this particular group to strengthen our process of retaining 2009-10. launched in other parts of the company. We believe that this and grooming high-potential women managers into senior focused education of managers builds the foundations for a leadership/ strategic positions. We currently have about 100 diverse talent team in Wipro. pairs of mentors and mentees working across the globe. Based on Supporting gender diversity through ‘Women of our experience from this pilot group, we will extend this program to women in C1/C2 bands across geographies as well as cover Wipro’ higher numbers in our domestic IT and BPO business. The Women of Wipro (WOW) council launched various On the eve of International Women’s day, a voluntary session initiatives to facilitate exposure, flexibility and empowerment was organized addressing for the women employees. These included informal guidance relationships, stress, work-life sessions with top-performing women employees, speaker balance and other such concerns sessions by external experts and a Women of Wipro microsite. that women usually face. We These initiatives have ensured a steady increase in women received an overwhelming representation in middle management positions in the last 3 response from employees to years. The representation of women in senior and top-level these sessions with experienced positions in IT business has also increased from 8.46% in and professional counselors. 2007-08 to 9.27% in 2009-10. We piloted a Mentoring Program exclusively for women, 74 Creating an inclusive workplace for People with “I am delighted to be a part of Wipro & excited about Disabilities my long future in Wipro” One visible change in the past year is the improved C Good Luck Singh, accessibility within 11 premises in India, all of which are Project Manager, Retail, Consumer Goods, Transportation and Government(RCTG) large, Wipro-owned facilities. To the extent possible, the Wipro promotes equal opportunity for its employees. The friendly and customized campuses have been modified as per the Accessibility infrastructure helps in day-to-day functioning at the workplace. A specially designed program really makes a difference in the areas of Gender, Disability and Nationality. Guidelines based on ‘United Nations Economic and Social It is these conditions that nurture my appreciation of working at Wipro. Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) Wipro promotes respect amongst co-workers and I feel this respect in both mine and Accessibility for the Disabled A Design other work groups with whom I am in contact, especially HR, who handle my Manual for a Barrier Free Environment’ discomforts empathetically. The human resources person, Jayshree, arranged leave approval for me to participate in the National Paralympics Games conducted in For details, refer www.un.org/esa/socdev/ Sri Kanteerava Stadium, Bangalore. Or when I had to shift my project team to enable/designm/index.html. Electronic City location, the FMG team allocated a ground floor workstation for me. They also put steel handrails on the ladders and ramp of tower 8 so that I can walk easily by holding them. The Recently launched ‘Self Identification Form’ enables employees to voluntarily share a special need/disability which helps the company to provide the necessary support required and will also help to pass on any associated benefits like Income Tax exemptions etc. I recommend that we ask affected people to come forward, volunteer and become a part of such initiatives. We can also educate concerned authorized implementers and spread awareness among employees about new programs we launch for persons with disabilities. It has been more than five years; I am still inspired and just as excited about working for Wipro as I was on my first day. 75 Access guidelines have been made an integral part of our business. These are people who have voluntarily disclosed their building guidelines so every new building comes up designed for disability. such accessibility. The Wipro Building Standards were revised We audited 56 of our policies in accordance with the based on the latest ‘Draft of Indian Accessibility Standard: UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Recommendations for Buildings and Facilities for Inclusion of (UNCRPD), ratified by India on 1st October 2007. Persons with Disabilities’, National Centre for Promotion of We are currently adapting our IS applications to connect with Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) and typical software such as JAWS that are used by persons with We have made changes to our AccessAbility (2009). disability so that web portals and information is accessible to all. recruitment, training and We have also made changes to our recruitment, training Our efforts for Persons with Disability were recognized when other policies to enable persons and other policies to enable persons with disabilities to Wipro was a recipient of the coveted NCPEDP Shell Helen with disabilities to build build meaningful careers in Wipro. The year 2009-10 saw Keller Award for 2009. Nupur Jain, Senior Executive Talent, meaningful careers in Wipro. us recruiting from management, technical campuses and Engagement and Development, was an individual awardee. consultants to welcome persons with disabilities into different Over the last 12 years, these awards have come to be recognized roles across the organization. Exclusive walk-in interviews, as the most prestigious Indian benchmark for honoring people employee referrals as well as participation in Disability job fairs and organizations which have been working towards promoting were also undertaken in India. In our Mysore facility, 10 employment opportunities for people with disabilities. We also employees with disabilities were hired in 2009-10. As of 31st won our first award in the US from the Association of Diversity. March 2010, we had 55 persons with disabilities in the IT 76 Of the top 25 companies listed, Wipro was positioned in the sixth place in the 2010 Annual Diversity Council Honors Award™. The annual Diversity Council Honors Awards recognize and honor the outstanding contributions and Mangal S S, achievements of the nation’s top diversity council groups that Senior Consultant, Productized Solutions Group lead diversity processes in their organizations and have “I appreciate the fact that Wipro buildings are accessible by all. Considering demonstrated results in their workforce, workplace and my requirement, I am able to manage on my own without much changes. Wipro marketplace. encourages recruitment of people with disabilities. At the same time, recruitment Applicants were evaluated on contributions and achievements is completely on merit and that increases one’s confidence in working here. After my selection, a Wipro person called me to check if I had any special requirements, in four categories: Demonstrated Council Results; which made me feel welcome in the company. My needs are being reviewed under Demonstrated Management Commitment; Measurement and the reasonable accommodation policy. This makes me feel included and that this Accountability; Communication and Education. On the organization cares for its people. My manager shows faith in me and my colleagues never treat me as though I International Day of People with Disabilities, we organized a need anything different from them or that I am different. All my team members sale of candles, paper bags, handmade notebooks, and and managers are very approachable. The team that is working on the People decorative items made by people with disabilities. This sale with Disabilities program regularly reaches out to me to take suggestions and was organized in six locations in India – Bangalore, Hyderabad, keep in touch. I would suggest that Wipro buses should also be made wheelchair accessible and Chennai, Gurgaon, Pune, and Kolkata. The sale was organized I am sure Wipro will do this soon.” in collaboration with a Delhi-based NGO that works with other smaller NGOs for producing and marketing goods and services made by people with disabilities. 77 Pratik Jindal, Consultant, Nupur Jain, Consultant, Global Research Center of Consulting (GRCC) Senior Executive, HR Wipro treats employees with disabilities the same as any other employee. When I would like to take some names here like Indra, and late Ranjan Acharya. Indra I was recruited in Wipro Consulting Services, I was told that my selection was came as a very good friend to me at work, giving me the orientation of the whole purely on merit. This made me feel that I belong to this organization. It was building and helped me to navigate my way through. She also helped me to format heartwarming. Although I joined the company after the rest of my batch, I was made documents and presentations. She has been always very supportive. In my two-andto feel very comfortable with the team. Anurag Sharma who is our Team Leader half years of journey with Wipro. I have had a very smooth experience. I would like escorted me and introduced me to the team. Things like JAWS software, my to remember the support from my team and supervisor Dr. Joseph George for making laptop and special screen had already been ordered. me comfortable in the team, mentoring me and helping me grow as a professional. The role of seniors has been instrumental with a special mention of Vasudev The team had no biases toward People with Disabilities. All of them were open to Murthy, Anurag Sharma, Ketan Phanz, Divya Shankar, Projit, Annice Joseph, understanding my requirements and helped me perform at my best, playing the role among others, who have gone out of their way to guide me day in and out. I of friends.. Lastly, Ranjan was a person who always had time to listen to me and share same responsibilities as the others in my team and I get equal treatment as give me suggestions for further improvement. others. On the whole, entire atmosphere in GRCC is so friendly and comfortable All together, it has been a good experience as many reasonable accommodations that it gets the best out of you. have been provided by Wipro to me like commuting from home to work and back The recently launched ‘SIF’ enables employees to voluntarily share a special to home by letting me get my auto till the basement of the building. I have been need/disability which helps the company to provide the necessary support required provided with screen-reading software and scanner at my desk to help me to scan and will also help to pass on any associated benef its like Income Tax exemptions etc. books and read them independently. I would suggest some digital boards, bigger screen to display floor numbers In the end, I would like to mention that physical infrastructural changes have and names of conference rooms so that everybody can easily read them. Team Leaders been made to accommodate People with Disabilities at work but I also would request can be encouraged to hire more people with disabilities if we are more prepared the management to make the applications of myWipro accessible with screento arrange equipment and facilities to make employees productive without delay. reading software. 78 Employee as responsible citizen Responsibility’ was one of the high-scoring levers of Eco Eye: Our eco sustainability program, Eco Eye, continued engagement (see section on ‘Seeking employee feedback’) to engage employees beyond their day-to-day routine. Our next This year, our India Eco Eye chapters took up some new themes generation of employees is deeply aware of environmental issues, to contribute to eco-sustainability in their respective locations. and prefers an organization that is integrated with their core The Eco Eye program expanded its reach when we started 3 new principles. This got highlighted in the recently conducted chapters, one each in USA, Europe and Singapore. Employee Perception Sur vey 2009, where ‘Social The Eco Eye initiative is covered in more details in the subsequent sections of this report. Chapter Illustrative activities Bangalore Bangalore Freewheelers club –Wiproites cycled to office to reduce carbon footprint Hyderabad & Pune Tree nests, birdfeed and birdbaths to encourage sparrows to return to our campuses Chennai 80 Wiproites, equipped with safety gear, cleared a garbage dump created during construction activities next to the Wipro Chennai office USA • Cleaning the Hunting beach in Southern California in partnership with ‘Heal the Bay’ association • ‘Plant a Wish’: 20-25 native trees planted on the Midtown Greenway in Minneapolis Participation in the Pond Dakota restoration event held at Bloomington, Minnesota • Work groups hauled brush and performed general maintenance in order to help prepare for a large seeding and planting event • Uncas Dunes Restoration in Big Lake, MN. General maintenance in order to protect and preserve this important site for future generations and prepare for a large seeding event in the near future Europe • Green Christmas week • Christmas postcards with Christmas greetings on one side and simple eco-friendly tips on the otherside • Planting of 1800 daffodil bulbs during this week Singapore • Sessions on Climate Change • Learning session for kids on the risks of our ‘Warming World’ • Eco Eye Day: Climate Change quiz and screening of ‘An Inconvenient Truth’ • Eco Eye photography competition: Winning entries were used for an e-calendar 79 FREE AND FAIR WORK ENVIRONMENT Ombudsprocess leadership, e.g., blogs, town hall meetings, online chats, plan Wipro has prided itself on its ethical work environment. The communication, etc. A reflection of this is that in our IT Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is core to our day-to-day business, there are no registered trade unions. work and we continued this focus through a difficult year. The Significant operational changes complaints received through the Ombudsprocess through We take employees into confidence over any significant e-mail, letters and phone calls were tracked manually till Q2 of change that may affect them. Changes need not be disruptive 2009-10. and hence are handled with sensitivity. When we acquire While these avenues continue, in Q3 of 2009-10, the businesses, integration is a critical process for its success. We Ombudsprocess went online on the company intranets – conduct surveys regularly over an extended period of time from myWipro and Channel W. Now, employees can log their all impacted stakeholders to gauge the progress of integration. concerns online and also track the resolution status on the portal. Employee health and safety The portal also hosts case studies and policy training materials to Ensuring a safe and healthy work environment is of increase employee awareness of the process, resolution paramount importance to Wipro. We continued to improve mechanism and their rights. In 2009-10, the Ombudsprocess our health and safety systems in the last year. The physical received a total of 451 complaints. A detailed categorization of environment is designed to be aesthetically pleasing and these complaints and the actions taken is provided in the data convenient while the spacious, open campuses and buildings are section of this report. equipped with ergonomically designed workstations, convenient We respect the right of our employees to form and join trade access to refreshments and nutritious food. We also have a unions; however, our business comprises predominantly of Health & Safety portal where employees can log in incidents qualified knowledge workers who work in an empowering occurring within the workplace. It is also the avenue to capture workplace climate. Our employees have several avenues of any concerns / suggestions for improving the health and safety of expressing their opinions and communicating feedback to the employees. 80 The Employee Health and Safety team at Wipro has won result, the number of calls rose from 120 in 2008-09 to 579 in several State and National Awards for our state-of-the-art 2009-10. Employee Health & Safety Practices such as 2nd position in Policies for health and safety Leadership and Excellence Award in Environment, Health & Various employee policies help Wiproites stay safe and Safety from CII, Golden Peacock EHS Award 2009 – Awarded manage health issues. Our medical benefits program is one of by IOD, Winner of Habitat award 2009 for LEED, and the most comprehensive in the industry. In India, we cover Greentech Environment Excellence Silver Award 2009. 21 of employees, their spouse and children under contributory our owned facilities are ISO 140001 (EMS) certified and 15 are schemes such as Medical Assistance Program (over-the-counter OHSAS 18001 certified. There were no work-related fatal medicines and domiciliary expenses), Medical Benefits Program accidents on any Wipro campus in FY ‘09-10. (chronic diseases) and Mediclaim (hospitalization). Wipro also Mitr provides assistance under company-funded programs such as There were no work-related fatal Mitr, our Employee counseling and support forum, was assistance for treatment of illness that are catastrophic in nature accidents on any Wipro campus established over 5 years ago. So far, the program had comprised (e.g. kidney transplant), annual health check-up for managers, in FY ‘09-10. employee volunteers who were trained as counselors. This year, group personal accident insurance and group term life cover. the program became especially significant as employees dealt Outside India, we have a competitive healthcare program that with unprecedented professional and emotional upheaval, both provides medical, dental, vision, and health insurance plans to at the workplace and outside. Therefore, we tied up with an employees in all geographies through reputed insurance external agency to reach out to a wider audience and scale up the companies. program. For example, the US benefits program offers Life and Mitr Plus, as we now call it, is available 24X7 in person and on Accidental Death & Disability Insurance along with features phone, and includes counseling for legal and financial issues, like Flexible Spending Account and Health Savings Account. apart from emotional support. E-mails and posters encouraged Our aim is to offer increasingly better benefits to employees that employees to speak out about their problems and seek help. As a extend beyond statutory compliance. 81 Increasing traffic in Indian cities has also led to an increase in customers. A comprehensive business continuity plan was road accidents in the country. We educate our employees on safe implemented along with elaborate measures for employee health driving practices. For instance, we have a strict helmet policy and safety. inside the campus; this reinforces the importance of observing Employees were educated about the A(H1N1) flu, its safety rules. The Fit for Life program (covered in 2008-09 symptoms, precautions to prevent it, and its cure through report) runs communication campaigns, webchats, and specific frequent awareness mails. A special quarantine leave was events to create awareness about the benefits of healthy food, introduced for those employees who fell sick because of exercise, and medical check-ups. In many locations, the Fit for A(H1N1) flu and needed additional leave for treatment. Our Life team has got healthy food options introduced in facilities were disinfected each time an employee was diagnosed consultation with nutritionists. with the flu. Health check-ups were also organized for those Pandemic Response Programme: In 2009-10, the entire world employees who happened to be in proximity of an employee was in Pandemic Phase leading to fears about well-being of infected by A(H1N1) flu. Wipro tied up with various hospitals families, business losses because of disruption in travel, and for a basic health check-up for employees who travelled back absenteeism. Wipro formed a multi-function Pandemic Task from countries where A(H1N1) spread was severe. Regular Force to prevent the infection from adversely affecting our updates were provided to employees on a microsite created on employees, their families, our business continuity, and our our intranet – Channel W. 82 On the lighter side: Wipro Advantage based offers are periodically introduced and product sales are Wipro Advantage, an online in-house shopping portal, was organized at campuses in Bangalore and Hyderabad in India. started with a view to making a wide range of products/services Suite of policies to cater to different employee available at specially negotiated prices both online and on needs campus to employees in India. This portal has customized Our employee policies are regularly updated to meet different web pages designed specifically for Wipro and is hosted on the employee needs. The following table illustrates some of our corporate intranet. The portal is accessible even to employees major employee policies: without intranet access while working in client locations. EventAssisting in Money Rewarding Retirement Health and Flexible Work Management Performance Benefit & Benefits Wellness Arrangements for Contingencies Basket of allowances to • Variable pay program PF, Gratuity, Pension, Separate medical Optional holiday choose from Wipro Quarterly Performance Survivor Benefit programs for scheme Benefits Program Linked Compensation Program , 401 (K) domiciliary expenses, • Sales incentive plans plan with employer and hospitalization match for the first 5% covering spouse and of contribution made children by the employee and retirement plans for each geography in accordancewith laws and best industry practices 83 Assisting in Money Rewarding Retirement Health and Flexible Work Management Performance Benefit & Benefits Wellness Arrangements for Contingencies Furniture and Restricted Stock Unit Survivor Benefit Catastrophic Medical Sabbatical Leave equipment scheme grants Program in India Assistance Program program-unpaid study (monthly amount to leave for maximum 2 family if an employee years dies while in service) Interest-free loans Company-paid Annual Health Extended Maternity Accident Insurance Check-up Leave policy and Life Insurance Wipro Advantage Parents’ Insurance On premises facilities Industrial Injury special price tie-ups for premium such as gym, tennis Leave products under lifestyle, reimbursement court, basketball court, health and fitness, yoga and aerobic finance, electronics sessions, weekend lecture on medical issues, periodic chats with medical experts, health/low calorie food options in cafeterias, online diet and nutrition counseling Arthashastra inhouse Mitr Plus program Adoption Leave financial planning for counselling portal On premises doctors Wipro Creche Flexibility to move to different projects, business units. Flexibility to obtain transfer to a particular location because of personal circumstances 84 Policies for contractors staff have the access to Wipro’s Information Services Division Contractors are an integral part of the Wipro employee where they can enrich themselves on the subject of their choice ecosystem and play a significant role in both Wipro and also get books issued for reading at home. Technologies and Wipro Infotech. Almost 90% of them are Wipro is currently working out a medical and an insurance engaged in technical roles and the others play roles in service scheme for contract employees and this would get implemented functions such as Finance, Legal and others. Based on soon. Apart from this there are several other initiatives being performance, several contractors get absorbed as full-time planned to make the policies more inclusive for contractors. employees every year. For some divisions in Wipro Infotech, we engage with external Contractors in technical roles, who are posted at a site with partners to provide us with contractors to work on client 24x7 operations, are covered under shift allowance policy where engagements for us. A careful and thorough investigation is the employees are eligible to receive a fixed amount for every done on the credentials of the partner organization before odd-hour shift they work in. ESI benefits are extended to all engaging them. Some of these checks include: Proof of contractors who fall under its purview. registration, statutory compliance to ESI, PF, labor license, Contractors in Wipro Infotech are eligible for 15 days of internal quality assurance procedures, list of past and ongoing paid leave during the tenure of their contract with Wipro. This projects and client list, Performance Standards for Health and is over and above the National and festival holidays declared by Safety, and ISO Certifications. From 2010-11 we plan to Wipro in that location. Going forward, a similar policy would conduct a structured audit for all our partners covering Legal be drafted for Wipro Technologies as well. Acts and other basic processes. To enhance their skills and enrich their knowledge, contract 85 WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY: CONTEST WINNERS On World Environment Day in 2010, Wiproites across the world were invited to share a viral video of a personal change they made in their lives to help the planet. Here are the most compelling ones: Green wheels Ravindra Naidu & Chandra Bose Eco habits – Suresh Kumar Ramaswamy Making a fashion statement that is eco-friendly – here is a This video is an embodiment of the kind of commitment one new way to do it. Go the ‘Green Wheels’ Way, as Ravi and person can have towards a sustainable living. And if you have the Chandru put it, because roller skates are not only trendy but right will power you can stop at nothing. Suresh is involved in a also are a huge style statement! host of activities like tree plantation drives, cycling workshops, abolishing of plastic bags, car emission checking, etc. Save water – Rajakumar Repair leaky taps – be it at home or in your office. Do not Sparrow feeder Sudhir Jainendrakumar Tupkar hesitate to voice your opinion or log in a ticket to make sure this Sudhir has taken on the mantle of conserving nature life is followed strictly across your offices. Raj's video is a good around him. Sensitive to the needs of small birds during extreme demonstration of this small but a critical habit that one needs to climatic conditions, Sudhir has installed a sparrow feeder in his inculcate in their daily life. balcony so that birds around do not perish for the want of nourishment. 86 Employee Count By Geography, Age Group and Seniority WIPRO TECHNOLOGIES No. of Employees 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 BAND Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates 35208 17318 52526 33088 15601 48689 33877 15252 49129 Middle 8628 1057 9685 8790 1056 9846 8431 922 9353 Senior 1542 178 1720 1464 151 1615 1357 123 1480 Top 117 4 121 95 4 99 99 5 104 TOTAL 45495 18557 64052 43437 16812 60249 43764 16302 60066 No. of Employees 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 33394 16326 49720 32234 14991 47225 33272 14815 48087 Americas 7071 1291 8362 6770 1202 7972 6309 893 7,202 Europe 3664 584 4248 3518 478 3996 3,426 492 3918 Others 1075 308 1383 634 113 747 439 71 510 Japan 291 48 339 281 28 309 318 31 349 TOTAL 45495 18557 64052 43437 16812 60249 43764 16302 60066 No. of Employees 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 years 23295 14687 37982 24181 13894 38075 26084 13951 40035 30 50 years 697 239 936 18852 2787 21639 17453 2329 19782 >50 years 21503 3631 25134 404 131 535 227 22 249 TOTAL 45495 18557 64052 43437 16812 60249 43764 16302 60066 87 Employee Count By Geography, Age Group and Seniority WIPRO INFOTECH No. of Employees 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 BAND Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates 8728 1519 10247 7719 1189 8908 6706 863 7569 Middle 1430 97 1527 1183 76 1259 996 69 1065 Senior 277 9 286 248 8 256 213 15 228 Top 17 0 17 13 0 13 16 0 16 TOTAL 10452 1625 12077 9163 1273 10436 7931 947 8878 No. of Employees 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 9580 1571 11151 8480 1239 9719 7553 919 8472 Americas 17 0 17 0 0 0 0 0 0 Europe 27 0 27 0 0 0 0 0 0 Others 828 54 882 683 34 717 165 21 186 Japan 0 0 0 0 0 0 213 7 220 TOTAL 10452 1625 12077 9163 1273 10436 7931 947 8878 No. of Employees 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 years 5833 1299 7132 5651 1037 6688 5085 724 5809 30 50 years 4572 323 4895 3477 235 3712 2,820 219 3,039 >50 years 47 3 50 35 1 36 26 4 30 TOTAL 10452 1625 12077 9163 1273 10436 7931 947 8878 88 Employee Count By Geography, Age Group and Seniority WIPRO BPO No. of Employees 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 BAND Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Associates 16505 8228 24733 15272 6822 22094 14067 5578 19645 Middle 370 95 465 318 87 405 269 80 349 Senior 133 22 155 112 21 133 116 23 139 Top 9 1 10 9 1 10 6 1 7 TOTAL 17017 8346 25363 15711 6931 22642 14458 5682 20140 No. of Employees 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 16117 6421 22538 15290 6105 21395 14419 5604 20023 Americas 146 317 463 50 72 122 Europe 208 698 906 95 243 338 20 48 68 Others 546 910 1456 276 511 787 19 30 49 Japan 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 17017 8346 25363 15711 6931 22642 14458 5682 20140 No. of Employees 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 years 12919 6596 19515 12132 5668 17800 11427 4660 16087 30 50 years 3758 1214 4972 3525 1250 4775 2,946 1000 3,946 >50 years 340 536 876 54 13 67 85 22 107 TOTAL 17017 8346 25363 15711 6931 22642 14458 5682 20140 89 Employee Attrition By Geography, Age Group and Seniority WIPRO TECHNOLOGIES Attrition Numbers 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 6931 2953 9884 7043 2755 9798 6238 2327 8565 Americas 749 176 925 983 247 1230 1024 140 1164 Europe 326 52 378 316 58 374 295 36 331 Others 97 27 124 74 11 85 64 12 76 Japan 28 5 33 32 2 34 30 4 34 TOTAL 8131 3213 11344 8448 3073 11521 7651 2519 10170 Attrition (%) Percentages 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 20.76% 18.09% 19.88% 21.5% 18.5% 20.6% 20.6% 18.0% 20.0% Americas 10.59% 13.63% 11.06% 15.00% 23.60% 16.20% 16.20% 18% 18% Europe 8.90% 8.90% 8.90% 9.10% 12.00% 9.50% 9.50% 8% 9% Others 9.02% 8.77% 8.97% 13.8% 12.0% 13.5% 13.5% 22.0% 17.0% Japan 9.62% 10.42% 9.73% 10.7% 6.8% 10.3% 10.3% 14.0% 10.0% TOTAL 17.87% 17.31% 17.71% 19.4% 18.6% 19.2% 19.2% 18.0% 19.0% Attrition Numbers, Age group wise 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 4590 2585 7175 4830 2422 7252 4734 2119 6853 30 – 50 3449 604 4053 3534 627 4161 2877 396 3273 >50 92 24 116 84 24 108 40 4 44 TOTAL 8131 3213 11344 8448 3073 11521 7651 2519 10170 90 Employee Attrition By Geography, Age Group and Seniority WIPRO INFOTECH Attrition Numbers 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 1421 178 1599 1541 194 1735 1231 140 1353 Americas 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Europe 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Others 36 3 39 69 9 78 8 1 9 Japan 0 0 0 0 0 0 45 1 46 TOTAL 1459 181 1640 1610 203 1813 1266 142 1408 Attrition (%) Percentages 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 11.8% 1.5% 13.2% 19.2% 18.0% 19.1% 19.5% 19.5% 19.5% Americas 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0% 0% Europe 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0% 0% Others 0.3% 0.0% 0.3% 16.3% 32.1% 16.3% 5.8% 6.9% 5.9% Japan 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 20.9% 16.7% 20.8% TOTAL 12.1% 1.5% 13.6% 18.8% 18.3% 18.8% 19.3% 19.2% 19.3% Attrition Numbers, Age group wise 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 865 138 1003 949 148 1097 773 108 881 30 50 592 43 635 658 54 712 492 33 525 >50 2 2 3 1 4 1 1 5 TOTAL 1459 181 1640 1610 203 1813 1266 142 1408 91 Employee Attrition By Geography, Age Group and Seniority WIPRO BPO Attrition Numbers 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 9349 4621 13970 9969 4204 14173 11328 4854 16182 Americas 82 143 225 1 5 6 0 0 0 Europe 24 67 91 26 51 77 3 8 11 Others (APAC) 199 323 522 73 99 172 4 4 8 Japan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 9654 5154 14808 10069 4359 14428 11335 4866 16201 Attrition (%) Percentages 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 GEOGRAPHY Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total India 60% 74% 64% 67.1% 71.8% 68.4% 84.0% 92.0% 86.0% Americas 84% 74% 77% 4.0% 13.9% 9.8% 0.00% 0% 0% Europe 16% 14% 15% 47.3% 36.0% 39.2% 30.00% 33% 32% Others (APAC) 48% 45% 47% 46.8% 34.6% 38.9% 42.0% 27.0% 33.0% Japan 0% 0% 0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% TOTAL 59% 67% 62% 66.7% 69.0% 67.4% 84.0% 91.0% 86.0% Attrition Numbers, Age group wise 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 AGE GROUP Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total <30 8071 4526 12597 8362 3710 12072 10023 4386 14409 30 – 50 1566 623 2189 1650 628 2278 1279 473 1752 >50 17 5 22 57 21 78 33 7 40 TOTAL 9654 5154 14808 10069 4359 14428 11335 4866 16201 92 Employee Attrition By Geography, Age Group and Seniority Particulars Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech Wipro BPO Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total As on 31st March 2767 684 3451 1745 216 1961 0 0 0 2010 As on 31st March 962 206 1168 1517 192 1709 21 3 24 2009 As on 31st 1417 361 1778 1373 234 1607 69 26 95 March 2008 GEOGRAPHY-WISE SPLIT FOR CONTRACTORS Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech Geography Male Female Total Male Female Total India 1559 470 2029 1532 198 1730 Americas 755 151 906 Europe 309 38 347 Others 125 20 145 213 18 231 Japan 19 5 24 TOTAL 2767 684 3451 1745 216 1961 93 STATE-WISE SPLIT FOR CONTRACTORS BASED IN INDIA Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech State / City Male Female Total Male Female Total Andhra Pradesh 131 25 156 69 3 72 Assam 5 5 Bihar 3 3 Gujarat 17 17 Har yana 369 28 397 Karnataka 753 320 1073 281 39 320 Kerala 10 3 13 21 3 24 Madhya Pradesh 1 1 Maharashtra 214 58 272 486 78 564 New Delhi 26 5 31 23 1 24 Orissa 3 3 Punjab 1 1 Rajasthan 16 16 Tamil Nadu 406 57 463 130 29 159 Uttar Pradesh 1 1 Uttaranchal 18 16 34 West Bengal 19 2 21 88 1 89 TOTAL 1559 470 2029 1532 198 1730 94 RESOLUTIONS OF OMBUDSPROCESS COMPLAINTS Break-Up of Complaints Received through the Ombudsprocess Types of Complaint 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 TED / HR / People Process Violation 50% 52% 57% COBCE / Security Policy Violation 16% 13% 13% Harassment (Sexual / Otherwise) 7% 9% 12% Fraud / Financial Impropriety 3% 6% 8% Aggressive / Hostile / Biased Behaviour 17% 9% 4% Others 7% 11% 6% No. of ombuds concerns received 09-10 451 No. of ombuds concerns received 08-09 502 No. of ombuds concerns received 07-08 341 Analysis of Action Type 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 Separation 6% 10% 11% Warning Letter 6% 5% 8% Counseling 35% 24% 21% Process / Policy Change / Clarifcations 20% 26% 33% Minor Issue / Clarifcations 22% 23% 15% Others 11% 12% 12% 95 SAFETY INCIDENTS HEALTH AND SAFET Y INCIDENT REPORT* Particulars Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech Wipro BPO 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 2009-10 2008-09 2007-08 Total Number of Incidents 410 445 190 183 47 15 263 187 168 Number of IIL Incidents 167 445 190 22 47 15 261 187 168 Number of Health & not not not not not not Safety Incidents 68 1 2 tracked tracked tracked tracked tracked tracked Number of Security not not not not not not 175 160 0 Incidents tracked tracked tracked tracked tracked tracked Number of Days Lost 5479 9107 5687 687 733 439 6399 4414 3383 Number of Fatal Incidents Inside the Office Premises 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1. There was one death in the office in Wipro Technologies in 2009-10. It was a suicide and the reasons are not known. It was not a safety-related incident. 2. Another employee of Wipro Technologies passed away in a road accident while travelling to airport in a public taxi. This employee was travelling to the airport to catch a flight for a work-related meeting. Road incidents occurred in/with company-provided transport: 114 *this data includes the number of Industrial Injury Leave applied for incidents that happen outside the premises while commuting to and from office. At present we do not track these incidents separately. Also, from 2009-10 onward, this data includes the security incidents where there has been loss of assets (such as theft of data card, or losing a laptop etc.) 96 TRAINING AVERAGE NUMBER OF DAYS OF TRAINING Wipro Technologies Wipro Infotech Wipro BPO Level 2009-10 2008-09 2009-10 2008-09 2009-10 2008-09 Associates 7.9 9.4 5.04 6.7 8.08 Middle 2.67 4.3 3.4 2.5 0.82 Senior 1.73 2.7 1.8 1.1 0.20 Top 0.36 0.4 0.2 0.1 0 Total Average 6.93 8.4 4.74 6.6 7.9 97 98 99 100 The last two hundred and fifty years, post the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, have seen an accelerated rate of degradation in every dimension of our ecosystem, resulting in visible global warming, pollution of water, land and air as well as biodiversity loss. Humanity is just about beginning to understand the enormity of these impacts and how these will play out in the time to come. Business must play a central role in trying to reverse these effects along with government and civic society. We present below a summary of why it is critical to reduce the ecological footprint of our actions on four dimensions – Energy & GHG, Water, Waste, and Biodiversity Loss – and what Wipro is trying to do in its own operations on these. 101 Reduction In Why Is It Important Wipro’s Actions Energy & GHG Energy security: reduce dependence on Continue energy-efficiency programs around Footprint fast-depleting fossil fuels green buildings Slow down global warming and its potentially Target increased efficiency through improved catastrophic effects equipment maintenance and analytics-based Cost savings and improved bottom line for feedback actions companies Significant increase in purchase of clean energy Pilot implementations of captive clean energy projects in Solar PV, LED lighting to continue Water Footprint Many parts of the world – including India – Continue to increase levels and quality of are likely to become water-stressed in the next recycling of water through more investments few years, affecting communities and business in water treatment As water pricing increasingly begins to get Continue to increase harvesting of rainwater rationalized, cost savings can become sizable in our campuses for companies Engage with proximate communities in improved water management Water Footprint Unrecycled waste seriously compromises the Increase our recycling ratio to 95%, either integrity of our groundwater, fresh water and within our campuses or outside marine environments as well as land systems Target zero use of ozone-depleting substances Recycling waste helps reduce input costs for in our new campuses companies Biodiversity Loss Biodiversity loss leads to water runoffs, We will convert five of our existing campuses accelerates global warming and deprives to biodiversity campuses humanity of crucial ecosystem services, e.g., All new campuses will be designed and built source inputs for medicines on the principles of biodiversity 102 Scope: 59 locations comprising owned and leased facilities of Wipro OUR PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS FOR 2009-10 ENERGY & GHG REDUCTION Technologies, Wipro Infotech and Wipro BPO, in India. Average No. of Employees in India considered for performance analysis: Goal(s) improvement of energy efficiency through a variety of 80835. t Reduce the GHG intensity of Wipro’s operations from measures. In the five-year period from 2004-05 to 2009-10, 4.8 tons per employee in 2008-09 to 2.5 tons per employee by the per employee power consumption reduced from 338 units 2015, translating into a net reduction of nearly 55000 tons at (kWh) per month to 269 units, a decrease of 20% in total. the Wipro Ltd level. These targets are further broken down to This reduction has been possible because of several impleyear-wise targets from 2009-10 to 2014-15. mented measures, the primary of which are the move from t To achieve the above goals through a combination of decentralized to centralized cooling, a significant increase robust energy efficiency and clean energy measures. To target in LEED buildings and their occupancy levels and a an energy efficiency performance that is at least 25% higher large-scale deployment of more energy-efficient IT than the historical trend of 5% per annum. infrastructure. Energy efficiency t The table below illustrates some of the new measures that Over the past decade, our focus has been on the gradual were implemented during 2009-10. 103 Cooling Equipment a) Replacement of outdated split AC units and chiller plants b) Installation of energy savers in AC package units o o o c) Chiller operating temperature increased from 7 C to 8 C in the day time and 9 C in the evening (every degree increase in chiller temperature will decrease power consumption by 4%) d) Installation of variable frequency air-flow handling units. Approximate energy savings of 33800 kWh/year expected Lighting a) Installation of timers on street lights b) Motion sensors installed in work stations and restrooms c) LEDs replace halogen lights at common areas d) Installation of solar lighting in plant nurseries e) Use of aero wind generator to power 10 street lights for 10 hours. Street lights are fitted with LED / CFL luminaries of 18 w Processes a) Operation of A/C units in cafeteria as per time schedule b) Separate energy meter for each tower/vital monitoring point c) Optimization of lab power consumption Optimum utilization of equipment (servers, testing equipment, rectifiers). Practices a) Switching off A/C units according to occupancy, switching off lights according to the requirement b) South-west glass panes closed with thermocol to reduce the heat gain c) Lux levels monitored on a regular basis to optimize the lighting load d) Conducting efficiency tests for all equipment 104 Energy Consumption/ Employee from 2004-05 to 2009-10 Total Energy Use: A Three-year Comparison 12,00,000.00 350 262.5 9,00,000.00 175 6,00,000.00 87.5 3,00,000.00 0 2004-2005 2005-2006 2006-2007 2007-2008 2008-2009 2009-2010 0 Achieved 338 339 325 275 274 269 Electricity Diesel LPG Charcoal Total Energy consumed in kWh 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 For 2009-10, nearly 78% of our power consumption was sourced from the electricity Reducing our dependence on diesel will be one of the strategic approaches to improving grid while the balance 22% was drawn from captive sources, e.g., diesel, coal and LPG. our energy efficiency in the future. Note: The number of locations has been consistently increasing every year. The data for 2004-05 pertains to 15 locations while the 2009-10 data pertains to 59 locations. 105 SPOTLIGHT: WIPRO’S GHG REDUCTION ROADMAP Wipro has set for itself an ambitious goal of halving its GHG in the adoption of renewable energy in our electricity intensity per employee by 2015. Meeting these goals will require consumption profile. A lot of the latter will depend on the much more than a business-as-usual approach – the rate of our progressive nature of policies that the government will need to energy efficiency gains will need to be at double the historical bring in place on clean energy and a corresponding increase in the CAGR till now. In addition, it will require a significant ramp-up supply capacity. Wipro’s GHG Reduction Roadmap and Mitigation Approach GHG Emissions (Tons per Employee) GHG Mitigation Approach 5 4.5 4.45 4.07 10% 4 3.5 3.45 3.15 3 25% 40% 2.5 2.5 2 1.75 1.5 1 25% 1 Energy efficiency RE generation 0.5 RE purchase Afforestation 0 07-08 09-10 11-12 12-13 14-15 2020 2025 106 Highlights of our GHG mitigation program We exceeded the GHG reduction targets for 2009-10 in both reductions came from business travel (23%), followed by employee absolute numbers and per employee intensity. The strongest commuting (7%) and electricity (6%). Performance Dashboard for GHG Reductions in 2009-10 GHG Emissions in ‘000’ Tons GHG Intensity in Tons/Employee 5.0 4.89 450.0 397.5 4.33 4.16 379.00 We exceeded the GHG reduction 362.70 3.72 336.7 3.8 targets for 2009-10 in both absolute 300.0 numbers and per employee intensity. The strongest reductions came from 2.5 business travel (23%), followed by 150.0 employee commuting (7%) and 1.3 electricity (6%). 0 0 IT Business (India) IT Business (Total) IT Business (India) IT Business (Total) 08-09 08-09 09-10 09-10 107 Our GHG Emissions Profile: A Three-year Comparison 400000 300000 tons 200000 100000 0 Purchased Generated Fuel (LPG)* Fugitive Emissions Waste Direct Transport* Indirect Transport* Employee Business Travel Total Electricity Electricity (HFC, PFC)* Commute 2007-08 187759 12584 1168.40 264 263.90 46184.00 73576.00 320367.01 2008-09 195,763 19,994 936 402 389.10 51210 95,670 371,657 2009-10 182,182 19,301 1358 1406.9 991 8469 75 42745 76020 332,548 108 Across the past three years, the contribution of encouraging public transport systems and car pooling, electricity-related emissions has remained consistent at optimizing public bus routes and by providing end-to-end around 60 to 62% of our total GHG emissions, with the transport services. 48% of our India employees use balance coming mainly from business travel and employee company-operated transport services, 14% use their commuting. Our GHG reduction plan is primarily focused personal vehicles while the remaining 38% use public on electricity-reduced emissions but we are conscious of transport. The GHG footprint on account of employee the need to step up the reductions that may be possible in commute, amounting to 42745 tons, is a significant travel and commute from technology-driven interventions reduction from 51210 tons in 2008-09. (video conferencing, virtual meetings) and the increased A 21% reduction of nearly 20,000 tons of GHG emissions use of more fuel-efficient means of transport. In fact, the from business travel, with respect to the previous year, was GHG reductions for 2009-10 already point to the potential largely on account of process-based targets that sought to of the two latter sources in contributing to reductions. reduce the quantum of travel combined with the use of Where did the reductions come from? smart ICT technologies, e.g., virtual meetings and video Wipro has focused on minimizing the carbon footprint by conferencing. 109 CASE STUDY: REDUCING THE FOOTPRINT OF EMPLOYEE COMMUTE Cost Flexibility Travel time and Routes comfort The initiative to enhance the transport facilities at our public transport systems, public bus routes and the Employee transportation campuses arose post a series of employee criticisms management of concurrence is being effectively enhanced regarding the cost and accessibility of public transport, easy year on year. Public transport is now emerging as one of the inter-office commute, flexibility, and bus timelines. preferred modes of employee commute. Quality of buses Services to different sectors in city As a step to reduce and minimize the carbon footprint, Employees Using BMTC Services Employees Using Wipro Transport 6000 5616 5578 5367 5060 4966 5016 4851 4875 4900 4723 4826 4800 4720 4662 4654 4626 4522 4496 4516 4376 4050 3719 61% 3600 3217 2940 2325 2400 2110 1750 1200 0 May 09 Jun 09 Jul 09 Aug 09 Sep 09 Oct 09 Nov 09 Dec 09 Jan 10 Feb 10 Mar 10 Apr 10 May 10 110 Services Initiated to R5 0#&#&#.35) 5*/&#5.,(-*),.5-,0#-5.5. 5)),5-.* Assist in Transport R5 *.#'#4.#)(5) 5-.#(!5,,(!'(.-65,)/.5-3( ,)(#4.#)(65)&&),.#)(51#. 5&)& Flexibility authorities and officials, improved infrastructure by ways of shelter, route display and lighting R5 ,5*))&#(!5-,0#-95'*&)35*,.##*.#)(5 -5#(,-555555555555555555555555 R5 1#,#(!5)(5#(5&&5. 5/--5-5*,5. 5*#,(.5*,)$. R5 ,50 #&5'#(.((5'*Societal Benefits R5 2 emission reduction by 590 tons / annum R5 -35--5.)5*/&#5.,(-*),. R5 /5.,Ń5)(!-.#)( Business Benefits R5 )-.7Ŀ.#05.,(-*),..#)(95 5g8k5'(5I5((/'5)-.5,/.#)( R5 (,-5'*&)357 111 FOCUS: OPTIMIZATION OF WBPO’S TRANSPORT OPERATIONS WBPO, Wipro’s ITES business, is a 24X7 operation with schedules with resultant under utilization of the SUV cabs. approximately 30,000 employees working in shifts. This A number of measures and process changes were necessitates the use of SUVs rather than bigger buses implemented during the year to be able to effect such an which is the norm in software service companies in India. improvement. Dynamic changes in customer shifts within a short time The chart below captures the summary of the changes period often lead to frequent reshuffling of transport introduced and the resultant improvement with sustenance: Situation in 2007-2008 Situation in 2008-2009 Situation in 2009-2010 · Project-specific cabs · Integration of WT,WBPO & WT · Sustenance of initiatives with · Reduction & rationalization of shifts increased headcount WBPO is a 24X7 operation with · More number of shifts · Nodal pick-up & drop during day · Further rationalization of shifts · Increased number of urgent pick-ups approximately 30,000 employees & drops · Increased back-to-back trips · Employee enhancement activities working in several shifts. Through · High usage of small cabs rather · Induction of higher capacity vehicles than SUVs/MUVs · (MUVs) judicious changing of shifts and use · Reduction in number of trips of larger vehicles, emissions were ·Location-independent operation · Unified multi-site operations reduced significantly. 200,427,150 km 119, 11, 898 km 111, 475, 099 km Total distance commuted 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 Distance commute per employee per annum 7,482 km 5, 563 km 3, 830 km 112 USE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY IN OUR OPERATIONS Our long history of energy efficiency has provided us with a LED lighting. The highest footprint of usage has been in solar solid platform to build our future initiatives on this front. On heating applications – solar thermal heaters are used for water renewable energy, our approach has been to start with pilot heating in our guest houses and cafetarias. The approximate projects in Solar Photovoltaic (PV), micro-wind turbines and electricity savings from these applications are shown below: Category of Use Approximate Savings (MWh/Year) Solar Thermal 1303.30 LED Lighting 136.50 113 WATER EFFICIENCY Goal(s): To improve water efficiency (freshwater use per employee) by 5% year on year Experts point to scenarios of water scarcity which are much Water is drawn from four sources – groundwater, municipal more immediate than those that concern global warming, water supplies, private purchase and rainwater recharge – with especially in India. For Wipro, water conservation continues the first two sources accounting for nearly 70% of the sourced to be a critical focus area at all our locations. water. Per employee water consumption for the reporting year We recycle 647111 m3 of water in 19 of our major locations, was 1.49 m3 or 1490 liters per employee per month, a using Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs), which represents 32% reduction of more than 6% from the previous year’s figure of of the total water consumed. 1600 liters on the same basis. Water Withdrawal By Source 1500000 1125000 Our chairman uses the Annual Report to share his thoughts on the business and m3/year 750000 on future areas of focus. 375000 2007-08 2008-09 0 2009-10 Ground Water Municipal Water Private Purchase Industrial Rainwater Total Supply Association 114 We take care not to withdraw water from water bodies that are sewerage systems. We take care not to discharge waste water into recognized by professional bodies to be particularly sensitive due any subsurface waters, surface waters or sewers that lead directly to to their relative size, function, or status as a support source for rivers, oceans, lakes, wetlands, and ground water. The treated water endangered species, animal or plant. None of our operations from our sewage treatment plants are tested for control parameters impact any nationally or internationally designated water as specified by the local pollution control board. These parameters conservation areas. The water supplied by the municipal bodies are in conformance to permissible central pollution control board and the industrial association are sourced by them, in turn, from requirements. Discharges into CETPs and municipal sewers is river or lake systems. Water purchased from private sources, e.g., treated and discharged as per the municipal requirements. We do bottled water, can be traced to have been extracted from ground not generate any process effluents that would have needed water. In the absence of reliable public data on water tables in the specialized treatment plants. areas where we operate, we are not in a position to make a 93.76 tons of solid waste that is generated from treatment statement on the kind of impact that Wipro’s water consumption process in our campus STPs is converted into bio-fertilizer which has on the groundwater table. In our careful judgment, we think is used in our campuses for gardening. that the quantum of groundwater drawn by us in any of the locations is not material enough to adversely affect the proximate Water Consumption vs. Water Recycled 1500000 community. For us, this issue will continue to remain a closely watched factor of our operations. Further, we plan to commission 1125000 a structured study of the water profile in a couple of our locations m3/year with the purpose of helping advance common understanding 750000 about water use in urban and semi-urban locales that have a mix of business and residential occupants. 375000 36 of our 59 locations in India are leased and located in prime city areas. For these locations, waste water is discharged to CETPs 0 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 (Common Effluent Treatment Plants) and to the municipal 115 CASE STUDY: RAINWATER HARVESTING PROJECT (RWH) AT WIPRO TECHNOLOGIES – ELECTRONIC CITY The rainwater harvesting project at Electronic City has been R5 5&.,##.35.)55./(5) 5hlff5/(#.-651 # 51)/&5). ,1#-55 taken up as an initiative to re-use rainwater and for groundwater utilized for pumping this quantity of water, is saved annually recharge. The facility has eight towers; the rainwater is drained out into the storm water drain through the external pipes connected Rainwater Harvesting from the terrace. These pipes end in four underground collection sumps which are located at strategic points of capacity of 350 kl in 9% total. Excess rainfall is led into three ground-charging points. The harvested rainwater is used for cooling towers, washing of utensils and hands in the cafeteria, and for landscaping. 45% 34% Benefits R5  5 .,5)(-,0.#)(5) 5lfff5%&5((/&&365+/#0&(.5.)5gk53-5 of water consumption. This, in turn, has resulted in a total of 12% approximately 20700 kl year on year R5 5 '*,)05!,)/(1.,5&0&-5/5.)5, ,!#(!5) 52--51.,5 Cooling tower Hand wash Landscaping Ground charging into the ground which is observed in the bore wells in the facility 116 POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Goal(s): To ensure by 2013 that not more than 5% of all generated waste ends up in landfills Details of different categories of solid waste disposal (All figs use, or (ii) arranging for safe disposal. in tons) Details of air emissions Pollution of air and water poses one of the most serious threats to R5We have deployed air pollution abatement equipment in 25 of community health and welfare. Wipro fosters robust processes to our locations, which helps in minimizing the emissions of air segregate waste into organic, inorganic, e-waste, hazardous, pollutants like oxides of nitrogen (NOx), oxides of sulphur (SOx) packaging, biomedical, and other waste. Our waste management and particulate matter. strategies are centered on either: (i) recycling the waste for further Air Emissions in Tons Our waste management strategies are 100 centered on either: (i) recycling the waste for further use, 75 or (ii) arranging for its safe disposal. Tons 50 25 2007-08 2008-09 0 2009-10 NOx SOx SPM Total 117 R5 )(.,)&&5'#--#)(-5) 5)4)(7*&.#(!5-/-.(-5BC95 The quantity of ODS in 2009-10 was 2.33 tons for 33 locations. Ozone-Depleting Substances (CFC 11 Equivalent) 0.300 R22 gas is used in existing HVAC system as refrigerants. This in 0.266 total amounts to 0.266 tons of CFC-11 equivalent. A plan is 0.225 currently under way to phase out R22 A. All our new campuses 0.150 0.126 0.114 don’t use any ODS. The apparent increase in ODS emissions in 0.075 the reporting year is not an increase in real terms but a pointer to the fact that the previous year figures had not accounted for all 0 sources of ODS emissions. 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 The figures below provide detailed statistics on the multiple categories of waste generation, recycling and disposal that happens as part of our operations: Solid Waste: Quantum of and Type of Disposal (All figs in Tons) Quantity of Waste Disposed 3000 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2250 Tones 1500 750 0 Inorganic Organic Hazardous Packaging E-waste Bio-Medical Other Waste Total 118 Disposal Method 3000 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2250 Tons 1500 750 0 Incineration Recycling Composting On-site Storage Landﬁlling Total Details of Different Categories of Solid Waste Disposal (All figs in Tons) Organic Waste Disposed Inorganic Waste 1500 300 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 1125 225 Tons 150 Tons 750 375 75 0 0 Garden Waste Food Scraps Dimensional STP Sludge Total Magazines Newspaper Office Stationery Office Paper Tissue Paper Mixed Paper Board Total Wood/Lumber 119 Packaging Waste Disposed Other Waste Disposed 300 200 2007-08 2007-08 2008-09 2008-09 2009-10 2009-10 150 225 Tons 100 Tons 150 50 75 0 0 Cardboard Styrofoam ermacol Total Mixed Metals Mixed Mis. Solid Waste Mixed Plastics Ink Cartridges Total Hazardous, bio-medical and E-waste Disposed 100 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 75 No incidents of significant spills of 50 oil or chemicals during inbound and outbound transportation in the reporting period 25 0 Bio-medical Electronic Tubelights Used Oil Batteries Oil-soaked DG Filters Total Waste Items & CFLs Cotton Waste 120 CASE STUDY: BIOGAS PLANT AT WIPRO Post the implementation of the biogas plant at Wipro’s other Wipro locations, namely the Kochi Development Center Electronic City campus, the project has been replicated at two and Wipro’s Sarjapur 2 location. No. of Biogas Three: EC123, SJP 2 and KODC Plants in Wipro Biogas Plant 1500 kg / day of leftover food, vegetable cuttings and fruit peels, other bio-degradable matter and Capacity 12 cum / day of organic sludge from existing STP + 300 kg buffer Area Required For 20 m x 15 m approx. Biogas Plant Carbon Emissions 37.26 TCO2 / year – From waste recycling and 306.77 TCO2 / year – From energy offsets Post the implementation of the Biogas Saved plant at Wipro’s Electronic City campus, the project has been replicated Biogas Produced The plant yields 160 -180 cubic meters / day (at full load) of biogas, i.e., equivalent to 4-6 commercial at 2 other Wipro Locations namely, LPG which is directly proportional to solid waste loaded OR Approx 288 kWh / day the Kolkata Development Center and Bio-Manure 45000 lit / year of good organic manure will be available. About 15000 lit to be removed Wipro’s Sarjapur 2 location. Generated once every 4 months Process Water Approx 1500 – 1800 lit per day Required Electricity Consumed 25 kWh / day 121 CASE STUDY: ORGANIC WASTE CONVERTER (OWC) AT WIPRO Accumulation of large quantities of solid waste (like problem by converting solid waste into useful output. bio-degradable food, leftovers by employees in cafeterias, kitchen The Organic Waste Converter (OWC) Plant works on the waste / peels, garden waste and sludge from Sewage Treatment principle of Aerobic Microbial Decomposition of solid waste into Plants) are generated on a daily basis. The Organic Waste compost. This is a bio-mechanical process which produces a Converters, installed in four of Wipro’s major campuses (EC4, homogeneous odor-free output in as little as 15 minutes. SJP-2, PDC and Hyderabad Development Center ), address this The Project Metrics are as follows: No. of OWCs in Wipro Four: EC4, SJP 2, PDC 2 & HDC Plant Capacity 200 kg of solid waste / day Carbon Emissions Saved 1.104 TCO2 / year Units of Power Consumed 8 kWh / day Process Water Required 50 lit / day Output The compost manure generated is used for campus soil conditioning (1200 kg/ month) Helps dispose waste at the source of generation. The eco-friendly treatment of organic Eco-Impact waste helps reduce the risk of disease from open organic waste at landfills. Prevents the production of methane (CH4) which is more dangerous than CO2 122 CASE STUDY: VERMI-COMPOSTING AT KDC The Vermi-composting Plant at KDC caters to the large through the biological decomposition process. This organic quantities of solid biodegradable waste generated on a daily manure is odorless and of high quality and is used for basis. This process produces 300-350 kg/month of manure landscaping. No. of Vermi-compost Two: KDC & PDC 1 Pits in Wipro Plant Capacity 30-40 kg of food waste / day Carbon Emissions 6.9 TCO2 / year From waste recycling (3.3TCO2 / vermi-compost / year) Saved Output The compost manure generated is used for campus soil conditioning (300-350 kg / month) R5 (/,5*,)/5#-5) 5 #! 5+/&#.35(5#-5)),&--55 Eco-Impact R5 ')0-5. 5#'*.5) 5/'*#(!5. 5 ))51-.65#(-.5Ŀ.#0&35,3&#(!5#. R5 (/,5*,)/5#-5/-5 ),5)7 ,#(&35!,(#(!5*/,*)-123 MATERIAL INTENSITY OF OUR PRODUCTS Of Wipro’s IT business divisions, only Wipro Infotech divisions (which includes Wipro Technologies, Wipro BPO markets hardware products, e.g., desktops, servers, laptops, and the services division of Wipro Infotech) as only office etc., which are assembled at our plants. The total weight of the peripherals and consumables are used for providing services units produced in 2 of our factories in India, at Pondicherry (which are not part of any end product) and their end-of-life and Kotdwar, is shown below. data is comprehensively reported in the waste section. This data point is not applicable for our IT services business Materials Used 3000 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2250 Tons 1500 750 0 Desktop Server Laptop WGE Diebold 124 BIODIVERSITY Wipro recognizes that preserving the diversity of life forms R5 We initiated a detailed biodiversity study of our on the earth is crucial in sustaining our biosphere. Biodiversity Electronic City campus through ATREE (Asoka Trust for is one of the four principal pillars of the Eco Eye charter. Ecology and Environment), an NGO which is an expert in None of our current campuses and offices are near a sensitive biodiversity. The study was a foundational assessment of the biodiversity area (protected or of high value). Our business current biodiversity footprint of the campus and the suggested operations pose zero risk to any endangered species, plant or plan for enhancing its biodiversity quotient. Biodiversity is animal. normally associated with large, natural tracts – e.g., Western Our approach on biodiversity is characterized by the Ghats, Himalayan biodiversity zone – and not with small following: tracts around urban built environments. Our objective is to try R5 Identify and safeguard biodiversity hot-spots, if any, in to move away from the conventional concept of a corporate and around our campus properties. We have conducted campus and to recreate the basic principles of biodiversity in Environmental Impact Assessments for two of our major our campus, which are multiple species of plants, trees, shrubs campuses. and herbs all native to the local geography, conserving and R5 Spread ecological consciousness through mailers and wall enhancing water capacities and reducing ambient temperature messages. with a consequent reduction in cooling load. R5 Increase the landscape cover in all our major campuses by R5 The plan is to build further on the study and convert it planting fruit-bearing and indigenous plants. into an implementation plan that we will initiate in 2010-11. 125 ANNEXURE TO SECTION 5C: ASSUMPTIONS FOR THE CALCULATION OF THE REPORTED METRICS Computation Process Data Cluster Protocols Followed Assumptions & Rules of Thumb (IT Systems or Manual) Energy Energy consumption data a) Purchased electricity is recorded on a) In some of our locations, the billing and recording cycle Consumption (purchased electricity, the basis of monthly electricity bills does not follow a calendar month cycle (1st to 30th); for (Electricity & Fuel) diesel and LPG) are b) Diesel consumption is recorded in such locations, we compute the annual consumption by recorded on a monthly terms of liters consumed per month; the adding on a pro-rata basis for the number of days in March basis by all locations in volume is converted into electricity that are not yet recorded and by subtracting for similar manual MS Excel sheets, output using the standard conversion number of days in March of the previous year which are uploaded onto a formula applicable to the class of diesel b) Some of the smaller sales offices in Wipro Infotech’s central system for audit generators India operations do not record electricity consumption traceability c)Liqueﬁed Petroleum Gas (LPG) is separately. This is because the lease rentals paid to the recorded in terms of the number of landlord include electricity and hence no data are available. cylinders consumed per month. The In all such cases, we have used the average per capita number is converted into weight by electricity consumption to extrapolate the consumption using the standard weight of one based on the number of employees who work in those cylinder offices. c) For smaller locations where DG units have not been provided, the diesel consumption of that location has been multiplied into an assumed engine efficiency of 2.8 kWh/l to obtain the total units d) Weight of one full LPG gas cylinder is considered as 19.5 kg (for locations which have provided number of cylinders) Water Data on water consumpThe monthly recordings are based on a) For computing the quantum of rainwater harvested, we tion, recycled water usage readings of water meters that are use the volume of the rainwater tank as the basis and multiply and rainwater harvesting installed in all our major campuses that by the number of times the tank is estimated to get is recorded in manual ﬁlled systems and aggregated in b) For smaller multistoried locations where the builder maintains a central database the total water consumed, ﬁgures are obtained by assuming one employee consumes 40 liters of water per day c) For smaller locations, where recycled water meters are unavailable, an average of the previous two years’ ﬁgures have been considered 126 Air Pollution & Data on air pollution and a) Air pollution ﬁgures are obtained from For HFCs and PFCs the Global Warming Potential of the Refrigerants refrigerants is recorded monthly stack emission test reports refrigerant is converted into CO2e using standard conversion in manual systems and formulas b) Refrigerant details are obtained from aggregated in a central service reports database c) For conversion of R22A gas to CFC equivalent, we use the standard conversion formula available Waste Data on waste is recorded Waste ﬁgures are obtained based on the a) Sludge disposed in certain locations are in the form of in manual systems and generated vs. disposed ﬁgures which are slurry loads. Records are maintained in the form of number of aggregated in a central maintained in waste reporting sheets loads. Post discussions with vendors, the following calculations database have been considered: 1 load = 3 kl of slurry ; 1 kl = 15 kg of sludge; therefore, 1 load = 45 kg of sludge b) Weight of one UPS battery is considered as 11.70kg (for locations which have provided numbers as opposed to weight) c) Weight of 1 litre of used oil is considered as 0.54kg (for locations which have provided numbers as opposed to weight) d) Weight of one CFL bulb is considered as 126g (for locations which have provided numbers as opposed to weight) e) Weight of one tube light is considered as 250g (for locations which have provided numbers as opposed to weight) 127 Employee Commute a) Car reimbursements are a) Costs are determined based on a) For cars and two-wheelers that are owned by employees, obtained from SAP-based reimbursement of claims that are submitthe emissions on account of employee commuting (Part of IT systems ted by employees on a monthly basis Scope 3 emissions) have been computed based on the assumption that 65% of fuel costs are associated with petrol, b) Data on employee bus b) Bus & cab details are obtained from 35% of fuel costs are associated with diesel. To calculate and cab travel is recorded daily trip sheets emissions for employee cars, we have used the data on in manual systems and reimbursement of claims that are submitted by employees on aggregated in a central a monthly basis, 80% of the claim amount assumed to be database fuel costs. For twowheelers, the entire claim amount assumed to be petrol costs. Assuming an average cost of petrol at Rs 50 per liter, price of diesel taken as INR 35 per liter we have deduced the total quantum of fuel used. The quantum of fuel is converted to GHG emissions as per the standard tables. Emissions are overstated by at least 20% as the fuel claim also includes personal travel on the part of employees. However, we at Wipro have strived to induce inﬂuence behavioral changes in our employees through various awareness building exercises, and hence accounting the personal travel emissions in our inventory gives us further incentive towards reducing the same b) Buses: We have assumed an average of 15 km per passenger per day , which we think is reasonably true to the kind of distances that need to be covered in major Indian cities today. We have arrived at the total distance commuted thus by Wipro buses by multiplying the average passenger km per day by the assumed number of working days in a year (250) and the number of employees who use the service c) Public Transport: We have arrived at the number of employees who use public transport by inference, i.e., by subtracting the total of the number of employees who use cars, two wheelers and Wipro operated buses from the total number of employees in our India operations 128 Business Travel Data on business travel Details are determined based on DomesBusiness Travel: For business travel, wherever ‘Origin’ is obtained from tic and International Travel Requests and ‘Destination’ cities are not available from records, we SAP-based IT systems have assumed the following average cost per km and derived the total distance travelled from the claimed amounts. a) Air travel: INR 3 per km (Domestic and International) b) Train travel: INR 1 per km c) Bus travel: INR 1 per km GHG Emissions The computation of our a) For GHG conversion, we primarily follow Details of assumptions on GHG emissions are mentioned GHG emissions data is the protocol developed by WRI (World above inline with the data cluster done in our customResource Institute) available at developed ‘CarbonManwww.ghgprotocol.org/ agement tool and b) The WARM (Waste Reduction Model), partially from manual a tool created by the US nodal environMS Excel worksheets mental agency, Environment Protection Agency (EPA) was used for emissions from waste in landfills. This tool available at www.epa.gov/climatechange/wycd/waste/ calculators/Warm_Form.html. In addition, we have used GHG coefficients that are speciﬁc to India for which we have used the guidance tables available from the office of CII (Confederation of Indian Industry’s) Mission for Sustainable Development at: ww.cea.nic.in/planning/ c%20and%20e/user_guide_ver5.pdf and www.greenbusinesscentre.com/documents/GH GGuide.pdf 129 130 The journey to sustainability speeds up with the correct kind of collaboration between our customers and us... because it is a race we must all win. Wipro implemented a virtualization solution that virtualized about 3000 servers to 375. Cost savings were several tens of Committing ourselves to green computing thousands of USD, while net GHG reduction was 78%. as early as 2006, we have invested significant sums to build green PCs based on three pillars: 100% RoHS compliance, Energy Efficiency and Responsible E-waste Management. Our engagement with Greenpeace has matured over the years and, in our view, symbolises the value that NGOs er base Our custom e of and watchdog organisations can covers a rang stries du bring to the business sector in diﬀerent in the latter’s sustainability journey. 5D. CUSTOMER STEWARDSHIP Information technology (IT) can play a critical enabling role in reducing global GHG emissions. IT industry analysts, climate research groups and consulting majors have all concluded that while IT itself accounts for only 2% of the global GHG emissions, it can be one of the strategic cornerstones for reductions in the balance 98%. As one of the world’s software and consulting majors, Wipro is naturally taking the lead in assisting customers meet their own sustainability goals using our extensive knowledge, hard-won expertise, ability to engage worldwide, and the use of best practices. Besides extensive IT services for the sustainability journey, Wipro also offers non-IT solutions such as power and cooling In just five sectors: Manufacturing, Transportation, Buildings, Power and management. Dematerialization, innovative IT solutions can contribute to as much 35% of the potential GHG reductions by 2020. 131 That Information Technology (IT) can play a critical enabling role in mitigating the rising ecological footprint is not a matter of much debate. Taking GHG emission reductions as a case in point – IT industry analysts (Gartner, Forrester), climate research groups (The Climate Group) and consulting majors like McKinsey have all converged over the past three years to the conclusion that while IT itself accounts for only 2% of the global GHG emissions, it can be one of the strategic cornerstones for reductions in the balance 98%. A well-known study by McKinsey published in October 2008 suggests that in just the five sectors of Manufacturing, Transportation, Buildings, Power and Dematerialisation, innovative IT solutions can contribute to as much 35% of the potential GHG reductions by 2020 (See chart on the next page). This reduction far exceeds the almost doubling of emissions of the IT sector itself during this period – from 0.86 gigatons in 2007 to 1.54 gigatons in 2020, the latter in spite of the steady increases in the energy efficiency of IT infrastructure. 132 Greenhouse Gas Emissions, metric Gigatons of Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (GtCO2e) % Emissions related to information and communications technologies Potential emission abatement enabled by information and communications technologies selected measures Total emissions Projected Increase Potential Abatement 2020 with Abatement Given the above context, our position is that any attempt to GHG reduction; except in the case of IT hardware like laptops, impute GHG reduction numbers to a software solution or desktops, servers, routers, etc., the GHG reduction estimates on service is likely to be a subjective exercise that lends itself to account of software solutions and services cannot stand the differing interpretations and points of view. In the sections that scrutiny of verifiability since, by their very nature, the underlying follow, we have talked about out IT climate solutions in some methodologies cannot be standardised. detail and, wherever feasible, we have estimated metrics for 133 THE WIPRO IT CLIMATE SOLUTIONS PORTFOLIO Over the past two years, Wipro has built an integrated portfolio we will not talk at length on Wipro's clean energy solutions but of green solutions that span clean energy, green IT we will reference it occasionally as appropriate. The chart below infrastructure and IT for green solutions and services. Since the represents a summary view of Wipro's climate solutions focus of this submission is on IT solutions for climate change, portfolio: Clean Energy: Green IT Infrastructure: IT for Green: Products & Services in Energy Products and Services that target Products and Services that enable Efficiency & Renewable Energy IT's own footprint GHG reductions for the balance 98% Managed Energy Services: Green Computing: Process Optimisation: Includes IT platform-based remote Energy Star 5 desktops and supply chain, dematerialisation energy management services laptops and inventory efficiency Products: Green Data Centres: Smart Grids: Solar PV, biogas and Deliver 10-15% more energy IT solutions for enabling smart solar thermal efficiency grid infrastructure Projects: Green buildings, Reporting and Analytics: utility scale solar, cooling and Carbon management and lighting efficiency reporting Wipro's investment strategy for engaging with customers on our assessment, we have been aided by research studies and climate change solutions is built on our assessment of what we expert analysis that are available in the public domain. think will be the high-impact domains in the long term that can In the sections below, we detail our initiatives on IT for green help customers reduce their GHG emissions significantly. In and green computing separately. 134 IT FOR GREEN: OUR GREEN SERVICES FRAMEWORK Given the wide competencies and core technologies involved, articulated in adjacent figure in the Wipro green services Wipro has strategically invested in various areas to address the framework. They focus on visibility, useful analytics, IT for green space over the last three years. Our portfolio is implementation, monitor and optimisation of energy, resource, constantly being upgraded as new best practices emerge. It has water & waste, and enablement for compliance & regulatory been our experience that green solutions broadly impact GHG reporting through a portfolio of services and solutions. emissions and its effective management in seven simple ways as Compliance Carbon tracking, validation reporting and analysis Reputation & Creating and managing green communications Brand Operations Assessing and setting up environmental KPLs Products Building low carbon products and services from design to develop Supply Chain Creating KPLs and solutions for a low carbon supply chain IT Strategizing and implementing a green IT infrastructure Infrastructure Enterprise Assessing & optimizing energy use and managing energy procurement & consumption Infrastructure More details of the products and services can be found in Annexure I and in the attachments titled ‘Wipro Sustainability Services – July10.pdf ’ 135 As an engagement model, we offer discovery services for industry and prioritise opportunities customers for the above, pertaining to strategy assessment, 2. Plan: Convert the sustainability opportunity into business planning, and implementation. This includes formulating an requirements, high-level use cases and a program plan overall approach to green IT including ROI modeling, building 3. Implement: Build and deploy green applications and roadmaps and implementing specific solutions, e.g., platforms across sustainability domain areas We use a structured four-step process virtualisation, consolidation, data centre design and architecture, 4. Manage: Manage energy efficiency, resource consumption, in our engagements with customers: • Discover • Plan supplier sustainability assessment and non-IT solutions such as reporting, and infrastructural support services on an • Implement • Manage power and cooling management. We use a structured four-step ongoing basis process in our engagements with customers: To help us deepen our understanding of the sustainability 1. Discover: Understand sustainability goals, capture and domain, we have incubated the following fifteen Centres of analyze customer environmental data, benchmark with Excellence (COEs). 136 FIFTEEN CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE (COEs) Green Discovery Fluid State Data Centre Green IT Infrastructure Integrated Sub Daily Green PCs Paperless Office Planning System Managed Services for Water Management Productised Solutions Energy Management Sustainability Advisory Enterprise Carbon Management Supply Chain Sustainability Manufacturing, Smart Sensors Smart Grid and Smart Metering Analytics and Reporting Below, we present two caselets based on our early customer engagements in the IT for green space 137 CASELET 1: SUPPLY CHAIN OPTIMISATION FOR LEADING BAKED GOODS MANUFACTURER One of our clients wanted to look at their bread and baked goods manufacturing set-up and recommend solutions for improving their green quotient. Business Challenges 1. The demand for bread was variable on a sub daily basis but the manufacturing production planning was done on a daily basis due to which there was wastage of production or underfulfilment of service orders 2. The change in assembly line between products meant a downtime of 20 minutes of re-configuration to the production assembly, thereby wasting the oven heating fuel 3. More trips meant that truck rolls carrying excess inventory resulted in fuel wastage Wipro's Contribution 1.We developed a SAP composite application, and demonstrated a reduction in wastage on production 2.We helped the customer do better production planning, reduced waste of oven heat, and reduced trips for the delivery trucks 3.This application is now approved by SAP as a recognised certified partner application Significant Metrics 1.Cost savings from (25-50%) reduction in product scrapped; Annual savings (approx) = USD 90,000 /Milestones 2.Removing 1 trucking trip per bakery/week = saving of 676 trips; Annual savings (approx) = USD 350,000 3. Reduction in labour requirement/year ; Annual savings (approx) = USD 330,000 138 CASELET 2: ENERGY, COOLING AND SPACE REDUCTION OF A DATA CENTRE (DC) FOR A LEADING B-SCHOOL IN ASIA One of our clients, a leading B-school in Asia, required a cooling and space, quick provisioning, lights-out management, standardised solution that would provide reduced power, centralised monitoring and security. Business Challenges 1. The arrays of legacy equipment were consuming ream of power and providing low CPU and memory utilisation 2. Power, AC, cable management were manually tracked periodically 3. Managing the DC and the IT equipment was a herculean task due to the fact of not having a single point of management Wipro's Contribution 1. Wipro designed a DC solution using our Fluidstate DC framework (Wipro IP) 2. The solution was customised as per the client's requirements, with closed-loop cooling technology using a liquid cooling package (LCP) 3. High density racks were used to host virtualised blade servers and networking equipment 4. The racks were integrated with CMC-TC for centralised monitoring and a modular safe encapsulated the racks for physical protection Significant Metrics 1. The Wipro Fluidstate DC solution helped the client reduce the footprint of the racks by 85% /Milestones 2. The PUE of the DC is reduced by 25%, i.e., from 2.3 to around 1.7 3. The entire DC is now monitored and managed remotely 4. The new modular DC also gives the client a foundation to accommodate rapid future growth and ever-changing demand from the institute 139 AN UPDATE ON THE WIPRO GREEN COMPUTING CASE STUDY In our previous report, we Brominated Flame Retardants), substances with known toxic had provided a detailed case properties if left in landfills. For this, we adopted the standards of study on our green computing 'International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative'. More than program as an example of thirty of our suppliers collaborated on this goal, enabling us to Lifecycle Responsibility (Refer Page 72 of the report). In this launch our first PVC and BFR-free model in early 2010. We will section, we provide an update on our journey in green computing continue to build on this early foundation and expand our with particular focus on the three pillars of toxic chemical portfolio of PVC/BFR-free models. management, energy efficiency and e-waste management. Energy-efficient computing Elimination of toxic chemicals In the early stages of our energy efficiency journey, we Starting with the first RoHS (Restriction on Hazardous introduced the multi-computing desktop solution that tried to Substances) compliant desktop and laptop models in mid-2007, optimise the idling power of computer nodes in the network. we have consistently reached new milestones in this space. With This resulted in the consumption of only 5 watts of additional 21 hazardous chemicals eliminated, all our desktop and laptop power as compared to 50 watts of idle power in desktop nodes. models are 100% RoHS-compliant. In early 2009, we took the The next big step was to phase out CRT monitors and replace decision to go beyond RoHS compliance and develop models them with LCD monitors, saving 40 watts of power in the that were free of PVC and BFR (Polyvinyl Chloride and process. 140 In 2008, we adopted the Energy Star rating are introduced into the market. It is only in the past five years framework of EPA (Environmental Protection that both producers and consumers have started recognizing the Agency, the nodal US regulatory body on environment). The scale of the issue. While governments have also woken up to the Energy Star standard combines power supply efficiency, problem, regulatory measures that mandate producers to ensure operational optimisation during non-active modes and a top safe disposal of electronic products at end of life are yet to see the layer of power management. For Energy Star 5 rated computers, light of day. operational power savings can range from 12-15% of the energy Wipro was one of the few companies to start an e-waste takeconsumption of conventional models. By March 2010, all 16 back program as early as in 2006 – since then, the program has laptop models and 19 desktop models (60% of the total) were grown in scale and scope over the years. The early years were certified for an Energy Star 5 rating. focused on setting up our collection infrastructure and creating Responsible e-waste management awareness amongst customers. We adopted the WEEE – Waste E-waste is a growing environmental problem abetted Electrical and Electronic Equipment – guidelines on by the rate at which new models of electronic products communication, which emphasised that e-waste cannot be sent 141 to landfills. Today, we have seventeen collection centres across balance is sent to certified e-waste disposal agencies. Our current the country that help optimise the logistics of collection and e-waste recycling partner is Attero (www.attero.in/ ) transportation. Our customers are not charged either for the Aided by concerted socializing of the concept among our transport or for the take-back itself. The taken-back equipment customers, the total quantum of e-waste recycled in 2009-10 is partially used as a source of field repair components while the increased by nearly 90% over the previous year (see below): 2008-09 2009-10 Total E-waste Recycled in kg 49,047 91,938 Average E-waste Recycled Per Month in kg 4,087 7,662 For more details on Wipro's e-waste management process, please visit www.wiprogreentech.com/ewaste_management.html For more details on Wipro's Green Computing program, please visit www.wiprogreentech.com 142 SPOTLIGHT: GREENPEACE AND OUR GREEN COMPUTING JOURNEY In our green computing journey of more than four years, computing. Greenpeace's six-monthly assessment 'Guide to Greenpeace – the globally renowned NGO – has played the very Greener Electronics' has provided us with a structured lens of important role of a catalyst, sounding board and watchdog. reviewing and recalibrating our goals and raising the bar on our From the initial stage of helping us understand the core own performance. We are now rated the India No.1 and the underlying issues pertaining to toxic chemicals and the need for joint global No.1 as per this rating framework. responsible disposal, Greenpeace has constantly held before us Our engagement with Greenpeace has matured over the years the mirror of what a green electronic product should be. From and, in our view, symbolises the value that NGOs and watchdog our side, we have not stopped at merely appreciating their point organisations can bring to the business sector in the latter's of view but have put into action a deep investment and sustainability journey. implementation program that addresses all elements of green 143 144 5E. SUSTAINABILITY & THE RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR One of the key factors in Wipro’s growth has been the sustained and continuous level of investor community engagement over the years. This has led to Wipro being consistently ranked as one of the preferred investment vehicles around the world. Wipro was ranked 3rd for its Investor Relations website in Asia-Paciﬁc by the IR Global Rankings. During 2010, we chose to participate in three RI Wipro seeks to build a mutually beneﬁcial relationship with its assessment frameworks – the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, investors on the foundation of trust, fairness and transparency that the Oekom rating and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). will enable both the parties to realize their goals. Our engagement with our investors and analysts spans a wide We engage with all types of investors range of channels, which we think is crucial for maintaining from around the world constantly. transparency. These diﬀerent modes of communication help build trust and a sense of ownership. Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI) is a distinct emerging trend that incorporates Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors in addition to economic factors. Scenes from our investor engagement calendar, 2009 2008-09 Results Announced Over 30 investor/analyst conferences; AGM and EGM held Acquisition of Yardley business in several A succession of road shows held worldwide Launch of the 2008 Sustainability Report several hundred investors met countries declared 145 We started the year 2009-10 amidst uncertainty precipitated by the economic downturn which engulfed much of the world. Even as the global economy struggled to get back on its feet, the Indian economy demonstrated its resilience and maturity by maintaining sound macroeconomic fundamentals. The Indian Information Technology (IT) industry was also caught in the grip of the crisis, facing uncertain demand from its large customer base in the US. But it again demonstrated its tenacity and unique ability to carve new paths in the face of a crisis. 146 Some of the highlights of the IT industry’s performance with global trends, driven by increased spend in remote infraduring the year are: structure management, application management, testing and R555Ļ5#(/-.,3]-5-.#'.5,0(/51-55mi8g5#&&#)(5#(5 SOA segments. Further, Cloud computing took center-stage FY 2010 with the IT and software services industry accountthis year as it offered clients best-in-class process manage#(!5 ),55li8m5#&&#)(5) 5. 5,0(/-85 '(.5.5,/5*#.&52*(#./,85 R552*),.5,0(/-5.55kf8g5#&&#)(5!,1535k8j5*,(.5 R5 5 (5 . 5 )'-.#5 ,)(.65 5 ,0(/-5 !,15 &')-.5 n8k5 )0,5 5 hffo5 (5 )(.,#/.5 lo5 *,(.5 ) 5 . 5 .).&5 *,(.5.)5, 5 5g6fnn5#&&#)(5B5hj5(8C5#(55hfgf5 IT-BPO revenues. while domestic IT services to grew at 12 percent in 2010. R55#,.5'*&)3'(.5, 5(,&35h8i5'#&&#)(5@51#. 5(5 R5 5 .),71#-65 . 5  5 -.),5 ,.#(5 #.-5 .)*5 -*).5 1#. 5 addition of 90,000 employees, while indirect job creation was absolute revenue in line with earlier years, showing only a estimated to be 8.2 million. marginal decline. The government and healthcare sectors R55 5)/.-)/,#(!5)(.#(/5.)52 ##.5-.,)(!5!,)1. 5#(5&#(5 continue to outperform in terms of growth. 147 The Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI) *,)$.50&/5) 5gn5.)5hnz5) 5535hfkf85 A distinct emerging trend is that of ‘Responsible Investing’ that According to a report from UNEP-PRI, “it is estimated that incorporates Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) mediumto large-sized publicly listed companies cause one third factors in addition to economic factors into its evaluation and ) 5!&)&52.,(&#.#-5((/&&3852.,(&#.#-5(5Ŀ.5, )&,5 decision processes. According to the Principles for Responsible value because they lead to a more uncertain, rapidly changing Investing (PRI ) an investor initiative in partnership with UNEP economic environment and greater systemic risks. Inefficient Externalities can affect shareholder allocation of capital to highly polluting activities can cause a Finance and the UN Global Compact investors should act like value because they lead to a more decline in asset values over time. For a diversified investor, environ^/(#0,-&5)1(,-_5(5(52,#-5)1(,#*5,#! .-5.)5()/,!5 uncertain, rapidly changing economic mental costs are unavoidable as they come back into the portfolio protection of natural capital needed to maintain the economy and environment and greater systemic -5#(-/,(5*,'#/'-65.2-65#(ł.5#(*/.5*,#-65(5. 5* 3-#&5 investment returns over the long term. risks. cost associated with disasters. These costs could also reduce future An important PRI is to consider the ‘true costs’ incurred by a business enterprise. True costs must include ecological and social 5ł)1-5(5#0#(-85(5)'*(3]-52.,(&#.#-5(5'!5 )-.-5) 5)*,.#)(-5, ,,5.)535)()'#-.-5-5\2.,(&#.35)-.-]85 the profitability of other portfolio companies, adversely affecting )'52'*&-5) 5)&)!#&5)-.-5,5. )-5--)#.51#. 5!,(other investments, and hence overall market return. Companies house gas emissions, water depletion and pollution of public goods . .5 05 1,52.,(&5)-.-5,5'),5-/-.#(&5#(5. 5&)(!5,/(5 like air, water and land. It is no surprise that environmental costs as shown by performance trends.” constitute a significant and increasing number and estimates peg a 148 WIPRO AND THE RESPONSIBLE INVESTOR One of the barometers of Wipro’s commitment to sustainhas been rated as ‘prime’ by Oekom, which demonstrates ability is the number of ‘responsible investment’ (RI) disclosure above-average commitment to environmental and social issues. frameworks we participate in. We do this because we believe Wipro’s assessment score of ‘B’ and an overall rank of 2 in the that subjecting ourselves to the continuous scrutiny of responIT Services sector places it in the top league of sustainability sible investors will help raise the bar for us in our sustainability leaders. Oekom’s detailed feedback suggested that Wipro’s journey. stated strengths include: /,#(!5hfgf6515 )-5.)5*,.##*.5#(5. ,5 5----'(.5 A strong environment management program ,'1),%-5@5. 5)15 )(-5/-.#(#&#.35 (265. 5%)'5 Product stewardship including responsible end-of-life ,.#(!5(5. 5,)(5#-&)-/,5,)$.5BC8 management Oekom: Oekom’s rating is based on the FrankfurtRobust policy frameworks around COBCE, data Hohenhein guidelines (FHL), which were drawn up by the protection and responsible marketing ‘Ethical-Ecological Rating’ project team headed by a team of Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI): Wipro is a member scientists in a study conducted over several years. The rating ) 5 . 5 !&)&5   5 hfgf65 1 # 5 #-5 1#&35 *.5 -5 . 5 framework comprises a total of over 200 Environmental, Social leading standard for assessing the sustainability performance and Governance (ESG) criteria. Oekom provides research for ) 5)'*(#-85Ļ5!&)&5  5)'*,#--5ign5)'*(#-65. ,5 )0,5mf5 /(-51#. 5--.-5) 5'),5. (5of5#&&#)(5/,)-85#*,)5 ) 51 # 5,5-5)/.5) 5 (#85  5&#(--5,5/-535)0,5 149 mf5 #(0-.'(.5 '(!,-5 -5 #(5 go5 )/(.,#-5 '(!#(!5 #*,)]-5 5 ,-*)(--5 )0,5 . 5 3,-5 05 (5 &/5 ),5 --.-5.).&#(!55n5#&&#)(8 their transparency and comprehensive approach to the climate For more details refer www.sustainability (!5-.,.!385/,55,-*)(-5 ),5hffo7gf5(5 #(28)'I$-#K* I*/&#.#)(-I..-I K (2viewed at www.cdproject.net CARBON )(. &3K  ),&8* 5 DISCLOSURE OTHER AWARDS AND RECOGNITION PROJECT CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT (CDP) Investor relations global rankings Ļ55#-5. 51),&7&#(!5,*)-#.),35) 5#( ),'.#)(5)(5 Wipro was ranked third for its Investor Relations (IR) &#'.5  (!5 -.,.!#-65 .#)(-5 (5 .5 ) 5 (,&35 ifff5 website in the Asia-Pacific by the IR Global Rankings, which Wirpo topped the Carbon Disclosure /-#(--5 ),*),.#)(-85 .#(!5 )(5  & 5 ) 5 kkf5 #(-.#./.#)(&5 evaluates the comprehensive ranking system for investor Leadership Index (India) in 2010. #(0-.),-5 )&#(!55mg5.,#&&#)(5#(5--.-5/(,5'(!'(.65 relations websites, online annual reports, corporate governance . 55,-/&.-5,5/-535#(0-.),-65*)&#35'%,-65!)0,(practices, and financial disclosure procedures. The ranking is ment bodies and the business sector to make informed -5 )(5 2.(-#05 . (#&5 *,)*,#.,35 ,-, 5 ) 5 */&#&35 decisions. traded companies through a clear and transparent #*,)5 .)**5 . 5 ,)(5 #-&)-/,5 ,#*5 (265 methodology and is supported by key global institutions such (#5 #.#)(5 1#. 5 5 -),5 ) 5 nm5 )(5 gff5 ),5 . 5 3,5 hfgf85 -5,()&5;5),.,65  65 65(5)&#8 150 OUR ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Wipro believes that success for a company rests in meeting investors. . 5 2*..#)(-5 ) 5 &&5 #.-5 -.% )&,-5 75 1#. 5 )/,5 #(0-.),-5 In the sections that follow, we provide a detailed overview of being a principal constituent. Based on continuous interactions our financial results for the last four years, shareholding and feedback, we believe that our investors’ primary patterns, our engagement with investors and investor analysts, 2*..#)(-5 ,)'5 . 5 )'*(35 ,5 !))5 ),*),.5 (5. 5)'*)-#.#)(5-.,/./,5) 5)/,5),5) 5#,.),-5(5 governance, best-in-class reporting practices, consistent . 5),*),.52/.#05)/(#&5BC8 performance, and sustainable growth. The financial outcomes Wipro believes that success for a from this are: company rests in meeting the 1) Enhanced liquidity and stability of their investments expectations of all its stakeholders hC5.35#()'5ł)15#(5. 5 ),'5) 5#0#(5 with our investors being a principal iC5*#.&5**,#.#)(5#(5&#(51#. 5. 5,#-%5*,)ŀ&5 constituent. Wipro seeks to build a mutually beneficial relationship with its investors on the foundation of trust, fairness and transparency that will enable both parties to realize their goals. Wipro has a long legacy of adhering to the highest standards of corporate governance, winning the trust and support of its 151 ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED Economic Value-Add: A Four-year Snapshot 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Particulars Rs. In Mn. %. Rs. In Mn. %. Rs. In Mn. %. Rs. In Mn. %. Revenue 1,52,714 100% 2,03,970 100% 2,59,616 100% 2,76,505 100% The economic value retained as a Operating Cost 56,886 37% 82,028 40% 1,04,425 40% 1,12,420 41% percent of sales increased to 13% from 12% in 2008-09 with the dividend Employee Wages 62,716 41% 83,182 41% 1,07,595 41% 1,07,758 39% payout ratio increasing to 22% from and Benefit 18%. Payments to India 2,919 2% 4,025 2% 5,073 2% 6,505 2% Government Others 2,127 1% 1,954 1% 2,538 1% 3,443 1% Payments to Interest 124 0.1% 1,690 1% 2,400 1% 1,232 0.4% Providers of Capita Dividend 8,697 6% 8,765 4% 5,860 2% 8,809 3% Economic Value 19,245 13% 22,326 11% 31,725 12% 36,338 13% Retained 152 Financial assistance from the government utes significantly to both these goals, thereby qualifying a Considering the value created by the IT sector through the significant part of the profits from our global IT services for generation of direct and indirect employment and the earning 2'*.#)(5 ,)'5 ()'525#(5 (#855 05().5,#05(35 ) 5 ),#!(52 (!65. 5)0,('(.5) 5 (#5 -5(5*,)0#other direct or indirect financial assistance beyond the scope of ing fiscal incentives to IT companies. Our IT business contribthe state policy. Tax Benefit to Wipro 2008 2009 2010 The notional benefit for Wipro to Employees in Global IT Services 95,567 97,810 108,071 Profit Before Taxes stood at 22% for 2009-10. Benefit from Income-Tax Exemption 8,450 10,787 12,040 (in INR. Mn) Percentage of Tax Benefit to Profit 23% 24% 22% Before Tax (PBT ) 153 Wipro’s engagement with investors and investor analysts think is crucial to maintain transparency. These different modes As the visual below depicts, our engagement with our invesof communication help build trust and a sense of ownership. tors and analysts spans a wide range of channels, which we Breadth of Engagement · Website ·Annual General meeting ·Investor Road Show · Press Release · EGM · Meeting with Individual ·Quarterly Earnings Release ·Board Independent Directors Investors/ Analysts · Investor Presentation · Press Report · Investor Conference · Annual Reports · Feedback on Annual Report · Analyst Meet India and US ·Financial Information Inform Listen Dialog 154 Our senior management team along with the dedicated the silent period, we do not attend IR conferences and our Investor Relations team participates in various forums like senior management outside of the Investor Relations team investor conferences and road shows, and meets with investors does not meet any investors and analysts. in our offices. The details of our results, quarterly and annual We also conducted an online training and certification filings, transcripts of our earnings call, and media presentaprogram to create awareness and understanding of Regulation The details of our results, quarterly .#)(-5,50#&&5.511181#*,)8)'I#(0-.),-I5 #,5#-&)-/,5B!/&.#)(5C655,!/&.#)(535. 5/,#.35 and annual filings, transcripts of our As our investment engagement framework shows, our 2 (!5)''#--#)(5BC5 ),5&&5()(7',#(5)'*earnings call, and media leadership engages with analysts and investors through nies listed with the SEC. We provided training on Regulation presentations are available multiple forums, which provide investors a detailed perspec5 .)5 )/,5 -(#),5 '(!'(.5 (5 5 ,*,-(..#0-5 1 )5 at www.wipro.com/investors/ tive on Wipro’s performance and provide us an opportunity to interact with investors. We also actively contribute to various receive first-hand feedback. We follow the concept of a silent analysts’ research work so that investors get a better view about *,#)5 . .5 !#(-5 gk5 3-5  ),5 . 5 +/,.,]-5 (5 (5 the industry as well as the organisation. 2.(-5.#&&5. 5.5. 5+/,.,&35,-/&.-5,5&,85/,#(!5 ` 155 INVESTOR ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR FOR 2009-10 April 2009 May 2009 June 2009 July 2009 R5 hffn7fo5,-/&.-5(()/( R5 )5)15.5 /'# R5 (&3-.535 &5#(5 R5  5 &5 R5 n5*,--5,&-R5 )5)15.5/,)* 5 /'# R5  5 & R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 5 R5 g5,-/&.-5&, We organize an ‘Analyst Day’ every Hong Kong R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 (# R5 #0#(5*# R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 R5 n5*,--5,&-year in India and USA. The day R5 .5)0,5mf5#(0-.),-5 R5 i5*,--5,&-provides a platform for a dialog R5 h5*,--5,&-between investors and the Wipro Aug 2009 Sept 2009 Oct 2009 Nov 2009 management. Our leadership team uses this opportunity to communicate R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 R5 gh5*,--5,&-R5 h5,-/&.-5&, R5 h5*,--5,&-Singapore R5 .5)0,5if5#(0-.),R5 )5)15.5 /'# R5 &,5. 5+/#-#.#)(5) 5 our strategic direction to investors and R5 n5*,--5,&-R5 ..(5(5#(0-.),5 R5 gf5*,--5,&-Yardley business in different analysts, e.g., more than 100 investors R5 .5)0,5lf5#(0-.),conference in San R5 0,5hf5#(0-.),-5'. countries and analysts participated in our Francisco (US) R5 h5,)5)1-5#(5 R5 ..(5(5#(0-.),5 R5 )5)15#(5( Mumbai road show in 2009. conference in New York (US) R5 )5)15#(5 R5 h5,)5)1-5#(5).&( R5 Investor conference in Singapore R5 h5#(0-.),5)( ,(-5#(5 (# R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 R5 .5)0,5gff5#(0-.),Dec 2009 Jan 2010 Feb 2010 Mar 2010 R5 i5*,--5,&-R5 i5,-/&.-5&, R5 )5)15#(5 R5 /-.#(#&#.35*),.5hffm7fn5 R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 (# R5 l5*,--5,&-R5 )5)15#(5 /'# released R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 R5 .5)0,5hf5#(0-.),R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 R5 n5*,--5,&-R5 h5,)5)1-5#(5 /'#5 R5 i5#(0-.),5)( ,(-5#(5 (#5 R5 h5#(0-.),5)( ,(-5#(5 (#5 R5 .5)0,5kf5#(0-.),R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(55 R5 .5)0,5ghk5#(0-.),R5 h5#(0-.),5)( ,(-5#(5 R5 (0-.),5)( ,(5#(5 *( R5 nvestor conference in Singapore R5 )5)15#(5 R5 )5)15#(5).&( R5 .5)0,5gik5#(0-.),156 OUR SHAREHOLDERS /-.5#(5.,'-5) 5(/',-65)/,5, )&,-5)(-.#./.5)/,5 )(-)&#.5/,#(!5. 53,5#(5). 5)'-.#5(55 largest stakeholder. Over the years we have built a relationholdings. This trend is consistent with the overall macroecoship with them that is based on trust and goodwill. nomic conditions in the global and emerging markets. The table below shows the total number of shareholders 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Over the years we have built a relationship with our shareholders No. of Shareholders 155,832 197,774 232,932 228,456 179438 that is based on trust and goodwill. ADR Holders 16,732 20,229 18,428 14,945 15,383 Total Shareholders 172,564 218,003 251,360 243,401 194,821 157 /,#(!5. 53,6515#(,-5. 5 ,+/(35) 5#(.,.#)(-5 .5&)!81#*,)8)'I8 1#. 5#(0-.),-85(#),5'(!'(.52/.#0-5*,.##*.5#(5 The above channels supplemented our regular quarterly hl5#(0-.),5)( ,(-5,)--5. 5!&)5-5)'*,5.)5hf5#(5 results announcements to the stakeholders through press . 5 *,0#)/-5 3,85 (5 #.#)(65 . 35 ..(5 gk5 ,)5 )1-5 releases and detailed presentations. The announcement is Twitter -*,5 ,)--5 . 5 )(.#((.-5 .)5 '.5 )0,5 iff5 #(0-.),-5 (5 typically followed by a press conference where the senior www.twitter.com/wipro (&3-.-5-5)'*,5.)5gfi5#(5. 53,5hffn7fo85 (5*,&&&65 leadership team interacts with the media. Every quarter, we Facebook individual investor communication was also stepped up. The arrange for two teleconference calls one catering to the time www.facebook.com/WiproTechnologies Investor Relations section of the website was enhanced to be 4)(5) 5 (#(I55#(0-.),-5(5(). ,5.)5. 51-.,(5 Wipro blogs more user-friendly and informative. Seventy-four press .#'54)(-85 ),5. (5hff5#(0-.),-I5(&3-.-5*,.##*.5#(5 blog.wipro.com releases were made during FY 09-10 to provide online inforthese calls. These calls provide them with an opportunity to mation to the investor community. This activity was spread interact with our leadership. These calls are also available as through the year and we used multiple channels like Twitter webcasts and transcripts and the recordings are available for a F )&&)15 /-5 )(5 1118.1#..,8)'I1#*,)G65 ))%55 period of one month from the date of the call in the investor F1118 ))%8)'I#*,) ()&)!#-G5 (5 #*,)5 &)!-5 section of our website www.wipro.com. 158 The Annual Report The Annual General Meeting (AGM) Our traditional mode of communication each year with This follows soon after the publishing of the Annual Report investors at large is through the Annual Report, which and provides an opportunity for investors to interact directly outlines our performance, management approach and gover(5*,)0#5 %5.)5#*,)[-5),5) 5#,.),-5(5. 5 nance systems for the previous year. In addition, we also share leadership team on any pertinent issue. our view of the business environment and our future outlook. Our chairman uses this opportunity to share his thoughts on the business and on future areas of focus. The Annual Report contains detailed sections on financial performance, risk management and corporate governance along with graphical and tabular presentations for ease of understanding and analysis. Our chairman uses the Annual Report to share his thoughts on the business and on future areas of focus. Members of the Wipro Board and shareholders at the AGM held on 22 July, 2010 159 RESPONSE TO INVESTORS’ AND SHAREHOLDERS’ CONCERNS Description Nature Received Replied Pending Non-receipt of Securities Complaint 9 9 0 Non-receipt of Annual Reports Complaint 59 59 0 Correction/ Revalidation of Request 361 361 0 Dividend Warrants SEBI / Stock Exchange Complaints Complaint 3 3 0 We believe that the continued satisfaction of our shareholder Non-receipt of Dividend Warrants Complaint 255 255 0 community is one of the cornerstones of Rectification of Name Request 1 1 0 our success and, thus, we take particular care to respond to all Financial Confirmation Statement Query 1 1 0 shareholder queries with a great sense of ADS Holdings of urgency. Our goal is to have zero Others Request 11 11 0 pending complaints or queries, which we achieved during the reporting year. Total 700 700 0 Note: There are certain pending cases relating to disputes over the title to shares where the company has been made a party to the suit. However, these cases are not material in nature. 160 DATA CALCULATION METHODOLOGY AND ASSUMPTIONS Computation Process Assumptions and Data Cluster Protocols Followed (IT Systems or Manual) Rules of Thumb Economic Performance 1) All raw financial data are Our financial reporting is on .5 ),5-.5Ļ,5,-5 recorded in our SAP-based the basis of the IFRS systems with a maker-andframeworks checker concept 2) The consolidation and analysis of the financial data is done in our Hyperion business intelligence system Impact of Financial The implied benefit was We have used the government Assistance from the &/&.5#(5 #,)-) .5B C5 2'*.#)(5ŀ!/,-5-5. 5-#-5 Government on our 2&65. 5ŀ((#&5#-5 ,)'5 of calculation ,)ŀ.5 .,52 SAP and Hyperion systems .,#-5)(5(&3-.5 .-5 These data points are (5#0,-#.35) 5)0,((5 '#(.#(5#(5 52&5 Bodies sheets in the IR central database by the Investor Relations group 161 162 5F. ETHICAL SUPPLY CHAIN Our overall plan comprises four components: Responsible. We try to ensure that Ethical. Wipro expects its suppliers In the globally connected world today, where to adhere to similar standards our suppliers adhere to fundamental an organization’s extended ecosystem often of ethics and integrity as itself. principles of human rights and employee welfare. includes deep supply chains, it is diﬃcult to progress on sustainability goals without inﬂuencing and partnering with suppliers as well. By working with them we are able to make changes to sustainability and outcomes. Ecological. We inﬂuence suppliers to Local. Recognizing the socio-economic reduce their own ecological footprint. beneﬁts of local procurement, we encourage sourcing from the local economy. Green PCs with the help of suppliers. A careful examination of components and sourcing helped Wipro achieve ‘Beyond RoHS compliance’ in our PCs. This was done with the active (and voluntary) collaboration of 30 suppliers (81% of the total), covering 100% of the targeted components. LEED building and supplier sustainability. Two of the categories for LEED certiﬁcation involve siting and materials & resources. By procuring ~50% of the materials locally, Wipro ensures both certiﬁcation and supplier sustainability. Partnering BMTC in improving transport. When Wipro’s then transport system proved unsustainable, we turned to BMTC, Bangalore’s public transport corporation. We helped them in increasing the number of public services from 12 to 200 daily. Today 50% of our staﬀ and thousands of others use these services. 163 The overarching context In the globally connected world of today, where an organization’s extended ecosystem often includes deep supply chains, it is difficult to progress on sustainability goals without influencing and partnering with one’s suppliers. The visual framework on the next page represents the dynamic linkages in the customer-supplier ecosystem that can have significant impacts on sustainability outcomes. 164 Supplier Expected Sustainability Operating Engagement Role Outcomes Mechanisms Process As providers of goods Purchase products that Establish ‘green’ Build awareness among and equipment meet or exceed resource procurement policies suppliers on new efficiency standards, e.g., Include ‘sustainability’ expectations variable frequency criteria in ‘request for compressors proposals’ Suppliers As partners in product Suppliers will invest and Contractual arrangement Close collaboration with design and development align their product goals that defines suppliers’ suppliers at every with those of the green milestone customer’s product on commitments Suppliers will be a part defined ‘green’ of the extended parameters ecosystem Supplies will reduce the ecological footprint of their own operations As service providers and Reduce the ecological Contractual agreement Direct oversight backed contract staff footprint of services, e.g., that specifies clauses on by periodic checks more fuel-efficient buses ‘people’s rights’ and training and mentoring from transport operators ‘green outcomes’ Common criteria include ‘Meeting and exceeding norms on labor and human rights’, 'Supplier diversity’ and ‘Encouraging local economy’ 165 AN OVERVIEW OF WIPRO’S VISION AND PLAN FOR SUPPLY CHAIN SUSTAINABILITY Ethical Ecological Responsible Local Wipro expects its suppliers On ecological We recognize that it is our Recognising the socioto adhere to similar sustainability, our extended responsibility to economic benefits of local standards of ethics and expectations from suppliers maintain oversight for the procurement, we encourage integrity as itself. Specific are two fold: fact that our suppliers and sourcing from the local clauses in the COBCE First, we expect suppliers to contractors adhere to the economy. require our suppliers to supply products and minimum principles of Aligned to LEED adhere to ethical behaviour services that exceed human rights and employee standards, nearly 50% of in every respect with zero environmental standards. welfare. construction materials are tolerance for any breaches. In particular, for our Adhere to all regulations on sourced locally. By the same token, our LEED buildings and for minimum wages, maximum At an aggregate level, Ombudsprocess is available our Energy Star green working hours, etc. nearly 80% of our supplier for suppliers and contraccomputers, our supplier Protect health and safety of base is based in India. By tors to report any breach of selection criteria is entirely employees. value, 44%+ of the procurecode of conduct by Wipro based on this set of Demonstrate – in policy ment for the year was from employees. During 2009-10, there were eight capabilities. and action – zero tolerance these India-based suppliers. instances of suppliers who Second, we expect our for child and forced labor. were found in breach of the suppliers to establish a We influence suppliers who COBCE, subsequent to program of ecological are in breach of these to which we terminated all sustainability in their own take corrective action. contracts with them. operations. The above visual represents our broad approach to supplier responsibility – it is green computing journey; the second case study highlights how local/regional predicated on the four pillars of Ethical, Ecological, Responsible and Local. suppliers are central to our LEED building program; the third is an interesting We present three case studies that illustrate different dimensions of supply case study of how, in trying to achieve the goal of greater adoption of bus services chain responsibility – underlying all of them is a common strand of strong by our employees, the close engagement with the municipal transport authorities collaboration that is required with suppliers to make any program effective in the made a big difference. long run. The first is a case study of how supplier collaboration is crucial in our 166 CASE STUDY 1: SUPPLIER COLLABORATION ON ‘BEYOND ROHS’ IN GREEN COMPUTING Wipro’s computing (PC and Laptop) division had already Based on the material analysis of components, Wipro launched 100% RoHS-compliant greenware products. As part identified 13 products sourced from vendors that contained of our supplier engagement agenda on sustainability for ‘Beyond RoHS’ hazardous substances. These 13 products were 2009-10, we had committed to further broaden collaboration sourced from a list of 37 vendors. A formal communication with our suppliers to meet our 'Beyond RoHS’ goal – where was sent to these vendors in relation to Wipro’s stated goal in the target is to launch a line of desktops that are PVCand May 2009. The responses from vendors stated their current BFR-free. Wipro applied an integrated and phased approach position and challenges with regards to meeting the new with its business partners to achieve this: design and development approach. Wipro worked collaboraThe team worked closely with the 1. Understand composition of component products (PVC, tively with all vendors who could be ready by September 2009 suppliers for a year to ensure compliBFR and also chemicals like phthalate, beryllium and to support this initiative. Expectedly, we faced challenges on ance of 30 vendors (81%) covering antimony) economic priorities (cost, timelines) and supplier buy-in to a 100% of the targeted components. 2. Joint review of data provided between the procurement voluntary project. The team worked closely with the suppliers team and the supplier. for a year to ensure compliance of 30 vendors (81%) covering 3. Devise action plan for eliminating identified substances 100% of the targeted components. External auditing and self from the components. declaration were added in the contracts as part of renewed 4. Compliance monitoring – with a focus on mentoring in procurement. Finally, compliance and performance on the the first year. agreed initiatives were integrated into the vendor performance 5. Renewed procurement policy and contracts . ratings. 167 CASE STUDY 2: SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR LEED BUILDING PROGRAM All our owned campuses are LEED-compliant. The LEED Sustainable sites Green Building Rating System addresses a building on six Most of our facilities house the IT services staff. For proper major aspects: work-life balance, Wipro provides convenience and recreR5 /-.#(&5#.-5 ational facilities. Most of these facilities are for the exclusive R5 .,5Ń#(3 use of our staff. The employee commute at one of our locations, R5 (,!35;5.')-* , in contrast, is an example where the facility is used by our R5 .,#&5;5-)/,workforce as well as the community in the proximity of our R5 ()),5(0#,)('(.&5/&#.3 operations. These initiatives help us make our sites more R5 (()0.#)(5#(5-#!( sustainable by providing an enabling environment for suppliers Our initiatives in water and energy efficiencies are covered in to innovate and thrive as well as providing public services to the environmental section of the report. Here, we cover two local communities. additional parameters of our facilities – siting and the materials used for construction. 168 Material and resources suppliers, the raw material extraction for the procured material The following data is LEED for facilities completing is also done locally. This local sourcing for our construction construction in 2009-10. For these facilities, on an average, helps build local businesses and also helps reduce the carbon around 50% of the material (in terms of value) for building our footprint of our operations. facilities is procured locally. Based on data provided by the Materials Materials LEED Manufactured Regionally Extracted Regionally Location Facility Certification (As % of Overall (As % of Overall Material Costs) Material Costs) Local sourcing for our construction helps build local businesses and also SDB2, Pune Hinjewadi Gold 46.03 24.73 helps reduce the carbon footprint of our operations. Chennai CDC-5 Gold 24.6 24.6 Vizag WT Gold 60.19 57.85 Bhubaneshwar WT Gold 60.17 60.17 169 CASE STUDY 3: SUSTAINABILITY AND SERVICES SUPPLIERS – THE CASE OF BUS COMMUTING AT WIPRO BMTC (Bangalore Metropolitan Transport reliance on maintaining a private charter service (in 2008, we Corporation), part of the state government’s had a fleet of 157 buses) for our huge employee base and 201% transport department, is the government agency (In13 changing it based on the increase in our workforce and coverMonths) responsible for public transport in the Greater age areas was clearly not sustainable. Based on extensive Wipro would provide the required Bangalore region. It operates a fleet of over 6000 buses coverdiscussions with the senior management of BMTC, we piloted infrastructure for bus parking, traffic ing the whole of Greater Bangalore and ferries more than 4 an initiative in May 2009. The campus environs were poorly management facilitation, and staff million passengers per day. serviced by public transport till then (earlier 12 a day). As part facilities. BMTC would ramp up to Based on a perception and service analysis of our of the pilot arrangement, Wipro would provide the required around 200 services. employee commute operations, we could see a clear infrastructure for bus parking, traffic management facilitation, need to provide flexibility of transport options at and staff facilities, while BMTC would gradually ramp up to 176% (In13 reasonable cost, coverage of routes across the city, around 200 services to different parts of the city from the Months) convenience, and reduced commute time. Our Wipro campus. 170 Over the past 18 months, BMTC has started bus services to its convenience and viability for commute. The employee use of suit all consumer profiles from economy non-A/C buses to BMTC services has increased, as a proportion of the total high-end Volvo A/C buses covering nearly all the major areas of number using the bus (BMTC and private chartered), from the city. We also partnered in a monthly initiative called ‘Bus 20% to more than 50% over a one-year period. Day’ where people are encouraged to ‘try the bus’ and appreciate BMTC trips to our campus 300 271 256 240 227 211 Over the past 18 months, BMTC has 183 190 190 190 started bus services to suit all consumer 180 171 162 profiles from economy non-A/C buses 136 to high-end Volvo A/C buses covering 120 112 nearly all the major areas of the city. 90 60 0 May 09 Jun 09 Jul 09 Aug 09 Sep 09 Oct 09 Nov 09 Dec 09 Jan 10 Feb 10 Mar 10 Apr 10 May 10 171 Employees using BMTC services 4900 4826 5000 4720 4654 4522 4376 4050 4000 3719 3217 2940 3000 2325 2110 2000 1750 1000 0 May 09 Jun 09 Jul 09 Aug 09 Sep 09 Oct 09 Nov 09 Dec 09 Jan 10 Feb 10 Mar 10 Apr 10 May 10 Contribution from Wipro Contribution from BMTC Parking infrastructure Bus terminus on Wipro campus gate Traffic management hub Different services (bus types) Sanitary facilities Coverage of routes (optimize and increase) Recreational facilities Relaxation/Recharge facilities Subsidized catering Partnering in public transport marketing initiatives (e.g., Bus Day) 172 Though the buses terminate outside the company’s campus have been able to communicate the benefits and encourage (incidentally, at the end of the Electronics City IT park), they public transport within our communities. We have also been can be used by anyone in the nearby community. On an able to meet stakeholder expectations in providing a average, around 40,000 people from the nearby community, self-sustaining and sustainable alternative to personal modes which constitutes villagers and employees from other organiof commute. On an average, around 40,000 people zations in the vicinity, use this transport. There is no written contract in place on the continuation of from the nearby community, which On an average, more than 270 bus trips are made from the the service with BMTC. This is an interesting case of an constitutes villagers and employees campus hub and BMTC has been increasing the bus engagement with a stakeholder based on a symbiotic relationfrom other organizations in the frequency and destination/route coverage on a regular basis. ship benefitting both parties. vicinity, use this transport. Wipro has been able to reduce its private charter service from While Wipro is able to provide employees with a sustainable 157 buses to 111 buses over the course of the past 18 months, alternative to personal transport and chartered buses, BMTC even with an increase in the employee base. has realized and capitalized on an economically viable opporThis initiative has distinct community and social benefits. We tunity. 173 WHAT NEXT? Replicate the arrangement at other locations of our operations. In advanced discussions with transport authorities for starting services in our 2nd major location in Bangalore Stated goal to have a lean company charter service and move to complete public transport-facilitated employee transport BMTC – Vehicle maintenance and pollution-control checks at node Explore opportunities to pilot green transport initiatives ent booth Traffic managem us bay and lities in the b Parking faci mpus outside the ca Catering facilities on Bus Day 174 5G. EDUCATION & COMMUNITY Wipro believes in continuous engagement with educational institutions and the community because the future of the country springs from these. Our investment and involvement includes training, infrastructure and creating The quality education survey is trying to widen the deﬁnition of good schools by studying a number of platforms for sharing knowledge, nationwide. regular and alternate schools. Post the Kosi ﬂoods in Bihar, we are helping many households in Bihar with solar power panels, eco-friendly toilets and rainwater harvesting. MISSION10X is a major intervention by Wipro. It is active in 20 states, 700 engineering colleges among 10,000 faculty members to improve the quality and number of engineering graduates to bridge the looming gap in supply and demand. We are creating platforms in association with leading NGOs to share educational techniques and knowledge across the country. SeasonWatch, in partnership with the National Wipro Applying Thought In Schools has Centre for Biological Sciences, seeks to involve the a consistent eﬀort going to create good teachers and children of India in a countrywide educational literature in ﬁelds as diverse monitoring of trees. as ecological studies and folk tales. Wipro is working with B. Ed and M. Ed students to help them improve skills in higher order thinking. One of Project Sanjeevani’s initiatives is educating village women in sound dietary practices. Project Sanjeevani, in association with the Phule Trust, is setting up primary health facilities for 9 underserved villages Wipro is helping spread the light of in a bid to tackle malnutrition and infant mortality. good educational practices nationwide. 175 176 177 178 179 180 181 182 183 184 185 186 187 188 189 190 191 192 193 194 195 196 197 198 199 200 5H. ADVOCACY AND PUBLIC POLICY Good policies and regulations are like a lighthouse – they direct and guide without standing in the way. Unfortunately, the short history of social and environmental regulation over the past few decades has been characterized by a ‘Business vs Government’ position ruled by a paradigm of compliance, rather than collaboration between the two. We think that this paradigm must change fast, leading to a far more active involvement of business in shaping policies and regulation. This assumes critical importance in the arena of sustainability as enlightened regulations and policies can clearly be a differentiator for bringing about accelerated change. At Wipro, we strongly believe that meeting the challenges of sustainability cannot be the government’s job alone and that we must collaborate with government, along with other stakeholders. The visual on the next page summarizes the different forms of engagement that we adopt on sustainability advocacy. 201 Budget 2009, Papers World Economic Forum on ‘Inclusive G rowth’ and 2010 (Davos), India ‘Green IT’, Right to Education Act Public Forums Direct Engagement with Government Wipro’s Advocacy on Sustainability Public Disclosures Industry Networks Wipro Sustainability CII Mission for Reports, CDP 08, Sustainable Growth, CII 09 & 10 Climate Change Council, 202 DIRECT ENGAGEMENT WITH GOVERNMENT Since the inception of India’s National Action Plan on prime India’s low-carbon economy with emphasis on both Climate Change (NAPCC) in 2008, Wipro has endorsed the clean energy and energy efficiency. direction that the Indian government has adopted, including t In October 2009, we authored a position paper titled the position on voluntary targets on GHG emission reductions 'Green as an Enabler of Inclusive Growth’. This paper was that India took prior to the Copenhagen Climate Change written at the request of the Climate Change Secretariat under summit. Our position is aligned with the principle of differenthe Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The paper’s principal view tiated responsibility and we believe that as one of the top 5 was that among the many benefits of a green economy for GHG emitters in the world, India has a responsibility for India will be the generation of an additional 8 to 10 million achieving targeted emission reductions but without, in any way, jobs over the next two decades. The paper also discussed the jeopardizing our developmental goals on poverty alleviation relative cost-effectiveness of decentralized clean energy and During 2009-10, we engaged with the Indian and social inclusion. the multiplier effect that it can have on the issues of clean government on the areas of ﬁscal policies for clean energy, green IT and sustainability-led job generation. During 2009-10, we engaged with the Indian government on water, gender equity and education in rural India. the areas of fiscal policies for clean energy, green IT and t In December 2009, we authored a policy note titled sustainability-led job generation. ‘Policy Suggestions for Green IT’ for the Climate Change t In July 2009, we provided detailed inputs to the newly Secretariat. The note covered the areas of Green IT, Green IT re-elected government for the Union Budget. These policy SEZs and IT for Green. inputs centered on the fiscal measures that would be needed to 203 INDUSTRY NETWORKS Industry networks like CII, FICCI, NASSCOM have a key site/ciigbc/greenbuild.jsp?servid=184667 role to play as influencers of government policies and actions. t Wipro has been a core member of NASSCOM’s three This is even truer for sustainability. Industry networks in India working groups on ‘Green Infrastructure’, ‘Green Policies’ and have been quick to recognize the criticality of sustainability ‘Green Warriors’. Details of these programs are available at issues and why businesses must engage with these. Wipro is www.nasscom.org/nasscom/templates/LandingNS.aspx?id=5 playing a central role in the first wave of actions that these 5759 networks have initiated. t The Digital Energy Solutions Consortium India was t Wipro is one of the founding members of the CII created to bring together leaders in technology, energy and Mission for Sustainable Growth (MSG). The Mission requires environment to inform evolving public policies in India around industry members to commit themselves to voluntary targets sustainability issues like energy security and a cleaner environon several ecological dimensions including GHG reductions. ment. A DESC working group was formed to research and More details about CII-MSG can be found at study ICT’s contribution to India’s National Action Plan on www.greenbusinesscentre.com/site/ciigbc/greenbuild.jsp?servi Climate Change (NAPCC). Wipro was one of the working d=184748 group members and our Chief Technology Officer was one of t The National Green Building Code (NGBC) was drafted the co-chairs of the task force. The DESC working group by the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) in early 2010 recently released the detailed report that highlighted ICT’s to provide detailed guidelines for the design and execution of contribution to the National Solar Mission, the National green buildings across the country. Wipro was one of the memMission on Energy Efficiency and the Sustainable Habitat bers of the core working group that drafted the guidelines. More Mission. More details about DESC and the report are details are available at www.greenbusinesscentre.com/ available at www.asoft325.accrisoft.com/india/desc-india/ 204 PUBLIC FORUMS The debates about climate change, water scarcity, sustainable event. The gist of his opening speech is reproduced below: cities and other related challenges need to be informed by a “This year’s annual meeting comes at a time when an economic As co-chair of the World Economic Forum (WEF) event at Davos held in January 2010, Wipro’s Chairman robust exchange of thoughts and ideas between leaders from reset and tackling of climate change are at the helm of focus for drove the agenda of the event that centered on climate business, government and civil society. Business leaders must all. The Copenhagen Summit has deeply emphasized the change and the economic recovery. ‘talk the walk’ as much as they do the reverse. Wipro’s leaders challenge that humanity faces from climate change sharply participate in several public forums on sustainability – the reiterating the urgent need for a sustainable growth agenda for following are some of the instances of our participation during the world. Although these two issues may seem almost dispa2009-10: rate, but to me they are not, and they form the basis of my t Wipro’s Chairman, Mr. Azim H. Premji, was one of the six agenda as a co-chair. Both are global challenges and both need co-chairs of the World Economic Forum (WEF) 2010 at coordinated, rapid and overwhelming response from the global Davos. He led the discussions on sustainability through the community. 205 I see tremendous socio-economic possibilities of a low-carbon, to ecology and a low-carbon future. The full transcript of the ecologically sustainable growth in the future. interview can be read at www.knowledge.wharton.upenn.edu The other sessions that Mr. Premji chaired were titled /india/article.cfm?articleid=4486 ‘Towards Low-Carbon Prosperity’ and ‘A Roadmap for a t Wipro’s leaders – Mr. Laxman K Badiga, CIO and Sustainable Recovery/Being Responsible for the Future’. Mr. Anurag Behar, Chief Sustainability Officer – spoke for a Mr. Premji’s comments on the role of policies for a low-carbon TV series ‘The Road to Copenhagen: Seal the Deal’. The series, economy can be viewed on Page 3 of the transcript of the aired on CNBC Europe and CNBC Asia Pacific for 10 weeks session available at www.weforum.org/pdf/AM_2010 before the Copenhagen conference 2009, was part of the /transcripts/roadmap-sust-recovery.pdf worldwide UN campaign on climate change titled ‘Seal the t In an interview with India Knowledge @ Wharton in June Deal’. The video recording of the episode can be viewed at 2010, Mr. Premji spoke at length about Wipro’s commitment www.sealthedeal2009.org/psa-tv-series8 Wipro’s leaders – the Chief Information Oﬃcer and the Chief Sustainability Oﬃcer – spoke in a TV series ‘The Road to Copenhagen: Seal the Deal’. PUBLIC DISCLOSURES Public disclosures like Sustainability Reports and Annual through endorsements of policy positions, sustainability Financial Reports are good channels for companies to exercise charters and through its own position and opinion on critical sustainability advocacy. Wipro has been leveraging its issues, e.g. Wipro’s detailed articulation of the Indian policy Sustainability Reports, Carbon Disclosure Project and its landscape on Clean Energy is available on Page 95 of Wipro Annual Financial Report to further the sustainability agenda Sustainability Report 2008-09. 206 SPOTLIGHT: WIPRO AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE As a good corporate citizen and driven by our core values of the visual below illustrates the common regulations and direcintegrity and ethics, Wipro has an exemplary record of complitives that Wipro complies with in the financial, labor and ance with government regulations in all the countries in which environmental domains: it operates. Regulations vary from geography to geography – Taxation (Payment of Excise duties, Sales tax, Customs duties, Corporate Income Tax) Mandatory publishing of quarterly and annual results (both US GAAP and Indian GAAP) Financial Compliance with SEBI guidelines for companies listed on Indian stock exchanges and with SEC Regulations rules for companies listed on US stock exchanges Compliance with requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Maximum number of working hours per week Minimum number of days for casual and sick leave Minimum Wages Act Labour Regulations Shops and Establishments Act Freedom to form trade unions and employee associations Laws in EU and American countries that govern data privacy on employee information Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) prior to the start of a new facility Clearance from the state Pollution Control Board (PCB) on measures for water treatment, diesel Environmental Regulations storage, handling and disposal of hazardous substances, etc. This is required prior to the commencement of a new facility and subsequently on an annual basis 207 Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (COBCE) and 10, we paid a total fine of Rs. 66,000 approx USD 1450). We our values direct our approach to compliance with laws and have already initiated the process of moving from this office to regulations of the countries where we operate. We consider our own premises – in the interest of business continuity for compliance with laws as a hygiene factor and as an essential our clients. However, this transition is designed to happen cost of operating a business. gradually. In our previous Sustainability Reports, we have been making a Code of business conduct with the government mention of the peculiar circumstances surrounding the indusAs with other business partners, our Code of Business trial estate of Okhla in Delhi, India, which houses one of our Conduct and Ethics COBCE governs our engagement with older BPO operations. This entire industrial estate has been in governments and regulatory authorities. The Code covers breach of the local building regulations, including the office Wipro’s policy on lobbying and dealing with government buildings where we operate as tenants. Our status as tenants contracts. We do not, as a matter of policy, contribute to prevents us from rectifying the situation and, as a result, we political parties in cash or kind in any geography in which have been obliged to pay a fine every year. For the year 2009we operate. 208 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction requirements of AA1000AS (2008) detailed below: Det Norske Veritas AS ('DNV') has been commissioned by the Management of Wipro Information relating to the company's sustainability issues, responses, Limited ('the Company') to carry out an independent assurance engagement on the performance data, case studies, and underlying systems for the management of Wipro Limited Sustainability Report 2009-10 ('the Report'). This assurance such information and data; engagement has been conducted against the Global Reporting Initiative 2006 Information relating to the company's materiality assessment and stakeholder Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.0 (GRI G3) and AccountAbility's engagement processes; AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000AS (2008)). The verification was • Confirm that the Report meets the requirements of the GRI G3 for an Application conducted during October 2010 and February 2011 for the year of activities covered in Level A, as declared by Wipro Limited. the Report, 1st April 2009 to 31st March 2010. The reporting boundary is as set out in the Report, i.e., covers the company's IT DNV is a global provider of sustainability services, with qualified environmental and business (which includes software services, BPO services and IT products) only; the social assurance specialists working in over 100 countries. DNV states its independence Consumer Care and Lighting and Infrastructure Engineering business units, other joint and impartiality with regard to this assurance engagement. In 2009-10, DNV did not ventures and subsidiaries under Wipro Limited are not included. work with Wipro Limited on any engagements that could compromise the independence Also during the assurance process we did not come across limitations to the scope of or impartiality of our findings, conclusions and recommendations. DNV was not the assurance engagement. involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report, with the Verification methodology exception of this Assurance Statement. DNV maintains complete impartiality toward This assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the any people interviewed. DNV expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any AA1000AS (2008) and the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting. decision a person or entity would make based on this Assurance Statement. The Report has been evaluated against the following criteria: The intended users of this Assurance Statement are the management of Wipro • Adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness as set out Limited and readers of this Report. The Management of the company is responsible for in the AA1000AS (2008); the Reliability of specified sustainability performance all data and information provided in the Report as well as the processes for collecting, information, as required for a Type 2 and moderate level assurance engagement; analyzing and reporting the information. DNV's responsibility regarding this • Adherence to the additional principles of Completeness and Neutrality as set out in verification is to company only and in accordance with the agreed scope of work. The DNV's Protocol; and assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information • The principles and requirements of the GRI G3 for an Application Level A. provided to us is complete and true. As part of the engagement, DNV has verified the statements and claims made in the Scope, boundary and limitations of assurance Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, The scope of work agreed upon with Wipro Limited includes verification of the information flow and controls. In doing so, we have: following: • Reviewed the Company's approach to stakeholder engagement and its materiality • The content of the 2009-10 Sustainability Report, i.e., reporting of economic, determination process; environmental and social indicators related to Wipro Technologies (WT), Wipro • Verified the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and Infotech (WI) and Wipro Business Process Outsourcing (WBPO); assessed the robustness of the data management system, information flow and • Evaluation of the Accountability principles and specified performance information, controls; described below, for a Type 2, moderate level of assurance, in accordance with the • Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by 209 Wipro Limited; as reflected in the Report. • Visited the Corporate Office at Bangalore, computer factory at Pondicherry, four Materiality: Good. The company's material issues have by far remained the same as development centers and business process outsourcing centers located in India, i.e., at reported in the previous year, some of the issues have changed their position in the matrix Bangalore, Pune, Chennai, and Kochi; owing to the dynamic nature of business and changed perception of the stakeholders. In • Conducted interviews with key representatives including data owners and decisionour opinion, the material issues have been appropriately prioritised and responded to in makers from different divisions and functions of the company including the Eco-eye the Report. The Report provides a balanced representation of material issues related to team, Environment Health and Safety team, Facilities Management team, the company's sustainability performance. Corporate Finance, Human Resource Management, Risk Legal and Management Responsiveness: Good. We consider that the Company has responded adequately to team, etc. key stakeholder concerns through its policies and management systems and the same are • Performed sample-based reviews of the mechanisms for implementing the fairly reflected in the Report. Company's sustainability-related policies, as described in the Report; Additional parameters as per DNV's protocol • Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and Completeness: Acceptable. Some of the GRI G3 core indicators have been reported managing the quantitative data and qualitative information included in the Report. partially. The rationale behind partial reporting and exclusions should be explained Opportunities for Improvement within the Report along with the time-frame for complete reporting. The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities for improvement Neutrality: Good. The Company has reported its sustainability performance and reported to the Management of Wipro Limited and are considered for drawing our related issues in a transparent and balanced manner, in terms of content and tone. conclusion on the Report; however, they are generally consistent with the In accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) requirements for a Type 2,moderate level Management's objectives: assurance engagement, we conclude that the specified sustainability data and • The company may benchmark performance against national and international information presented in the Report is generally reliable and based on the scope of this Information technology companies to further strengthen its sustainability assurance engagement, Wipro Sustainability Report 2009-10 provides a fair performance in the wider context of sustainability; representation of the Company's sustainability policies, objectives, management • To further enhance the quality and reliability of the performance data, an internal approach and performance during the reporting year. DNV also confirms that the Report benchmarking of best practices could ensure knowledge sharing among data-owners meets the requirements for GRI Application Level A. and decision-makers and improve the consistency of the data aggregation system; • A structured approach to evaluate and monitor the sustainability risks in the supply chain and outsourced activities of the company in its India and overseas operations for Det Norske Veritas AS Signed: Signed: will help in mitigating risks (if any) related to labor and human rights issues. Conclusions We have evaluated the Report's adherence to the following principles on a scale of 'Good', 'Acceptable' and 'Needs Improvement': Vadakepatth Nandkumar Gravlien Ingebjørg Inclusivity: Good. As a part of its stakeholder engagement process, the company Lead Verifier Principal Consultant engages with its identified stakeholders through formal channels through direct Det Norske Veritas AS, India Det Norske Veritas AS., Norway feedbacks, indirect inference through surveys and informed dialog and discussions. The Bangalore, India, 18th March 2011 inputs from the stakeholder engagement helped to refine the Company's material issues, 210 6B. FEEDBACK AND COMMUNICATION We welcome our readers' feedback, points of view and forward to hearing from you. It is your honest feedback that will suggestions on Wipro's Sustainability Report 2009-10 in enable us to strengthen and improve our sustainability program. particular and on our sustainability program in general and look You may write to us at any of the following contact points: Name Contact details Wipro sustainability team sustain.report@wipro.com Mr. P.S. Narayan Wipro Limited General Manager, Sustainability Doddakanelli, Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560035. India Tel : +91-080-25056766 Email : narayan.pan@wipro.com Mr. R. Sridhar (For N. America) Wipro Limited CFO & Investors' Relations East Brunswick, Tower 2, New Jersey, US Americas & Europe Ph: +1 650-316-3537 Email : sridhar.ramasubbu@wipro.com Mr. Santosh Karagada (For Europe) Wipro Limited General Manager, Human Resources 185, Kings Court, Kings Road, Reading United Kingdom. Rg1 4EX Tel : +44-118-9022-306 Email: santosh.karagada@wipro.com For queries and clarifications on financial matters, the following may be contacted. 211 Name Contact details Wipro sustainability team sustain.report@wipro.com Mr. Rajendra Kumar Shreemal Wipro Limited Vice President & Corporate Treasurer Doddakannelli, Sarjapur Road, Bangalore 560 035. Ph: 91 80 28440011 (Extn 226186) Email: rajendra.shreemal@wipro.com Mr. R. Sridhar Wipro Limited CFO & Investors' Relations East Brunswick, Tower 2, New Jersey, US. Americas & Europe Ph: +1 650-316-3537 Email : sridhar.ramasubbu@wipro.com 212 7A: INDEX OF GRI INDICATORS Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the senior-most decision-maker of the organization. 3-6 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 39 31-35, 50-54 2. Organizational Proﬁle 2.1 Name of the organization. 23 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. 35 27 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsid2.3 40 23-29 iaries, and joint ventures. Outside 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 25 Back Cover Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major Inside Back 2.5 25 operations or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Cover 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 63, 64 156 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneﬁ2.7 35, 36 23-29 ciaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 35-37 25-26 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership. 40-43 10-11 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 26, 58 29, 149-150 Covered fully in the report Partially covered in the report Not covered in the report 213 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., ﬁscal/calendar year) for information provided. 40 10 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 10 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 10 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 211-212 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content. 12-15 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, sup3.6 11 pliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. State any speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle 3.7 11 for explanation of scope). Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and 3.8 other entities that can signiﬁcantly aﬀect comparability from period to period and/or between 40, 151-152 10-11 organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information 15-16, 126-129, 3.9 in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indica161 tor Protocols. Explanation of the eﬀect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 3.10 reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of Not covered business, measurement methods).1 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement 3.11 10 methods applied in the report. 214 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report 12-18, 23-30, 1016, 44-49, 50-54, 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report. 64, 101-102, 134137, 164-166, 176, 202 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 17-18 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance 4.1 57-60, 84 38-41 body responsible for speciﬁc tas ks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive oﬃcer. 66 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest 4.3 66 41 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 4.4 72 36, 154-160 highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, 4.5 and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including 68, 71 38 social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided. 75 38 Process for determining the qualiﬁcations and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 74 38 body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and principles relevant to 4.8 74 38-39 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identiﬁcation and 38-39, 25-27 management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and from Sustain4.9 opportunities and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conability Report of duct, and principles. 08-09 215 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect 4.10 75 38-39 to economic, environmental and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4.11 35 organization. Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives 4.12 55-56 to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates 4.13 203-204 in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 12 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 12-15 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stake4.16 59-61 holder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 50-54 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC 49-56 146-147 Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee EC1 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to 35-38 152-152 capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to EC2 45, 134-137 climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations. 53 216 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government. 153 Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to local minimum wage at signiﬁcant locaEC5 Not covered tions of operation.3 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of EC6 166, 169 operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community EC7 73, 87-89 at signiﬁcant locations of operation. Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public EC8 177-200 beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of EC9 147 impacts. Environmental DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN 101-102 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 124 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials.9 140-142 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 105 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 103-105 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and eﬃciency improvements. 107,109 217 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report Initiatives to provide energy-eﬃcient or renewable energy-based products and services, and reducEN6 113, 177-200 tions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 107, 109 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 114-115 EN9 Water sources signiﬁcantly aﬀected by withdrawal of water.7 115 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 114-115 Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of EN11 125 high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected EN12 125 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored.1 Not covered EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 125 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas EN15 Not covered aﬀected by operations, by level of extinction risk.1 Emissions, Eﬄuents and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 108 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 108 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 109 218 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 118 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight. 117 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 114-115 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 118-120 EN23 Total number and volume of signiﬁcant spills. 120 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms EN24 of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped Not covered internationally.1 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁEN25 Not covered cantly aﬀected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoﬀ.1 Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitiEN26 140-143 gation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 118-119, 141-142 Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliEN28 Not covered ance with environmental laws and regulations.2 Transport Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used EN29 109-112 for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 219 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type.4 Not covered Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA 62-86 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. 87-94 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region. 87-94 Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employLA3 83-85 ees, by major operations. Labor/management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 80 Minimum notice period(s) regarding signiﬁcant operational changes, including whether it is LA5 80 speciﬁed in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety LA6 68-69 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs.8 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related LA7 95 fatalities by region. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforLA8 81-82 ce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions.5 Not covered 220 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. 66-67 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of LA11 66-67, 72 employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 70-71 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to LA13 41, 73-77, 87-94 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category.10 38 Human Rights DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR 35, 166 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements that include human rights HR1 80 clauses or that have undergone human rights screening.11 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human HR2 166 rights and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR3 38-39 that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 39-40 221 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargainHR5 80, 39 ing may be at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to HR6 38-39, 165-166 contribute to the elimination of child labor. Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and HR7 165-166 measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning HR8 75-77, 80-81 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken.6 Not covered Society and Community Performance Indicators 53, 177-178, 193DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO 194 Nature, scope and eﬀectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts SO1 194-196 of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 74 38-39 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 38-39 222 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 40, 166 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 54, 202-206 Total value of ﬁnancial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related instiSO6 208 tutions by country. Anti-competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices SO7 Not covered and their outcomes. 2 Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliSO8 208 ance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Performance Indicators DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR 132-137 Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for imPR1 provement, and percentage of signiﬁcant products and services categories subject to such proce140-143 dures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR2 Not covered health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes.2 Product and Service Labelling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of signiﬁcant PR3 140-143 products and services subject to such information requirements.12 223 Coverage in Annual Proﬁle Sustainability Annual Report/ Description Report Disclosure Report Page(s) Sustainability Page(s) Report Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR4 Not covered product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes.2 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfacPR5 59, 60 tion. Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communicaPR6 207-208 tions, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship.13 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of out207-208 comes. Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of PR8 Not covered customer data.2 Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the PR9 208 provision and use of products and services. 224 References 1. Not covered; not applicable. 2 Not covered as no instances in the reporting period. 3 Not covered as this factor is not material for the IT services business. Moreover, we abide by the UN Global Compact principles. Not covered Various expenditures exist from areas of civil infrastructure, information systems, EMS systems, and new ecology projects. 4 These sometimes span cost centers. We will endeavor to publish this information progressively. 5 Not covered Employees are not part of any registered trade unions. 6 Not covered Our operations are in urban centers and hence do not impact any indigenous population. Partially covered Lack of public data available related to groundwater aquifers and private water supply disclosures. We are 7 commissioning a study of the water proﬁle in two of our large operations. Partially covered Committees on company-provided transport, catering and diversity projects exist. Although a joint committee does 8 not exist for occupational health & safety, we have a feedback and redressal system for employees. For our hardware products, we assemble components sourced from vendors. So recycling of some components under our purview is 9 possible, but this is a minor part. We have a comprehensive take-back policy and processing of e-waste through a registered partner. The COBCE and principles of the UN Global compact applicable to all employees which cover the principle of ‘equal pay for equal 10 work’. 11 Acquisitions are more material for our business than investments. The green computing case study has covered this comprehensively. All information on take-back, RoHS compliance and energy 12 eﬃciency is available on the website. This information is shipped in a leaﬂet along with the product. 13 Oekom AG has rated us on responsible marketing being one of our strengths. We have dedicated strategic marketing that uses the services of creative agencies for marketing. We ensure that that we only empanel 14 those who are compliant or registered with standards bodies, such as The Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI). 225 7B. GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS The table below is a glossary of all the acronyms used in the Wipro Sustainability Report. (Note : Acronyms suﬃxed with the [w] symbol indicate that they are speciﬁc to Wipro) Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website reference AA1000 is a series of standards from AccountAbility to help organizations become AA1000 Account Ability Standard www.accountability.org more accountable, responsible and sustainable AC Air Conditioning Air-cooling system that provides thermal comfort in buildings, cars, etc American Depository Receipt / Represents ownership in shares of a non-US company that trades in US ﬁnancial ADR, ADS Shares markets AGM Annual General Meeting An annual meeting of public companies with shareholders as required by law A business unit forum where leaders present strategy, assess progress and discuss plans AHM[w] All Hands Meet with employees APAC Asia Paciﬁc Abbreviation for the region: Asia-Paciﬁc and Japan American Society for Training ASTD A non-proﬁt association for workplace learning and performance professionals www.astd.org and Development Ashoka Trust for Research in NGO, based in India, working to promote environmental conservation and ATREE www.atree.org Ecology and Environment sustainable development BEE Bureau of Energy Eﬃciency Statutory body under Ministry of Power, Government of India www.bee-india.nic.in B.Ed Bachelor of Education A basic graduate program in India for entry into the teaching profession BFR Brominated Flame Retardants A group of chemical ﬂame retardants used in electronics and textiles Banking, Financial Services and BFSI Commonly used abbreviation for companies representing the ﬁnancial sector Insurance www.bmtcinfo.com Bangalore Metropolitan BMTC Government-owned public transport corporation for the city of Bangalore, India Transport Corporation Bn Billion Unit of measure A form of outsourcing that involves contracting of operations of speciﬁc business BPO Business Process Outsourcing functions or processes to a third-party service provider BSE Bombay Stock Exchange Stock exchange based in Mumbai www.bseindia.com BU Business Unit Cost center aligned to a customer service line, technology or competency practice 226 Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website reference Compounded Annual Growth A term for geometric mean growth rate on an annualized basis, used to describe the CAGR Rate growth rate of business results like revenues CEC [w] Corporate Executive Council Top executive governance body of Wipro, comprising the Chairman CEO Chief Executive Oﬃcer One of the highest-ranking corporate oﬃcers in charge of total management Common Eﬄuent Treatment A unit that treats eﬄuent waste from places like factories to reduce the harmful CETP Plant eﬀects on environment An organic compound containing carbon, ﬂuorine and chlorine being phased out CFC ChloroFluoroCarbons under the Montreal protocol because of its contribution to depletion of ozone layer A type of ﬂuorescent lamp, used for lighting purposes, requiring less power compared CFL Compact Fluorescent Lamp to traditional incandescent lamps A corporate oﬃcer primarily responsible for managing ﬁnancial matters including CFO Chief Finance Oﬃcer planning, reporting and managing ﬁnancial risks A non-government, not-for-proﬁt business association that works towards creating CII Confederation of Indian Industry www.cii.in and sustaining an environment conducive to the growth of industry in India An executive responsible for development, implementation and operation of a ﬁrm’s CIO Chief Information Oﬃcer information technology policy to facilitate management control over all corporate resources A model of process maturity for software development including a collection of CMM Capability Maturity Model prescribed activities and a way of assessing the way these processes are being www.sei.cmu.edu/cmm/ performed by an organization CO2 Carbon Dioxide One of the main greenhouse gases as per the Kyoto and Montreal protocols Annual disclosure to be provided by companies who are participants to the UN COP Communication on Progress Global compact Code of Business Conduct and Corporation wide code of business conduct and ethics that sets the broad direction COBCE [w] Ethics and deﬁnes speciﬁc guidelines for all business transactions One of the primary elements of a computer system which carries out instructions of a CPU Central Processing Unit computer/software program C-SAT [w] Customer Satisfaction Commonly denotes a customer satisfaction initiative, like feedback or survey CRO Chief Risk Oﬃcer Person responsible for enterprise risk management 227 Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website reference Common term used to denote, primarily, voluntary initiatives by the organisation in CSR Corporate Social Responsibility environmental and social areas which may be (or even otherwise) to mitigate impacts due to the its product, service or operations Executive level position in a company who looks after Research and development, CTO Chief Technology Oﬃcer scientiﬁc and technological initiatives for the organisation DC Data Center A dedicated facility used to house computer systems and associated components Digital Energy Solutions A consortium of organsiations in technology, energy and environment to promote the www.digitalenergysolutio DESC Consortium role of ICT for energy and related issues ns.org/india/desc-india DG Diesel Generator Equipment to generate electric energy, fueled by diesel Genetic entity used, ﬁguratively, to denote the essence of an organizations values, DNA Deoxyribonucleic Acid philosophy and belief systems An independent foundation with the purpose of safeguarding life, property and the DNV Det Norske Veritas www.dnv.com environment by helping identify, assess and advise on managing risk A meeting of shareholders of a company at an irregular time where inputs are required EGM Extraordinary General Meeting before the next AGM is to be held A group within organizations that takes care of workplace environment, health and EHS Environment, Health and Safety safety issues like preventing accidents and reducing environmental impact EPA Environment Protection Agency US regulatory authority for environment related matters and issues www.epa.gov EPS [w] Employee Perception Survey An annual survey conducted for all amployees A framework for risk management involving identiﬁcation of risks and opportunities ERM Enterprise Risk Management relevant to the organization's objectives, assessing likelihood and magnitude of impact, determining a response strategy and monitoring progress Energy Star (followed by a US EPA’s (Environmental Protection Agency) energy eﬃciency rating for electrical ES www.energystar.gov number) appliances A state-instituted insurance scheme to provide social beneﬁts to employees in certain ESI Employees State Insurance www.esic.nic.in adverse circumstances Environment, Social and ESG Common acronym to include themes relevant to sustainability Governance Program that oﬀers employees option to purchase stock at a certain price (normally ESOP Employee Stock Option Purchase less than the market average) Designation in the organisation function. ere are multiple such positions across EVP Executive Vice President various business units 228 Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website reference e-waste Electronic Waste Waste material that comprises of electronic devices or their electronic parts Team responsible for overall management of facilities and campuses for Indian FMG[w] Facilities Management Group locations A way to measure employees’ involvement in a project, typically for ‘Time and FTE Full Time Equivalent Material’ ﬁnancial model projects. FTE of 1.0 is equivalent to a full-time worker Federation of Indian Chamber of A non-government not-for-proﬁt association of business organizations playing a FICCI www.ﬁcci.com Commerce and Industry leading role in policy debates in the social, economic and political spheres A term used for the category of products that are sold relatively quickly and are FMCG Fast Moving Consumer Goods generally replaced or fully used up over short periods like soaps, detergents and food products FY Financial Year Accounting year. In India this is from 1st April to 31st March of the subsequent year Generally Accepted Accounting e standard framework of guidelines for ﬁnancial accounting used in any given GAAP Principles jurisdiction, which includes the standards, conventions and rules accountants follow A basic measure of a country’s economic output i.e. the market value of all ﬁnal goods GDP Gross Domestic Product and services made within the borders of a country in a year Gases in the atmosphere like CO2, methane and nitrous oxide that cause the GHG Greenhouse Gases www.ghgprotocol.org greenhouse eﬀect of trapping heat within the surface-troposphere system One billion joules, joule being a derived unit of energy in the International System of GJ GigaJoules Units A network-based organization that developed the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework that sets out the principles and indicators that GRI Global Reporting Initiative www.globalreporting.org organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental and social performance Hydroﬂuorocarbon Family of HFC Part of a family of Kyoto 6 Greenhouse Gases Gases HRD Human Resources Development Department responsible for learning and development requirements of employees HR Human Resources A term used to refer to how people are managed by organizations Heating,Ventilating and Air A system that uses ventilation air ducts installed in a building that supply conditioned HVAC Conditioning air to a room through outlet vents and ducts that remove air through return-air grilles 229 Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website reference A term that includes technologies, both hardware and software, that provide access to Information and Communication ICT information or means to communicate, which is used in speciﬁc contexts like Technologies education International Financial Reporting Standards, Interpretations and the Framework adopted by the International IFRS www.ifrs.com Standards Accounting Standards Board IGBC Indian Green Building Council Council to facilitate green buildings in India www.igbc.in IIL Industrial Injury Leave Leave taken due to injury at workplace or during commute Customized learning plan based on discussions of annual performance review for each ILP[w] Individual Learning Plan employee INR Indian Rupee e currency of India A term that refers to creations of the mind: inventions, literary and artistic works, IP Intellectual Property symbols, names, images and designs used in commerce International Panel on Climate A scientiﬁc intergovernmental body tasked with evaluating the risk of climate change IPCC www.ipcc.ch Change caused by human activity Department of a company that primarly engages in comnmunicating ﬁnancial and IR Investor Relations economic matters to shareholders, investors and other interested parties Program unit under the Minstry of Human Resources Development responsible for Indian Society for Technical ISTE coordinating quality improvement programs for engineering colleges and polytechnic www.isteonline.in Education institute faculty e world's largest developer and publisher of international standards to specify the International Standards requirements for state-of-the-art products, services, processes, materials and systems ISO www.iso.org Organization and for good conformity assessment, managerial and organizational practice e study, design, development, implementation, support or management of IT Information Technology computer-based information systems particularly software applications and computer hardware Information Technology Enabled Another term used for Business Process Outsourcing services i.e., outsourcing of ITES Services speciﬁc business functions or processes to third-party vendors Integrated Talent Management Comprehensive online portal for employees on learning, training and competency ITMS[w] System management JAWS® Window screen reading software KL Kilolitre A unit of volume in the metric system equal to one thousand litres 230 Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website reference KM Kilometre A unit of length in the metric system equal to one thousand metres KPI Key Performance Indicator Industry terminology for a measure of performance A common unit for measuring electricity, which is equal to the amount of energy KWH Kilowatt Hour expended (or dissipated) if work is done at a constant rate of one thousand watts for one hour A semiconductor based light source used as indicator lamps in many devices and is LED Light Emitting Diode increasingly being used for lighting Leadership in Energy and A green building rating system developed by the US Green Building Council LEED www.usgbc.org/leed/ Environmental Design providing a suite of standards for environmentally sustainable construction LPG Liqueﬁed Petroleum Gases A mixture of hydrocarbon gases used as a fuel in heating appliances and vehicles M&A Mergers and Acquisitions Buying, selling and incorporation of diﬀerent companies into the organization A study that is part of Teleo’s research program to recognize organizations for their Most Admired Knowledge ability to leverage enterprise knowledge to deliver superior performance in the areas of www.knowledgebusiness.c MAKE Enterprise innovation, product development, operational eﬀectiveness and excellence in products om and services Market cap a measurement of the size of a business enterprise equal to the share CAP (Market Market Capitalization price times the number of shares outstanding of a public company and Total) Total Capitalization Total CAP: Market CAP including debt A women awareness forum NGO working on women’s empowerment and child MCM Mahila Chetana Manch www.mcmngo.org development M.Ed. Masters in Education A post-graduate degree in Education Management Information A group of information management methods tied to automation or support of MIS Systems human decision-making like Decision Support Systems or Expert Systems Mn Million A number equivalent to a thousand thousands (1,000,000) MS® Microsoft® NYSE listed software products company www.microsoft.com Ministry of Environment and MoEF Ministry under the Government of India – a regulatory and policy making authority http://moef.nic.in Forests A document describing a bilateral or multilateral agreement between parties MoU Memorandum of Understanding expressing a convergence of will and indicating an intended common line of action Madrasah Quality Improvement MQIP Project with a partner to improve teaching in madrasahs Program 231 Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website reference MT Metric Tons (also Tonnes) A unit of measure in the metric system denoting 1000 Kilograms National Association of Software e premier trade body and the chamber of commerce of the Information NASSCOM www.nasscom.org and Service Companies Technology-Business Process Outsourcing industries in India National Centre for Promotion of NCPEDP Employment for Disabled People A non-proﬁt voluntary organization working towards employment of disabled people www.ncpedp.org A legally constituted non-governmental organization created by natural or legal NGO Non-Governmental Organization persons with no participation or representation of any government Any binary compound of oxygen and nitrogen like nitrous oxide or a mixture of such NOx Oxides of Nitrogen compounds NSE National Stock Exchange National Stock Exchange based in India www.nseindia.com NYSE New York Stock Exchange A stock exchange located at Wall Street, New York www.nyse.com ODC Oﬀshore Development Center Operation unit set up in an oﬀshore location (like India) speciﬁc to each customer ODS Ozone Depleting Substances Substances like chloroﬂuorocarbons that cause depletion of the Earth’s ozone layer http://www.ohsas-18001Occupational Health and Safety An international occupational health and safety management system speciﬁcation OHSAS occupational-health-andAssessment Series intended to help organizations control occupational health and safety risks safety.com/ Department in a hospital that treats patients who come for diagnosis or treatment OPD Out-patient Department without being admitted for overnight stay at hospital Equal to the proﬁt or bottomline of a company after all expenses like cost of sales, PAT Proﬁt After Tax overheads, interest payable, one-oﬀ items and tax for a given accounting period Any general-purpose computer whose size, capabilities and original sales price make it PC Personal Computer useful for individuals and which is intended to be operated directly by an end user Contributions-based state provision with an aim to provide a fund due to retirement, PF Provident Fund www.epﬁndia.com unemployment, sickness, etc. PFC Perrﬂuorocarbon family of gases Part of a family of Kyoto 6 Greenhouse Gases PM Particulate Matter Tiny particles of solid or liquid suspended in a gas or liquid A number used to denote relative proportions in measured quantities like for the PPM Parts Per Million proportion of CO2 in atmosphere 232 Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website reference Principles for Responsible An investor initiative in partnership with the UNEP Finance Initiative and the UN PRI www.unpri.org Investment Global Compact PUE Power Usage Eﬀectiveness A metric used to determine the energy eﬃciency of a data center A thermoplastic polymer which is a form of plastic generally used in plumbing, PVC Polyvinyl Chloride electric wires, etc A function within an organization through which new products and new forms of old R&D Research and Development products are created through technological innovation by doing basic and/or applied research Restriction on Hazardous A directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances like lead and RoHS Substances mercury in electrical and electronic equipment ROI Return on Investment Ratio of money gained (+) or lost (-) in relation to the amount of money invested Used in a speciﬁc to context to include regions other than India, Americas and ROW Rest of World Europe Rs Rupees (Indian currency) A symbol for the currency of India RSU [w] Restricted Stock Unit Stock option purchase program oﬀered to employees with a lock-in period SaaS Software as a service Refers to software/IT services oﬀered on an on-demand and pay-as-you-go basis e main enterprise resource planning software produced by SAP AG®, which is an Leading ERP package from enterprise-wide information system designed to coordinate all the resources, SAP R/3® www.sap.com software major SAP AG® information, and activities needed to complete business processes such as order fulﬁllment or billing Securities and Exchange Board of Regulatory body in India with a mandate to protect investors and regulate the SEBI www.sebi.gov.in India securities markets. A geographical region that has economic laws that are more liberal than a country's SEZ Special Economic Zones http://sezindia.nic.in typical economic laws intended to increase investment by foreign investors SIF [w] Self Identiﬁcation Form Form for employees to share any special need (esp. for any disability) Solar PV Solar Photovoltaic Arrays of cells that convert solar radiation into direct current electricity A software/ IT implementation architecture model which, incorporates a ﬂexible set SOA Service Oriented Architecture of design principles A United States Federal law that set new or enhanced standards for all US public SOX Sarbanes Oxley www.sarbanes-oxley.com company boards, management and public accounting ﬁrms 233 Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website reference SOx Oxides of Sulphur Any binary compound of oxygen and sulphur like sulphur dioxide A unit that uses physical, chemical, and biological processes to remove contaminants STP Sewage Treatment Plant from wastewater and household sewage, both runoﬀ (eﬄuents) and domestic SUV Sports Utility Vehicle General term for a mid-sized vehicle capable of seating 8 to 9 people T (used in Unit of measure in the metric system, equivalent to 1000 kilograms. Used in conjuction with Tonnes conjunction with materials, e.g. TCO2 means Tonnes of Carbon Dioxide material) Talent Engagement and Team which has the mandate of training, capacity building and career development of TED [w] Development employees Technology Infrastructure TIS [w] Unit which provides technology infrastructure solutions and services to customers Services An international organization whose stated aims are facilitating cooperation in U.N United Nations international law, international security, economic development, social progress, www.un.org human rights, and the achieving of world peace Eight international development goals that 192 UN member states have agreed to United Nations Millennium www.un.org/ UN MDG achieve by the year 2015, including reducing extreme poverty, reducing child mortality Development Goals millenniumgoals rates, etc http://www.un.org/ UN Convention on the Rights of UN convention on the rights of person with disabilities, which has country/state UNCRPD disabilities/ Persons with Disabilities ratiﬁcations and signatories A programme within the UN that coordinates UN environmental activities, assists United Nations Environment UNEP developing countries in implementing environmentally sound policies and encourages www.unep.org Program sustainable development through sound environmental practices A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their UNGC United Nations Global Compact operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of www.unglobalcompact.org human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption US, USA United States of America UK Carbon Reduction UK CRC, CRC UK’s carbon reduction commitment program – an energy eﬃciency initiative Commitment USD United States Dollar e currency of the United States of America VOW Voice of Wipro Employee perception survey conducted at Wipro 234 Acronym Expansion Brief Explanation Website reference WASE is a pioneering initiative in the ﬁeld of higher education in collaboration with Wipro Academy of Software WASE [w] BITS Pilani that selects the ﬁnest students from the B.Sc streams for a four year work Excellence integrated program leading to an integrated degree in engineering Wipro Applying ought In A long-term, deliberate and focused initiative by Wipro Technologies to bring about www.wiproapplyingthoug WATIS [w] Schools systemic reform in school education htinschools.com Wipro BPO Solutions is a leading provider of Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) Wipro Business Process focusing on the complex, voice and non-voice based segment of customer-care WBPO [w] Outsourcing services. e BPO oﬀerings are around – customer service, technical help desk, ﬁnance and accounts outsourcing, HR and procurement outsourcing Wipro Consumer Care and Lighting, (WCCLG) a Business Unit of Wipro Limited, Wipro Consumer Care and has a proﬁtable presence in the branded retail market of toilet soaps, hair care soaps, www.wcclg.com WCCLG [w] Lighting baby care products and lighting products. It is also a leader in institutional lighting in www.wiprolighting.com speciﬁed segments like software, pharma and retail An independent international organization committed to improving the state of the WEF World Economic Forum www.weforum.org world through multi stakeholder engagements. Wipro Infotech is the leading strategic IT partner for companies across India and Middle East oﬀering integrated IT solutions. Wipro Infotech plans, deploys, WI [w] Wipro Infotech sustains and maintains the entire IT lifecycle through, total outsourcing, consulting www.wipro.in services, business solutions and professional services. Wipro Infotech is also leading provider of branded IT hardware like PC's and Servers in the Indian market Wipro Infrastructure Engineering delivers precision-engineered hydraulic cylinders, components and solutions and truck hydraulics components to OEMs globally in the WIN [w] Wipro Infrastructure Engineering www.wiproinfra.com infrastructure and related industries. It also has entered the industrial water business division in 2008 A global environmental think tank working with diﬀerent stakeholders to build WRI World Resources Institute www.wri.org solutions for environmental challenges Wipro Technologies, a division of Wipro Limited (NYSE:WIT) provides comprehensive research and development services, IT solutions and services, including WT [w] Wipro Technologies systems integration, information systems outsourcing, package implementation, www.wipro.com software application management, and datacenter managed services to corporations globally 235
