GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS for 2009 and 2010 SME VERSION Company Name TS Consult Ranko Stingl s.p. Date 28.07.2011 Address Ptujska Gora 55 Membership date 2006/7/31 2323 Ptujska Gora Country Slovenia Number of employees 12 (direct and indirect) Contact name Ranko Stingl Contact Position Manager Sector: Consulting Contact telephone + 386 40 426 301 Brief description of nature of business TS Consult is one of the Slovenian sustainable development consultancies, specialized in sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. Our company established in 2001 to fill a gap in the market. We believe that the world must move towards a more sustainable way of functioning. This requires effective communications and intercultural dialogue between many different groups of people. Our goal is to make sustainable development so desirable it becomes normal. We offer a broad number of development programs on a basis of sustainability, trainings toward the realization of the sustainable development. We practice holistic approach considering social, humanistic, economical, technological, cultural interlaced whole. One of consequences of those activities is also efforts on international trade exchange (market research, finding market niche, opening possibilities) and also social and cultural exchange. In that way we make also professional influence and suggestions to clients in country and abroad. In our international activities we cooperate with numerous companies and individuals around the world, especially in Latin America. We widening our policy and believes also to our partners abroad, to encourage them to actively approach to the Ten Principles of UNGC in everyday life and business practice. Statement of support TS Consult wholeheartedly supports the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We are committed to living out those principles as a business internally as well as with our work for clients. TS Consult team is personally as well as professionally committed to sustainable development and it is our core business to promote more ethical practices, particularly for environmental and social responsibility in business but also more generally in the interest of international business to promote trade exchange with Latin America and Worldwide , opening possibilities for these countries where justice and human rights are not core in mind yet, to conquer standards of democracy and human rights and efforts for equal possibilities of EU. We therefore look forward to improving our action in these areas and further integrating the Compact principles into our business. We firmly believe that belonging to the UNGC is helpful to our business and are proud to be part of such a worthwhile initiative. Signature Position: Manager TS Consult Stingl Ranko, s.p. Ptujska Gora 55, 2323 Ptujska Gora, Slovenia; Head Office: Ul. Vladimirja Dolnicarja 2, 1356 Dobrova , Slovenia; Reg.No.:1551396; ID No. for VAT SI15028232¸Tax No.:15028232, TRR: 04173-0110318294; Slovenia: Tel.: + 386 59 948760, Fax: + 386 59 948762 ; www.ts-consult.net e-mail info@ts-consult.net PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS TS Consult has no direct experience of human rights abuses and no specific mechanism to monitor this. Nevertheless, we are committed to respecting the human rights of our employees and suppliers. We try to treat people with respect at all times. Avoiding discrimination, promoting tolerance and encouraging freedom of expression are particularly relevant to this. We are continuously redesigning our Staff Handbook to give a clear indication of lines of responsibility and where to go for help if there is a problem. We have initiated an improvements schedule to facilitate TS Consult reaching our UNGC Cop goals and to exceed required levels of compliance to environmental and social legislation. We refer to the UNGC in both our Procurement Policy and our Environmental Policy. PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES We have a stated policy only to work on projects which we believe to be contributing to sustainable development. Being complicit, actively or passively, with human rights abuses would undermine this mission and our core business. We are under scrutiny from our clients and other stakeholders in this regard. We discuss any areas of controversy internally to ensure that we do not conflict with this. Weekly team and management meetings alongside continuous individual assessment sessions give multiple opportunities for debate and feedback. In upper regards we are very sensitive to that area and we carefully observe and follow our international partners in order to be sure that their policy and acts are in accordance with our believes. TS Consult continues to evaluate opportunities to promote the UNGC. PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our policy is to uphold the freedom of association of all employees and connected partners or subcontractors we are working with. We strong believe, that this help to our business and our vision and mission. Only free people, with right for to join any association or to have right to stand for their rights and believes are able to contribute to common goal of the company. We are of course under scrutiny from our clients and other stakeholders in this regard. We discuss any areas of controversy internally to ensure that we do not conflict with this. Weekly team and management meetings alongside continuous individual assessment sessions give multiple opportunities for debate and feedback. Because of nature of our business we are in constant position to work internationally. We follow all development in social and business area and state level with countries we have impact, to assure that our partners are not involve in any kind of violence of the principle. TS Consult continues to evaluate opportunities to promote the UNGC. TS Consult continues to evaluate opportunities to promote the UNGC. PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR TS Consult Stingl Ranko, s.p. Ptujska Gora 55, 2323 Ptujska Gora, Slovenia; Head Office: Ul. Vladimirja Dolnicarja 2, 1356 Dobrova , Slovenia; Reg.No.:1551396; ID No. for VAT SI15028232¸Tax No.:15028232, TRR: 04173-0110318294; Slovenia: Tel.: + 386 59 948760, Fax: + 386 59 948762 ; www.ts-consult.net e-mail info@ts-consult.net We have a stated policy only to work on projects which we believe to be contributing to that principle. We see equity as an element of Sustainable Development. We strong disagree with all forms of forced and compulsory labor. We are very sensitive for this area and with zero tolerance also with our business partners. Being complicit, actively or passively, abuses of this principle would undermine this mission and our core business. We are under scrutiny from our clients, advisory board and other stakeholders in this regard. We discuss any areas of controversy internally to ensure that we do not conflict with this. Weekly team and management meetings alongside continuous individual assessment sessions give multiple opportunities for debate and feedback. TS Consult continues to evaluate opportunities to promote the UNGC. PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR We have a stated policy only to work on projects and businesses which we believe to be contributing to sustainable development. We see effective abolition as an element of Sustainable Development. Being complicit, actively or passively, with child labor would undermine this mission and our core business. We are under scrutiny from our clients, advisory board and other stakeholders in this regard as well. We discuss any areas of controversy internally to ensure that we do not conflict with this. Weekly team and management meetings alongside continuous individual assessment session give multiple opportunities for debate and feedback. We are very attentive in this area specially because we working also with countries where at least the UN statistics still found such anomalies. TS Consult continues to evaluate opportunities to promote the UNGC. PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION We seek to avoid discrimination in our recruitment. All recruiters are made aware of our recruitment policy and interview questions are set so as to comply with it. Decisions are made on the basis of ability and nothing else. This extends to decisions about status within the company, salary, bonuses and promotions. Every year we are improving our recruitment policy, revising company structure and job titles and educating all managers. We have also made our recruitment police available to clients who have requested it. We have a degree of diversity in the workforce which may not be a direct result of our policies but we feel that it reflects positively on our commitment to this principle. TS Consult continues to evaluate opportunities to promote the UNGC. PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES We operate an ethical purchasing policy which includes a strong environmental element. In practice, the leadership of TS Consult seeks to promote a corporate culture which respects the environment. We are also committed to promoting respect for the environment in our work for clients, which often include encouraging pro-environmental behavior through our innovative holistic approach. The impact of our client work on the environment is hard to quantify but most of our projects aim to have a direct or indirect positive impact on the environment – especially projects for local communities, when building projects being planned on the way from use of bio materials, to respect of Feng-Shui principles until planning recycling facilities. TS Consult Stingl Ranko, s.p. Ptujska Gora 55, 2323 Ptujska Gora, Slovenia; Head Office: Ul. Vladimirja Dolnicarja 2, 1356 Dobrova , Slovenia; Reg.No.:1551396; ID No. for VAT SI15028232¸Tax No.:15028232, TRR: 04173-0110318294; Slovenia: Tel.: + 386 59 948760, Fax: + 386 59 948762 ; www.ts-consult.net e-mail info@ts-consult.net Our work towards is visible on our website, www.ts-consult.net. In last two years we also started to work in the projects, which are connected with renewable energies in Latin America. TS Consult continues to evaluate opportunities to promote the UNGC. PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Nearly all of the projects have some element of promoting environmental responsibility. We are committed to furthering sustainable development by everything we do so environment forms a major part of that. Our policy is to seek sustainability and we do so by promoting an understanding of the relationship between public behavior, the environment and corporate responsibility. This is a continuous and evolving process. Our goal is to be an environmentally positive company doing more good than bad. Our Head office recycles reuses and composts where possible and staff is conscious of energy and water use. All our electricity comes from renewable sources. As an office based company we have relatively low emissions. The company owns no vehicles and encourages the use of public transport. The impact of our client work on the environment is hard to quantify but most of our projects aim to have a direct or indirect positive impact on the environment. TS Consult continues to evaluate opportunities to promote the UNGC. PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our contribution to preventive activities is in accordance with the size of our enterprise and the possibilities at our disposal. Our commitment thereto is being confirmed in our practice through diverse activities and improvements we apply, to preventively act to reduce negative impacts to the human environment and introducing new nature-friendly technologies. Being a relatively small company, we cannot expect to have a deciding influence on the human environment protection and sustainability. In last two years we develop the TS Consult Code of professional conduct where we determined several activities with which we directly or indirectly contribute to this mission. TS Consult continues to evaluate opportunities to promote the UNGC. PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our efforts to eliminate corruption in the society initiated within the company and continued further in the frames of our influence in the society. The Company is against any type of Bribery. Any Employee who seeks or solicits bribes is expelled from the company. Employee who does not work or his/her record is not up to the standard is given a notice after which he will be expelled if his behavior does not change. As a partner to several other companies, with which we participated on international projects and a business partner to international organizations and governmental and nongovernmental institutions, we also signed declarations and also statements making sure that we will and did not in no way take part in any form of corruptive activity. TS Consult continues to evaluate opportunities to promote the UNGC. COP is available to our stakeholders in our internal corporate communication media. TS Consult Stingl Ranko, s.p. Ptujska Gora 55, 2323 Ptujska Gora, Slovenia; Head Office: Ul. Vladimirja Dolnicarja 2, 1356 Dobrova , Slovenia; Reg.No.:1551396; ID No. for VAT SI15028232¸Tax No.:15028232, TRR: 04173-0110318294; Slovenia: Tel.: + 386 59 948760, Fax: + 386 59 948762 ; www.ts-consult.net e-mail info@ts-consult.net
