New eyes for industry CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Message from the President Recognizing Anew the Importance of Our Brand Message New eyes for industry On November 1, 2010, we celebrated the 60th anniversary of our founding thanks entirely to the patronage of our customers. Throughout our company history, we have worked hard to develop and deliver quality optical products, guided by our corporate message: Contributing to Society by Creating New Eyes for Industry. The B008 photographic zoom lens that we launched in 2010 as our 60th anniversary model1 is one example of such eyes. The new light-weight model presented high optical performance, compactness and a resource saving design; we reduced its cubic capacity by 24 percent compared to the conventional model. In developing the zoom lens, we also pursued convenience and ease of use to deliver a product that would enable many more people to enjoy photography. We will continue to work on contributing to photographic culture by developing and delivering products that enable more people to enjoy photography more easily and comfortably. In industrial optics, we have always been at the forefront, developing lenses that capture visible light. Now we are also developing lenses capable of capturing invisible light in the far infrared range for handling images invisible to human eyes. For Global Management Morio Ono We work to deploy global business operations in product development, human resource President & CEO management and services by dispatching our employees to advanced and developing Tamron Co.,Ltd countries including the BRICs2. In manufacturing, we start by eliminating problems related to mass-production at the prototyping stage at our domestic mother factory before transferring mass production to our factory in China where we can produce quality products as reasonable costs. Our output capacity has been increasing as we pursue global operations, but our group CO₂ emissions in 2010 decreased 6% compared to 2009. In 2011, we will move toward a further 10% reduction. Improving after-service is very important for being a reliable manufacturer and providing support for customers using our products. We currently complete repair services to our domestic customers of our consumer products within seven days including delivery. We will work to provide the same after-services to customers abroad. Management Always Values Employees Who Support Our Business Operations We at Tamron contribute to society while responding to customer needs by implementing corporate management that always highly values our employees. We pay attention to continuing to improve the work environment and work balance by strictly enforcing two days a week without overtime. Many companies now address improving the work environment for women. At Tamron, we have been working in the same direction by creating a work environment that welcomes women after marriage or child birth and promotes them too. We are conﬁdent that changes in perception in a comfortable work environment will become the driving force behind the Tamron of tomorrow. Participation in the United Nations Global Compact 3 In 2007, Tamron joined the Global Compact of the United Nations3. Since then, we have continued to support the ten principles of the Global Compact initiative that serves as the basic code of conduct for all global companies. Strengthening our consciousness of human rights is particularly important when we deploy our business operations around the globe. We have therefore included the ten principles in our Codes of Conduct and have been focusing on education in our organization following the ten principles. We have also 1 AF18-270 mm F3.5-6.3 high-power zoom lens launched in December 2010 for DSLR cameras. See continued to assert the importance of CSR procurement to our business partners. page 6 for additional information. 2 Collective name for the four emerging countries of Brazil, Russia, India and China In compiling this CSR Report, we focused on communicating with our stakeholders. We 3 Please refer to page 3 of this report for additional information on participation in the United Nations would greatly appreciate your comments and suggestions for how we can further improve Global Compact. our CSR management. 1 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Tamron's CSR Management Relationships with ●For Enhancing Corporate Value ●Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management Customers Tamron's CSR management is conducted under our basic We have established twelve themes for being a company corporate philosophy of contributing to the economy, acknowledged by stakeholders. Through addressing these society and environment by supplying customers with quality themes, we are discharging compliance responsibility, economic products that serve as eyes for industry. Our basic corporate responsibility, and responsibility to contribute to social issues. philosophy advocates performing all of our primary business The themes of compliance, corporate governance, risk operations based on The Action Declarations, deﬁning the management, and information disclosure are essential for stance the company should take toward stakeholders conducting sound business operations while discharging divided into ﬁve categories, and The Action Codes, showing compliance and economic responsibility. how all Tamron employees should act while dialoguing with The remaining themes are occupational safety, employment and Relationships with our stakeholders. human resources, human rights, information security and private information protection. We will continue to address these Perspectives from Stakeholders Divided into Five Categories themes to discharge our social responsibility while working on Business Partners quality improvement, product quality and safety, From the customer resource-saving designs, environmental protection and more. perspective We will work to continue to be a company our customers select as a reliable supplier1. 1 This is one of our corporate themes. From the society From the employee perspective perspective From the business partner Relationships with From the shareholder/ Employees perspective investor perspective All ﬁve perspectives interlink with our environment. The Action Declarations of Tamron Responsibility to Contribute to ●From the customer perspective Relationships with Environment Recognizing that customer satisfaction is of the highest Quality Products/Safety importance, we will contribute to society by supplying safe, high-quality original products and services. Occupational Safety & Health Shareholders and Investors ●From the employee perspective Employment/Human Resources In order to become self-reliant, each employee at Tamron Social and Environmental Issues Human Rights works with a spirit of challenging diﬃculties, maintains good communications with fellow workers for creating a lively Social Contribution work environment, and strives to yield the best possible Private Information Protection results at all times while observing the laws and regulations. Each and every employee at Tamron respects human rights Information Security to support a good society as a good corporate citizen. ●From the shareholders/investor perspective Society Environment All of us working at Tamron strive to enhance Tamron’s Information Disclosure For Protecting corporate value through faithful management, maintain good communications with our stakeholders, and work on enhancing stakeholder conﬁdence to be a company worthy Economy Risk Management of stable investments. Our Environment Corporate Governance Compliance ●From the business partner perspective All of us working at Tamron observe the laws and regulations, aiming to establish relationships that Economic Responsibility ensure receiving a supply of quality materials and services from our partners through transparent transactions, working to grow and contribute to society together with our partners. Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management ●From the society perspective ●CSR Committee Relationships with Maintaining good communications with local communities, we will strive to contribute to their growth while upholding their tradition and culture as a good corporate citizen. Our CSR Committee meets monthly to closely watch the We will observe the laws and regulations, aiming at earning progress of activities for pursuing the twelve themes. The Society conﬁdence from society as a good corporate citizen. committee is an organization under the direct command of We will be up against all social anti-society forces and organizations that pose threats to the public order and safety our president. Representatives from all divisions at the head of our civil society. oﬃce and factories at home and abroad meet monthly We will work hard in NGO and NPO projects to establish a through videoconferencing. good society. Tamron CSR Report 2011 2 Participation in the UN Global Compact Tamron operates around the world, including a production base in China and subsidiary sales companies in Europe and A m e r i c a . A g r e e i n g t o t h e G l o b a l C o m p a c t （ G C ）, t h e international initiative proposed by the United Nations to support the Ten Principles related to human rights, labor, environmental protection and preventing corruption, Tamron became a supporter of the initiative in August 2007. The Ten GC Principles became pillars for establishing our CSR promotion structure. We will continue to conduct our business following The Ten Principles, fulﬁlling our social responsibility. For further details on the initiative, please visit the United Nation website at ●COP Report（Communication on Progress） WEB http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ The COP Program of the Global Compact requires participants submit Communication on Progress Reports （COP Reports） describing their work to follow the Ten Principles. The following table describes our accomplishments and work at Tamron during 2010 in line with the Ten Principles. Relevant Principle Actions taken, implementation processes page We instituted Regulations for Protecting Human Rights and Supervising Labor Standards, enforcing them in Japan in 2010. In 2011 and beyond, we will deploy global operations in accordance with the regulations. As for the principles from No.1 through 5 and No.10, we laid down our policies as stated below, deploying our activities accordingly. Principle 1: Business should support As members of society, we at Tamron respect human rights and establish and support P2 Human Rights good society （Good citizens） （Quoted from our Action Declaration: Employeesʼ viewpoint） and respect the protection of We could promote the awareness of the importance of respecting human rights among our internationally proclaimed human rights employees by clearly stating it in our policy platform as stated above. Principle 2: Business should ensure that We at Tamron will always work on maintaining sound working environment and P2,11 respecting human rights of all people, and will not conduct any deed that may lead to they are not complicit in human rights discrimination. （Quoted from the Compliance Regulations of our company） abuses Principle 3: Business should uphold The labor union of our company shall aim at conducting activities and operations ̶ that are necessary to attain its objectives through solidarity and cooperation of its the freedom of association and the members.（Quoted From Objective of the labor union bylaw. effective recognition of the right to Labor management negotiation meetings are held regularly between representatives collective bargaining from the company and the labor union to discuss labor conditions. Principle 4: Business should support Our company will comply with labor-related laws and regulations in order to P9,11 Labour maintain sound workplaces where employees are comfortable to work. the elimination of all forms of forced （Quoted From the Compliance Regulations） and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should support Our company will not employ persons under full 15 years of age. ̶ （Quoted From the Rules of Employment of our company） the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support Our company advocates equality in employment and sets our target ratios of P10 employment of handicapped persons and female managers, and we are deploying the elimination of discrimination in business operations aimed at establishing workplaces valuing diversity. respect of employment and occupation Principle 7: Business should support a In our Company-wide Environment Management Policy, we address the following four actions as preventive measures against environment contamination: precautionary approach to （ i ）Reducing CO₂ emissions, environmental challenges （ⅱ）Reducing Waste （iii）Alternating and reducing the harmful substances （ⅳ）Conservation of biodiversity. Environment Environmental contamination accident : Zero Harmful chemical substance discharge accident : Zero Principle 8: Business should Our company set the environmental objectives and targets. P13〜18 （ i ）Reduction of CO₂ emissions; undertake initiatives to promote （ⅱ）Reduction of waste; greater environmental responsibility （iii）Promotion of DfE（ Designs for Environment ）（Product development based on the DfE concept）; We integrated our domestic management systems for grasping environmental load as a whole and Principle 9: Business should encourage promoting reduction of the load. the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Principle 10: Businesses should work Regulations regarding endowments, political contribution and brushing oﬀ relations P11 Antiwith antisocial organizations（Stipulated in the Compliance Regulations） against c orruption in all its Corruption forms,including extortion and bribery 3 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Table of Contents Relationships with Message from the President・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・1 Relationships with the Environment /Environmental Loads・・・１3 Tamron’s CSR Management・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・2 Environmental Management Structure, Compliance, Education, and Accounting・・・１4 Customers Participation in the UN Global Compact・・・・・・・・・３ Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved・・・１5 Table of Contents, Company Outline・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・４ Reducing CO₂ Emissions and Energy Consumption・・・１6 Relationships with Customers・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・５ Reducing Waste and Water Consumption・・・・・・・・・１7 Relationships with Business Partners・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・8 Work at Three Aomori Factories and Tamron Optical（Foshan） ・・・18 Relationships with Employees・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・9 Relationships with Society・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・１9 Relationships with Shareholders and Investors・・・・・１１ Activities at Subsidiary Companies Overseas・・・・・21 Management System・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・１2 Independent Third Party Opinions・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・22 E d i t o r i a l P o l i c y Relationships with Business Partners 1. This report is issued to inform our customers, employees, shareholders, investors, business partners, communities and other bodies (local communities, public bodies,NGOs and NPOs being our stakeholders) about Tamron s work and progress on environmental conservation and social responsibility. 2. This report covers the whole Tamron group including Tamron Co., Ltd and Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. and subsidiary sales companies overseas (except for some environmental data). 3. The guidelines referred to are the Environmental Report Guidelines (2007 Version),Greenhouse Eﬀect Gas Assessment & Reporting Manual (Ver. 2.4 2009) and Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005), issued by the Ministry for the Environment. 4. The needs for disclosing information to stakeholders were determined in accordance with GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 5. We strive to disclose information from the perspective of stakeholders by referring to the warranty processes in AA1000 Warranty Standards. ＊About the front cover design Relationships with We tried to express how our company works with lenses to contribute to the earth, the environment and harmony with people. Company Outline Employees Trade Name: Tamron Co., Ltd. Representative Director: Morio Ono Head Oﬃce: 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Employees Consolidated: 7,198 （excluding 355 temporary Saitama City, Saitama Prefecture employees） Relationships with 337-8556 Japan Total Sales Consolidated: 56,650 billion yen（2010） Tel: +81-48-694-9111 Stock Exchange: 1st Section, Tokyo Stock Exchange Founded: November 1, 1950 Domestic Factories: Hirosaki, Namioka, Owani Established: October 27, 1952 Aﬃliated Companies: The United States, Germany, France, Head Oﬃce （Saitama） Capital Amount: 6.923 billion yen Hong Kong, China （ Shanghai, Foshan） ●Summary of Business Shareholders and Investors Net Sales （billion yen） Net Sales Consolidated 700 682 636 625 600 566 Photographic lenses 498 60.2% 500 Industrial-use 400 For Protecting optics 15.1% 300 200 Our Environment By-Category Sales Composition 100 （2010 consolidated） 0 Optical Europe 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 components （Germany/France） 24.7% Asia Numbers of Employees （Hong Kong, China） （person） Consolidated employees temporary employees 8,000 355 15.4% 7,000 8.5% 6.6% 572 450 6,000 Relationships with 518 470 5,000 By-area North America 4,000 （United States） Sales 7,198 Society Composition 3,000 5,571 5,472 5,024 5,064 2,000 By-area Sales Composition is based on sales to customers in Japan and areas where Tamron's 1,000 subsidiary companies exist. Domestic Sales ﬁgures in overseas markets are primarily 69.5% 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 sales of interchangeable lenses for SLR cameras. Tamron CSR Report 2011 4 Relationships with Customers Tamron is committed to contributing to society by supplying customers with safe, unique and quality products and services, putting the highest priority on satisfying customers,dealers and OEM customers. Major accomplishments in 2010 Tasks for 2011 ●We worked on developing products for new ﬁelds. ●Creating unique products selected by customers ●We started selling products using recycled materials. ●Global deployment of our after-service systems ●Continuing Improvement and Global ●Evaluation by Dealers and OEM Customers Deployment of Efficient After-service through In addition to including questionnaires in display boxes to Effectively Using Customer Feedback understand how users feel about our consumer products sold under our own brand, we also sent questionnaires to all our OEM We work hard to improve our after-service through eﬀectively customers. We asked about delivery, price, communications, using customer feedback in our product planning and design development strength, technical capability, quality, response to departments in order to continue to deliver products and complaints and handling repairs. To understand their evaluation services that satisfy customers. In 2010, we created a special more precisely, we improved the questionnaires by adding one section to listen to the opinions and suggestions of our more rating level to our conventional rating system. As a result of customers, compile them and use the feedback in our product this operation, we found that we could improve our overall development divisions. We also worked on improving and capability by 0.2 points. As for repair handling, we could improve updating our website to provide useful information to our our evaluation score by 0.6 points. As for delivery capability, our customers in twelve languages and to respond to inquiries from improvement was conﬁned to a 0.1 percentage point. This was customers all over the world. due to problems with product supply shortage when launching a new photographic lens under our own brand. We were obliged to We have been asking users of our photographic interchangeable keep our customers waiting for delivery. The remaining issue to lenses for feedback for a number of years, working with solve in the future is establishing a more ﬂexible production questionnaires included in our product display boxes and in structure for responding to demand exceeding our expectations boxes of repaired lenses to understand the customer perspective in earlier stages. on our products and repair services. Our ﬁrst survey four years ago told us that customers wanted faster repair service. We We will continue to work on enhancing customer satisfaction by worked hard to improve our repair service structure for the listening to our customers. domestic market. Our goal was to complete repairs within three days after receiving a product at one of our repair service points; we met our target by 100% for three years in a row in the Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey domestic market. We are now working to provide the same level （Annual average points in 2008, 2009 and 2010 Dealers & OEM customers） Overall of service overseas by 2012 and have established a milestone 6 goal of completing all repairs at our service points overseas 2008 Handling repairs 5 Delivery within ﬁve days by December 2011. 2009 4 2010 3 2 Response to 1 Price complaints 0 Quality Communications Technical capability Development strength 1.Greatly dissatisfied 2.Dissatisfied 3.Slightly dissatisfied 4.Slighly satisfied 5.Satisfied 6.Greatly satisfied Development Technical Response to Handling Overall Delivery Price Communications strength capability Quality complaints repairs 2008 4.4 4.4 4.0 4.7 4.6 4.6 4.4 4.1 4.1 Free maintenance service at CP + 2009 4.6 4.9 4.0 5.1 4.7 4.7 4.5 4.5 4.4 （CP + is a photographic equipment exhibition held annually） 2010 4.8 4.8 4.1 5.3 4.9 4.9 4.8 4.8 5.0 *We used a 5-stage evaluation method through 2009. In 2010, we started to use a 6-stage evaluation method as above. 5 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Relationships with ●Product Development Valuing and ●Tamron's DfE（Designs for Environment） Understanding Customer Perspectives In order to continue to develop products with designs for Customers （Photographic Lenses） the environment, Tamron enacted product assessment regulations based on the DfE philosophy several years ago. As an interchangeable lens maker who values customer Based on the regulations, we continued to assess product perspectives, we have continuously worked to develop designs. However, following the rapid progress of high-power zoom lenses. At Tamron, we enable users to functionalities in recent years, we had to review the enjoy photography without changing lenses as we conventional assessment deﬁnition. In 2010, we therefore introduce a stream of unique products for our customers. changed the deﬁnition to read The deviation of the lens' The 18-270 mm F/3.5-6.3 Di-II VC PZD （Model B008 as focal length, maximum aperture, zoom ratio and eﬀective Relationships with shown on the right below）that we developed by combining image circle must be within 10% of the standard value , our miniaturizing technologies and launched in December and implemented DfE assessment based on the new 2010 as the 60th anniversary commemorative model was Business Partners deﬁnition. We also added use of recycled material as an one such unique product. We reduced the cubic capacity additional assessment factor to enhance the of the lens by 24% compared with our equivalent lens in appropriateness and accuracy of our DfE assessment. our product range at that time. We also reduced the operation-dependent lens noise by using a new PZD actuator（piezo drive actuator）1 in its AF drive motor. Product Assessment Factors We will continue to work on development, reﬂecting customer needs and desires in our product development. Factors 1. Product durability/serviceability Relationships with 2. Weight reduction Speciﬁcations Compared 3. Compactness Employees 4. Product's energy saving 5. Use of recycled materials B003 B008 Results 6. Teardown ease Focal Length 18−270mm − 7. Compactness of packaging materials Aperture F3.5−6.3 − 8. Use of recycled packaging materials Cubage 501.44cm³ 382.40cm³ Down 24%2 9. Management of harmful chemical substances Weight 560g 450g Down 20%2 Relationships with Number of Parts 533 666 Down 25%2 As a result of this product assessment, we could specify 62 photographic lens models and 35 lens series for industrial Noise Level 50db 38db Down 24%3 applications as DfE-products. We plan to provide further Shareholders and Investors information through our website and product brochures. Products satisfying the standards set for the evaluation items are eligible for Tamron Eco-labels. Cubage down 24％ For Protecting B003 B008 1 PZD = Piezoelectric drive actuator that works as a standing wave linear actuator Our Environment for ultrasonic motors In principle, the PDZ actuator applies high frequency voltage to its piezoelectric ceramic element to drive the device as a whole in standing wave linear directions. Tamron Eco Label design: When high frequency voltage is applied, the metal tip mounted on the front end The label symbolizes an eye gently looking at our economy, of the actuator moves elliptically, creating friction between the rotor and the tip. society and environment. The eyebrow symbolizes a ﬂowing 2 In case of Canon-mounted lenses 3 When compared at wide ends stream of air and water, the pupil the earth in green, and the tree in the pu pil our work for the three Rʼs of reduce, reuse and recycle. Relationships with As part of our resource saving eﬀorts, we also worked on recycling plastic parts. Plastic parts thus recycled are used to make rear caps for lenses. For further information on such work, Society please see page 18. Tamron CSR Report 2011 6 ●Product Development Valuing and ●Creating New Eyes for Industry Understanding Customer Perspective Tamron works to meet the challenges in developing optical devices for （Surveillance/Security Camera Lenses） new ﬁelds with our command of existing technology and adding to it. In 2010, our engineers went beyond conventional optical devices for Following the increased security consciousness in recent years, handling visible light, worked to develop IR-compatible cameras for demand for high-performance surveillance and security camera industrial applications and arrived at the prototyping stage. Prototype lenses that record accidents and crimes has been rapidly IR cameras thus developed are capable of capturing objects invisible to increasing. Simultaneously, more and more surveillance camera the human eye if they have energy or temperature above absolute manufacturers are shifting to new semiconductors with higher zero3. They are expected to be appropriate for surveillance at night and image processing performance. Following the market needs, in inaccessible premises, early detection of ﬁres and other disasters, requirements for camera lenses have been becoming more application as vehicle built-in cameras and factory automation, to name demanding than ever. just a few of many uses. In 2011, we plan to launch a new far-IR4 camera model and a series of zoom lenses dedicated for the camera. In direct response to these growing demands, Tamron launched the Model 12VG308ASIRII 1/3-inch format near-IR-compatible1 Tamron also makes lenses for vehicle built-in cameras based on ISO/TS vari-focal lens2 in July 2010, as a new improved model. In 16949. The ISO/TS 16949 certiﬁcation system applies only to the developing the lens, we reviewed the lens design from ground automotive industry supply chain. zero and pursued enhancing horizontal resolution performance and reducing color blur as desired by customers. The new product As a lens maker aspiring to contribute to society by creating new eyes thus developed is highly evaluated by our customers as a for industry, Tamron is committed to meeting the challenges in next-generation lens capable of utilizing the high performance of developing new optical devices. the latest surveillance/security cameras to the maximum possible. 3 Absolute zero is equivalent to -273.15 degrees centigrade. We also realized the same compactness as the conventional 4 Far-IR is light existing in the longest wavelength range among the IR range. Please refer to the chart on the left. model, yet reduced the number of parts by 15 percent. 1 Lens capable of handling from visible light to light in the near infrared range and invisible to human eyes. Twenty-four hour surveillance becomes possible by using such lenses on IR-compatible surveillance cameras. 2 Lens capable of changing focal lengths for diﬀerent coverage Image we captured with our far-IR camera. It is diﬃcult to capture images of human beings in darkness with ordinary cameras, but our far-IR camera can capture images like this way. Model 13VG308ASIRII ●Shortening Lead-time Diﬀerent wavelength ranges and our products We listen to customers, start product development by valuing what customers tell us, and proceed with designing, prototyping and mass-production before Wavelen ［μm］ Infrared Near IR light launching any new products. In 2010, we worked especially hard on shortening Ultraviolet Visible light Microwave lead-time of lens units for compact digital cameras, focusing on three aspects. To Mid-IR light Far-IR light begin with, we reviewed the component compositions of representative products and established a new method for centering and cementing5 lens elements. This approach enabled us to simplify the compositions of peripheral parts of those 4 1 10 10 lens models, reducing parts. We reduced assembly line processes for those lens models by 5-10%. As the next step, we worked on shortening the standard time Tamron products Photographic lenses, video camera lenses Lenses for near-IR-compatible surveillance/security cameras Lenses for far-IR-compatible cameras required for metal mold designing by including technical requirements for metal mold fabrication in the design stage for the plastic component. As the third step, we established methods for forecasting and introducing counter measures against problems anticipated at the time of injection molding already on the stage of metal mold designing by simulating resin ﬂow rates with analysis software. We were thus able to ensure component precision and quality with smaller adjustments compared to conventional methods, which lead to shortening lead-time. We will continue to analyze the relationship between proand post processes so we can shorten product delivery lead-time further for more customer satisfaction. 5 Centering is a process to ﬁx the center of a lens element for a precise focal point. ※Except invisible light are colored for better understandability. At Tamron, lens element center positions are adjusted in microns（0.001 mm）. 7 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Relationships with Business Partners Tamron respects human rights, ensures compliance with laws and regulations, and establishes good relationships with business partners to grow and contribute to Relationships with society together. Customers Major accomplishments in 2010 Tasks for 2011 ●All of our suppliers agreed to meet our Supplier Code of ●Global deployment of CSR procurement Conduct, based on our emphasizing the importance of operations together with our business partners better environmental quality management. Relationships with ●Partnership through CSR Procurement Operations ●For Maintaining Environmental Quality Objectives We established the Tamron Supplier Codes of Conduct, asked all We have been closely watching harmful chemical substances to prevent using them Business Partners suppliers to follow the codes and started CSR procurement based on in our products. In 2010, we altered our conventional method for managing them. In 2009, we asked all suppliers to self-assess their adherence to environmental quality objectives2 in relation with our products. Speciﬁcally, we the codes and submit voluntary evaluation reports. thoroughly reviewed the scope of materials we specify in our drawings. We also reviewed our judging conditions for conforming to environmental quality objectives In 2010, we provided seminars on fair transactions （Subcontractor as well as warranty terms for data on chemical substances to increase data Protection Law）, risk management and environmental quality collection frequency. We reviewed the items we check when ascertaining management for all employees handling procurement so they could learn compliance with our environmental and quality requirements at our suppliers in more about CSR. We also provided information on occupational safety, order to improve our audit system. Relationships with human rights and information security to all our business partners to improve their understanding of those aspects, asking them to work on As for chemical substances to be controlled under the RoHS Initiative, we continued risk reduction and enhance their corporate values. We will continue to to internally implement analytical work with advanced equipment including ICP-AES Employees work on CSR procurement operations by holding in-house educational （Inductivity Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission Spectrometry） and GC-MS （Gas seminars and conducting surveys with our business partners. Chromatography Mass Spectrometry）to deliver safe products to our customers. In order to respond to customer requests for information disclosure We will continue to comply with regulations including the RoHS Initiative based on the REACH initiative, an international initiative proposed by the together with our suppliers and work hard to prepare for and implement European Chemical Agency for harmful chemical substance management, measures to comply with the REACH Initiative in order to respond to customer we continued to accumulate data on chemical substances included in requirements. Relationships with our products. Simultaneously, we asked all our suppliers to submit 2 Objectives to control and restrain the use of speciﬁed chemical substances to reports to us on chemical substances used in the products they supply to levels below our standard values. us. We will continue to work hard together with our suppliers to deliver safe products to our customers by strictly managing Substances of Very Shareholders and Investors High Concern（SVHC）1 as regulated by the REACH Initiative. Interview with Business Partner 1 SVHC stands for Substances of Very High Concern and includes suspected endocrine disrupting chemicals. Forty-six kinds of substances are suspected. As many as 1,500 kinds i n t e r v i e w of chemical substances may be speciﬁed as SVHCs in the future. Procedures to Select Suppliers Accounting Section, Sales Dept., Request suppliers follow Tamron Supplier Codes of JCD Corporation Conduct covering aspects including labor safety, Ms. Airong Lü For Protecting sanitation, environment protection, administration systems and ethical management in addition to promoting environment quality assurance systems Our Environment Pursuing customer satisfaction is an important theme for Tamron management philosophy. To suﬃciently respond to customer requirements in environmental quality management, our company Submission of reports by candidate business partners bolstered our management structure with IEC-QC0800003 certiﬁcation, describing results of voluntary evaluation of while introducing XRF（X-Ray Fluorescent）analysis instruments in order work to follow the Tamron Supplier Codes of Conduct to improve our incoming material and outgoing product inspections. At JCD, we are working hard on CSR tasks including product quality Periodical evaluation Product quality, environment quality and management, occupational safety and enhancing employee living process audits, documentary examination standards. For example, we created a fund called Love & Heart by Relationships with voluntarily setting aside a portion of the salary of each employee as OK NG well as part of the company proﬁt in order to support employees facing diﬃculties. Appointment as selected business partners Society We will continue to work on enhancing customer satisfaction by complying with regulations including REACH, while pursuing further growth of our company. Implementation of CSR management by business partners 3 Harmful substance process management system standard established following the Tamron Supplier Codes of Conduct by the IEC（International Electrotechnical Commission） Tamron CSR Report 2011 8 Relationships with Employees Tamron fosters self-disciplined employees with the spirit of rising to the challenge of creating new ideas in a climate emphasizing ethics. Tamron strives to create a safe work environment that encourages work, based on fair evaluations, respect for human rights and mutual understanding. Major tasks in 2010 Tasks for 2011 ●Continued to work on creating a comfortable and healthy work environment ●Strengthening educational programs for engineers ●Held seminars ●Continued efforts to create a comfortable work environment ●For Strengthening Educational Programs for Engineers To quickly respond to customers who continuously require increasing engineers with work experience of less than ﬁve years after joining the quality of products and services, we must nurture new employees and company. In 2010, the seminars were held eleven times for them to learn help them to continue to enhance their technical capabilities. For that advanced technical aspects from fully experienced designers because the end, we hold professional training seminars for engineers every year. In new engineers are expected to play important roles in the near future. 2010, we provided newly employed engineers with ﬁeld training at work sites while holding seminars on technical fundamentals for young We also held seminars on metal mold fabrication six times for those engineers with limited experience. interested. Employees from marketing, procurement and engineering learned the basics about metal molds. Seminars were held several times The former is an educational program implemented annually to train all on quality control fundamentals; employees including young engineers newly recruited optical and mechanical designers to work at workplaces learned about quality control methods. in factories to experience ﬁeld operations for several months. They can make good use of the experience when they engage in design and We plan to enrich our engineer educational programs so we can foster development work later. The latter educational program is for young competent engineers for the future of our company. Seminars & Workshops Held in 2010 for Engineers Seminar Name Targeted to Period/Number of Times Content Engineers newly employed in 2010（Those assigned to May-August Fieldwork at production and metal mold fabrication sites where Engineer Training Field Training optical and mechanical design, technology development and manufacturing engineering departments） （4 months） participants are expected to work at engineering jobs later Fundamental Designers and manufacturing engineers 11 times Compendium, optics, lens element processing, metal molds, machinery, Technology Seminar with work experience of less than 5 years assembling, CAE, quality control, cost management and so on Metal Mold Those who were interested 6 times Fundamental knowledge on metal molds（gates1, resin materials, Fabrication Seminar undercuts2, processing machine QC Seminar Those who were interested 4 times 7 basic methods to solve qualityand eﬃciency-related problems 1 The term gate means an inlet to pour resin materials. 2 Undercuts ̶ Ideally, the mold tool should open parallel to the machine platen movement. Undercuts should be avoided if possible through part redesign, but are sometimes unavoidable for some complex parts. ●For Creating a Safe and Comfortable Work Environment Tamron works hard to ensure safety and enhance the psychological and physical health of employees and create a comfortable work environment. In 2010, recognizing the importance of administrating occupational safety, we enacted Labor Safety & Sanitation Regulations, organized the Tamron Labor Safety & Sanitation Committee and started patrolling employee work sites with administrators. They focus on the shop-ﬂoor to observe the ﬁve basic conditions of orderly disposition, appropriate storage, cleanliness, cleaning and lesson of warning to prevent occupational accidents. As a result, we reduced the number of occupational accidents from six cases to ﬁve. To our regret, the number of accidents when commuting increased from four to ﬁve. Since the numbers of minor traﬃc accidents during commuting by bicycle and minor external injuries at production points were large, we implemented route cause analysis on each case and called employee attention to prevent Labor safety patrol similar cases. To be prepared for worse cases, we continued to hold seminars including emergency treatment seminars on cardiopulmonary resuscitation as we had since 2002. As many as 29 employees participated in the emergency treatment seminars; they learned how to use AEDs 3 AED is a portable electronic device that can diagnose and correct arrhythmia of （automated external deﬁbrillators）to minimize risks3. the heart. 9 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Relationships with ●For Maintaining Life-Work Balance Maternity Leave Interest in good life-work balance has been growing The number of employees who take maternity leave at Tamron Customers internationally. In Japan, the problem of the declining birthrate grows with each passing year. About 90% of female employees and growing elderly population has been rapidly increasing. who gave birth during the ﬁve years from 2006 to 2010 took Firms must work hard to support employees who take maternity maternity leave, which is twelve months in principle. leave or live with elders to care for. Under this social situation, Tamron has been working on improving support for employees We expect that the number of employees who take maternity or for good work-life balance. paternity leave will continue to increase regardless of gender in the future, which is a welcome tendency for maintaining a good work-life balance. We plan to reﬁne our maternity and paternity Relationships with leave system further by introducing additional measures including Overtime-free Work Days regular employment with shorter work days for those who come Since 2004, we have continued to curtail overtime by back to work after maternity or paternity leave. Business Partners implementing our overtime-free campaign. In 2010, we speciﬁed all Mondays and Wednesdays as overtime-free days as we have Number of employees who took maternity or paternity leave since 2007. Almost all employees participated in the campaign. All the lights are switched oﬀ at a ﬁxed time throughout our 人数 compounds; only those who must work at jobs such as serving 12 customers and equipment maintenance work in speciﬁed 10 dedicated rooms. Patrolling by employees in administrative 8 positions and periodical reminders are given, but what is Relationships with 6 Number important after all is the consciousness of each employee to enhance productivity. We are conﬁdent that the overtime-free 4 Employees campaign works as conductive to a habit of leaving at closing 2 time. We will continue to reﬁne the system to enhance 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 年度 productivity and maintain a good work-life balance. Mental Health Care Interview with Employee Who Took Maternity Leave Relationships with We attach the same importance to mental health diagnosis as to physical examinations. In 2009, we provided our employees working at the head oﬃce and three factories in Aomori with the opportunity for mental health diagnoses by outside experts. In i n t e r v i e w Shareholders and Investors 2010 we expanded the area to all domestic work sites; the ratio of employees who underwent diagnosis exceeded 90%. Technology Development Employees can have their mental health diagnosed without Strategic Planning Board worrying about their private information since the results and Yukimi Inoue other related information are sent directly to them. If any indications are found, the employee can undergo counseling with I took maternity leave twice. When I decided to do so experts. We also provided opportunities to ensure early for the ﬁrst time, I dwelled upon my decision because detection of any mental health issues through medical checkups the number of those who returned to work without For Protecting by industrial physicians and absentee interviews by human taking maternity leave was substantial at that time, but decided to use the system thanks to the encouragement resource department personnel. We also held internal seminars of my colleagues. on mental health care so employees may voluntarily participate Our Environment During my leave, I could complete all necessary in our mental health care program to prevent future issues. As procedures during my leave as I could make good many as 84 employees participated in the program, learning contact with personnel department staﬀs. As I was unable to ﬁnd a day care center vacancy for my daughter about self-care through self-analysis. As a result of these at the end of the initial maternity leave period, I did measures, the number of employees who needed long-term appreciate the six-month extension permission granted therapy due to mental health problems declined in 2010. by the company at that time. Even after returning to work, I was concerned about striking a balance between work and childcare. During the initial stage, my baby sobbed bitterly when I left the Mental health diagnosis Relationships with daycare center, so I was conﬂict-torn each time. Also, even now I am sometimes obliged to take a day-oﬀ when （1） Online consultation one of my children looks sick, despite having work to do. （2） In person consultation But the number of those who take leave is on the rise at Feedback of pre-clinical diagnosis Society （with a counselor or a doctor） Tamron. It is encouraging to know that I have colleagues （3） Telephone consultation who share the same concerns as I do; I hope there will （4） Other services as necessary be many more moms working at Tamron. When follow-up diagnosis by such as introducing medical an expert physician is necessary institutions Tamron CSR Report 2011 10 Relationships with Shareholders and Investors We strive to enhance the corporate value of our company by pursuing faithful management and maintaining communications with our stakeholders including shareholders and investors. Major accomplishments in 2010 Tasks for 2011 ●Implemented our internal management system ●To implant thorough governance of everyday issues ●Held brieﬁng sessions to inform shareholders and investors ●Corporate Governance ●Communications with Shareholders and Investors Corporate Governance We continued to disclose information at appropriate times and in compliance with related laws and regulations, while paying due General Meeting of Shareholders attention to fairness. We are working to ensure sound Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Election/dismissal management and transparency, and to obtain understanding and credence of all stakeholders. As part of our IR2 work, we held Accounting Auditor Accounting Auditor Coordination explanatory meetings on our ﬁnancial statements during 2010 at Audit Coordination Audit the end of the second quarter and the ﬁscal year for institutional Coordination investors and securities analysts, in addition to individual Board of Directors interviews with them from time to time. We also simultaneously post our ﬁnancial statements, press CSR Promotion Board President Internal Audit Board releases and other information on our website in Japanese and CSR Committee Management Meeting（MAC） English whenever possible to keep our shareholders and Internal audid Compliance Committee Executive Oﬃcers investors informed. We are working hard to eliminate information disclosure imparity. Each department/Subsidiaries To keep as many private investors informed of our business operations and management philosophy, we participate in outside IR events. For example, in 2010, we participated in We at Tamron constantly pursue fair and highly transparent management. brieﬁng sessions securities companies held for private investors, 1. Separation of Daily Business Execution and Overall Management providing information on our business operations leveraging our Tamron introduced an executive oﬃcer system. Directors focus optical technology as well as our management philosophy. We on management decisions, working with strategies on a also provided information on our environmental protection and mid/long-term basis as well as ideas for evolving new business, social contribution when possible during those opportunities. We while executives ﬂexibly and promptly superintend and carry out will continue to focus on improving our IR work. daily business. Please visit our IR page at 2. Organization Structure for Internal Control http://www.tamron.co.jp/investors/top/index.html Tamron has internal and external auditors. They regularly audit for further information. decisions made by the board of directors as well as the execution of the decisions. Tamron also has an Internal Audit Board. The board audits our business operations based on our internal audit regulations, independently reporting the ●Ensuring Compliance compliance with internal regulations to our president. The board At Tamron, a Compliance Committee Meeting attended by also implements follow-up audits after the initial audit to representatives from Tamron departments is held monthly to ascertain that improvements have been made and ensure promote compliance on a company-wide basis. In 2010, we compliance with internal regulations. also held a workshop on insider transaction regulations, 3. Internal Control through Committee Meetings inviting a lecturer from the Tokyo Stock Exchange. We held We regularly hold monthly business discussion meetings （MAC study sessions for learning more about our meetings）attended by all directors, full-time corporate auditors and compliance-related regulations and approximately 20 laws executives to discuss management issues and respond to the fast and regulations including the Subcontracting Law, Security changing management environment. Each meeting of our CSR and Export Trade Control Ordinance, and Unfair Committee also discusses aspects related to CSR management with Competition Prevention Law as well as other laws related to an eye toward all divisions concerned at home and abroad; copyright and rights of likeness. resolutions adopted are brought up for discussion at MAC meetings. 1 The Financial Instruments Transaction Law requires reﬁning corporate frameworks 4. Compliance, Accuracy in Financial Reports and Internal Control to secure accuracy in ﬁnancial statements and information disclosed as well as In order to ensure compliance with the Financial Instruments creating and reporting internal control reports evaluating the eﬀectiveness of the frameworks. Transaction Law1 requiring reporting on the state of compliance 2 IR stands for investor relations and means providing shareholders and investors with internal control regulations accuracy in ﬁnancial statements, with information such as ﬁnancial standing that is necessary for investors to make investing decisions. we re-evaluated our internal control system and improved it to further enhance the reliability of our ﬁnancial statements for discharging our social responsibility. 11 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Management System We strive to enhance our product and service quality while reducing environmental loads through our consolidated management system. Also, we avoid various management risks based upon our risk management system. Relationships with ●Integrated Management System Triple Audit Systems for Surveillance and Finding Problems Customers In 2010, we obtained uniﬁed certiﬁcation applicable to the We annually audit the implementation of the integrated management system at the Omiya Tamron Group including our overseas production base of Head Oﬃce and the three Aomori factories to check the eﬀectiveness of the system and Tamron Optical（Foshan） , in addition to all our domestic sites: continually improve it, which are our internal quality and environment audits. From the Head Oﬃce, Hirosaki Factory, Namioka Factory and Owani auditing, internal auditors found some nonconformity cases and suggested improvements at Factory. Our management system has completely integrated the Omiya Head Oﬃce and three Aomori factories. In addition to the internal audit, the ISO 9001 （quality） and ISO 14001 （environment） . We will Omiya Head Oﬃce and three Aomori factories audit each other to check their systems and continue to produce high quality products that are safe and manufacturing processes. We periodically audit with contracted external audit organizations Relationships with satisfy our customers, while paying attention to the to maintain certiﬁcations while continually improving the integrated management system at environment, under our integrated management system. Tamron. As a result of external audits implemented in 2010, the eﬀectiveness of our policy management processes adopted at our domestic sites was assessed at level-3 on the whole Business Partners on a scale of one to ﬁve, while the eﬀectiveness of processes used at our production base in China was rated at level-4. Points at issue as results of the triple audit systems have been Integrated Management Policies promptly improved, and we are working on further improvements by deploying activities As a member of the optical industry of the world, we will horizontally among our group companies. continue to manufacture products meeting customer satisfaction and our goal of being Tamron Contributing to Society by Creating Eyes for Industry, while paying attention to environmental conservation. ●Risk Management Relationships with 1.We will supply our customers with high quality and reliable products by using our originality, ingenuity and In January 2008, we assessed all risks in our business operations and established our risk technology, pursuing sustainable growth with proﬁts management policies. Since then, we have been operating our risk management framework Employees arising out of delighting and satisfying our customers. under the ten themes of compliance, corporate governance, information disclosure, labor 2.In running our business, we will comply with all related safety and sanitation, employment, human resources, human rights, social contribution, laws, standards and treaties at home and abroad, respecting the requests and demands postulated by information security, private information protection, environment and quality assurance. We our customers and the local community. manage important risks involved in our business with our Business Continuity Plan（BCP）, 3.We will work on preventing environmental which was formulated for ensuring smooth business recovery after natural disasters such as contamination through reducing CO₂, waste emissions large-scale earthquakes. Under the BCP, we will organize a control committee chaired by our and harmful chemicals while seeking alternatives and representative director to promptly respond to problems if any emergency arises. keeping biodiversity intact. Relationships with 4.We will continue to work on improving the eﬀectiveness of our integrated management system. 5.To achieve this management policy, we will speciﬁcally set up our objectives and targets, periodically Tamron’s Risk Management Policy Shareholders and Investors evaluating our achievement level. At Tamron, recognizing all possible risks that may aﬀect our business, 6.To enhance recognizing the importance of our we are committed to all possible damage prevention in order to integrated management, we will maintain good communications while providing suﬃcient education minimize damage to the economy, our society and our environment. and training to all people working for Tamron. In emergencies, we work to minimize damage and promptly recover 7.We will closely cooperate with society in all countries by acting responsibly, providing continuous services to our customers and regions where we work and disclose information for continuing growth. We aim for safety and ease of mind for all as necessary on our quality assurance and environment conservation. stakeholders including our employees, shareholders, customers and business partners. We will continue to provide opportunities for For Protecting December 7, 2009 learning about risk management to all employees so that they may Morio Ono, President & CEO work on risk management from a CSR perspective built on properly recognizing the importance of the policy and their missions. Our Environment Consolidated Management September 30, 2009 Morio Ono, Representative Director & President （CEO） Representative（President） Quality/Environment Committee Consolidated Administration Manager Secretarial Oﬃce（CSR Promotion Board） Emergency Situations Relationships with We conduct emergency evacuation and ﬁre ﬁghting drills every year Omiya Consolidated Aomori Consolidated Administration Manager Tamron Optical（Foshan） at the Omiya head oﬃce, three factories in Aomori and Tamron （representing consolidated administration Administration Manager Consolidated Administration managers of three Aomori factories） Optical（Foshan）in China. All employees and executives participate. Society We held a ﬁre and evacuation drill in 2010 for all employees with Secretarial Oﬃce（CSR Promotion Board） Secretarial Oﬃce（Operation Promotion Section） Secretarial Oﬃce（ISO Promotion Board） the assistance of the ﬁre department of Saitama City. Our employees learned about initial stage ﬁre ﬁghting and using ﬁre extinguishers. Hirosaki Namioka Owani Omiya Head Oﬃce Tamron Optical（Foshan）Co., Ltd. We also held an initial stage drill for earthquakes, using the Factory Factory Factory governmentʼs preliminary earthquake ﬂash announcement program. Tamron CSR Report 2011 12 Relationships with the Environment We pay attention to protecting the environment in deploying our business operations, working to be a company pursuing harmony with the environment. Major accomplishments in 2010 Tasks for 2011 ●Implemented new measures that successfully reduced CO₂ emissions ●Implementing CO₂ emissions reduction measures on a company-wide basis to achieve our group target ●Introduced new measures that successfully reduced waste emissions ●Studying water usage reduction measures ●Environmental Loads Products are designed, prototypes made and metal molds generating polluted sludge and waste liquid containing melt fabricated at the Omiya head oﬃce. In Japan, we also chemicals. Our factories in Owani and Foshan also operate our Namioka Factory for manufacturing lens generate plastic runner materials 1 while manufacturing elements, Owani Factory for injection-molding plastic plastic components used in peripheral lens parts, in components and Hirosaki Factory for assembling ﬁnal addition to waste liquid. products. We also operate Tamron Optical （Foshan） in For transporting parts and products among the factories in China as our manufacturing base abroad. The factory in Japan and China, trucks are mainly used, emitting CO₂. China is an integrated factory performing all operations Energy consumption and CO₂ emissions following logistic ranging from component production to assembly. operations are on the rise. We use electricity, heavy oil, kerosene and other energy sources for developing, designing and manufacturing, 1 Materials left in portions equivalent to paths to route resin for making plastic components emitting CO₂. Our factories in Namioka and Foshan use much water for polishing and cleaning lens elements, INPUT Scope of INPUT Items： Energy Water Transportation energy2 Omiya head oﬃce（including Tokyo/Osaka sales oﬃces）, three factories in Electric power 78,006,000kWh Clean water 498,000㎥ Diesel oil 370kℓ Aomori,Tamron Optical （Foshan）, China Crude oil 225kℓ Sewage water 129000㎥ Gasoline 80kℓ （excluding Tamron Optical（Foshan）as for Kerosene oil 13kℓ waste entrusted for intermediate treatment） Total 722,000㎥ Total 450kℓ Diesel oil 10 kℓ Gasoline 2 kℓ Raw/auxiliary materials 2 The energy consumption data for LPG 2,000㎥ transportation cover energy used by Metal（brass, aluminum） Natural gas 105,000㎥ trucks for transporting parts and ﬁnal Glass products and commercial vehicles Total 716,000GJ Plastic connecting ﬁve sales oﬃces in Japan. Chemicals（drugs, solvents, cleaners） The Tamron Optical （Foshan）, China Paper Gas（nitrogen, oxygen, argon） data covers company cars only. Copy paper 19t Electrical components Cardboard Sites covered: 98% （based on the total number of employees） Manufacturing raw materials/ Development, design and Transportation between factories and delivery to stores Customers parts at suppliers production at Tamron （logistics/business vehicles） OUTPUT We report amount of waste which was entrusted for intermediate treatment in Tamron CO2 Emissions Recycled CO2 Emissions during Transportation2 Optical（Foshan）, China below for reference. Electric power 31,623t-CO2 Paper 33t Diesel oil 972t-CO2 Crude oil 609t-CO2 Cardboard 81t Gasoline 185t-CO2 Tamron Optical（Foshan）,China（estimated amount） Kerosene oil 40t-CO2 Metal 21t Industrial waste 475t Total 1,157t-CO2 Diesel oil 27t-CO2 Plastic 114t General waste 790t Gasoline 4t-CO2 Grinding sludge 16t Total 1,265t LPG 14t-CO2 Waste ﬂuid 164t Natural gas 220t-CO2 Others 59t Total 32,537t-CO2 Total 488t Reference Guideline Waste entrusted for intermediate treatment Products Greenhouse Eﬀect Gas Calculation/ Industrial waste 393t Total 4,083t Reporting Manual（Ver. 2.4）issued General waste 119t by The Ministry for the Environment Total 512t 13 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Relationships with ●Environment Management Structure ●Environmental Management Education At Tamron we have been enhancing product quality while paying attention In 2010, we held three environmental management education seminars as part of Customers to the environmental impact from our oﬃces and factories with our our CSR education program. The 1st seminar was for risk management, human management system integrating quality assurance and environmental rights protection and biodiversity. It was targeted at all employees at domestic management. sites, and Tamron Optical （Foshan） in China and subsidiary sales companies At Tamron, our CSR committee holds a monthly quality/environment abroad; approximately 1,000 employees participated in the e-learning seminar. As management sub-committee meeting to discuss issues related to our for biodiversity, its importance and relationships with the environment were taught. environmental objectives including means to reduce fraction defectives and CO₂ emissions. Other topics include measures to address changes in the The 2nd seminar was for the members of our Integrated Management Promotion environment, related laws and regulations; our consolidated management Committee who serve as environmental protection leaders at their respective work Relationships with representative attends the meeting. For discussing matters requiring sites; the objective was to learn more about waste sorting, energy saving and green inter-department activities and cooperation without sectoral barriers, we procurement. The committee members then educated their colleagues in the same way, leading energy saving implementation including air-conditioning management. Business Partners have specialized committees: the Tamron Integrated Specialty Committees responsible for reducing waste, promoting integrated designing and The 3rd seminar was for managerial employees including section managers who manufacturing technology and CSR procurement, and related departments at learned about the twelve CSR themes and tasks involved. The same education was the Omiya head oﬃce, factories in Japan and China and at subsidiary sales provided for managerial employees at the three Aomori factories and Tamron companies abroad act, adopting advice by the committees. Optical（Foshan）in China via TV conferencing. Organizational Structure for Promoting Environment Management We will continue to regularly provide similar opportunities to our employees; individual employee awareness is important. Relationships with Integrated Management Representative Waste Reduction Sub-committee Internal Quality/Environment Auditor Specialty Committee Design/ Technology /Production Sub-committee Employees Quality/Environment Committee CSR Procurement Sub-committee ●Environmental Accounting Each division（Member of Integrated Integrated Administration Manager The total investment for environmental protection in 2010 was 10.85 million Management Promotion Committee） yen while total environmental expenses reached 244.57 million yen. Investment increased 3.85 million yen from 2009. The investment was primarily for installing LED lighting equipment at the Omiya head oﬃce and constant pressure feed pumps for ground water at the Namioka factory. Our ●Compliance Relationships with environmental expenses in 2010 increased about 12 million yen. They were mainly for installing outdoor equipment for the air-conditioning system at the Tamron regularly checks compliance with laws and regulations related Omiya head oﬃce for suppressing noise to new residential houses built to quality assurance and environmental protection in order to ensure the nearby and for cleaning wells at the Namioka factory. Shareholders and Investors compliance of the entire group. Major issues and compliance at Tamron are as shown in the table below. For the soil and ground water Environmental cost Economic Environmental contamination found at the Omiya head oﬃce in 2003, we immediately Category Main work Page invested Expense eﬀect conservation eﬀect took measures to prevent contamination diﬀusion and to purify the Pollution ・Installation of constant pressure Ensuring environmental contaminated soil. The measures demonstrably prevented preven900 12,618 feed pumps（Namioka） ― ― tion cost ・Cleaning of new wells（Namioka） standards contamination diﬀusion. Since then, we have been ensuring compliance Cost ・Changeover to LED lighting systems ・Preventing harmful chemical with other related laws and regulations as well. Earth environment 9,953 26,506 （Head Oﬃce） P8, conservation cost 19,075 substances use in products with in ・Analyzing environment-related substances ・Reducing energy consumption P16 business ・Promoting recycling Compliance at Respective Sites For Protecting area Resource Reducing and 0 18,162 830 of general waste cycling cost recycling waste ・Enhancing recycling ratios P17 ○Satisfactory △ Insufficient ― Not regulated（Not applicable） of industrial waste Head oﬃce Aomori Factories Foshan3 Our Environment Sub-total 10,853 57,286 19,905 Energy saving（revised law） ○ ○ ― CO₂ emissions reduction ○ ○ ― Upstream and Implementing audits 0 6,811 Green procurement ― P8 downstream costs at business partners Chemical substance management 1 ○ ○ ○ Air ○ ○ ○ ・Maintenance and operation of A c h i e v i n g Water quality ○2 ○ ○ Management environmental management P14 0 50,881 ― environmental activity cost systems Soil ○ ○ ○ ・Environmental education objectives and targets 〜15 Noise ○ ○ ○ Vibration ○ ○ ○ Enhancing product P6, R&D cost 0 141,514 Eﬀorts for DfE ― Odor ○ ○ ○ performance through DfE P18 Relationships with Occupational safety ○ ○ ○ Social activity cost 0 688 Cleaning neighboring areas ― Reducing disposed of garbage P19 Cost to prevent Environmental damage 0 0 ― ― Contamination accident free P14 1 Laws related to managing and investigating chemical substances apply to Total 10,853 257,180 19,905 ― Society domestic sites; international directives including RoHS and REACH apply to the entire group. ＊Scope of Environmental Accounting （unit : thousand yen） 2 Values exceeded standard values at some points of measurement, but our Period: From January 1 through December 31, 2010 measures securely prevented contamination diﬀusion outside our facilities. Premises covered: Omiya headquarters （including sales oﬃces in Tokyo and Osaka） and three Aomori factories. 3 Compliance with related laws and regulations enforced in China as well as ＊Labor costs are calculated based on the average wage. international regulations such as the RoHS and REACH initiatives ＊The economic eﬀect in comparison with Earth environment conservation costs is calculated by comparing power consumption ﬁgures in 2009 and 2010, while the economic eﬀect in comparisonwith resource recycling costs is represented by a gain from metal waste sales. ＊Depreciation allowance is not calculated as an expense. Tamron CSR Report 2011 14 Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved In 2010, we worked on achieving the environmental objectives and targets for the ﬁrst year of our phase-four environmental protection program. We achieved our CO₂ reduction targets. In 2011, we will continue to reduce CO₂ emissions more. ●Achievement of Environmental Objectives As for environmental loads other than CO₂ emissions, our respective and Targets in 2010 work sites established their own reduction targets as their operations In 2010, we focused on reducing CO₂ emissions as the most important and the products they handle diﬀer. Our factory in Hirosaki was unable environmental objective of the Tamron group, deploying activities and to achieve its industrial waste reduction target because of the obligation managing reduction in terms of basic unit per sales. Our objective for to discard an unexpectedly large quantity of trays used for transporting 2010 was reducing CO₂ emissions by 5% in terms of our per-sales basic materials and products between Tamron Optical in Foshan（TOF）and unit. We achieved the target by reducing emissions by 6% although our the factory. The factory achieved other targets. The issue of industrial group CO₂ emissions increased by 7% compared to 2009 as a result of waste reduction was pursued by the waste reduction sub-committee, our production volume growth. Emissions were reduced in terms of the reviewing work at respective sites including TOF, and measures were basic unit as total sales grew 14%. taken for tasks requiring inter-site cooperation. DfE was promoted by the integrated design and manufacturing sub-committee to eﬀectively use resources, reducing waste and protecting our environment. CO₂ reduction targets Achieved and Three-year Plan A : Satisfactory B : Unsatisfactory Target in 2010 Result in 2010 Achievement Target in 2011 Target in 2012 CO₂reduction per net sales unit, −5% −６％ A −10％ −15% compared to 2009 CO₂ reduction targets Achieved in 2010 Targets in 2010 Results in 2010 Achievment Head Oﬃce 5% reduction from the average emissions volume in 2007, 2008 and 2009（in absolute value） Reduction rate: 6% A Hirosaki Factory Growth rate: 26％ B Reducing industrial waste Namioka Factory 5% reduction from the emissions volume in 2009（in absolute value） Reduction rate: 9% A Owani Factory Reduction rate: 5% A TOF in China 1% reduction from the emissions volume in 2009（per net sales unit） Reduction rate:20% A Head Oﬃce ﬁnal disposition rate : 0.7% Hirosaki Factory Continuation of zero emissions ﬁnal disposition rate : 0% Zero industrial Namioka Factory （Conﬁning the simple reclamation ratio at ﬁnal ﬁnal disposition rate : 0% A waste emissions2 Owani Factory disposition to 2% or less） ﬁnal disposition rate : 0% TOF in China ﬁnal disposition rate : 0% （1） For resource saving designs: Used recycled materials, ●Use of recycled materials in ﬁnal products, gave Eco-label accreditaPromotion of tions to more products and A All sites ●Introduction of Tamron Eco-Label system, revised our environmental DfE3 ●Review of assessment methods assessment method （2） Elimination of harmful chemical substances in ﬁnal products: Zero non-conformity incidence Zero non-conformity incidence A Environmental Targets in 2011 Targets in 2011 Head Oﬃce 3% reduction of waste at time of mold fabrication compared to 2010 （3D Techno Center） Reducing Hirosaki Factory industrial waste Namioka Factory 1% reduction from the emissions volume in 2010（in absolute value） 1 Basic unit per sales: Owani Factory Total CO₂ emissions（t-CO₂） TOF in China 2% reduction from the emissions volume in 2009（per net sales unit） Consolidated sales（million yen） Zero industrial Head Oﬃce Continuing zero-emissions（To lower the ﬁnal processing ratio of industrial waste to 2% or less） 2 Deﬁnition of zero emissions: The volume of waste emissions TOF in China Continuing zero-emissions waste eventually sent to simple reclamation ●Sales of Tamron Eco-Label products disposition becomes 2% or less of the total All sites volume of industrial waste （i.e., recycling Promotion of DfE ●Promotion of DfE ratio of 98% or more） ●No environmental contamination accidents 3 Work to pursue light weight, compactness and the use of recycled materials in line with Preventing environmental contamination Three Aomori factories No environmental contamination accidents our product assessment regulations 15 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Reducing CO₂ Emissions and Energy Consumption Tamron strives to reduce CO₂ emissions and water consumption at factories based on our integrated management. Relationships with ●By-source CO₂ Emissions ●CO₂ Emissions Customers Looking at sources of CO₂ emissions from the Omiya head oﬃce, The total volume of CO₂ emissions during the past ﬁve years from our three Aomori factories and Tamron Optical（Foshan）in China, Omiya head oﬃce, three Aomori factories and Tamron Optical（Foshan）, electric power accounts for 97%, crude oil 2% and natural our production base in China, has been increasing. gas/kerosene/diesel oil/LPG/gasoline 1% altogether. Reducing power consumption is the key to reduce CO₂ emissions. In 2010, emissions from our domestic sites declined by 2% compared to Relationships with 2009. Looking at sites, emissions from the Omiya head oﬃce increased by Electric power Crude oil Natural gas Kerosene 6% due to additional equipment installation while emissions from our Diesel oil LPG Gasoline Hirosaki factory rose 14% because of installation of a new prototype Business Partners Kerosene 0.1% assembling line. Emissions from our factories in Namioka and Owani Diesel oil 0.1% Natural gas LPG declined 7% and 4% as a result of energy saving measures. Emissions from 0.7% 0.04% our production base in China increased 10% in 2010. The increase was Gasoline mainly due to installing 70 additional polishing and resin forming machines 0.01% Crude oil and the growth of production volume by 21% compared to 2009. 1.9% Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Foshan Basic Unit （t-CO2） t-CO2/ Relationships with sales 35,000 30,427 32,537 Electric power 29,997 0.61 （million yen） 97.2% 30,000 0.57 0.60 Employees 0.50 25,000 22,860 23,697 0.50 20,000 0.36 0.37 0.40 20,555 21,947 24,212 15,000 14,504 14,690 0.30 10,000 0.20 ●For Reducing Electric Power Consumption 897 842 919 620 593 5,000 4,802 5,001 5,501 5,013 4,639 0.10 We worked on energy saving mainly through measures to reduce Relationships with 588 987 987 891 1,012 fraction defectives and enhance productivity at the Omiya head oﬃce, 0 2,069 2,177 2,035 1,956 2,081 three Aomori factories and Tamron Optical（Foshan）in China. We also 20061 2007 2008 2009 2010 focused on utilities to reduce energy consumption. We reviewed the 1 The data includes only Electric Power Consumption. maintenance and operations of equipment and facilities at each site, and Shareholders and Investors adjusted the outside air indraft volume at the 3D Techno Center by examining the air conditioning systems. As a result of these measures, we reduced power consumption by an estimated 300,000 kWh per Interview with a Member of the Energy Saving Law Study Sub-committee year. In addition, we changed the lighting at the Omiya head oﬃce to OED lighting, replaced the boilers at our Hirosaki factory with energy saving boilers, and changed the test equipment for quality assurance to i n t e r v i e w energy saving equipment. At Tamron Optical（Foshan）, where electric Sub-committee Member and General Manager of power is consumed in quantity, we worked on reducing power Personnel/General Aﬀairs Management Headquarters For Protecting consumption with measures including reviewing temperature setting standards for air conditioning systems and controlling standards for air Hiroshi Kawanabe Our Environment compressors. We will continue to work on energy saving. Our Energy Saving Law Study Sub-committee was organized in February 2010 to respond to the Revised Energy Saving Law2. Since it is necessary to address Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Foshan （thousand kWh） the issue of energy saving from multiple perspectives, we organized the 70,000 sub-committee by appointing representatives from 12 departments. Tamron is 59,907 61,557 60,000 58,082 designated as a speciﬁc business owner because our annual energy consumption exceeds 5,000 kilo-liters when converted to crude oil. The 50,000 46,491 46,270 Revised Energy Saving Law requires all designated business owners to reduce Relationships with 40,000 energy consumption by 1% on an average per year in terms of the basic unit3. 26,133 26,168 43,181 38,416 Since establishing management methods and countermeasures matching 30,000 38,924 actual situations is important to eﬀectively save energy consumption, we work Society 20,000 2,035 1,818 1,987 1,316 hard in this direction, focusing our attention on work sites. 1,255 10,889 10,974 12,012 10,870 10,028 2 The formal name is the Law on Rationalization of Energy Consumption revised and enforced in 2010. 10,000 1,332 1,255 1,500 1,224 1,315 3 The Revised Energy Saving Law requires all designated business owners to manage energy saving according 6,102 6,055 5,992 5,748 5,778 to the basic unit（standard denominator）. Energy consumption can be calculated using several diﬀerent 0 types of ratios. Every ratio has an input and an output. The basic unit is the denominator used in the ratio. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 For example, a plant might use 1000 kWh of electricity per $100 of sales, or 5000 kWh per employee per year, or 20 kWh per square meter of ﬂoor space per month. Tamron uses labor hours and person-hours. Tamron CSR Report 2011 16 Reducing Waste and Water Consumption We are working on reducing waste by enhancing production eﬃciency and improving business operations. ●Reducing Waste ●Water Consumption Industrial Waste The total water consumption volume of our group has been The total volume of industrial waste from our domestic business operations rising, following the output growth of our factory in China. The has been declining and decreased by 5% year-on-year in 2010 following the rate rose 32% in 2010 compared to 2009. Water consumption at decline of our total domestic production volume. Our factory in Namioka, our domestic sites increased slightly, while consumption at our which generates considerable waste, reduced waste by about 10% although factory in China, which is our mass production base, rose 40%. In waste from the Omiya head oﬃce and the Owani factory grew. The Namioka 2010, 33 lens polishing machines were newly installed at the factory s performance was particularly noteworthy. The factory inevitably factory in China, which resulted in increased water consumption. emits waste oil from its lens element manufacturing processes but reduced We plan to introduce additional means to reduce water the volume of waste oil by 71% compared to 2009. The factory accomplished consumption. this by asking contracted outside processors to distill waste oil including IPA, methanol and xylene and re-deliver the recycled oil for re-using. In addition, Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Foshan Basic Unit since IPA waste solvent can be used as fuel for some heaters, the factory sold （thousand ㎥） 722 thousand ㎥ / sales 700 some of the solvent to other companies as recycled fuel. 636 12.7 （million yen） 549 600 12 （Domestic data） 10.7 529 525 Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Recycling ratio 500 11.0 10 （t） 598 100％ 700 400 8 557 623 8.3 8.3 456 98.8 99.8 99.9 600 357 342 386 546 300 6 123 155 500 95％ 200 4 164 1 0.6 0.4 418 0.6 0.4 397 400 100 155 169 2 88 70 166 149 161 333 318 90％ 88 300 309 0 76 76 86 96 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 232 210 200 85.6 134 100 83.8 85 85％ 61 74 61 23 33 40 37 43 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Interview with Integrated Management Representative at Namioka Factory General Waste from Business The total volume of general waste from our domestic business i n t e r v i e w operations had been declining up to 2009, but increased by 7% in 2010. Looking at sites, waste from the Omiya head oﬃce and Section Manager, the Namioka and Owani factories declined but waste from the Quality Assurance Department Hirosaki factory grew 18%. The volume of cardboard boxes used Motonari Saito for transporting products and parts from Tamron Optical （Foshan） to the Hirosaki factory grew following the output growth of the factory in China. We need to study additional In 2010, we reduced industrial waste by 10% compared to means to reduce waste. 2009 by improving our manufacturing processes. We use chemicals including cleaning ﬂuid in processing lens （Domestic data） Head Office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Recycling ratio elements; waste solvent and oil are inevitably generated from （t） those processes. In 2009, together with our major contractor, 200 187 100％ we started to work on reducing the waste cleaning ﬂuid with 13 166 a water content ratio of up to 93%. We repeatedly tested 159 91.3 5 means to reduce the water content by using waste water 150 4 90％ 73 50 puriﬁcation appliances and membrane separation devices 110 118 68 4 4 commercially available, but this approach failed. 82.7 16 14 In 2010, we tested an alternative method to vaporize water 100 77.4 80％ 76.6 78.0 content by using single drum dryers that a dryer 65 78 71 53 manufacturer suggested as experimental equipment. We 50 60 70％ found that the experimental equipment worked; we plan to introduce the equipment in 2011 to reduce waste cleaning 36 34 30 29 33 ﬂuid by more than 50%. 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 17 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Work at Three Aomori Factories and Tamron Optical（Foshan） Our factories are striving to reduce CO₂ emissions, energy consumption and industrial waste. Relationships with ●Work to Reduce CO₂ Emissions from ●Energy Saving at Tamron Optical（Foshan） Customers Namioka Factory Tamron Optical（Foshan） （TOF） , our production base in China, At our factory in Namioka, we took measures to reduce established a target of 5% reduction of CO₂ emissions in the energy consumption of manufacturing facilities and lighting basic unit per factory sales amount compared to 2009, ﬁxtures while improving operation utilization time. On all worked on energy saving, and achieved the target by reducing nonwork days, we completely cut the power supply to CO₂ emissions by 24%. In 2010, TOF s factory sales grew 44% Relationships with equipment including two compressors with standby power year-on-year while production volume increased 21% requirements. We reduced power consumption by 40,000 compared to 2009. TOF successfully conﬁned the growth rate of power consumption to about 10% by introducing energy Business Partners kWh per year and CO₂ emissions by 18 tons. We added pull-switches to ﬂuorescent lamps installed at 170 locations saving measures as described below and enhancing where automatically turning on following the master electrical productivity. switch is unnecessary. We reduced the number of ﬂuorescent lamps at work sites as much as possible without creating problems. As a result of these low-key steps taken by all Measures taken: employees, we reduced power consumption by 67,120 KWh 1.Stricter temperature setting control of air-conditioners for per year and CO₂ emissions equivalent to 30 tons. reducing power consumption Relationships with In 2011, we plan to test LED ﬂuorescent lamps, send 2.Air pressure adjustment by controlling compressors with questionnaires to relevant worksites and study changing over inverters for reducing power consumption to LED after consulting with our employees. 3.Reusing waste heat from compressors at dormitories Employees and company cafeterias for reducing diesel oil consumption ●Reducing Waste Plastic Components Tamron makes plastic components for lenses at the Owani factory and Tamron Optical（Foshan）in China. Up to 2009, our metal mold center and 3D Techno Center in Omiya had ●Efforts to Reduce Industrial Waste from Relationships with worked on reducing waste plastic generated from injection TOF molds as runner materials. In 2010, we closely checked TOF had not tracked industrial waste from its operations up strength, durability and environmental loads of rear caps for to 2007, except for waste solvent weighed by contracted SLR camera lenses and started mass-production using 100 Shareholders and Investors waste disposers, but started to see the picture of waste oil, percent recycled materials. The total volume of materials we metal scraps and waste solvent in 2008. In 2010, we started recycled in 2010 in this way reached 14 tons. We are now to introduce several industrial waste reduction measures, working closely with outside institutions on technology for including reusing chemical agents such as solvent cleaner as blending crushed or re-pelletized virgin resin with recycled well as waste oﬃce paper as stain-proof paper when materials for saving resources and using materials thus made applying protection ink on lens elements, holding seminars for other components. on these measures. Our target for 2010 was 1 percent We will continue to work on saving resources and expanding reduction compared to 2009 in the basic unit, but we the scope of using recycled plastic materials through product For Protecting reduced waste emissions by 20% as a result of our measures downsizing and manufacturing technology improvement. and partly due to reducing the defect percentage. We will continue to work on industrial waste reduction. Our Environment Rear cap Relationships with Rear cap made from recycled materials Society Tamron CSR Report 2011 18 Relationships with Society To grow together with society and continue to be supported and patronized, Tamron also works to support social events and cultural activities so photography and imaging culture can develop and evolve. Major accomplishments in 2010 Tasks for 2011 ●Continued photo contests ●Continuing participation in events for social contribution ●Continued social contributions including teaching elementary school children ●For Growing Together with Local Communities Class for Children Social Contributions at Three Aomori Factories Tamron employees contribute to the local communities where Our three factories in Aomori have continued to work on social our business sites are. At the Head oﬃce, we continue to have contribution through several programs including our plastic bottle classes at elementary schools from 2008. In 2009 we added a cap collection campaign. The campaign was started in 2005. The class to teach children about environmental conservation, and in caps collected at the Owani factory weighed 37 kg, which were 2010, we taught at four elementary schools and ﬁve community donated to the Owani Town social welfare council; the money from events at public halls. In total, 495 children participated in our selling the metal in the caps helped its welfare projects. Each factory educational classes. Our employees work out the educational also continued to clean neighboring areas regularly from April programs and four to ﬁve employees serve as a lecture team. We through November. In April when snow melts, empty bottles and always think the most about whether the children can enjoy and caps are collected in learn. We are pleased to know from our questionnaires after large quantities. Our classes that our classes were enjoyable. We will continue to Hirosaki factory also work on the educational program to contribute to society. oﬀered its compound as a practice ﬁeld for local children's baseball teams. We will continue to work on social contribution through these programs. Donation from Three Aomori Factories Car-free Day/Eco life Day（Head Office） In October 2008, we introduced our own program to suggest our employees refrain from using their cars for commuting on the third Friday of every month as a car-free day. In 2010, as a result of this program, we reduced CO₂ equivalent to 12 tons1 compared to CO₂ A science class that would have been emitted otherwise. We also participated in the Eco-life Day campaign held by Saitama Prefecture. The campaign was designed to suggest checking （Class Content） air-conditioning system settings, switching oﬀ unnecessary lamps and Huge soap bubbles, bubbles that don't pop saving water consumption at oﬃces and households on speciﬁc days Class where children experience how the nature of soap in summer and winter, providing opportunities to think about bubbles changes depending upon diﬀerences eco-life. In 2010, 1,317 Tamron employees participated in the in chemical substances campaign, reducing 1 ton CO₂. Vitamin C checker 1 We obtained this ﬁgure by assuming that the average distance driven by our 169 Class where children examine if cookies and juice employees commuting by car is 30 km round trip with an average fuel consumption of 12 km per liter. The volume of reduction of CO₂ emissions on car-free and contain Vitamin C with test ﬂuidmadeby eco-life days（12 tons）is equal to the gross volume of CO₂ emitted from a typical household during a period of two years and six months. attenuating commercially available mouthwash Paper dragonﬂy Class where children make eco paper dragonﬂies from milk Plastic Bottle Collection packages and straws We have continued to collect empty plastic bottles for donating the money received from selling them for procuring polio vaccine. The Environmental guessing game total volume of plastic bottles we donated since 2008 was equivalent Game designed to teach children about global warming and to polio vaccinations for 325 children. We will continue to collect CO₂ emissions through questions and answers plastic bottles to protect children in developing countries from polio. 19 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Relationships with ●Contributing to Developing Photographic Culture The 3rd Railroad Scenery Photo Contest Customers We hosted the Railroad Scenery Photo Contest again in 2009 to contribute to revitalizing our local community and developing photographic culture as a company with our head oﬃce in Omiya, a city known as The Railroad Town.We held a photo exhibition for showing the award winning photos as well as works of honorable mention at Omiya Sogo Department Store, working together with Saitama City, the Chamber of Commerce Relationships with and Industry of Saitama City and the Educational Commission of Saitama City to make the exhibition an event rooted in the local community. To make the contest an event enjoyable for railroad Business Partners photo enthusiasts and photographers in general, photographic equipment was unrestricted. All photographic entries were accepted as long as they were related to the railroad. The contest was open to as many people as possible with two divisions: one for students from elementary school to high school Grand Prize（For students; Saitama City Education Board Superintendent Prize） and one for adults. In 2010, we received 4,879 works altogether, up 22% from 2009, from photographers ranging from entry-level Hello There, Mr. Conductor! by Shunsuke Shimizu to advanced amateurs and railroad photo enthusiasts. I took this picture, using a mirror, to express our ties with our friendly Relationships with conductor of a one-man control train in our community . Employees Relationships with Grand Prize（For adults; Saitama City Mayor Prize） Humorous Photo Contest Award Shareholders and Investors Train at Dawn by Yasuo Takeo Collaborative Work by Kouji Takahashi I took this picture to express the world of enjoyable memories in my I took this candid shot as I noticed the changing destination boards childhood and children's songs such as Choo Choo Train . several times . 7th Macro Lens Photo Contest For Protecting Our Environment A macro lens is a lens that can take close-up pictures of small subjects such as ﬂowers and insects with a blurred background to emphasize the main subject. Tamron is known as a manufacturer of quality macro lenses. For popularizing macro lenses further, Tamron has hosted the Macro Lens Photo Contest annually since 2004 for macro pictures alone. The Macro Lens Photo Contest 2010 was open to enthusiasts of nature photography that is associated with biodiversity and photographers in general including entry-level DSL Relationships with camera users, in addition to those who love portrait and table-top object photography as well as pet shots. In 2010, we received 4,408 works, up 6.5% from 2009. Society Grand Prize（Macro Lens Photo Contest） Feel of Spring by Keiichi Shibaoku Tamron CSR Report 2011 20 Activities at Subsidiary Companies Overseas Tamron's subsidiaries abroad continued to work to strengthen their relationships with their communities in the year marking Tamron's 60th anniversary. ●Tamron Optical（Shanghai）Ltd. ●Tamron USA In April 2010, Tamron Optical（Shanghai）supported the National Tamron USA has continued donating to A Chance to Grow , an Modern Photography Contest held by the Shanghai Youth educational project funded by The Minnesota Learning Resource Newspaper and Society of Chinese Artists to popularize Center. The project promotes the maximum development of the photographic culture among university students. About 11,000 whole child through innovative, individualized and comprehensive students from 328 universities and colleges in 107 cities all over brain-centered programs and services. The services are China entered the contest, and a commendation ceremony was educational, therapeutic and rehabilitative in nature. Since its held on occasion of the P&E（China International Photography & foundation in 1982, the center has helped physically and mentally Electrical Imaging Machinery & Technology）Fair. As a member of handicapped children reach their maximum potential through the Tamron group, we also support photographic contests held their unique programs. by universities in 20 major cities in China by sending our sales We will continue our social contributions as a good corporate representatives to lecture at photographic seminars held at the citizen in America. same time. Our sales representatives who lecture said that they understood the enthusiasm of the participants toward photography through students who attentively listened to their lectures. They said the experience taught them our mission anew: delivering quality lenses to respond to the patronage of our customers. We will continue to help to popularize photographic culture in China. A Chance to Grow ●Tamron Europe GmbH（TEG） TEG participated in the Photokina, an international exhibition of photographic equipment and other consumer electronic devices held biannually in Cologne, Germany, and held events to convey A photographic seminar held at a university the joy of photography. We invited visitors to our booth for hands-on testing of our products at our demonstration counters, while holding workshops at our macro lens corner and portrait photography seminars by asking pro photographers to lecture Seminar Content: and visitors to model. We also made special arrangements to let 1. History of Digital Cameras participants bring home prints of pictures they took. We will continue our work to enable as many people as possible 2. How Do They Work? to know the joy of photography. 3. Basic Knowledge of Lenses 4. Tips on Photography 5. Frame Composition Impressions of Participants: I didn't know how lenses work. The seminar was very interesting . I found the seminar very informative. I learned about important aspects for selecting equipment and basic photographic techniques . Portrait photography experimental corner at Photokina 21 Tamron CSR Report 2011 Independent Third Party Opinions Independent Third Party Opinions Relationships with Customers Masahiko Kawamura （Current Position） Senior Researcher, Insurance/Pension Research Division, NLI Res earch Institute （Academic Background） Completed his masterʼs in engineering at the graduate school of Kyushu University in 1976 and entered MODEC（Mitsui Ocean Development & Engineering Co., Ltd）. Entered NFL Research Institute in 1988 and working at his curre nt position after engaging in projects for researching environ mental management, environmental rating, corporate SRI（Social Responsibility Investment）and environmental business operations in the Urban Development Department and Social Study Department. Relationships with （Academic Societies） Organizer of the Network for Sustainability Communications（NSC ）, Director of the Sustainable Management Forum of Japan. （Oﬃces Committee Members Held） Advisor to the secretariat oﬃce of Japan Environmental Management Grand Prize Award Committee（Mie Prefecture）, a WG Business Partners member of the Environmental Communications Grand Prize Assessment Committee of Japanʼs Ministry for the Environment. ●Domestic Framework and CSR Management Steadily ●Establishing Global CSR Management Is the Improved Prime Task As last year, I visited Tamron's head oﬃce in Omiya to listen to explanations on Tamron celebrated its 60th anniversary in 2010, posted an progress on projects to pursue quality assurance, CSR management, increased group proﬁt on increased sales and marked its 1st year environmental protection and human rights during the past year. Listening to of real globalization following the opening of its oﬃces in India Relationships with employees, I was impressed by their adherence to quality and pride as and Russia in 2009. Consolidated sales and the ratio of employees working at a lens manufacturer with advanced technologies. My employees working abroad are expected to rise further in 2011 understanding after interviews with Tamron employees and oﬃcers is that and beyond. Tamron now has more than 4,000 employees Employees environmental management based on ISO 14001 is ﬁrmly rooted at domestic working at the factory in China. So far, Tamron has primarily Tamron sites. However, CO₂ emissions and water consumption at Tamron focused on environmental and CSR management in Japan. Now Optical（Foshan）, the mass-production base overseas, have been on the rise and is the time to conduct similar operations abroad based on further improvement is essential. Tamron accomplishments in the domestic market. As for relationships with suppliers, Tamron established the Tamron Supplier Historical, religious, cultural and social backgrounds diﬀer in Codes of Conduct and stipulates compliance with the Codes as an essential regions overseas. When we go abroad with our domestic values, Relationships with provision of the contract. Tamron needs to closely watch supplier compliance we often fail to understand life abroad and the risks. Tamron with the Codes in order to enhance their eﬀectiveness. In my report for 2010, I should implement thorough risk management, setting out on this mentioned some aspects to be improved in reporting relationships with new journey with sails full of wind. Shareholders and Investors employees. Some improvements were certainly made, but more quantitative descriptions and further improvements are necessary. Tamron precisely described its work in line with the ten principles of the United Nations' Global Compact, but Tamron's As for human rights, consciousness has been growing at Tamron as mentioned in work in that direction was unfortunately limited to the domestic the message from the president and as symbolized by seminars held on human sphere. Tamron needs to continue to work on CSR management rights, but I was unable to ﬁnd even a brief overview of the content. Japanese even more globally. Tamron should also study more eﬀective use are apt to remember the issue of discrimination from the term human rights , of its website because CSR reports will be insuﬃcient to report all but ISO 26000（guidance to social responsibility）requires businesses to review the information in the future as CSR diversiﬁes further. their frameworks by seeing human rights from a broader perspective. For Protecting Our Environment Editors' Postscript In compiling this report, we tried to report our accomplishments, We will continue to work on social issues including CO₂ emissions focusing on communications with our stakeholders. We allocated a on a global basis, listening to independent third parties. We would page to each stakeholder segment, reporting our accomplishments greatly appreciate your comments and suggestions for how we can of important themes. In this report for 2011, we added a page to further improve our CSR reports. introduce some technical background developments and the environment that supports our engineers' work. Relationships with Society Editors at head oﬃce Editors at three Aomori factories Editors at Tamron Optical（Foshan） Tamron CSR Report 2011 22 TAMRON CO., LTD. CSR Implementation & Administration Board 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-city, Saitama 337-8556 TEL（048）-684-9190 FAX（048）-684-9472 E-mail: e-report@tamron.co.jp URL http://www.tamron.co.jp Issued date: March 2011 Responsible publisher: General manager of CSR Implementation & Administration Board, Haruhisa Ikemura Responsible planner／editor: Head oﬃce: CSR Implementation & Administration Board, Yoshie Usui Factories in Aomori: Section Manager of Operations & Administration Section, Factory Management Dept., Koyonori Imai Tamron Oprical（Foshan）: Deputy Managing Director, Zhang Kai Issued unit: CSR Implementation & Administration Board
