COP-GLOBAL COMPACT BIG Bjarke Ingels Group OUR COMMITMENT In 2010 we stood on the precipice of reaching across the world. In 2011, we leapt and reached the world, from Pune to Rio de Janeiro, from Christchurch to Vancouver, sharing our philosophy of sustainability: sustainability increases life quality. Always keeping in mind the principles of global compact, we have worked with the belief that providing a lasting frame for people to live, develop, grow, help and support themselves and others. What is hedonistic sustainability? It is sustainability which increases and improves the quality of life rather that sacrificing human enjoyment. We work to create an environment in which all people can be free to be who they want to be, culturally, socially, politically and environmentally conscious. We choose to continue to contribute, being at the forefront of framing a lasting humanity. We, the 8 partners of BIG, are pleased to again place our signatures to assure Global Company that we are committed to the continuous respect for the human race and to the integrity of its environment. Bjarke Ingels, Founding Partner Sheela Maini Søgaard, CEO, Partner David Zahle, Partner, Recruitment Finn Nørkjær, Partner Jakob Lange, Partner Thomas Christoffersen, Partner Andreas Klok Pedersen, Partner Kai-Uwe Bergmann, Partner OUR INTRODUCTION Mies van der Rohe (one of the founding fathers of modern architecture) started modernism by declaring, ”less is more”. His architecture was like an architectural revolution. Liberating architecture from being an almost schizophrenic exercise, where the functional aspects of a building had nothing to do with the stylistic exercises of excess ornament and redundant form that was put on the façade. We want to do more than just create a beautiful skin. We want to add functionality! The ambition of creating added value in terms of added functionality does not stand in contrast to the ambition to create beauty. It does not have to be either/or – it can be both! Yes is more! OUR ENVIRONMENT BIG believes that it is the responsibility of every person to ensure securing our environment, and we continue to seek traditional ways to provide necessary resources in innovative and groundbreaking frames. Today our society is facing significant changes and we are forced to redefine some overall directions and principles for urban development, based on the current urban challenges. Sustainability has replaced industrialization as the general focus of the discussion. BIG has worked with ten municipalities in and around Copenhagen to analyze and report on key issues relating to how the suburbs built around Copenhagen can be renewed and adapted to the expectations of a modern city, with the ambition being to solve a series of general problems facing cities globally. Loop City is a vision for how to renew and rethink a number of development areas in 10 municipalities around Copenhagen and at the same time provide a new development framework for the region. These key issues are handling matters of transport and the end of oil, new ecosystems and energy and waste, running out of water whilst preparing for changing weather conditions and heavy showers, declining bio-diversity, re-industrialization, welfare health, needs for a new green revolution and the age bomb. It is an ambitious plan, requiring support, time and patience. Whilst we collaborate with the municipalities to spread the message and suggestions for our future, our work leads us to focus on small changes also. On the smallest of scales, BIG has implemented a recycling program in the office, recycling cans, glass, and wood, however we continue to seek a solution to our goal for recycling plastic and foam materials used for model building. THE GATEWAY TO STOCKHOLM – STOCKHOLM SPHERE The traffic junction ”Hjulsta” is being planned in the north of Stockholm, where the two highways E18 and E4 Stockholm Bypass meets in a three level intersection. The roads create physical and visual barriers between the surrounding neighborhoods and divide the area into four parts. The Stockholm Sphere connects the four parts with a landscape loop. A continuous circular bike and pedestrian path aligned with public buildings and functions reconnects the different areas in an un-hierarchical and democratic way. The central valley is turned into a pie chart park with nature of different character. The division of the park creates a diverse experience when moving in or around it. New facades and buildings are integrated in the current building structure in Hjulsta. Focus is on adding small and large apartments to the existing midsize range. Both Järvaby and Barkaby expand towards the landscape loop. What is a gate, but a significant point you pass? Here that point is turned into a reflective, hovering sphere mirroring Stockholm as it is, new as well as old areas. An always updated, constantly changing icon is created. Photovoltaic film covers the 30% of the surface that faces the sun, producing enough energy to keep the sphere floating and supply 235 houses with electricity. REDUCE 5 RE-USE 4 RECYCLE 3 RECOVERY 2 DISPOSAL 1 AMAGER’S WASTE-TO-ENERGY PLANT Denmark burns a significant proportion of its waste for energy production, with only a small percentage (2%) ending in landfills. As part of its municipal waste treatment system, it incinerates the most and landfills the least of all countries in Western Europe, thereby supplying electricity and heat to households across the country. Seeking the opportunity to introduce a dualism of energy building and life enjoyment, BIG leaped at the invitation to design and build Copenhagen’s new waste-to-energy plant. Amager’s new waste-to-energy plant will be an exemplary model in the field of waste management and energy production, as well as an architectural landmark in the cityscape of Copenhagen. It replaces the forty year old plant, integrating the latest technologies and environmental performance. The architecture will be a new breed of wasteto-energy plant, one that is economically, environmentally and socially profitable. Instead of considering the plant an isolated architectural object, we consider the assignment to design a façade as an opportunity for enriching the local context. We propose turning the roof of the new plant into a ski slope for the citizens of Denmark, mobilizing architecture and intensifying the relationship between the building and the city by expanding the existing activities in the area. The slope is ecological, using a recycled synthetic granular, upending the convention of the energy intensive indoor ski resort. Access to the slopes is via an elevator along the plant’s smokestack, providing views into the plant, giving glimpses of its internal workings, finally reaching an observation platform 100m above giving sightseers an unobstructed view from one of the tallest structures in Copenhagen. The smokestack is modified to ‘puff’ smoke rings of 30m in diameter whenever 1 ton of fossil CO2 is released. These smoke rings are formed as a result of the condensation of water in the flue gases as they slowly rise and cool, serving as a gentle reminder of the impact of consumption and a measuring stick that will allow the common man to easily understand and recognize the impact of CO2 emissions – turning the smoke stack, traditionally the symbol of the industrial era, into a symbol for the future. ”We want to show the world that it is actually possible to produce energy for the city and that it is possible to do this in the middle of the city...It is important that the waste-toenergy plant is integrated into the environment...The architecture should be a gift to the city.” Ulla Röttger, CEO of the Amagerforbrænding 1 ton waste = 2MWh district heating + 0.67 MWh electricity. OUR LABOR RIGHTS Creating a framework of sustainability allowing people to be the very best that they can be is not only an external focus but one which is vital to ensure is implemented within the offices and philosophies of all working for BIG and working with BIG. Global Compact’s principles relating to labor rights are considered literally and so followed. Freedom of association BIG’s philosophy does not restrict freedom of association in any matter including labor. For BIG freedom of association extends throughout cultures, beliefs, politics, social behaviors and more. And it is of vital importance that there is room for all hues, colors and variations or the world would be a colder and less vibrant place to exist. Since BIG’s collaboration with Ai Wei Wei in connection with the move of the Little Mermaid to Shanghai for the Expo 2010, the disappearance of Ai Wei Wei was met with dismay at BIG. This was particularly felt as it was due to his political association, belief and verbal communication thereabout, the antithesis of this principle. Recently, BIG contributed to the design of a “Free Ai Wei Wei” t-shirt making it available to employees to purchase if this was a cause with which they felt connected and believed in. Ai Wei Wei was freed recently. Was it due to associations of like-minded people who felt the injustice of this in their core and expressed it, without fear, to the Chinese authorities? Does this not show the power of association? Right to collective bargaining The unions which exist in the Danish architecture industry are extremely strong, and should employees choose to join any of these, this choice is respected. However, it is not actually necessary for employees to become members of any such unions to benefit from collective bargaining. Because BIG is an architecture company, it is a member of the Union of Danish Architect Companies and is therefore bound to implement the benefits negotiated by the architects’ unions for architects. BIG’s flat hierarchy is a cobweb of relations, extending between managers to interns, connecting administration to project directors, landscape architects to constructing architects, accounts department to business development and each relation must be respected, nurtured and cared for. One way in which this is done is by giving the employees a voice a voice which can be heard when required happy, concerned, suggestive, or cooperative. The employees receive the opportunity to become more aware of their importance to the company and allowing them a voice to communicate with all areas of the growing company, introducing a comfort in the employees to further provide guidance and ideas when the company associates itself with unions or standards in countries with which they are themselves familiar. The employees are familiar with the views and philosophies which are of grave importance to the company and they can therefore guide BIG through the potential ethical pitfalls that may be lurking when working in unfamiliar territories with new and unlearned building standards, codes and laws. Elimination of forced labor There is neither forced nor compulsory labor at BIG, and we neither condone nor tolerate this within the framework of its own studios or its collaborators. Should any managing partner be informed that employees are forced to work, the situation is solved with swiftness and seriousness. We neither seek out companies which employ forced labor, nor do we condone this type of behavior towards our colleagues or collaborators. In countries where this could be an issue, or may even be prevalent, and where we are able to influence the construction process, forced labor of any kind would not be tolerated whether the collaborators be from the private or public sector. Abolition of child labor BIG is not involved in any projects which take use of child labor, or will we ever seek to so be. The epitome of BIG’s philosophy of hedonistic sustainability is the opposite of children forced into a situation of labor. Hedonistic sustainability is about creating tolerable situations in which all peoples may live happily for the longest period of time. BIG will never tolerate child labor and will always support all efforts to so abolish. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation BIG upholds this principle by choosing to not practice discrimination of any kind. All employees are chosen on their talents and skills alone, as well as the requirements for the project. We follow the employment and labor laws of the countries in which our employees are employed. BIG has no tolerance with regard to discrimination in or outside of the workplace. Beyond discrimination is bullying and harassment of colleagues – this also is an issue which cannot be taken lightly. Therefore we have a simple policy in the personnel handbook against bullying. It is a practice which is greatly denounced at BIG and will not be tolerated. OUR HUMAN RIGHTS BIG firmly believes that human rights are indisputable universal truths. We are unwavering in our determination to, as far as we are able, provide all humans the rights and freedoms they wish to enjoy. TIRANA CULTURAL CENTER Albania is the crossroads of three major religions: Orthodox Christianity; Catholicism; and Islam. With the recent completion of two new churches, all three religions will now have places of worship in the heart of Tirana. The complex will not only serve the Muslim community of the city and surrounding areas, but will educate the public about Islamic values and serve as a beacon for religious tolerance. The buildings’ forms emerge from two intersecting axes and formal requirements: the city grid of Tirana which calls for the proper framing of the square and a coherent urban identity, and orientation of the Mosque’s main wall towards Mecca. BIG’s design incorporates Tirana’s grid by maintaining the street wall and eaves line, yet rotates the ground floor so both the Mosque and the plaza face the holy city of Islam. This transformation also opens up a series of plazas – 2 minor ones on the sides of the Mosque and a major plaza with a minaret in front – which are partially covered and serve as an urban extension of the place of worship. By turning the mosque inside out and bringing the program and qualities of the Mosque to a public arena, the religion because inclusive and inviting and the cool shaded urban space can be shared by all. The Mosque can accommodate up to 1000 people performing their daily prayers. Through the unique layout of courtyards and public space, the Mosque can also expand to accommodate larger groups of 5000 on Fridays and up to 10,000 on holy days. The façade with the multitude of rational, rectangular windows finds its inspiration in Islamic mashrabiya screens, which provide shading and privacy which still allowing views out. The light qualities of the mosque will change dramatically throughout the day as the light washes across the curved facades. The design also includes The Quran Gardens, containing all of the plants mentioned in the Quran in the same amount as the number of times they appear in the holy scripture, creating a new Mosque for All, an Islamic Cultural Centre, making Tirana an example for the rest of the world as a global capital of religious harmony. ”Religious tolerance is one of our greatest challenges today.” – Bjarke Ingels BIG will never voluntarily be complicit in human rights abuses, and instead always seek to uphold the rights and freedoms of all, contributing where our reach allows. Recently this stretched to the Chief Executive Officer’s invitation to reception for the American National Court-Appointed Special Advocates Association, which is a network of volunteers who advocate on behalf of abused and neglected children who have been removed from his or her home and placed in foster care. The CASA volunteer establishes a direct connection with the child and conducts an investigation on the circumstances surrounding the child’s case, ensuring that the child be treated fairly and his/ her rights are protected and respected. The aim is to ensure that every child in foster care receives this attention and can find a safe and permanent home. It is movements such as CASA with which BIG works to become involved. OUR GOALS Environment We are now in the second year of our three year project in which we are collaborating with DTU – The Danish Technical University – to develop the concept of super lightweight construction and building techniques, which reduces carbon emissions by 50% contributing to the goal of a low carbon economy. A new project has arisen which allows us to further explore the technique, and our goal for the company year is to introduce and implement it in one additional project. Our hope is that the mere introduction of this revolutionary concept will cause it to spread and be discussed by industry professionals, eventually becoming the way in which building projects are constructed. Labor rights We are introducing a pilot scheme, in 2011, to better integrate our employees into the countries in which they are employed. We have a large percentage of foreign staff in our headquarters in Copenhagen who struggle to find the vitally important balance between working life and social life. In an effort to encourage less time in the office and more interaction with other individuals than colleagues, we are collaborating with a number of international and young companies in setting up social events in and around the Copenhagen area. We are working to implement a procedure for ensuring employees have a voice in the company a voice which can be heard when required happy, concerned, suggestive, cooperative. This is to ensure the establishment of good relations within the office, between all levels of staff. All comments and views are heard, discussed and responded to, with the goal of ensuring a happier workplace. Human rights Our ongoing goal has not changed from the previous year – we continue to work to to ensure that human rights are developed and supported in the designs of our projects. BIG continues to give students from across the globe the opportunity to work as architects on our projects. As part of this teaching process, BIG invites internal and external experts to lecture on a variety of areas. We will endeavor to spread BIG’s policy on human rights by hosting a lecture on this particular corporate responsibility, at a minimum, once a year, to ensure that it remains at the forefront of the minds of our colleagues. Anti-corruption Our goal is unwavering : BIG neither subscribes to nor encourages any form of corruption. BIG will not participate in corruption; BIG will not contribute to corruption; BIG will not support corruption. Nørrebrogade 66D, 2.sal 2200 København N Danmark T: +45 7221 7227 F: +45 3512 7227
