Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index referencing the Datwyler Annual Report 2010 Message from the CEO Long-term values More than 90 years of innovation for the benefit of our customers, employees, shareholders and the community – that is the hallmark of the Datwyler Group. Over this period, Datwyler has evolved from a family-owned Swiss company into an international group. Building on our strong roots, we have developed our own style with high standards. Customer responsiveness, innovation capability and commitment are core values that guide the way we run our business over the long term. We strive to deliver sustainable profitable growth for the benefit of our stakeholders as the foundation for adding long-term value and preserving the corporate independence of the Datwyler Group. In our efforts, we are addressing the challenges of our times. We adopted the voluntary standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) for the sustainability section of our 2008 Annual Report, and on 9 November 2009 we joined the UN Global Compact. This is an initiative launched by the United Nations which espouses ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and combating corruption. As a UN Global Compact participant, Datwyler undertakes to follow the ten principles and to accept its responsibility within society. In the 2010 reporting year the first progress report on the ten UN Global Compact principles was published. This endeavour is based on the Datwyler Code of Conduct that lays down globally binding rules for all Datwyler Group employees. The systematic surveys of customers and employees were continued and refined in 2010. In this way we live up to our social responsibility every day as a reliable partner to our stakeholders. Dr. Paul J. Haelg, CEO Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 1 Integration of the Global Compact Communication on Progress in the sustainability reporting according to the Global Reporting Initiative Since 2008, the Annual Report published by Datwyler Holding Inc. has followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines. Together with the detailed GRI Content Index, the Annual Report meets the requirements for Application Level C, as checked and confirmed by GRI. Since 9 November 2009, the Datwyler Group has been a member of the UN Global Compact. The table below summarises the significant aspects related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. More information about the specific actions and outcomes can be found on the referenced pages of the Annual Report and this GRI Content Index. All documents are available for downloading at www.datwyler.com. Global Compact Summary of Actions and Outcomes Information in Information in Principles the Annual the GRI Content Report 2010 Index 2010 Human Rights Principle 1: The Daetwyler Group’s Code of Conduct clearly stipulates that the Page 26: LongPage 11: LA7 Businesses should companies and employees in the Group respect the human rights, term values and Page 11: LA13 support and dignity, privacy and personal rights of every individual. Daetwyler does Sustainability as a Page 13: PR1, respect the not tolerate any form of discrimination, humiliation, oppression, strategic direction PR2 protection of harassment or offence. In the reporting year 2010, the Compliance Page 27: internationally Officer (currently the CFO) received no complaints of alleged Standardised proclaimed human discrimination in Daetwyler companies. In its Code of Conduct, the proces-ses assure rights. Daetwyler Group commits to ensuring a safe and healthy working quality environment. Page 31: Workforce demographics Page 31/32: Fair employment conditions and Training promotes competence and safety Principle 2: The Daetwyler Group gives its suppliers fair contractual terms and Page 31: Fair Page 12: HR4 Businesses should reasonable valuable consideration. In return, Daetwyler also expects employment make sure that the suppliers to treat their employees and suppliers fairly and honestly. conditions they are not complicit in human Page 32: Fair rights abuses. and responsible partner Labour Principle 3: The Daetwyler Group’s Code of Conduct explicitly states that Page 31: Fair Businesses should employees are free to join trade unions. The Daetwyler companies employment up-hold the freedom maintain a constructive dialogue with internal employee conditions of association and representatives. Employees of the Cables and Rubber Divisions in the effective Switzerland are subject to the Collective Bargaining Agreement of the recognition of the Swiss mechanical and electrical engineering industries. right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: BusinesIn its Code of Conduct, the Daetwyler Group commits to protect human Page 26: Page 12: HR7 ses should uphold rights. It categorically rejects the use of forced and compulsory labour. Sustainability as the elimination of all The systematic sustainability reporting shows that all companies in the a strategic forms of forced and Daetwyler Group comply with this. direction compulsory labour. Principle 5: BusinesIn its Code of Conduct, the Daetwyler Group commits to protect human Page 26: Page 12: HR6 ses should uphold rights. It categorically rejects the use of child labour. The systematic Sustainability as the effective sustainability reporting shows that all companies in the Daetwyler a strategic abolition of child Group comply with this. direction labour. Principle 6: The Code of Conduct lays down that Daetwyler does not tolerate any Page 31: Page 10: LA2 Businesses should form of discrimination, humiliation, oppression, harassment or offence. Workforce demoPage 11: LA13 uphold the In the reporting year 2010, the Compliance Officer (currently the CFO) graphics Page 12: HR4 elimination of received no complaints of alleged discrimination in Daetwyler and Fair discrimination in companies. employment respect of conditions employment and occupation. Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 2 Global Compact Summary of Actions and Outcomes Information in Information in Principles the Annual the GRI Content Report 2010 Index 2010 Environment Principle 7: For the companies in the Daetwyler Group, environmental protection is Page 30: Focus Page 9: EN18 Business should an important mission and, as such, is embodied in the Group’s Code of on the Page 10: EN30 support a Conduct. This encompasses both environmentally friendly production environment and precautionary with efficient use of resources and the development of products that Environmental approach to are made of the most environmentally sound components possible. initiatives and environmental expanding challenges. The Datwyler Group used 2010 to further extend its sustainability reporting reporting. For the first time, reporting covers 40 production and sales sites, with a total of 4,708 full-time equivalents averaged over the year. These now all report their key environmental data in the same format and using comparable measuring methods. In 2010, the Group spent around CHF 1.5 million on environmental activities. Principle 8: At the end of 2010, 15 Daetwyler companies were certified to ISO Page 28: Page 8: EN3, Business should 14001. Other companies are working towards ISO environmental Regulatory EN4, EN6, EN8 undertake certification. information Page 9: EN16, initiatives to requirements as EN18, EN22 promote greater The Cables and Rubber Divisions and their Swiss affiliates have been minimum Page 10: EN23, environmental members of the Swiss Private Sector Energy Agency since 2003 and standards EN28, EN30 responsibility. 2002 respectively. Acting on behalf of the Federal Office for the Page 13: PR3 Environment, the agency acknowledged fulfilment of the agreed Page 30: voluntary reduction in CO2 emissions in 2010. Environmental performance at a A wood-fired electricity generating plant has been in operation at the glance Sealing Technology Division’s Swiss site since October 2008 to supply process and heat energy. The use of renewable energy sources Page 29: enables Datwyler to save around 500,000 litres of heating oil annually Summary of and to reduce CO2 emissions by some 1,300 tonnes. environmental data by division Principle 9: Business Environmental protection at Daetwyler encompasses both environmenPage 30: Focus Page 8: EN6 should encourage tally friendly production with efficient use of resources and the developon the Page 9: EN18 the development ment of products that are made of the most environmentally sound environment and diffusion of Encomponents possible and, in many cases, directly help to protect the vironmentally friendenvironment. One example is the new rubber gaskets for environmenly technologies. tally friendly natural gas engines or for technologies to reduce nitrogenoxide emissions from diesel-powered vehicles in the automotive industry. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: The Daetwyler Group’s Code of Conduct strictly prohibits collusion, Page 32: Fair Page 12: SO3, Businesses should bribery and corruption. The Code of Conduct is reiterated to employees and responsible SO4 work against constantly during internal training sessions. Once again, no legal partner and Page 13: SO6 corruption in all its actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices Social forms, including were brought against Daetwyler during 2009. Nor were any significant responsibility extortion and fines or non-monetary sanctions imposed on Daetwyler for nonbribery. compliance with laws and regulations during the reporting year. The internal auditors regularly monitor compliance with laws and observation of the Code of Conduct in all organisational units of the Daetwyler Group. In accordance with the Code of Conduct, the Daetwyler Group does not provide financial support to political parties, organisations or office holders. Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 3 GRI Content Index Referencing the Datwyler Annual Report 2010 Integration of sustainability information following the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines This year’s Annual Report 2010 published by Datwyler Holding Inc. follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines for the third time. Together with the information compiled in this detailed GRI Content Index, the Annual Report meets the requirements for Application Level C, as checked and confirmed by GRI. GRI is the world’s leading standard for corporate sustainability reporting (www.globalreporting.org). The GRI Guidelines require disclosures that set the overall context for understanding an organisation’s sustainability performance. Furthermore, they cover disclosures on management approach and numerous performance indicators relating to Economic (EC), Environmental (EN), Product Responsibility (PR), Labour Practices (LA), Human Rights (HR) and Society (SO) issues. By adopting these Guidelines, Datwyler is seeking to provide its stakeholders with comprehensive and transparent information on the company’s sustainability focus. The GRI Content Index below shows where to locate specific information in the Annual Report. GRI requires a number of organisational profile disclosures (see sections 1 to 4 of the table). Core GRI performance indicators are shown in black type, while additional indicators that GRI has identified as possibly being relevant to an organisation’s reporting are shown in grey type. Aspects and indicators discussed in the report are highlighted in a green box giving references to the relevant sections and page numbers of the report. If you have any queries about Datwyler’s sustainability reporting, please contact: Guido Unternaehrer Head of Corporate Communications Datwyler Holding Inc. Gotthardstrasse 31 CH-6460 Altdorf / Switzerland T +41 41 875 19 00 F +41 41 875 12 05 guido.unternaehrer@datwyler.com www.datwyler.com Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 4 No. GRI G3 Content Index Page in Report/Comments Profile 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation (e.g., CEO’s Statement, 26 and CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of Chairman and CEO’s Statement, 3-5 sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 2 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. Back cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Datwyler Group: an international multi-niche player, inside front cover Technical Components products and services, 8 Pharma Packaging products and services, 12 Cabling Solutions products and services, 16 Sealing Technologies products and services, 20 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. Group structure, 37 Executive Management, 43 Datwyler Group, 104 107 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. Imprint, back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates. Datwyler Group: an international multi-niche player, inside front cover More than 40 operating companies and sales in over 80 countries. Subsidiaries and Investments, 84-85 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Group structure and shareholders, 36 2.7 Markets served. Net revenue by region, segment information, 63 Technical Components markets, 9 Pharma Packaging markets, 13 Cabling Solutions markets, 17 Sealing Technologies markets, 21 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including number of employees, net Highlights, 1 sales, total capitalisation, quantity of products or services provided. Capital structure, 37 Share information, 101 The Datwyler Group employs 4922 persons. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, Transactions in 2010, 62-63 or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. None Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 5 3 Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE 3.1 Reporting period. 2010 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 22 March 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. General information, 103 and page 1 of this index REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.5 Process for defining report content, including explanation on how Datwyler recognises a responsible prioritiesof topics for inclusion in the report were defined and the attitude towards customers, the stakeholders identified whom the organisation considers to be interested environment, employees and the in using this report. community that reflects the significance of the stakeholder groups as a key element of sustainable corporate management and has structured its reporting accordingly. The “GRI Guidance on Defining Report Content” and the associated Principles have been applied to the extent permitted by data availability to the presentation of the indicators reported for these subjects. Since it is increasingly in stakeholders’ interests to have reliable environmental data on a manufacturing company such as Datwyler, the environmental data system has been standardised and expanded with the aim of including Group companies. With a similar eye to current stakeholder interests, CO2 emissions are now presented as direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 3.6 Boundary of the report. The report relates to the entire Datwyler Group. Where information applies only to part of the organisation as an example or due to data availability, this is indicated. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. No particular limitations. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, The reporting covers all parts of the outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Datwyler Group’s organisation. This comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. includes the Technical Components, Pharma Packaging, Cabling Solutions and Sealing Technologies Divisions. See also Datwyler Group, 104-107. 3.9 Not relevant for Application Level C. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in In connection with reporting earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. harmonization, some of the previous year factors regarding environmental reporting (see p. 29) have been recalculated. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Extending environmental reporting from boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 26 to 40 locations. GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. This Content Index. Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 6 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees and their Internal organisation, 37-38 composition. Audit Committee, 39 Human Resources Committee, 39 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an This is not the case. executive officer (and, if so, his function within the organisation’s See Corporate Governance, Members management and the reasons for this arrangement). of the Board of Directors (41-42) and Members of the Executive Management (43). 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of There is a Board of Directors. None of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or the members of the Board of Directors non-executive members. is also a member of the Executive Management or has any other executive function within the Group. Corporate Governance, 37-38 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Shareholders’ participation rights, 44recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 45. Employees are not represented on the Board of Directors. 4.5 Not relevant for Application Level C. 4.13 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Sustainability as a strategic direction, 26 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to The Datwyler Group engages in close engage. dialogue with all stakeholders that influence its business performance and on whom its business activities have a particular impact.This also includes the following regular processes:  Systematic customer surveys, 28  Employee survey also based on benchmarking, 32 Systematic evaluation of suppliers as part of quality assurance systems 4.16 Not relevant for Application Level C. 4.17 5 Performance Indicators Economic ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, Consolidated Income Statement, 50 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community Fair employment conditions, 31 investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and Social responsibility, 32 governments (taxes). EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations. Personnel expenses, 65 Pensions and other benefits, 65-66 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 7 ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Important contribution to regional significant locations of operation. development, 32 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Partial information on EC8: Social provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro responsibility, 32 bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental ASPECT: MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ASPECT: ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Summary table of environmental data by division, 29 (natural gas, butane, propane, ethane, extra light fuel oil, renewable sources of energy) EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Partial Information on EN4: Summary table of environmental data by division, 29 (electricity, district heating) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products Partial information on EN6: Active for and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these environmental protection, 30 initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ASPECT: WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Summary table of environmental data by division, 29 Environmental performance at a glance, 30 Drinking water (communal water 3 supply): 0.4 million m or 18.2% Industrial water (river water): 2.1 million 3 m or 81.8% EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Summary table of environmental data by division, 29 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. The Cabling Solutions and Sealing Technologies Divisions and their Swiss affiliates have been members of the Swiss Private Sector Energy Agency since 2003 and 2002 respectively. Acting on behalf of the Federal Office for the Environment, the agency acknowledged fulfilment of the agreed voluntary reduction in CO2 emissions. Cabling Solutions, Altdorf: Due among other things to extensive roof renovation and ongoing efficiency enhancements starting in 2007, Cabling Solutions’ Altdorf location (Switzerland) achieved the following target values: Extra light fuel oil: 7,014 MWh Electricity: 16,463 MWh The following new target values apply from 2010: Extra light fuel oil: 6,835 MWh Electricity: 16,604 MWh Sealing Technologies, Schattdorf: Due among other things to the commissioning of a wood-fired electricity generating plant and the renovation of façade insulation, Sealing Technologies’ Schattdorf location (Switzerland) has reduced its annual CO2 emissions by more than 1,000 tonnes in recent years. Its target value for CO2 emissions in 2011 is 1,828 tonnes. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. For data on waste by type and Division, see summary table of environmental data by division, 29. As regards disposal method, the recycling data by division are as follows: Proportion of recycling: In total, the Datwyler Group recycles some two thirds of the waste it generates. Technical Components Total waste (in tonnes): 1367 Of which incineration and landfill (in tonnes): 817 Of which recyclable (in tonnes): 550 Proportion of recycling: 40.2% Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 9 Pharma Packaging Total waste (in tonnes): 5430 Of which incineration and landfill (in tonnes): 1352 Of which recyclable (in tonnes): 4078 Proportion of recycling: 75.1% Cabling Solutions Total waste (in tonnes): 2436 Of which incineration and landfill (in tonnes): 1253 Of which recyclable (in tonnes): 1183 Proportion of recycling: 48.6% Sealing Technologies Total waste (in tonnes): 1951 Of which incineration and landfill (in tonnes): 529 Of which recyclable (in tonnes): 1422 Proportion of recycling: 72.9% EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. There were no significant spills during the reporting period. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary In the reporting year there were no sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. significant fines or non-monetary sanctions. ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ASPECT: OVERALL EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Partial information on EN30: Environmental initiatives and promoting environmental protection and reporting, 30 Labour Practices and Decent Work ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Workforce demographics, 31 Chart of employees by division, 31 Chart of employees by region, 31 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and Partial information on LA2: Workforce region. demographics, 31 At present only data on Group level fluctuations are available. Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 10 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. ASPECT: LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 2595 employees, or 52.7% of the Datwyler Group’s workforce, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Partial information on LA7: Training number of work-related fatalities by region. promotes competence and safety, 3132. Days lost to illness: 33,873 working days or 2.90% Days lost to work-related accidents: 1819 working days or 0.16% Days lost to non-work-related accidents: 5745 working days or 0.49% It is not (yet) possible to subdivide these figures by region. Regrettably, there was one death at Datwyler‘s factory in Mexico during 2010. This was due to the employee in question failing to comply with safety regulations. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Partial information on LA10: For information on investments in training and education, see Training promotes competence and safety, 31-32 Group-wide data on average hours of training are currently unavailable due to the decentralised structure of the company. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Partial information on LA13: Workforce category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, demographics, 31 and other indicators of diversity. It is currently not possible to subdivide the figures by age group. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Fair employment conditions, 31 Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 11 Human Rights ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Fair employment conditions, 31 ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. ASPECT: CHILD LABOR HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, In its Code of Conduct established in and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. 2008, the Datwyler Group has committed itself to protect human rights. This means that all legal entities categorically reject the use of child labour. ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or In its Code of Conduct established in compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of 2008, the Datwyler Group has forced or compulsory labour. committed itself to protect human rights. This includes the categoric rejection by all legal entities of forced and compulsory labour. ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Society ASPECT: COMMUNITY SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. ASPECT: CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption Fair and responsible partner, 32 policies and procedures. All employees undergo in-house training to familiarize them with the Group’s Code of Conduct. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. No cases of corruption became known in 2010. Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 12 ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Social responsibility, 32 politicians, and related institutions by country. In accordance with the Code of Conduct we do not provide financial support to political parties, organisations or office holders. ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, Fair and responsible partner, 32 and monopoly practices and their outcomes. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fair and responsible partner, 32 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Impacts on health and safety and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant possible potential for improvement are products and services categories subject to such procedures. assessed primarily in the following life cycle stages of all products: development, certification, production and application. Standardised processes assure quality, 27 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Standardised processes assure quality, voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and 27 services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Regulatory information requirements as percentage of significant products and services subject to such minimum standards, 28 information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Partial information on PR5: measuring customer satisfaction. Systematic customer surveys, 28 ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 13 Appendix: summary of the Global Reporting Initiative framework The G3 version of the GRI Guidelines has been in effect since October 2006. To allow companies to expand their sustainability reporting over time, an Application Levels system was launched, as shown in the table below. Application Level C, which has been achieved by Datwyler and checked by GRI, already covers a large number of disclosure requirements. The highest level of coverage is A, for which all the required elements must be reported on. Datwyler’s Annual Report 2010 meets the requirements set out in the GRI G3 Guidelines for “Application Level C: GRI checked”. Datwyler Holding Inc., Global Compact Communication on Progress and GRI Content Index to the Annual Report 2010. 14
