Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Policy – TWI reaffirms its continued commitment to uphold the standards outlined by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR). Protection of Internationally recognized principles including Human Rights is expressly part of the TWI Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (COBEC), which is distributed to all employees, and available to third parties via the TWI web site. TWI has a zero tolerance for violations of Human Rights. We refuse to be complicit and all employees have pledged to be vigilant in the detection and reporting of any suspected violations Implementation Reading and understanding of the COBEC is mandatory for all employees, proof of which is a signed declaration which is kept by the TWI Compliance Officer. Employees can use any tool to report potential claims. Guidelines are included in the COBEC and the TWI Compliance Program Manager and the TWI Senior Management Team provide assistance, if necessary. Violations can be reported anonymously and are guaranteed to be without retaliation. Procedures are in place for the formal investigation of any reports should they occur. Employees are trained annually on the COBEC by TWI’s Compliance Manager. During the 2011 annual briefing, specific Human Rights violations are addressed and Trafficking in Persons (TIPS) is highlighted. Employees are informed of their responsibility to prevent and report any suspected violations of human rights. Furthermore, in business dealings with partners, TWI demonstrates that compliance with Human Rights issues is a required tenet of the business relationship by incorporating appropriate clauses and conducting extensive due diligence on business partners prior to commencing any transactions. Measurement of Outcome –No claim regarding Human Rights was reported in the period covered by the COP. TWI interacts actively with its supplier base, ensuring compliance to the TWI COBEC to the maximum extent practical. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Policy – TWI hereby reaffirms our continued commitment to uphold the tenants of the International Labour Organization (ILO). Protection of Internationally recognized principles including Labor Standards is expressly part of the TWI Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (COBEC), which is distributed to all employees, and available to third parties via the TWI web site. Reading and understanding of the COBEC is mandatory for all employees, proof of which is a signed declaration which is kept by the TWI Compliance Officer. TWI actively promotes, as part of its core values, fairness and equality among our employees and our suppliers and customers. Implementation TWI conducts its business in accordance with the laws and regulations of those areas it has dealings with and respects cultural and ethnic customs, all the time having an acute awareness of honesty, integrity and the highest standards of ethics. It has clearly stipulated the process of reporting questionable practices. TWI interacts actively with its supplier base, ensuring compliance to the TWI COBEC to the maximum extent practical Measurement of Outcome No claim regarding breach of Labor Standards was reported in the period covered by the COP. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policy – TWI hereby reaffirms our continued commitment to uphold the tenants of the UN Environmental Programme (UNEP). Protection of Internationally recognized principles including Environment is expressly part of the TWI Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (COBEC), which is distributed to all employees, and available to third parties via the TWI web site. Reading and understanding of the COBEC is mandatory for all employees, proof of which is a signed declaration which is kept by the TWI Compliance Officer. TWI strives to use environmentally friendly and recycled products in the course of business and is committed to participate in initiatives which promote greater environmental responsibility. Implementation TWI actively engages its customers, especially in its Subsistence Prime Vendor area, to become more aware of environmentally friendlier processes for food service operations such as through its Industry Cook Skill Training. Furthermore, in its endeavor to grow, TWI has clearly identified its environmental awareness as part of its due diligence efforts. TWI interacts actively with its supplier base, ensuring compliance to the TWI COBEC to the maximum extent practical. TWI has recently, in close coordination with the US Government, established warehouses in Central Asia to support the effort in Afghanistan. These greatly contribute to minimize the traditional Lines of Communication, thereby considerably reducing the carbon footprint related to the logistics of the Afghanistan mission. Measurement of Outcome No claim regarding Environment was reported in the period covered by the COP. TWI’s establishment of warehouses in Central Asia to support the effort in Afghanistan have considerably reduced the carbon footprint related to the logistics of the Afghanistan mission. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Policy – Protection of Internationally recognized principles including combating corruption is expressly part of the TWI Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (COBEC), which is distributed to all employees, and available to third parties via the TWI web site. Reading and understanding of the COBEC is mandatory for all employees, proof of which is a signed declaration which is kept by the TWI Compliance Officer. TWI has adopted the principles and standards of purchasing practices developed by the United Nations Association of Purchasing Management and the Institute for Supply Management, which legal concepts on corruption it actively promotes. Implementation TWI has furthermore embedded in its rules and regulations the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, 15 U.S.C paragraphs 78dd-1, et seq. (“FCPA”) , and works in accordance with the US Anti-Kickback Act. TWI prides itself to pursue the highest possible levels of transparency in its processes, which it embeds in its customer’s systems as part of its service offerings. TWI remains fully committed to the UN Convention Against Corruption. As an active participant in international business relations, TWI recognizes the high degree of risk associated and addresses our continues vigilance to recognize and report any suspected violations in accordance with Reporting instructions in our COBEC document. Goals for upcoming Year: TWI has secured third party compliance training which is required for all employees. This bi-lingual on-line training entitled, “Global Anti-corruption” reviews indicators for the identification of potential and actual violations, how to avoid and to report violations. The course content reviews all applicable laws with regard to Anti-corruption on a Global scale and briefs accordingly. Measurement of Outcome No claim or request for monetary sanction for corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP
