corporate responsibility report 2010 Contents Scope of the Report Unless otherwise stated, this report covers all our operations in Australia and New Zealand Statement from the Chairman for the 2010 financial year (1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010). Our environmental targets are and CEO 2 based on projected growth through additional new stores in our existing businesses Our Approach to Corporate as at the 2007 financial year. These projections do not account for the impact of future Responsibility and Sustainability 4 acquisitions. Should we acquire new businesses of significant scale, the baseline data would be adjusted accordingly. The environmental data in this report does not cover Croma, Understanding our stakeholders our consumer electronics joint venture with the TATA Group in India, where we provide and what is important to them 8 wholesale services to 50 retail stores. Nor are our global sourcing offices in Hong Kong and Issues of Public Interest 12 Shanghai included. These operations are small and not deemed to be material in the overall context. Energy and climate change data only has been collected for hardware distributor Our business 16 Danks Holdings Limited, which Woolworths completed its acquisition of during the year. Our people 20 Macro Wholefoods was incorporated into Thomas Dux and all data has been collected as part of this division. Woolworths also purchased a 25% stake in Gage Road Brewery; Our neighbours 36 however, no data for this business is included in the report for this year. Our planet 44 Responsible retailing 58 Awards and Recognition BWS and Dan Murphy’s partnered with Be Learning on a tailored safety video, Safe, Independent Assurance Statement 68 which won the following awards: United Nations Global Compact 72 –– 2009 International Business Awards Stevie Winner – Best Safety/Security Training Video –– 2009 International Business Awards Stevie Winner – Best Performance Global Reporting Initiative 74 –– 2010 New York Festivals Silver World Medal – Best narration/performance Glossary 76 Woolworths received Foodbank’s inaugural Patron’s Award from the Governor-General and Store Analysis and Economic Value 78 Patron of Foodbank Australia, Her Excellency Ms Quentin Bryce AC. The award recognised Woolworths’ significant increase in food donations during the year. Association of Chartered Certified Accountants 2008 Sustainability Reporting Awards – Best report in the retail sector. 2009 Carbon Disclosure Global Leadership Index – One of only seven Australian companies listed in the index. Goldman Sachs 2009 GS Sustain: Retail and Apparel focus list – One of six companies globally appearing in the list. Asian Sustainability Rating – Ranked in the top 10 in CSR Asia’s Asian Sustainability Rating benchmark of the top 200 companies across 10 Asian markets. The Wall Street Journal – Won three categories in the 2009 Wall Street Journal Asia 200 Awards, including: –– Number 1 Overall Company in Australia –– Number 1 Australian Company for Corporate Reputation –– Number 1 Australian Company for Innovation You can also view this report online at w w w.woolworthslimited.com Woolworths Limited Brands w w w.woolworthslimited.com.au ALH Group ABN: 88 000 014 675 Key Achievements and Challenges in 2010 our our our our business people neighbours planet Key marketplace Key workplace Key community Key environment achievements 2010: achievements 2010: achievements 2010: achievements 2010: Sales revenue of $51.7 billion, In 2010 we reduced our Development and 13.5% reduction in carbon a 4.2% increase on 2009. LTIFR by 34%. implementation of emissions from our facilities the new Woolworths based on business-as-usual EBIT of $3,082.1 million, Woolworths’ Eleven Leadership Limited Community projections. a 9.5% increase on 2009. Qualities were introduced Investment Strategy. to give a consistent and 9.4% reduction in Estimated flow-on effect clear understanding of the $36.3 million invested transportation carbon of $92 billion and 652,400 Company’s expected core in local communities emissions from our truck fleet. full-time equivalent jobs and strategic behaviours around the country. to the Australian economy 318 million litres of water from its employees, regardless resulted from our retail sales. Growth of Fresh Food saved through Water Wise of seniority. Rescue and $2 million to Project and rainwater be made available to food harvesting. relief organisations in 2011. 207,000 tonnes of $6.8 million raised for children’s materials recycled or hospitals through the Fresh diverted from landfill. Food Kids Hospital Appeal. 1,500 community organisations supported through the Fresh Food Kids Community Grants. Key marketplace Key workplace Key community Key environment challenges 2010: challenges 2010: challenges 2010: challenges 2010: Helping our agricultural supply As part of our commitment to Ensuring that partner food Despite our major focus chain to adapt to current and diversity, Woolworths will aim relief organisations can build and investment in energy future food security challenges to have a 33% representation their food donor networks and efficiency, our real challenge and increase sustainability and of women at board level and avoid potential over-reliance remains in meeting our 40% productivity. within its senior executive on Woolworths. carbon reduction target group by 2015. Representation for facilities by 2015. In the Implementing whole of supply With a diverse workforce and of women in leadership roles absence of meaningful chain ethical and sustainable career pathways, the ability across the company has incentives for renewable sourcing frameworks that to extend and capture staff remained constant over the energy adoption targeted meet the value aspirations engagement opportunities in last two financial years at 27%. at the business sector, it of our customers without volunteering and fundraising. will be difficult to deliver increasing their shopping bill. the reduction. Taking sustainable consumer Implementing sustainable goods from niche to packaging initiatives requires mainstream in order to a balance between customer deliver greater efficiencies, expectations for reducing scale and value. packaging and ensuring it still protects the product. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 1 statement from the chairman and ceo On behalf of the Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Team, we are very pleased to report on the Company’s corporate responsibility performance for the 2010 financial year. 2 Woolworths Limited This year we made tremendous strides towards Woolworths is a We continue our sustainability targets and embedded a signatory of the United number of new initiatives, such as Fresh Food Nations Global Compact to push the Rescue, that will help drive positive social and a member of the Global Compact change in our communities. Above all, we Network Australia. boundaries for have continued to push the boundaries for responsible retailing and reporting in Australia responsible and taken an active lead in the global debate Business decisions are now more frequently on sustainable consumerism. assessed on the basis of both fiscal and retailing and sustainability outcomes and the growing As retailers, we are critical to this debate as it cultural awareness helps support the delivery goes to the heart of how our planet’s resources reporting in of those decisions right through to the shop will be managed as our populations continue floor. It is extremely heartening to now hear to grow and their aspirations develop. We have Australia. our business teams talk with pride about a vital role to play in creating a sustainable how an initiative not only saved costs, society while still delivering the choice, value, but also saved carbon, or water or waste. quality and safety that today’s and tomorrow’s consumers expect. Woolworths is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, one of the largest voluntary Woolworths’ journey towards a more corporate citizenship initiatives. We are on sustainable and responsible future the Board of the Global Compact Network commenced in 2007 when we launched an Australia and actively involved in promoting eight-year strategy at our annual shareholders the principles of the Global Compact. Our own meeting and, as this report testifies, we’ve performance in implementing these principles certainly come a long way since then. is outlined throughout this report and a Our broad strategy has always been to go summary is provided on page 72. beyond giving customers the choice of an Woolworths turned 85 years old in FY10 and eco-friendly washing up liquid here, or a our aim of course is to still be going strong at dolphin-friendly tin of tuna there. It goes right our 100th birthday and well beyond. As a large to the heart of the way we do business. How James Strong and intricate consumer-driven organisation, we ensure we are doing the right thing. As Chairman Woolworths still has much to achieve and part of that strategy, we have identified a list of many challenges still lie ahead of us. Balancing many commitments and targets touching all the complex and often competing needs of aspects of our business. These include targets our stakeholders requires insight and empathy. for carbon reduction, water usage, waste, We believe a Not every decision we make will be applauded, recycling, diversity, community investment, but we hope that all perspectives will have ethical sourcing and supply chain influence. business must been carefully considered during the process We also needed to make our business as to reach the best outcome. be as socially transparent and accountable as possible, Every member of our team has seen first-hand which is why we are 100% committed to that Woolworths can be a force for good responsible achieving the highest possible standard of in society – as an open employer, as a fair corporate responsibility reporting. We are customer, as a secure investment or as a giving as it is fiscally therefore very pleased to once again achieve and loyal neighbour. There is much to be an A+ rating from the Global Reporting Index. proud of and this report clearly identifies the During 2010 we sought to mainstream sustainability into our business more than contribution we make in many small and large ways. It also highlights the efforts we’re taking responsible. ever before. Critical to this process is senior to mitigate any negative impact resulting from management engagement, which is why our operations and our continuous drive to be we instigated a Sustainability Executive a leader in responsible retailing. Committee to oversee the approval, Without a doubt, there are challenges ahead implementation and review of key initiatives. for Woolworths and for the economy – Driving change through the demonstration challenges which are driving communities of clear and quantifiable business payback is and governments towards a new agenda. central to all Woolworths investments, and Challenges such as climate change, sustainable sustainability is no different. This is the key to population growth and a sustainable business ensuring that sustainability becomes a routine sector are all issues which we must address. component of our business practices rather than a standalone function. As we look ahead, our corporate responsibility programs and our business as a whole will Combined with the inclusion of be increasingly framed by these issues. corporate responsibility within the annual Therefore, it is critical for Woolworths to be as strategic planning process, the results of sustainable and robust as possible. We believe these mainstreaming efforts are multiple. Michael Luscombe that a business must be as socially responsible in a changing environment as it is fiscally Managing Director and CEO responsible in a fluctuating economy. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 3 doing the right thing Corporate responsibility and sustainability is about what we do and how we do it. We are a successful retail business and plan to remain successful long into the future. But in order to be sustainable in the long term, our success must not come at the expense of the societies, economies and environments we are a part of. This report has been externally assured and meets the highest level of disclosure in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 4 Woolworths Limited Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Our aim is to have a responsible and The Woolworths corporate governance The People Policy Committee oversees sustainable business today and long framework meets the relevant regulatory human resources (HR)/people strategy and into the future. One that is: requirements in Australia along with effectiveness of our safety and health strategy established best practice standards. As a listed and programs. The CEO and HR Director –– profitable; Australian company, Woolworths follows the and the General Manager Risk and Safety –– looks after its people; Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) Corporate report to the People Policy Committee –– provides service, quality, value for money Governance Council’s Corporate Governance on Woolworths’ overall people policies and and choice to our customers; Principles and Recommendations (second health and safety performance on a quarterly –– deals fairly and with integrity with suppliers, edition). Our Directors are committed to the basis. Divisions report to the Board on their –– invests in the community; and ethical pursuit of shareholders’ best interests. divisional safety performance. –– protects the environment and natural resources that sustain our business. All relevant documents outlining our corporate Corporate responsibility and sustainability governance framework are publicly available performance is reported to the Board on a The challenge in doing the right thing – at w w w.woolworthslimited.com.au. For more monthly basis on topics that can include by our customers, employees, shareholders, information refer to the Corporate Governance targets, policy implementation, regulatory suppliers, the community and the environment Statement in our 2010 Annual Report, also changes and compliance, risks and – is achieving the right balance between available on the website. opportunities. Further details are provided competing expectations. We know that we in quarterly presentations to the Board on have to make changes to improve and make Board of Directors key performance indicators, emerging issues sustainability mainstream in our business The Board of Directors is accountable to and reputation. and we are committed to delivering more shareholders for the Company’s performance sustainable outcomes. and its responsibilities include Woolworths’ Risk Management Framework We focus on issues that are material to our corporate governance practices. The Board’s Woolworths has a risk management framework business and aim to achieve alignment with principal objective is to maintain and increase to effectively identify and manage its material overall business objectives, manage our shareholder value while ensuring Woolworths’ business risks. An ongoing, Company-wide risk and take advantage of emerging trends overall activities are properly managed. process identifies material business risks. and opportunities. As part of the strategic planning process, The Board of Directors has nine Directors, all trading and non-trading divisions seven Non-executive Directors, including Mainstreaming Corporate Responsibility develop individual risk management plans the Chairman, and two Executive Directors, in Our Business using a common risk rating methodology. the Managing Director and Chief Embedding responsible and sustainable Divisional risks are then rolled up into Executive Officer and the Finance Director. business practices into our decisions and an indicative Group Risk Profile, which is processes is key to making them mainstream. Details of the experience, qualifications, special then rated by management and formally Specific strategies that explain our priorities responsibilities and other directorships of reported to the Audit, Risk Management and and commitments for ‘Doing the Right listed companies in respect of each of the Compliance Committee and finally the Board. Thing’ include our Destination Zero safety Directors are available on our website. The Risk Steering Group, a group-level strategy, Sustainability Strategy 2007–2015 The Board views its ongoing support of the management committee, meets regularly and Community Investment Strategy. These highest standards of corporate governance through the year to review and discuss material strategies are embedded in the business as fundamental to its commitment to business business risk reports. There is also a wide range planning process at the relevant divisional integrity and professionalism in all its activities. of operational risk management programs level. The Strategic Plans are on five year rolling and governance arrangements across the bases and are reviewed annually to ensure The Board has established a number of Company, including safety and health, product they remain aligned with material issues. committees to support it in matters that safety, compliance, sustainability, IT security, require more intensive review. These are the: project management, WOW Care, business Governance Framework –– Audit, Risk Management and Compliance continuity and risk financing. Corporate governance is at the core of Committee; Woolworths’ and the Board’s approach to the –– Nomination Committee; enhancement of shareholder value and the –– People Policy Committee; and protection of shareholder funds. Integral to –– Superannuation Policy Committee. shareholder value is protecting and enhancing our reputation and this is why the Board oversees the Company’s approach to corporate responsibility and sustainability. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 5 Our Approach to Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Senior Management The panel’s role is to challenge Woolworths Woolworths is proud that our past two Woolworths Safety and Health Executive in its thinking and help learn from best Corporate Responsibility Reports, including Committee (chaired by the CEO) comprises practice around the world and develop this one, have achieved an A+ rating. divisional management and meets monthly better strategies. The panel focuses on Further information on the GRI is available to evaluate the implementation of the issues relating to corporate responsibility at w w w.globalreporting.org. safety and health vision, principles, policy, and sustainability strategies and effective Woolworths also reports to the Carbon standards, strategy, initiatives, procedures and stakeholder engagement. Disclosure Project (CDP). CDP is an investor governance across the Group (see page 33 In the past year, the panel included the driven disclosure initiative launched in 2000 for more details). The effectiveness of these following external experts: to accelerate solutions to climate change by are also assessed annually. putting relevant information at the heart of –– Terry A’Hearn – Chief Operating Executive, Woolworths Sustainability Executive business, policy and investment decisions. Vic EPA Committee, comprising the CEO and general We have reported to CDP since 2007. –– Greg Bourne – CEO, WWF Australia managers from the trading and support –– Stephen Dunne – MD, AMP Capital Woolworths has been recognised for its divisions, ensures our sustainability strategy Investors transparency and disclosure by two external is implemented in a timely and cost effective –– Dr Simon Longstaff – Executive Director, organisations during the year: manner. The committee monitors progress St James Ethics Centre (Panel Chair) in meeting our targets, reviews trends in –– In August 2009, our 2008 Corporate –– Clare Martin – CEO, The Australian Council legislation and public opinion, ensures Responsibility report won the best report of Social Service compliance with relevant legislation, and in the retail sector at the Association of –– Sam Mostyn – Executive Director, Institute reviews and approves business cases, policy Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) for Sustainable Solutions at University positions and relevant new technology. Australia and New Zealand sustainability of Sydney reporting awards. –– Guy Salmon – Executive Director, Ecologic Divisional Level Foundation, New Zealand –– In 2009, Woolworths was one of only A Sustainability Coordinators Committee, –– Bob Welsh – CEO, VicSuper seven Australian companies, and the only comprising sustainability champions from –– Leann Wilson – Group Manager Aboriginal Australian retailer, listed in the Carbon retail businesses and logistics, identifies and Torres Strait Islander Strategies and Disclosure Global Leadership Index. business processes that need to be adapted Programs, Red Cross. to enable sustainable practices, shares Anti-Corruption ideas across divisions and facilitates our Transparency and Reporting Our anti-corruption principles are clearly Eco Ambassadors program. Woolworths Limited is committed to ensuring communicated to our employees in our Code that our Company policies and practices Safety and Health is the responsibility of of Conduct. Woolworths’ Code of Conduct meet the highest levels of disclosure and management and every individual throughout provides guidance to our employees in compliance. We are mindful of many requests Woolworths and they are supported maintaining our commitment to the highest made for disclosure – all requiring the same by Safety, Health & Environment (SH&E) legal, moral and ethical standards in our information in different forms – and the personnel who provide specialist advice dealings with customers, suppliers, employees impact this has on business resources. We and program development. Woolworths’ and local communities. believe in convergence of all non-financial workforce is represented in formal joint reporting initiatives that is more efficient The Code of Conduct which is published management-worker health and safety for businesses and less confusing for on the Company website clearly details committees. These committees, called ‘Safety stakeholders who are trying to benchmark expected behaviours in how we engage with Teams’, operate at a site/store level. Their and compare performance. vendors and also employees’ responsibilities in functions are formalised through charters, declaring conflicts of interest. procedures and legislative requirements Woolworths uses the globally recognised where applicable. reporting framework developed by the We have a number of processes supporting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI our Code of Conduct. For example, our vendor Corporate Responsibility Panel reporting framework sets out the principles dispute resolution and incident escalation Woolworths has an advisory panel of and indicators that organisations can use process which is communicated through our prominent Australian and New Zealand to measure and report their economic, vendor website and Vendor Guide. The policy representatives to provide input and advice on environmental, and social performance. details a three-stage process escalating the key sustainability and corporate responsibility matter from the Supplier Relationship team strategies to the CEO and senior management. to the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and ultimately the CEO if necessary. 6 Woolworths Limited Woolworths Corporate Responsibility Panel Meetings in 2010 Financial Year Meeting Agenda items has an advisory 13 August 2009 – Responsible service of alcohol – Sustainable sourcing and supply chain: panel of 2 December 2009 pulp/paper and genetically modified foods – Health and safety – political and performance prominent 11 May 2010 – Sustainable sourcing and supply chain – palm oil – Community relations Australian and – Community investment strategy New Zealand representatives. The Panel’s role is to challenge Vendors do raise concerns with the CEO and other Senior Management such as the Group Political Donations In an ever-changing policy and political Woolworths General Counsel where there is serious concern. landscape, Woolworths aims to keep abreast of legislative and regulatory reforms through direct in its thinking A recent incident brought to the attention engagement with political parties in Australia of Woolworths Chief Executive Officer and and New Zealand. Woolworths’ policy is to not and help learn Group General Counsel resulted in an internal make outright cash donations to political parties, investigation, followed by the matter being however we do permit attendance as business from best referred to the police. observers at political conferences which may On the information available to Woolworths, we require an admission fee. practice around terminated a buyer’s employment reinforcing to all employees that the behaviour was Woolworths adheres to all relevant political the world and disclosure laws and regulations and strives unacceptable and a serious breach of Company to make contributions in a bi-partisan manner. policy warranting immediate dismissal. develop better Following this specific allegation, we In 2010, we contributed (for attendances to conferences and other functions) $38,500 to the strategies. investigated more broadly with other vendors Australian Labor Party and $29,400 to Coalition with regard to any similar behaviour. We also parties (Liberal Party and the Nationals) in revised and centralised our whistle blower New South Wales and $5,500 to the Australian programs which were previously managed Labor Party and $9,000 to the Liberal Party in by individual divisions. The new centralised Victoria. Woolworths did not make political program is called Speak Up and it is managed donations in New Zealand or attend any paid by a third party specialist provider, Deloitte. political functions. The risk category of crime, which includes fraud, is assessed by the Management Board as part of its biannual review of the Group Risk profile. In May 2010, at an organisational level, the overall risk of crime was rated as low, based on the assessments of control effectiveness, potential impact and likelihood. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 7 understanding our stakeholders and what is important to them Stakeholder group Our engagement 2010 What they told us they expect Customers Market research studies and customer focus groups to understand our Choice, quality, healthy options, good service customers’ needs and expectations. and value for money. Our customer immersion program aimed at seeing our operations through the eyes of the customer. Our managers spend time with customers in their homes and on shopping trips. Invested $1 million in establishing our new Sensory Kitchen as part of our quality promise to our customers. All private label products will have to pass stringent, quantitative sensory testing by a group of our customers specially trained as sensory panellists. Customer feedback and complaints management (in-store, via helpline and our website). Green Shopper Survey – a survey of 1,000 Woolworths customers – 84% of 1,000 shoppers surveyed expressed to improve our understanding of the attitudes and behaviour of our concern about the impact of their shopping customers who buy green. decisions on the environment. Investors Quarterly investor briefings, annual general meeting (AGM) open to all Competitive returns on their investment. shareholders, investor call centre service, direct contact in writing with 442 written questions were received from our CEO, Chairman and Company Secretary and an email contact page shareholders for the AGM in November 2009 on the Investor Centre on the website. – 44% on gaming, 14% on quality and service, Participation in investor sponsored disclosure initiative, the 2010 Carbon 2% on environment and the remainder on Disclosure Project (CDP) w w w.cdproject.net. corporate governance, dividends and growth. Good governance, transparency and a sustainable business for the long term. Employees Regular employee engagement surveys to identify employee issues Job security, professional development and improve our performance. and training, career opportunities, safe and healthy workplace and respect. 2010 engagement survey showed that our average scores for discretionary effort, rational commitment and emotional commitment to the organisation, and our average engagement level were higher than the Australian CLC benchmark. New leadership qualities introduced to provide a consistent and clear Identified leadership as the strongest lever of understanding for our teams about the behaviour expectations that are engagement. important for high performance. See page 27. Eco Ambassador program provided training and support for 1,554 The opportunity to contribute to community passionate employees on sustainability to help them champion and sustainability initiatives at work. improvements in their workplaces, homes and communities (page 56). Our employees have the opportunity to raise funds for causes important to them as well as participating in the community programs coordinated by the Company (page 42). 8 Woolworths Limited Stakeholder group Our engagement 2010 What they told us they expect Suppliers Annual Shared Objective Plans with our largest suppliers. Annual Fair treatment and the opportunity to supplier briefings by Supermarkets on our business strategy and issues develop long-term trade relationships. of significance in every capital city. Quarterly supplier newsletter and a vendor website with all relevant documents to ensure they have access to up-to-date information. Annual awards dinner to recognise innovation and celebrate our partnerships. Supplier of the Year in 2010 was Cantarella Bros Pty Ltd. The winner of the $100,000 Fresh Food Grant, awarded for a sustainable product, packaging or process in 2010, was Inghams Enterprises Pty Ltd. Communities Woolworths employed a dedicated Community Relations Manager, with Be a good neighbour, invest in the local the primary responsibility of working with our Property team to better community. manage relations at a community level. In 2010, Woolworths opened 157 new stores, including 26 new Australian Consult with the community when we plan supermarkets. In most cases, new store developments received very new stores or changes to existing stores. positive reaction among local stakeholders, residents and media. A small number of cases involved higher levels of community concern. Governments Woolworths engages with government and regulatory officials Compliance with laws and regulations. and regulators regarding emerging and current retail, business and employment issues Proactive engagement in public policy in economic, social and environmental policy matters. discussions and constructive advice. We constructively share our policy views through participation on government advisory boards such as the Australian Government’s Food and Health Dialogue. In 2010, Woolworths lodged 12 formal submissions to state and federal government inquiries in Australia and New Zealand. Our submissions to the Government are available on our website w w w.woolworthslimited.com.au. Non-government Engagement with WWF Australia and Zoos Victoria on use and labelling Leadership on sustainable and ethical sourcing. organisations of palm oil on our products led to review of our palm oil policy and our Clearly communicated policies and principles (NGOs) commitment to labelling and sourcing sustainable palm oil (page 65). on issues of interest to society. Dialogue with the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) for advice on The need for investment in their infrastructure sustainable fish and seafood sourcing and with Fairtrade in Australia such as vans and fridges. for advice on our Select chocolate range. Targeting our investment to adoption of Extensive consultation with food relief charities in reviewing our Fresh sustainable farming methods and capacity Food Rescue program (page 40). building in the sector. Extensive consultation with the agriculture sector stakeholders in reviewing our investment in sustainable agriculture (page 42). Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 9 engagement framework for new stores Woolworths’ success depends upon being an accepted and respected part of communities we serve. Once we are in a community, our stores have the opportunity to earn trust every day, by providing good quality, range, convenience and value for customers, providing jobs for local people and investing in the community. 10 Woolworths Limited Woolworths is conscious to not raise unrealistic Prior to this, community engagement can be By late 2009, after receiving extensive expectations more of a challenge. It is as we are learning more about a new community and the community feedback, including holding a number of information sessions and attending about our ability community is learning more about us, that there is greater scope for misunderstanding. community meetings and resident protests, Woolworths took the difficult decision to go to accommodate During 2010, Woolworths opened 157 back to the drawing board for the design. every request. We will continue new stores, including 26 new Australian In April this year, Woolworths publicly supermarkets. In some cases, new store acknowledged our initial design mistakes our focus developments received very positive reaction through the local media. A completely among local stakeholders, residents and different design which took guidance from on listening, media. In a majority of cases our new store community feedback was then proactively developments prompted neither fanfare nor put forward to the community through engaging, significant opposition, but proceeded relatively community information sessions, the local smoothly through the planning process. media and information distributed to seeking However, there were a small number of cases individual households. during the year where community concern Recently, small businesses and property compromise created controversy, making the process of owners in the neighbouring arcade reflected opening a new store difficult. the substantial shift in public sentiment, by Recognising the importance for community engagement Woolworths has a dedicated publicly stating their newfound approval for the Woolworths development, citing that it where it is resource in a Community Relations Manager, who has the primary responsibility of working met existing needs in providing increased foot traffic, better parking and assisted in delivering beneficial and with our Property team to manage relations at a community level. a revitalised Newport. feasible and communicating Other examples of Woolworths’ flexibility in Woolworths is focused on openly and seeking compromise include Margaret River clearly and proactively communicating our development in Western Australia, where a controversial intentions in the local media and community; development proposal was recently approved, effectively with seeking compromise and consensus on and the Victorian Alps town of Bright where our more difficult projects; and working previous controversy has dissipated and a very communities. with Project and Development Managers to successful store opening has happened. ensure greater focus and capability with our Previous changes to the development design community engagement on all projects. were not particularly effective in abating The employment of a Community Relations controversy in Mullumbimby, where dedicated Manager supports our work in 2009 in protests have continued. Other feedback we developing a new framework for property receive from Mullumbimby however indicates development stakeholder communications, many residents are strongly supportive of including a new stakeholder risk assessment Woolworths opening a full service supermarket that accompanies submissions to our internal in the town and offering employment to the Property Committee. staff of the current independent store which is set to close. An example of Woolworths’ community engagement in the past year has been with Woolworths is conscious to not raise our proposed property development in unrealistic expectations about our ability to Newport, on the Northern Beaches of Sydney. accommodate every request. We will continue our focus on listening, engaging, seeking Here, Woolworths responded to an approach compromise where it is beneficial and feasible by Council in 2007 to encourage retailers to and communicating clearly and effectively invest in Newport by buying retail-zoned land with communities. and agreeing to buy two adjoining council car parks, to facilitate a development including a supermarket, retail shops and public car park. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 11 issues of public interest Competition and Liquor retailing Gaming cost of living (responsible service of alcohol, price, training and trading hours) Our response Our response Our response Woolworths supports competition in the As a responsible retailer of alcoholic The ALH Group is committed to providing retail market. Competition helps keep prices beverages, we go beyond regulatory responsible gaming in our venues. We low for customers and drives improvements compliance with a strict set of processes acknowledge that problem gambling in products and services. and procedures that govern all aspects is a serious community concern. of our liquor operations to help protect Woolworths is committed to bringing ALH complies with all applicable individuals and society from the harm downward pressure on food prices and in responsible gambling legislative caused by excessive alcohol consumption. January began a campaign to reduce the requirements and participates in shelf price of thousands of supermarket Our processes include annual audits many government gambling working products. We have also commenced listing of licensing and responsible service groups to assist in identifying and product prices online in order to deliver compliance, our ID25 policy for serving developing appropriate responsible greater price transparency. Shoppers are alcohol, point of sale campaigns and a gambling initiatives. now able to price check more than 6,455 range of measures to better manage Our objective is for gambling facilities to be grocery products online, searchable by alcohol-related issues in some communities. enjoyed as a social recreation by responsible suburb. The site now includes almost individuals who choose to use them in a one-third of all Woolworths supermarket safe and supportive environment. products. Further information Further information Further information Marketplace, page 18. See Selling alcohol responsibly in See Responsible service of gaming in Responsible retailing, page 60. Responsible retailing, page 62. 12 Woolworths Limited Future of Animal welfare, Use of palm oil food supplies in particular caged in our products eggs and pork Our response Our response Our response Woolworths believes it is vital for all Consumer interest in animal welfare Woolworths became a member of the organisations involved in the food supply continues to increase, and this is reflected Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil chain to adopt a leadership position in our sales of free‑range eggs and chicken and committed to use only certified addressing long-term food availability and meat. Woolworths Quality Assurance sustainable palm oil by 2015 for all affordability to help safeguard Australia’s standard now includes an animal welfare private label products. future food security. module for all livestock products. Woolworths has added palm oil and Over the coming year, Woolworths will We’ve increased our range of barn laid and derivatives greater than 5% on pack invest $3.25 million into its Fresh Food free range eggs, decreased our range of labelling for all private label products Farming Program. The program draws caged eggs and updated the layout of eggs to facilitate customer choice. together initiatives advancing agricultural in our stores. sustainability and building leadership We sold free range pork in 272 of our capacity in the sector. Australian supermarkets and have extended this range to include RSPCA accredited free range pork. Further information Further information Further information See Fresh Food Farming program in See Ethical sourcing in Responsible retailing, See Responsible sourcing in Responsible Community, page 42. page 64. retailing, page 65. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 13 Issues of Public Interest Food imports and Food waste Payment options import protections Our response Our response Our response Woolworths is committed to domestic Woolworths has a target of zero food waste All card payments continue to be accepted sourcing for our fresh produce. We have by 2015. Our stores donate surplus fresh at Woolworths Limited stores without any hundreds of direct trading relationships food to local food relief organisations. surcharge. However, customers paying with the very best fruit, vegetable and This year we launched Fresh Food Rescue, with Visa Debit and Debit MasterCard meat farmers and growers in Australia announcing funding of $2 million for food cards must now select Cheque or Savings and New Zealand. relief organisations for infrastructure needs, as the Credit option has been disabled. such as vans, refrigerators, freezers and All transactions are now routed through In 2010, in our Australian supermarkets, kitchen equipment. the domestic EFTPOS network, which 100% of our fresh meat was sourced from incurs a significantly lower cost than the Australian producers and 96.7% by weight 63 supermarkets in Sydney send their international credit network. (94.9% by value) of our fresh fruit and organic waste to EarthPower, where this vegetables were grown in Australia. material is processed through a digestion Implementing these changes was system to produce fertiliser and generate permitted through changes the Reserve In 2010, in our New Zealand supermarkets, electricity. Bank of Australia (RBA) made to the 98% of our meat and 100% of our fresh payments policy framework, and a similar chicken was sourced from New Zealand. We diverted 5,948 tonnes of organic change has occurred in New Zealand material to EarthPower and 2,322 tonnes with debit card transactions routed of food to Foodbank in 2010. through EFTPOS. Although the majority of bank accounts in Australia that are linked to one of these debit cards are fee free, eight financial institutions do not permit any fee-free transactions for EFTPOS and we estimate that this affects less than 1% of our customers. Further information Further information See Our market share in food retailing in See Fresh Food Rescue in Community, Marketplace, page 18. page 40 and Waste and recycling in Environment, page 55. 14 Woolworths Limited 96.7% of fresh fruit and vegetables sold in our stores are grown in Australia Tobacco products Amount committed to food relief Our response organisations Woolworths fully accepts and appreciates the responsibility of selling tobacco under the products. Woolworths also complies with all applicable legislative requirements in Fresh Food relation to the sale of these products. In 2010, Woolworths has been working closely Rescue program $2m with State and Territory Governments as they move to implement full tobacco display bans for retailers. Woolworths continues to be of the view that where these display bans are introduced, to be effective they should be introduced in a competitively neutral manner and apply to retailers of all formats and sizes. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 15 our business Since opening our first single basement store in Sydney’s Pitt Street in 1924, Woolworths has grown into a household name with a presence in almost every metropolitan and regional centre in Australia and New Zealand. We began operating fresh food stores 60 years ago when advances in refrigeration technology revolutionised transport and storage. This year we celebrated our 86th year in the retailing business. Woolworths Limited has been listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX Limited) since 1993, under the code WOW. 16 Woolworths Limited Number of Number of employees shareholders in total in Australia 419,304 168,721 Number of employee Number of employees shareholders in New Zealand estimated at 19,167 40,000 Number of employees Total number (Hong Kong and India) of employees 177 188,065 Number of customers on average served per week 26 million Number of stores 3,199 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 17 Marketplace Our Market Share in Food Retailing Global Ranking of Supermarket Chains with Stores in Australia Woolworths supports competition in the retail Ranking market. Competition helps keep prices low Costco Wholesale Corp USA 8 for customers and drives improvements in products and services. Aldi GmbH & Co. oHG (Germany) 9 Woolworths Limited Australia 26 Research undertaken for the Roy Morgan Supermarket Monitor (August 2008–July 2009) Wesfarmers Limited (Australia – owns Coles Supermarkets) 28 found that, for Woolworths customers, 68% of weekly spending on fruit and vegetables takes place outside of Woolworths – at fruit shops, markets and other supermarkets. Australian farmers export around two‑thirds of agricultural production overseas, with one‑third going to Australian retailers, wholesalers, manufacturers and food service businesses. Woolworths buys a relatively small New Acquisitions Our Global Ranking proportion of total domestic production. In 2010, Woolworths commenced its entry into In January 2010 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu in In 2010, in our Australian supermarkets, 100% the retail home improvement sector, with our conjunction with STORES Media, published of our fresh meat was sourced from Australian joint venture partner Lowes. We completed the 13th annual Global Powers of Retailing producers and 96.7% by weight (94.1% by the acquisition of Danks Holdings Limited, report. The report identifies the largest value) of our fresh fruit and vegetables were Australia’s second largest hardware distributor, retailers around the world.(1) grown in Australia. In 2007, around 12% of the supplying 581 Home Timber & Hardware, Woolworths was ranked in 26th position fruit and vegetables grown in Australia were Thrifty-Link Hardware and Plants Plus Garden worldwide and third in the Asia-Pacific region. sold at Woolworths, along with 6% of Australia’s Centre stores and over 900 independent The Global Powers of Retailing report can be beef and 15% of Australia’s lamb.(3) hardware stores. During the year we also viewed at w w w.deloitte.com. acquired the business and assets of Gunns In 2010, in our New Zealand supermarkets, 98% Retail Division in Tasmania which included of our whole sourced meat and 100% of our Contribution to the Economy five hardware stores, one timber joinery fresh chicken was sourced from New Zealand. In 2010, in addition to returns to the centre and one truss manufacturing plant, Woolworths’ market share of food and liquor shareholders and the direct employment and we recently purchased the Becks Timber retailing in New Zealand is estimated to be in its own operations, Woolworths Limited’s and Hardware business also in Tasmania. about 28%.(4) indirect contribution to the Australian Woolworths also completed the acquisition economy was estimated to be in excess of Our Trade Partners of Macro Wholefoods, consisting of seven $96 billion and 652,400 full-time equivalent Woolworths works to the principle that we existing store leases and a development jobs. Our construction expenditure alone can never take our customers for granted – site. This purchase enabled the expansion created an estimated flow-on effect in the we need to earn their trust and respect and of the Thomas Dux Grocer format in Sydney Australian economy of more than $365 million this means acting responsibly both inside and and Melbourne and provided ranging and 2,400 full-time equivalent (FTE) jobs. outside our stores. We are committed to fair opportunities for the Macro Wholefoods Construction and retail expenditure have dealings with our partners and fair prices for label nationally within Supermarkets. the highest economic multiplying effect, our customers. This is written into our Code meaning that Woolworths’ contributions Danks is included in our energy and climate of Conduct. had a very positive impact on the economy change reporting. Home improvement and the when it needed it most.(2) Across our business, we abide by voluntary Macro Wholefoods label are now subject to our codes of conduct in supplier trading quality assurance and sourcing policies. relationships. We were an inaugural member Woolworths purchased a 25% stake in Gage of the voluntary Produce and Grocery Road Brewery, an Australian operation which Industry Code of Conduct, promoting has supplied our exclusive brand offer of beer. fair trading practices and building better business relationships. 18 Woolworths Limited Our indirect contribution EPS to the Australian increased to economy was estimated to be in excess of 164 cents + 8.8% Fresh food is our business and we have made $96 billion and 652,400 it our mission to partner with the very best full-time equivalent jobs. farmers and growers in Australia. We have hundreds of direct trading relationships with fruit, vegetable and meat suppliers. We are committed to domestic sourcing for our fresh produce. Our preference is to have direct, long-term Sales Revenue trading relationships. The benefits of these relationships are better quality management, increased to improved planning and forecasting and greater consistency and sustainability of supply. (1) Based on publicly available company data for the $51.7 billion + 4.2% 2008 fiscal year (encompassing fiscal years ended through June 2009). (2) Economic multipliers were calculated by Concept Economics based on economic input and output data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics in 2009. (3) Estimates from Concept Economics from publicly reported information. (4) Market share calculated in 2008 by Concept Economics. NPAT increased to $2,020.8 million +10.1% EBIT increased to $3,082.1 million + 9.5% Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 19 our people Woolworths Limited remains one of the largest employers in Australasia with over 188,000 team members. During 2010, there was a notable reduction in labour turnover with a decrease of 4.16% Company-wide.(1) Supermarkets, Petrol, Liquor and Consumer Electronics were some of the key divisions that contributed to this reduction. Headcount by Employment Type Headcount by Division 2010 Full-time 32.3% Supermarkets 110,774 Part-time 37.8% Casual 29.9% BIG W 23,526 PEL NZ 18,256 ALH 13,279 Logistics 7,611 Consumer Electronics 4,240 Note: 2010 Data does not include DSE NZ. WLG 3,959 Total Workforce by Region Petrol 2,950 Australian Capital Territory 1.5% Victoria 22.7% Corporate Support and IT 1,882 New South Wales 27.8% Western Australia 7.9% Thomas Dux 444 Northern Territory 0.9% New Zealand 9.8% Home Improvement 56 Queensland 20.4% India 0.5% Hong Kong 93 South Australia 6.4% Hong Kong 0.5% Tasmania 2.4% India 84 DSE NZ 911 Note: 2010 Data does not include DSE NZ. Total 188,065 Total Workforce by Age Ratio <25 42.9% 25 – <35 21.7% 35 – <45 15.8% 45 – <55 12.9% 55 – <65 6.1% >65 0.7% (1) Note: 2010 Data does not include DSE NZ. Note: Excluding DSE NZ. 20 Woolworths Limited Key workplace achievements 2010: Woolworths’ Eleven Leadership Qualities were introduced to give a consistent and clear understanding of the Company’s expected core and strategic behaviours from its employees, regardless of seniority. Key workplace challenges 2010: As part of our commitment to diversity, Woolworths will aim to have a 33% representation of women at board level and within its senior executive group by 2015. Representation of women in leadership roles has remained constant over the last two financial years, at 27%. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 21 Workplace Promoting from within: Melinda Smith, Chief Operating Officer of Home Improvement, Recruitment previously a Controller for Woolworths has bred a culture of promoting Hardgoods in BIG W, Senior from within. We strive hard not only to develop our own people but we also recruit Business Manager Supply Chain talent externally from the local market. Primary Freight and Senior During 2009–2010, more than 38,000(1) Business Manager – Longlife employees started work with us. Only nine of in Supermarket Division. these employees were sourced internationally for specialist roles. In addition, permanent part-time and full-time opportunities Grant O’ Brien, increased, with a reduction only in casual employment. Chief Operating Officer for Australian Food and Petrol, Typically, external recruitment focuses on specialist roles, often at our corporate previously a Senior Business support office in Norwest, Sydney. We source Manager Marketing, General candidates through a variety of channels to Manager in Freestanding ensure we locate those best suited to the roles Liquor and General Manager and Company. These include online job boards, industry magazines, recruitment agencies, for New Business and Business employee referrals and word of mouth, career Development. expos and press advertising. The Woolworths Graduate Program continues to be a key source of talent. Open to existing employees in their final year of a tertiary qualification, it provides tailored job rotations Promoting from Within Many employees have had long service, and development experiences in the graduate’s We have not seen a shift in the proportion including our CEO Michael Luscombe who chosen field. Since 2005, we have recruited of male and female turnover over the has spent over 30 years with Woolworths. 113 graduates with a 93% retention rate. past 12 months. Woolworths’ diverse 16% of all employees have more than 10 years operations enable us to offer employees of service and 46% of Executives have been Woolworths places a high importance on an unusually broad range of careers within with the Company for 10 years or more.(2) supporting new employees to ensure they the one company. In addition, over 5,400 past and present successfully adapt to their new role and the employees across Australia, New Zealand, organisation. As part of our ‘on-boarding’ Our commitment to promoting internal talent India and Hong Kong are members of the process we have an induction program for is strong: Work experience in multiple divisions 25-Year Club. all trading businesses and a regular business is a common characteristic of a Woolworths orientation led by members of the senior career. Examples include: The nature of retailing means a high management group, as well as executive proportion of our people join us on a casual –– Melinda Smith, Chief Operating Officer of transition coaches. basis, often as teenagers new to work. A range Home Improvement, previously a Controller of pathways allow these new employees to Woolworths has a long-standing commitment for Hardgoods in BIG W, Senior Business build their careers with us, develop their skills to building internal capability. We consider Manager Supply Chain Primary Freight and then convert to permanent employment this to be a key driver of our ability to perform, and Senior Business Manager – Longlife when it suits their personal circumstances. change and grow. We are pleased to have in Supermarket Division. We have many programs to support them, retained all executive women who were –– Grant O’ Brien, Chief Operating Officer including school-based and certificate due to return from parental leave in the 2009 for Australian Food and Petrol, previously traineeships and apprenticeships. calendar year. a Senior Business Manager Marketing, General Manager in Freestanding Liquor Likewise, a number of pathways exist for To help retain our diverse employee base, we and General Manager for New Business store staff to progress to management offer a range of financial and non-financial and Business Development. roles, including the Store Management employee benefits. These include professional Trainee Program and the Woolworths development options, access to flexible work Graduate Program. arrangements, paid maternity leave and a range of wellness programs. 22 Woolworths Limited Employee Turnover by Age <25 59.0% 25 – <35 21.3% 35 – <45 10.3% 45 – <55 6.2% 55 – <65 2.7% >65 0.5% Understanding Our Employees As part of our ongoing commitment to Retention over the last four years, we have Note: 2010 Data does not include DSE NZ. invited over 150,000 Woolworths employees to participate in the Corporate Leadership Total Turnover by Division by Gender Council (CLC) Employee Engagement Survey. Female Male In 2009, over 40,000 employees from the % % Woolworths Liquor Group and Supermarkets in Supermarkets 52 48 Queensland and South Australia were invited BIG W 59 41 to participate in an employee engagement Logistics 17 83 survey, with 13,720 taking up that invitation. Each business has adopted action plans to Petrol 51 49 focus on key areas of the survey results. Liquor 33 67 In addition, focus groups to discuss gender Corporate 69 31 diversity and issues relating to work-life Thomas Dux 57 43 balance were also conducted. Consumer Electronics 29 71 Exit interviews form part of the separation IT 26 74 process for all salaried staff, we currently have PEL 55 45 a participation rate of 6% through our online ALH 52 48 exit interviews. India 50 50 In fact, Woolworths uses the information from Hong Kong 31 69 all engagement surveys, focus groups and exit interviews to refine its employee offer. Many Total 51 49 initiatives including more flexible work options Note: 2010 data does not include DSE NZ. and new wellness programs can be directly linked to the insights gained in this way. Turnover by Region Flexible Work Options Flexible work options tailored to individual 2010 % needs have proven to be an important factor in retaining people as their work-life balance Australian Capital Territory 2.4 needs evolve. Our job-share opportunities New South Wales 21.3 offer further flexibility to our staff. Northern Territory 2.2 Queensland 23.7 Parental Leave Following the introduction of paid maternity South Australia 7.2 leave in 2008, there were 1,436(3) women Tasmania 2.2 who commenced parental leave during the Victoria 19.7 2010 financial year, compared to 1,080 during Western Australia 11.6 the previous year. New Zealand 9.5 With the introduction of the Government India 0.0* Paid Parental Leave scheme in January 2011, Woolworths will still continue with its current Hong Kong 0.0* Paid Maternity Leave initiative (introduced in Total 100.0 2008) which includes six weeks paid maternity Note: 2010 Data does not include DSE NZ. leave, two week return-to-work bonus and up * Turnover was less than 0.05%. to 104 weeks parental leave. (1) Excluding ALH in 2010. (2) Excluding ALH, PEL, Hong Kong, India and DSE NZ. (3) Excludes DSE NZ. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 23 Workplace Health and Wellbeing When swine flu emerged in 2009 in Employees were encouraged to report We openly encourage our people to seek Mexico, Woolworths took immediate steps symptoms early and seek medical assistance work-life balance and have made several to prepare for and respond to a possible quickly if they showed symptoms. health and wellbeing programs available global pandemic. A team was put together Woolworths continues to incorporate to all employees including Weight Watchers to execute the Company’s Pandemic pandemic response plans into business and corporate discounted Fitness First Management program by: continuity plans and provides influenza gym memberships. The new employee –– continually monitoring the progress of vaccinations to Support and Distribution website has a suite of wellness initiatives the influenza virus across all locations; Centre employees annually. that reach all employees from the support –– providing regular updates and health office to store level. As in previous years, In addition to internal planning and response advice to staff; we offered flu vaccinations to employees to an influenza pandemic in 2009, Woolworths –– monitoring the impact of the influenza in support and distribution centres. is participating with industry and government virus on staff and their families; and within Australia to develop the National Food –– preparing for critical roles to operate Chain Continuity Plan (Human Influenza) on reduced staffing if required. and the Food Industry Contingency Plan. These plans are being designed for use during a significant pandemic to maintain the supply of essential food and grocery items and provide fair and orderly access to these goods for the general community. They are being developed under the auspices of the Trusted Information Sharing Network and as part of the Federal Attorney General’s Critical Infrastructure Resilience Program. Management Health Checks Woolworths is shaping its Wellness strategy and ensure targeted programs are offered to employees across the business as a result of the positive impact of the health checks program that is in place. Executive Health Checks have had a positive impact on the wellness of participants since their first assessments took place and highlight Woolworths continues reductions in: –– smoking rates from 6.3 % to 3.8%; to incorporate pandemic –– –– exercise risk from 70.3% to 59.1%; cholesterol from 42.8% to 36.1 %; and response plans into business –– alcohol risk from 20.1% to 10.6%. continuity plans and provides Non-executive health checks were introduced in 2009 to store managers throughout the influenza vaccinations to organisation. This initiative was to provide a larger pool of employees with a basic employees annually. understanding of their current state of health and how to prevent further health risks. 24 Woolworths Limited Number of Remuneration – Range of Entry Level Wages % above Award employee WA SA 6 2 shareholders NT 5 estimated at VIC TAS 6 3 40,000 NSW 6 ACT 6 QLD 6 Note: Woolworths Supermarkets data only. Excludes ALH, PEL, Dick Smith NZ, Hong Kong and India. Liability for Defined Benefit Obligation As at As at 27 June 2010 28 June 2009 $ million $ million Defined benefit obligation (1,837) (1,536) Fair value of assets 1,753 1,444 Liability for defined benefit obligation (84) (92) Employee Assistance Program A range of incentive programs are designed Superannuation The Woolworths Employee Assistance to support attraction, retention and a culture Woolworths Limited makes superannuation Program enables all staff and members of performance. Part-time employees have contributions for employees of the Company of their immediate families to access access to the same benefits as their full-time and its controlled entities to certain Company confidential counselling free of charge. counterparts on a pro-rata basis. Benefits sponsored superannuation funds at rates During the year 1,650 clients used the service, include a staff discount card, access to the set out in Trust Deeds and Rules governing a 5.1% increase on last year. Managers are Woolworths Employee Credit Union and these funds and in accordance with legislative increasingly promoting the service, with discounted private health insurance. requirements. management-initiated counselling accounting With the introduction of the Modern Award, Extracts from the Company’s 2010 Annual for 42% of all referrals in the past 12 months. the Supermarket Division is paying between Report covering the Woolworths Group 2–6% above the standard entry level minimum Superannuation Plan’s (WGSP) financial Remuneration wage across Australia. position are shown in the table above. More Woolworths prides itself on market details are available in Notes to the Financial competitive benefits and remuneration. Share Purchase Plan Statements (Note 23) contained in the 2010 In the case of operational roles the entry-level The Woolworths Share Purchase Plan Annual Report. rate of pay is at, or in excess of, the modern plays an important role in encouraging award. Our remuneration structure includes While the WGSP’s defined benefit obligation employees to build an ownership stake two components – fixed remuneration exceeds the WGSP’s assets at 27 June 2010, in the business. Under the plan an annual (base salary plus superannuation) and a the Company makes contributions in line with invitation allows participating employees variable, performance-based component. actuarial recommendations so that members’ to acquire Woolworths shares using pre-tax The cash-based short-term incentive plan benefits when payable are fully covered by rather than after-tax income. Participation is (STIP) is made available to all managerial the WGSP’s assets. entirely voluntary. Under the 2010 plan, 17,498 salaried employees. The long-term incentive employees participated. Woolworths now has plan (LTIP) is offered to managers who play an estimated 40,000 employee shareholders, a critical role in the long-term success of our including members of the share purchase business, including executives, store managers plans and employees holding shares under and buyers. past plans. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 25 Workplace The annual Woolworths Heroes Program recognises 27 outstanding contributors to our business, community and environment. Nominated for consideration by their own division, the ‘Heroes’ are flown Training Participation Training Cost per Participant to the Company conference (Number of Participants) and thanked in front of 2010 2010 thousands of delegates. Induction 71,311 $ Induction 231 Trainees and Apprentices (Indentured) 5,060 $ Trainees and Apprentices 641 Systems and General Training 308,798 $ Executive Development 1,904 Management Development 7,270 Note: Data excludes India, Hong and DSE NZ. Executive Development 685 In 2010, Woolworths invested over $63 million into learning and development training. This spanned core * This includes on job and off job induction. training programs, training for new employees and * 163 = MGSM Students leadership programs for managers and executives. * 239 = Exec 360’s Performance Development Absenteeism Woolworths continues to support the All salaried employees complete an annual All full-time and part-time employees have Paul Simons Award in the business. performance review with their managers. access to personal leave, so they can take The overall winners for the 2010 awards Once the Company’s business plans have time off for their own illness or injury or to in the following categories were: been set and key performance indicators (KPIs) provide care and support to a member of –– Apprentice of the Year: Kieran Best, developed, these are incorporated into the their immediate family or household. In Meat Apprentice – Region 7; performance criteria for each manager so all cases in which an employee is absent from –– Certificate III of the Year: David McClatchey, our people work toward the same broad goals. work for an excessive time and this impacts Perishables Manager – Region 6; on their ability to meet the requirements of The purpose of annual (and in many cases –– Certificate IV of the Year: Ashleigh Perdriau, their role, an assessment and investigation of half yearly) reviews is to set specific goals Produce Manager – Region 8; the employee’s circumstances is undertaken. and objectives for the year ahead for each –– Graduate of the Year: Savanah Whitby, This helps us to work with the staff member employee, review the previous year’s Property Graduate; and involved to identify the appropriate next steps. performance and identify a development plan –– Trainee Buyer/Planner of the Year: to be implemented that year. The outcome Blaise Baylon, Trainee Buyer – BIG W. Recognition of the review is reflected in the employee’s A key component of the Woolworths culture The Joe Berry Award is an external competition annual remuneration review and STIP. is recognition of high achievers. The annual acknowledging and recognising outstanding The annual performance review cycle was Woolworths Heroes Program recognises young (35 years and under) achievers in completed at the end of June 2010. Over 27 outstanding contributors to our business, retail. Some of the country’s most prominent 28,000 reviews were conducted across our community and environment. Nominated retail and supplier managers have won this salaried talent pool, which is an increase of 8% for consideration by their own division, the competition, which began in 1986. conducted from the previous year (including ‘Heroes’ are flown to the Company conference The Joe Berry Award for 2010 Young National Woolworths, ALH and PEL). and thanked in front of thousands of delegates. Executive of the Year was won by Kerryn Non-salaried staff receive a review during Established in 1995, the Paul Simons Award Bullpitt (Store Services Specialist, Woolworths and at the conclusion of their probation is an annual program that recognises the Cairns), with the prize being a $12,000 overseas period. Included as part of the performance development of young people within the study tour. Woolworths also had two other reviews for 2010, Woolworths introduced Company. Participants are nominated from finalists being: 11 leadership qualities to provide a consistent all divisions and a winner is selected in –– Jason Tye, Store Management Trainee – and clear understanding of expected each category. Woolworths Supermarkets Brisbane; and employee behaviours. –– Felix Bowman-Derrick, Supervisor – The performance review process included Dan Murphy’s Melbourne. a rating of the employee’s behaviour of the qualities and a discussion with the line manager to address any development needs. 26 Woolworths Limited Kerryn Bullpitt, Armando Pedruco, Kim Schmidt, Store Services Specialist National Operations Manager Director of Human Resources Woolworths Cairns Dick Smith Woolworths Limited Joe Berry Award for 2010 Young Listed in AFR BOSS Diversity Leader for the National Executive of the Year Top Ten Young Executives Advancement of Women, 2009 EOWA Business Achievement Awards Each year AFR BOSS and human resources firm Training and Development Woolworths Limited Leadership Qualities DDI run a national competition in search of In 2010, Woolworths invested over $63 million Australia’s top ten young executives. The final into learning and development initiatives. six winners are chosen for their potential as This spanned core training programs, leaders, career commitment and their ability training for new employees and leadership to operate under pressure. programs for managers and executives. This year Armando Pedruco (National As management and executive development Operations Manager, Dick Smith) was one of is key to building leadership capability for the six winners for 2010 and was recognised the future, there were a number of programs at the AFR Boss Awards ceremony in June. which were effective in preparing people Armando is also currently studying for an MBA for more complex future roles that were also at Macquarie Graduate School of Management delivered during 2010. as part of the Woolworths scholarship program. The Woolworths leadership qualities were In 2010, Kim Schmidt (Director of Human introduced through workshops which gave Resources Woolworths Limited) was a consistent and clear understanding of the recognised by EOWA and awarded as Company’s expected behaviours from its ‘Diversity Leader for the Advancement of employees. 1,830 senior leaders across the Women’ as part of the 2009 EOWA Business business attended the workshops and 239 Achievement Awards. of the Executive Leadership Team and their direct reports have completed 360 degree feedback on the qualities. An educational DVD was produced highlighting our senior leaders on their views of what actions in the business reflect the qualities to complement these workshops. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 27 Workplace We have invested over $63 million in our staff for Additional Examples: Compliance Training learning and –– The 12-month Future Leader Program is targeted at managers early in their careers During 2010, Woolworths continued its major focus on compliance policy and behaviour, development and designed to develop leadership skills to position participants for future with the ongoing delivery of our refreshed compliance policy and the ‘Between the Flags’ training. promotion. The program places a strong training package. The package refers to surf emphasis on personal responsibility, lifesaving and the boundary flags on beaches accountability and proactivity. indicating where it is ‘safe’ to swim. Though we –– The 18-month Engaging Leaders Program operate in an environment which carries many is targeted at leaders who have the compliance risks, with clear boundaries, strong potential to move into executive positions support, leadership and guidance, our people in the future. It places strong emphasis can focus on what they do best. on principle-centred leadership, business The compliance training focuses on three acumen, innovation and engagement. key principles: –– The 18-month Human Resources Strategic Development Program is targeted at –– Am I doing the right thing? current and future Divisional HR Managers. (Am I between the flags?) This program supports the role of Human –– Do I need to put my hand up and ask Resources as a strategic business partner for help? and a critical contributor to the delivery –– Do I need to tell someone about this? of the business strategy. Who do I need to tell? –– The 18-month Buying Skills Development Other examples of training that enable Program will build our pipeline of buying employees to operate ‘between the flags’ talent, by developing best practice buying include but are not limited to: across the divisions. –– Day-to-Day Management provides core –– Responsible service of alcohol (RSA) (which management principles and is targeted we deliver in all states, even those where at new frontline managers. we are not legislatively required to do so). –– Personal Leadership enables employees –– Fire safety training. to develop insights into their behaviour –– Food safety training. at work and develop their personal –– Sale of tobacco training. effectiveness and resilience. –– Weights and measures training. –– Trade practices training. One of our most important priorities remains –– Training in anti-corruption practices. the development of young Australians’ skills. We are proud that our supermarket division has one of the largest groups of apprentices Graduate Program Since 2005, 113 graduates The Woolworths Graduate Program offers and trainees in Australia. employees career opportunities during their have been Training included a significant focus with transition from tertiary studies to full-time on-job development in the Operational employment. Those who have either recently recruited in Divisions, completing compliance, safety and graduated or are in their final year of tertiary systems training. In addition, on-job, up-skill studies are eligible to apply. Australia for the training for employees who changed job roles Since 2005 in Australia (excluding ALH): was also completed. Woolworths –– 113 graduates have been recruited; An administration process improvement has –– 66 have completed the program and assisted the tracking of training completion Graduate moved into permanent roles or left the rates with greater accuracy, showing significant Company; and improvement in training completion on the Program. –– 47 are currently participating in programs. previous year. The retention of graduates is particularly high (1) – with over 93% of participants staying with Data excludes PEL. the Company.(1) The recruitment has just completed for next year’s program, with 31 graduates to commence in February 2011, 52% of whom are female. 28 Woolworths Limited Jacob Van Der Schoot, From here, Jacob says the next step Woolworths Mt Druitt is into management, first as a Second in Charge and then as a Manager. Apprentice butcher Jacob Van Der Schoot, “There’s no secret to getting ahead at 18, has Indigenous heritage and has Woolworths – just put your head down, struggled with dyslexia. Jacob applied bum up and do your job,” he said. for a position with Woolworths three years ago while at the same time he His manager agrees that if he stays approached Ability Options Employment on his current path Jacob will climb to give him some extra support in the the ladder. “Jake is a really good cutter. application process. He’s a pretty talented butcher with regard to preparation and cutting. We are now As it happened, Jacob got the job anyway, working on developing his skills in the but Ability Options Employment has been administration area.” able to give him some much-needed help to ensure he has thrived in his new role, like For Jacob, who is dyslexic, paperwork is a his brother who is a successful butcher at bigger problem than it is for the average Woolworths Penrith. employee, but based on his past experience he is confident he can make it. Jacob receives the bulk of his training from Woolworths, but he also gets “I’ve had people sit down and teach me to supplementary training from the agency learn how to read and they have helped in areas where he needs extra support. me with information I need to do my job. My manager helps me with that so I know “It’s been heaps good,” Jacob said. “Without I can do it.” all the support, I wouldn’t have made as much progress.” Jacob Van Der Schoot from Woolworths Mt Druitt Macquarie Graduate School To provide additional informal learning Women constitute 54%(1) of our workforce of Management (MGSM) opportunities, we continue to run a range and we continue to focus on the progress of Woolworths’ academic programs through of networking activities. These include: gender diversity, particularly in leadership roles. our partnership with MGSM are designed to –– The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Network In the 2004, 16.7% of leadership roles in broaden thinking and expose employees with Forum, which provides young leaders with Woolworths Limited(1) were held by women. future management potential to contemporary a forum to discuss and debate key business By comparison in 2010, 27% of our leadership business thinking beyond the Company. and community issues in an informal roles are held by women;(2) which is consistent –– Since 2004, over 400 Woolworths employees setting with the CEO. with last year. have participated in MGSM units. –– Senior management forums. Woolworths has agreed to become an early –– Since 2004, we have awarded 294 adopter of the new Australian Stock Exchange qualifications to participants. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Corporate Governance guidelines for diversity. –– In 2010, there were 113 employees enrolled Woolworths Limited is committed to an As part of this commitment, Woolworths will in study programs. inclusive workplace that embraces and aim to have a 33% representation of women promotes diversity. as Non-executive Directors at board level and Mentoring and networking We value, respect and leverage the unique within its senior executive group by 2015. Mentoring is one way our people can actively contributions of people with diverse drive their own development. By partnering There are a number of objectives in place backgrounds and experiences, to provide with more experienced colleagues, employees to work towards our vision, which includes: exceptional customer service to an equally can increase their knowledge, develop their diverse community. –– Continue to incrementally grow the skills and support their own career growth. number of women performing senior roles. We reward and promote our team based Mentoring is open to all employees. However, –– Continue to create programs that prepare on assessment of individual performance, specific initiatives include: women to take on senior roles within the capability and potential. Our business business both in operational and specialist –– Cross-divisional mentoring for executives. leaders are committed to providing support areas. –– Leadership development programs which opportunities that allow individuals to reach –– Ensure that leadership programs constitute foster mentoring relationships within their their full potential irrespective of individual 50% women participants. own function or division or across the background or difference. –– New participants for the Woolworths broader business. Graduate Program to be 50% women, –– The Executive Leadership Team’s active role Gender balance from 2010 financial year onwards. in mentoring talent. We recognise that team members will assume changing domestic responsibilities throughout their careers. (1) Excludes DSE NZ. (2) Calculations based on roles allocated in HR Payroll database at the end of June 2010. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 29 Workplace Disability We have focused on community collaboration with 25 in 2009. None of these claims were Woolworths participated in the CEO’s to deliver employment outcomes with lodged by an employee who had recorded Network for Disability, collaboration between good results in return to work for long term that they were of indigenous heritage. Australian business and government leaders. unemployed, recognising that mentor support We have signed a statement of intent, a is critical to retention. We also have delivered Freedom of Association and public commitment to improve employment a diversity awareness session which assisted Union Engagement opportunities for people living with a disability. with cultural awareness training. We aim to foster active partnerships We are a gold member of the Australian with unions and have been able to build Commitment to Indigenous employment Employers Network on Disability, which is an cooperative, constructive working relationships through the Australian Employment organisation targeted at supporting corporate with a number of unions representing our Covenant (AEC) was established to promote Australia in achieving outcomes in employment workforce. Representatives from Corporate HR, the employment of 50,000 Indigenous and support of people with disability. divisional HR teams and all trading businesses Australians across all businesses in Australia regularly meet with senior representatives within the next few years. The covenant has Indigenous from the unions. We fully respect the role been signed by Michael Luscombe on behalf Building relationships with Indigenous these unions play in maintaining a positive, of Woolworths Limited. communities and targeted Indigenous productive workplace. pre-employment programs have been a key Development of a Reconciliation Action Plan Collective bargaining agreements cover focus over the last 12 months. A total of 153 has also commenced. 71.87% of our workforce, or 134,512(1) appointments have been made this year, of Woolworths recorded a 24% decrease in employees. Our supermarket EBA which 83 are from formalised pre-employment discrimination claims lodged at the tribunal constitutes the largest agreement in Australia. programs. This brings the total to 322 current (both state and federal) during 2010. employees in 2010 who have declared that Nineteen claims were lodged compared they are of Indigenous heritage. Gender and Age Distribution – Female Gender Ratio by Employment Level – Female <25 38.2% 2010 % 25 – <35 19.4% 35 – <45 17.9% Senior Executives 27 45 – <55 16.3% Senior Managers 25 55 – <65 7.5% Managers 43 >65 0.7% Office/Support Employees 50 Store Employees 59 2010 Data does not include DSE NZ. Distribution Employees 13 Tradespeople and Apprentices 9 Gender and Age Distribution – Male Plant Employees 0 <25 48.6% Note: 2010 Data does not include DSE NZ. 25 – <35 24.4% 35 – <45 13.3% 45 – <55 8.7% Gender Distribution by Employment Type – Female 55 – <65 4.4% Full-time Part-time Casual % % % >65 0.6% Senior Executives 25 100 100 2010 Data does not include DSE NZ. Senior Managers 23 87 0 Managers 42 73 13 Office/Support Employees 45 70 52 Store Employees 53 66 53 Distribution Employees 11 22 12 Tradespeople and Apprentices 8 21 4 Plant Employees 0 0 0 Note: 2010 Data does not include DSE NZ. 30 Woolworths Limited Gender Diversity 2010 % Female 84,532 54 Male 70,910 46 Total 155,442 100 Ratio of Basic Salary of Male to Female by Employee Category Australia Non-managerial Managerial Ratio Ratio Gender % % Female 99 92 Male 101 105 Note: All data excludes ALH, PEL, DSE NZ, Hong Kong and India. Katherine Store Manager Debbie Huxley with staff members Jeff Hearn and Lydia Walit Woolworths Katherine who travelled down from Darwin Our enterprise agreements include a major and introduced the candidates to the change clause, which identifies that once a Woolworths Katherine has made a real ‘Woolworths Way’. The lessons learnt from decision has been made to change something effort to engage with, train and employ previous programs run included the value in the business, Woolworths will consult with Indigenous people. This initiative was of having a work buddy to help with employees affected and with the union. Timing motivated by Store Manager Debbie transitioning the candidates from back of of communication depends on the significance Huxley and her team, who wanted to store operations to the service areas as their of the change and number of people support the local community and give local confidence increased. This enabled the impacted. As a principle, we allow as much Indigenous people the opportunity to gain trainees to gain work experience in different time as possible to engage and communicate meaningful employment. The initiative was departments within the store in a safe and with employees and their representatives an opportunity to help Indigenous people non-confrontational way. They were also regarding change. We provide HR support to plan for their future and start a career with given a support person in the store to go impacted individuals and are transparent in Woolworths while studying a nationally to if they had any problems; this was in our communications, engaging our employees recognised Certificate II in Retail. addition to the support provided by CRS. and their representatives in a timely manner. Prior to starting the training program, the We successfully transitioned 310 employees, As a result of the store’s commitment to Department Managers discussed who was impacted by change, into new roles within this program, they have gained seven coming through the program and if there the business. long-term employees who have become were any considerations needed. They also assets to the Woolworths business. In fact, Our employees in China and India are employed worked with Commonwealth Rehabilitation the number of Indigenous employees in on common law contracts and comply with the Services (CRS) who supported the the store has grown to 15, as Indigenous laws of those countries. The Woolworths Code candidates and enabled them to people are now approaching the store of Conduct covers all employees and states that confidently transition into work. directly. The feedback has been fantastic we will not discriminate on the basis of union The success of this program is attributed and CRS reported that the community now membership or non-membership. to a collaborative effort between the sees Woolworths as a real place to shop and store team and Josh Gates (HR Officer), work; they even call the store a ‘safe place’. (1) Data includes Woolworths, ALH and PEL. DSE NZ, Hong Kong and India not included. There is a notable difference in the definition of an EBA employee in Australia compared to New Zealand. For PEL union membership = 5,200 union members of which 434 of the number are salaried. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 31 safety and health At Woolworths, we are committed to protecting the safety, health and welfare of our employees, customers, contractors, visitors and the community. Safety is a key aspect of our business and underpins all operational activities. 32 Woolworths Limited Workplace Woolworths Limited LTIFR Results 2008–2010 18.86 15.71 10.34 Our Approach Our vision for safety at Woolworths is ‘Destination ZERO’ – zero harm to our people, environment and community. We will do 3.77 3.14 10 2.07 this by encouraging people at all levels of the organisation to actively care about their LTIFR (million hours worked) 08 08 09 09 10 LTIFR (200,000 hours worked) own safety and the safety of others. We are passionate about safety and its integration into the way we do business. Woolworths Limited LTIFR Results from 2008–2010 Destination ZERO is supported by the KPI 2008 2009 2010 following principles: LTIFR (million hours worked)* 18.86 15.71 10.34 –– We will make safety personal. LTIFR (200,000 hours worked) 3.77 3.14 2.07 –– No task is so urgent and no service so % Change on previous year –16% –17% –34% important that we cannot take time to do it safely. –– We will aim to improve the quality of life, KPI 2008 2009 2010 now and for future generations. Occupational Disease Rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 1.48 1.11 1.13 –– We are responsible for: % Change on previous year – –25% 2% – Our own safety and health. * LTIFR reflects figures as at the end of the financial year. – The safety and health of our co-workers, customers, contractors and visitors. Note: Previous year’s data has been updated with new information that was not available when past reports were prepared. – Our impact on the environment. –– We will recognise and promote excellence Divisional LTIFR Results for 2010 (Excluding ALH) in safety, health and environmental % Change performance. Per million Per 200,000 on last LTIFR as at 2010 Hours Hours financial year Our Performance Supermarkets 10.65 2.1 –39% In 2010 we achieved a reduced LTIFR of Logistics 14.09 2.8 –39% 10.34, 34% lower than 2009. Unfortunately, we narrowly missed our target of 10.0 by 3%. BIG W 7.32 1.5 –26% Our target for 2011 is to achieve an LTIFR of 8.0. Dick Smith 6.26 1.3 –14% In addition, we experienced a 5% reduction Langton’s 0.00 0.0 0% in the number of our customers injured in our Liquor – BWS 13.68 2.7 –53% stores compared to 2009. Liquor – Dan Murphy’s 12.57 2.5 –24% We are saddened to report that two of our Petrol 2.76 0.6 –73% customers were injured while at our premises and passed away some time later. These losses Progressive Enterprise Limited (NZ)* 12.90 2.6 1% motivate us in our goal of eliminating injuries Thomas Dux 6.26 1.3 –6% from our organisation and we will use the Woolworths Group 10.34 2.1 –34% findings of our investigations to continue to * 2010 LTIFR reporting for Progressive Enterprise Limited (NZ supermarket business) has been aligned to review the strategies that we have in place. international standards which had a negative impact on both Progressive and the Woolworths Group results. Worker Representation and Formal Agreements Other Safety, Health and Environment – Key Performance Indicators 2008–2010 (Excluding ALH) Woolworths’ entire workforce is represented KPI 2008 2009 2010 in formal joint management-worker health Employee work-related fatalities ZERO ZERO ZERO and safety committees. These committees Contractor Fatalities 1 ZERO ZERO are called ‘Safety Teams’ and operate at a site /store level. Their functions are formalised Other Fatalities* ZERO 1 2 through charters, procedures and legislative % Change in LTI frequency rate –16% –17% –34% requirements where applicable. % Change in New Claim Frequency Rate –7% –5% –7% % Change in Customer Claims –3% 8% –15% % Change in hours lost as a result of an injury in the last 12 months 4% 1% –7% * Customers/visitors. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 33 Workplace In 2010 we reduced our LTIFR by 34% The majority of our workforce is covered Education and Training through formal agreements which exist Comprehensive training programs have been with trade unions. Employee representatives developed for safety and health communication, have reviewed and approved the SH&E hazard and risk management, incident reporting Procedures Manuals that exist within and analysis and safety leadership (see Table 2.1). each division. These include Drive 4 Life (Driver Education), Move 4 Life (Manual Handling) and Safety the Prosecutions Woolworths Way (Leading through Safety). In 2010, the Victorian WorkCover Authority In addition, employees receive training through (VWA) charged Woolworths with five separate standard operating procedures where safety offences under the Occupational Health & requirements are integrated and part of the Safety Act 2004 for an incident at our Wodonga way we do the task. distribution centre in 2008. While no injuries Our workforce in Australia and New Zealand were sustained in this incident, Woolworths has a low risk of exposure to serious diseases, takes its safety obligations seriously and such as HIV/AIDS. Community awareness subsequently offered WorkSafe a joint about diseases such as diabetes is generally enforceable undertaking (which WorkSafe high. Woolworths has a strong commitment In 2010 accepted) in lieu of prosecution, in which to active, healthy lifestyles, for our employees we committed to: and the community in general. Woolworths –– engage independent consultants to review the distribution centre’s OHS management demonstrates this commitment through campaigns such as its Fresh Food Kids Petrol’s LTIFR and forklift licensing systems, and identify any hazards; program. An active, healthy lifestyle lowers the risk of developing many preventable diseases. reduced by 73% –– develop implementation plans for any required corrective action identified by Initiatives the reviews; Key strategic imperatives –– have the systems reviewed again in a year; The Safety and Health Strategy was developed –– install mast cameras in its reach trucks; by the Woolworths Management Board and –– donate $40,000, in total, to the Royal Executive Leadership Team in February 2010. Children’s Hospital and the Wodonga The Strategy resulted in the agreement of Health Services Emergency Department; four key imperatives that will be finalised and –– donate $50,000 to the Institute for Safety, rolled out during 2011. The four key strategic Compensation and Recovery Research for imperatives are: the purpose of funding a relevant safety research project; 1. Recruitment and induction. –– publish an article on steps taken in 2. Non-trading area standards. response to the incident in internal 3. Safety Leadership. and external newsletters; and 4. Safety Communication. –– run a free safety seminar (using the incident as a case study) at WorkSafe Week. Contractor Safety and Health Code To promote a consistent, Company-wide Benchmarking approach to safety, we have recently We benchmark ourselves against a mix of developed a Contractor Safety and both international retailers and companies in Health Code. Michael Luscombe launched heavy industry. In the 2009 Citigroup Global the Code on 11 June 2010 to more than Markets Safety Spotlight report, which is a 500 Contractors at Norwest. The Code comprehensive report reviewing the safety and a video made available to all contractors performance of ASX-listed companies, on the Woolworths Limited website Woolworths was recognised for taking an w w w.woolworthslimited.com.au. active approach to safety management and reporting. 34 Woolworths Limited Date Person involved Business Location What happened? January ‘10 Customer BWS QLD A member of the public was struck by equipment and was fatally injured. June ‘10 Customer Petrol NSW A member of the public fell on the forecourt and two weeks later passed away from complications. Assistance Programs Education/Training Counselling Prevention/Risk control Treatment Program recipients Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Workers ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Workers’ families ✗ ✓ ✓ ✓ Expatriates Family Members Community ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ In store radio and Customers Customers print messages involved in involved in injury trauma Vehicle restraint systems BIG W achieved a 39% reduction in their Lost Vehicle restraints, or trailer restraints, are Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) in 2009, and devices that latch onto trailers to keep them demonstrated a high level of visible leadership from separating from the dock during loading commitment. Through engagement with or unloading which prevents trucks from being employees and motivating them to develop driven away while our employees are entering their own journey path towards Destination and exiting the trailers. The system has been ZERO, they’ve made safety personal and visible successfully piloted in our Wyong distribution throughout their operations. centre and further roll-out is expected to take Logistics achieved a 39% reduction in their place over a period of four years across all LTIFR and a further 29% improvement in distribution centres. their new claim frequency rate. Through their leadership and commitment to safety they’ve Keeping Safety Fresh made significant improvements. The power Our Supermarket division has implemented a of safety and caring for each other goes well targeted education program called ‘Keeping beyond an LTIFR; it has been instrumental in Safety Fresh’ that focuses on highlighting turning around a whole workplace culture key risks areas within our stores. Each month and performance. there is a different safety focus specific to a department within the store, i.e. during grape Both divisions were awarded $100,000 to invest season a DVD, poster and fact sheet was in further safety innovation and improvement distributed to Woolworths supermarkets to strategies. Our team in India and the raise awareness of the hazards of grapes on the Supermarket Design and Construction team store floor resulting in a significant reduction in both received a Highly Commended Award. customer falls from slipping on grapes. CEO Safety Club The award recognises individuals for Internal Awards making an outstanding contribution to CEO Safety Award safety by influencing and driving significant The CEO Safety Award was awarded to BIG W performance improvement either through and Logistics in September 2009. The award leadership and/or influencing processes or recognises excellence in safety leadership and equipment design. In 2010, Bill Tsimis became the criteria that the submissions were judged a worthy recipient of this prestigious award on include results, innovation, leadership and by playing a vital leadership role in improving winning the hearts and minds of our front the safety culture through engagement with line staff. senior leadership and staff while working as the Relief Logistics Manager at the Sydney Regional Distribution Centre (SRDC). Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 35 our neighbours Woolworths Limited has the simple philosophy of demonstrating corporate and community leadership by doing the right thing. We are proud of our 86-year heritage and standing in the communities within which we operate. Our engagement and investment in these communities is critical to our success. 36 Woolworths Limited Key community achievements 2010: Development and implementation of the new Woolworths Limited Community Investment Strategy. $36.3 million invested in local communities around the country. Growth of Fresh Food Rescue and $2 million to be made available to food relief organisations in 2011. $6.8 million raised for children’s hospitals through the Fresh Food Kids Hospital Appeal. 1,500 community organisations supported through the Fresh Food Kids Community Grants. Key community challenges 2010: Ensuring that partner food relief organisations can build their food donor networks and avoid potential over-reliance on Woolworths. With a diverse workforce and career pathways, the ability to extend and capture staff engagement opportunities in volunteering and fundraising. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 37 Community Right across the country, we are committed to helping sustain the communities that support our stores, A Snapshot of the Causes We Supported in 2010 not just in terms of $ providing jobs and Fresh Food Kids Community Grants 3,127,802 services, but also in Fresh Food Kids Hospital Appeal 6,843,539 creating a wider range BIG W customer fundraising 816,363 Dan Murphy’s Clean Skin Promotion 143,973 of opportunities to Smith Family Christmas Appeal 541,128 foster closer links Progressive Enterprises Fresh Futures 731,275 between our stores and the communities they serve. In recent years, corporate community In order to do to this, during 2010 Woolworths Targets investment has increasingly become important Limited has focused on reviewing and We have a target of the equivalent of 1% of to our customers, shareholders, staff and other redefining our community investment pre-tax profits, based on the international stakeholders, who now expect corporate strategy. Consequently, we have developed community investment benchmark organisations to be supporting causes and a framework which embeds our approach to CommunityMark, going towards supporting investing in their communities in a way that community investment across our businesses our communities. Our new strategy empowers has a positive impact. and ensures that we can consolidate and each of our businesses to achieve this by focus our efforts to maximise impact. supporting organisations, programs and As corporate philanthropy and cash donations initiatives in our core focus areas in a manner evolve into more collaborative, strategic and Evaluating and Reporting that is relevant to their business objectives, focused forms of community partnerships, Our Community Investment strengths and skills. increasingly there is the need to measure and To make our community contributions as report these activities in the same manner We are increasingly working with research transparent as possible, we are a member as other investments the business makes. institutions to continuously improve our of the London Benchmark Group (LBG), Creating the best possible outcome for the programs, such as The Centre of Social Impact which provides a process for measuring, funds invested in social activities should at the University of New South Wales through benchmarking and reporting our investments. be a goal pursued with the same rigour our Fresh Food Rescue program. This helps Around 50 companies in Australia and as financial objectives. benchmark social issues, analyse stakeholder New Zealand are now members. consultation and evaluate our impact. Community investment can provide benefits We use the LBG reporting model to calculate to both the community and the business. From 2011, all of our community investment our total contribution to communities through: Across our communities and our businesses activities will fall into one of four focus there are many issues that affect us all. With –– Cash donations from the business; areas. Importantly these focus areas are our contribution to communities in Australia –– Third party leverage, such as customer and not necessarily revolutionary or unique. and New Zealand comes the ability to make staff fundraising; They simply make sense for our business a considerable difference. It is therefore our –– In-kind donations and support; and and our communities. Our businesses will responsibility to ensure that we are identifying –– Staff time and management costs. each address these focus areas in a manner and contributing to communities in a way that speaks to their customers and key that will create the most effective and positive stakeholders. impact that we can. 38 Woolworths Limited Focus Areas 2. Health and wellbeing We believe that education is the most effective We believe that one of the best ways of tool in breaking the cycle of economic and 1. Sustainability and environment contributing to the growth and development social disadvantage and, with the right Beyond pure business and cost considerations, of Australia is by supporting the health and skills, every individual is much better placed Woolworths Limited is highly aware of the happiness of Australians. to secure a job and enjoy self-esteem and steadily growing public and media awareness independence. of climate change and its potential long-term Given the number and diversity of the effects on the planet and food supply. We communities that we serve around the 4. Rural and regional communities understand, too, that these concerns are country, we are extremely well placed to As well as providing value-for-money food shared by our customers and the communities monitor these issues and make a major and groceries and good customer service, we serve. They will expect and appreciate steps contribution. we are a major customer of farmers, growers we take to be part of the solution. and manufacturers in every Australian state 3. Education and employment Our Sustainability Strategy is firmly entrenched and territory. As one of Australia’s biggest companies, within the organisation and community Woolworths Limited is a major contributor Right across the country, we are committed to investment activities will help make this to employment, investment and economic helping sustain the communities that support commitment tangible to our customers, growth in local communities. We provide our stores, not just in terms of providing jobs staff and other key stakeholders. jobs for almost 188,000 staff in Australia and and services, but also in creating a wider range New Zealand. Over 42.9% of our workforce is of opportunities to foster closer links between under 25 years old. We are the nation’s largest our stores and the communities they serve. employer of trainees and apprentices. $36.3m was contributed to the community in 2010 $12,557,395 $9,846,585 $6,898,184 $7,068,720 leverage cash in kind staff and management Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 39 Community Amount raised in 2010 to help children’s New and Existing Programs for 2011 In March 2010, Foodbank recognised hospitals and Fresh Food Rescue Woolworths’ efforts with its inaugural Patron’s Award. During the ceremony at Admiralty children’s wards around (sustainability/health and wellbeing) House, The Governor-General and Patron of Woolworths has a proud record of food Foodbank Australia, Her Excellency, Ms Quentin Australia by the donation. Since 2002, Woolworths has Bryce AC presented Director of Supermarkets, partnered with Foodbank, the largest food Liquor and Petrol, Greg Foran with the award, Woolworths relief organisation in Australia. Foodbank which acknowledges the major increase in the receives shelf stable items from 567 amount of food donated by Woolworths in Fresh Food Kids Woolworths stores. the past year. In addition to donating long-life products, our stores donate surplus fresh food, including groceries, general merchandise, bakery items, Fresh Food Kids Hospital Appeals (health and wellbeing) Hospital Appeal $6.8m frozen meat, produce and perishable items, Thanks to the generosity of our customers to local food relief organisations, putting food and commitment of our staff, over $6.8 million on the tables of those in need. Organisations was raised for the Woolworths Fresh Food that collect from our stores include OzHarvest, Kids Hospital Appeal in 2010. These funds will SecondBite, FareShare, Churchlands, House of help children’s hospitals and children’s wards Hope and The Salvation Army. around Australia. As a fundamental program in achieving our The hospitals that have benefited from our target of zero waste by 2015, this year we Appeal are located all over Australia and launched Fresh Food Rescue, a year long include The Princess Margaret Children’s campaign to make $2 million available to food Hospital, Perth; The Melbourne Royal Children’s relief organisations for infrastructure needs, Hospital; The Royal Children’s Hospital in such as vans, refrigerators, freezers and kitchen Queensland; The Royal Darwin Hospital; equipment. This campaign will build the and The Children’s Hospital at Westmead. capacity of existing community partners and Funds go to a variety of programs as directed identify appropriate programs for stores not by the beneficiaries, ranging from funding staff already in partnerships. and training for paediatric services, equipment The Centre for Social Impact at the University such as high dependency beds, ventilators, of New South Wales was engaged to advise humidicribs, auditory test systems and a wide on the consultation process with the sector, variety of other paediatric areas, including play as well as benchmark hunger relief in Australia, centres and music therapy services. Funds are so they can effectively evaluate the impact also directed to important research areas, such of our investment. as children’s sport medicine, leukaemia, cancer and infectious diseases. The program was launched in January 2010 with The Hon Jenny Macklin MP, Minister Liquor businesses and Legacy for Families, Housing, Community Services (health and wellbeing) and Indigenous Affairs (FaHCSIA), and key This year, we piloted supporting Legacy Week community partners. This was followed by through the sales of Legacy merchandise in a period of consultation with a panel of some of our businesses. The results showed a community partners to ensure access to clear affiliation with the cause from our liquor and distribution of our investment provides business customers. Next year, we will be the most effective support for their work. rolling out national support of Legacy Week We also consulted with the Department of through BWS and Dan Murphy’s. ALH also FaHCSIA to understand their emergency relief has a long-standing partnership with Legacy programs and explore the opportunities for Victoria and this year supported Legacy’s Raise Fresh Food Rescue. a Glass Appeal on ANZAC Day. 40 Woolworths Limited As a fundamental program in achieving our target of zero waste by 2015, this year we launched Fresh Food Rescue, a year long campaign to make $2 million available to food relief organisations for infrastructure needs. The program was launched in January 2010 with The Hon Jenny Macklin MP, Minister for Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs (FaHCSIA), and key community partners. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 41 Community Fresh Food Farming Program Woolworths Agricultural Business Technologies in the Territory (rural and regional communities) Scholarships (rural and regional (education and employment) Woolworths believes it is vital for all communities/education and employment) Through its partnership with Richmond organisations involved in the food supply chain Woolworths recognises the need to attract Football Club’s Tigers in the Community to adopt a leadership position addressing and retain skills and leadership within the program, Dick Smith Electronics supported an long-term food availability and affordability to agricultural sector. Incentives and career education pilot Technologies in the Territory. help safeguard Australia’s future food security. development opportunities are essential The pilot aimed to increase attainment levels Higher input costs, climate change and a rising to encourage young people outside of the in six schools in Alice Springs. Working with population have the potential to impact the industry to pursue a path in agriculture and schools and Indigenous kids in the area, the food we eat. It is important to help farmers help future leaders reach their full potential. program incentivises attendance through adapt and thrive. live link-ups with some of the footy players in Our partnership with the Royal Agricultural Melbourne. The curriculum was developed by The Woolworths Fresh Food Farming Program Society of NSW and the University of Western our community partner and endorsed by the reaffirms Woolworths’ commitment to Sydney has created an Agricultural Scholarship Northern Territory Department of Education. investing in the future of rural Australia. With Program, with 30 young people from Australia As well as financial support of the pilot, Dick an investment of $3.25 million next year, the and New Zealand participating each year. Smith Electronics leveraged its relationship Fresh Food Farming Program draws together The 12-day course at the Woolworths support with suppliers to organise interactive a number of initiatives in two core areas: office in north-west Sydney gives participants whiteboards for the participating schools. 1. The advancement of agricultural valuable insights into key issues and sustainability; and opportunities in the business of agriculture Employee Matching Awards 2. Building leadership capacity in the sector. from Western Sydney lecturers, Woolworths’ The Woolworths Limited Employee Matching business leaders and other industry experts. Award Scheme encourages all staff in Australia We conducted a nationwide stakeholder to contribute to causes of personal interest. consultation during the year in partnership It matches, dollar for dollar, any amount over with Landcare Australia, engaging with $100 raised by a staff member for a registered government, industry and research institutions charity up to a total of $1,000. In 2010, a total to understand how best to invest this fund in of $68,944 was raised. the coming years. Together with the University of Western Sydney and the Royal Agriculture Society of New South Wales, Woolworths offers 30 young Australians the opportunity to attend the Woolworths Agricultural Business Scholarship program each year. 42 Woolworths Limited Hours taken by staff to assist with Norwest charity of the month Emergency Relief for Natural Disasters relief efforts This is a well-supported program at our Norwest office in Sydney. In 2010, we collected Woolworths Limited has a history of giving generously to support those affected by in 2010 2,000 $290,129 in staff donations for 12 charities of natural disasters. In order to ensure that importance to our people. our funds and resources are going to credible organisations, which are able to Governance support those in need and react quickly We are inundated with requests for assistance when natural disasters happen, we have from many worthy causes and we are pleased set up two new partnerships. to provide support to many of them. However, in order to appropriately channel our support, Australian emergency relief Woolworths Limited abides by the following The Salvation Army is our official partner in funding guidelines: the case of domestic natural disasters. During severe domestic disasters, such as bushfires Amount donated by –– Woolworths does not support unregistered and floods, our stores also mobilise in-kind charities or organisations: support and resources for their communities. Queensland – ABN is mandatory for all organisations; Woolworths Limited businesses now channel and donations through Salvation Army appeals. customers to – Charities require DGR status and must be authorised/licensed/permitted to During 2010, $16,000 was also donated by the Premier’s conduct charitable fundraising activities Queensland customers to the Premier’s in the States/Territories in which flood appeal. flood appeal they operate. –– Woolworths does not fund charity Overseas emergency relief and general aid advertising or promotions, unless part Oxfam Australia is our official partner in the $16,000 of a Woolworths-specific campaign; case of overseas natural disasters. Oxfam –– Woolworths does not support political Australia has the experience and knowledge campaigns and activities; required to run community programs –– Organisations with religious affiliation are in developing countries, including an not excluded, so long as participation is understanding of their political situations open to the community generally; and the ability to ensure funds are monitored –– Year end deficits; and go to the intended recipients. –– Woolworths does not provide sponsorship During 2010, $15,000 was donated by staff to individuals, including Woolworths to Oxfam’s Samoan appeal. Limited staff (see employee specific schemes); Our criteria for overseas emergency relief are: –– Funding is not provided to overseas –– Proximity, for example, our neighbours; projects not linked to a Woolworths –– Where we do business; program (for overseas disaster relief, –– We will not donate to political or man-made please see Emergency Relief ); emergency situations; and –– Woolworths does not endorse replacement –– Outside of emergency situations or of funds provided by government, which Woolworths Limited specific programs, does not bring additional benefits to we will not fund or donate to individual people or communities; projects, communities or organisations –– Woolworths does not fund business-related internationally. conferences, awards or exhibition sponsorships; and –– Any ad hoc requests for support will be assessed and responded to within two weeks of receipt. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 43 our planet Woolworths is conscious of the potential long-term effects of climate change on the planet and food supply. We understand these concerns are shared by our customers and the communities we serve. 44 Woolworths Limited Key environmental achievements 2010: 13.5% reduction in carbon emissions from our facilities based on business-as-usual projections. 9.4% reduction in transportation carbon emissions from our truck fleet. 318 million litres of water saved through Water Wise Project and rainwater harvesting. 207,000 tonnes of materials recycled or diverted from landfill. Key environmental challenges 2010: Despite our major focus and investment in energy efficiency, our real challenge remains in meeting our 40% carbon reduction target for facilities by 2015. In the absence of meaningful incentives for renewable energy adoption targeted at the business sector, it will be difficult to deliver the reduction. Implementing sustainable packaging initiatives requires a balance between customer expectations for reducing packaging and ensuring it still protects the product. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 45 Summary of Performance Against Sustainability Targets and Commitments Target Progress status Comments CO2-e emissions reduction from facilities 2009 2010 Overall 40% CO2-e reduction by 2015 (on projected growth 13% reduction in carbon emissions compared to our levels), bringing our emissions back to 2006 levels. original projected growth emissions for 2010. Build all new Woolworths supermarkets opening from September 2008 to conform to our sustainable design guidelines to minimise energy use and environmental impacts. Achieve 25% reduction in CO2-e emissions per square 25.8% reduction in carbon emissions per square metre metre for new sustainable store designs compared with compared to business-as-usual stores built in 2008. business-as-usual designs. Work with the Green Building Council to develop a green Rating tool not required as there is already a business star rating tool for supermarket interiors. case for designing efficient stores. Engage with interested parties in the development of an Conduct our own internal modelling on the energy ecological footprinting calculator for evaluation of supermarket efficiency benefits of new technology. interior design and fit-out. CO2-e emissions reduction from transport Establish accurate baseline data in 2008 for all modes of transport. Establish a forum with major transport suppliers to develop a low carbon strategy for our third party distribution network. Conduct a comprehensive study on biodiesel availability in Australia, including quality, vehicle compatibility and cost impacts. Trial the use of hybrid powered trucks for home deliveries. 25% reduction of CO2-e emissions per carton delivered by 9.4% reduction in emissions, achieved to date. Woolworths owned trucks by 2012. 30% reduction on 2006 levels in CO2-e emissions from 26.8% estimated reduction in emissions from 72% company car fleet of 3,100 cars (dependent on mix of car conversion of fleet to new vehicles. size and fuels chosen) by 2010. Water efficiency Develop a more complete baseline of water usage. Data collection completed for Supermarkets, Logistics, Petrol, Liquor and Big W. Roll out the Water Wise project nationally for all our supermarkets. Reduce water use by at least 200 million litres a year by 2010. 302 million litres of water estimated as saved in Supermarkets. Ethical sourcing Develop and implement an Ethical Sourcing policy. Identify sustainable sourcing gaps and develop Palm oil policy and certified paper contract for appropriate policies. catalogues are covered in page 65. Conduct staff training and capacity building for our buying Compliance training developed and delivered to teams to help them understand issues and types of third party buyers. Product development training planned for certification required from suppliers. delivery in 2011. 46 Woolworths Limited Target Progress status Comments Packaging 2009 2010 Establish a supplier forum to work together on more Forums held in 2009 and further work planned while sustainable packaging. developing and implementing Australian Packaging Covenant (APC) Action Plan. Establish more comprehensive baseline data for packaging Finalised Sustainable Packaging Guidelines to match of Private Label products, including information on materials APC Guidelines, must now work with suppliers of consumption, local/imported origin, recycled content several thousand products to collate data. and recyclability. Review Private Label procurement policy and Sustainable Packaging Guidelines are being finalised supplier guidelines. to match APC guidelines. Conduct an audit of compliance with the ECOPP and ISO 14021 for Private Label products. Trial the use of PIQET for Private Label products. Report annually to the National Packaging Covenant (NPC) NPC and Corporate Responsibility Reports delivered and Woolworths Corporate Responsibility Report. each year. Provide training to 50 suppliers by 2008. Training will focus on Woolworths’ packaging technicians. Use PIQET to evaluate 20 Private Label products by 2010. Past use of PIQET analysis on wine packaging and meat trays covered more than 20 products. Continue to replace waxed cardboard and foam boxes with Use of crates has reduced cardboard box usage by reusable plastic crates where possible, with a targeted increase 41.2 million boxes. of 1.7 million to 3.4 million crates. Waste minimisation Identify organics recycling technologies similar to EarthPower Expression of interest issued for organics recycling for recycling source separated food waste from supermarkets services and all responses are being reviewed. Trials outside Sydney and determine commercial feasibility. of programs are being planned. Implement a waste audit program for all stores and Annual waste audits continued in 31 supermarkets. distribution centres. Continue phasing out polystyrene. Small reduction in polystyrene recycling, use continues to be minimal. Implement a staff education program to encourage greater The Eco Ambassador Program continues to engage recovery of plastic and cardboard. staff on sustainability initiatives, including recycling. Eliminate food waste from the general waste stream by 2015 5,948 tonnes of food waste diverted to EarthPower, and (where receiving facilities are available). 3,069 tonnes of fit for consumption food diverted to Foodbank and Food Rescue programs. Reduce amount of plastic in the general waste stream to less Continued to reduce plastic in waste, now down to 6%. than 1% by weight by 2010. Will continue to work on this with staff. Reduce amount of cardboard in the general waste stream to Reduced cardboard in waste stream down to 4%. less than 1% by weight by 2010. Will continue to work on this with staff. Not achieved Delayed In progress Completed Target Exceeded Cancelled Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 47 Environment In 2010, we commenced 46 new energy saving initiatives in our stores and distribution Climate Change centres. This long-term Our retail businesses are in Australia and New Zealand, which are both signatories to the investment of over $13 million Kyoto Protocol, and New Zealand introduced an emissions trading scheme at the start of is projected to reduce annual the 2011 financial year. carbon emissions by 2015 by Australia’s national greenhouse gas inventory 109,520 tonnes was an estimated 544 Mt CO2-e in 2009. It was 74.7 Mt CO2-e in New Zealand in 2009. While these quantities are not significant in the global context, the effect of climate change in our region could be significant without an international agreement to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. Why is this material to our business? Australia and New Zealand continue to face What is our commitment? Facilities changing temperature conditions, rainfall In summary, our commitments and targets are: In 2010 we have reduced the carbon emissions patterns and extreme weather events. from our facilities (stores, Distribution Centres Facilities Traditional food production areas continue and offices) by over 500,000 tonnes compared –– Reduce our CO2-e emissions by 40% to face challenges from both climate and to the business-as-usual emissions we had by 2015 (from projected growth the increased demand from growing projected in our Strategy. Emissions from levels), bringing our emissions back global populations. electricity use and refrigerant loss were 3.3 Mt to 2006–07 levels. CO2-e, a 13% reduction on projected emissions Electricity and fuel costs continue to rise, –– Achieve 25% reduction in CO2‑e emissions of 3.8 Mt CO2-e. Emissions from our facilities influenced by infrastructure and network per square metre for new sustainable totalled 3.47 Mt which is less than a 1% limitations and uncertainty on a possible store designs compared with business­ increase compared to 2009. price on carbon. As a leader in sustainable as‑usual designs. retailing, Woolworths is continuing its efforts In 2010, we commenced 46 new energy saving Transport in improving energy efficiency. This also helps initiatives in our stores and distribution centres. –– Reduce CO2‑e emissions per carton minimise costs, which allows us to keep prices This long-term investment of over $13 million delivered by Woolworths owned trucks lower for customers. is projected to reduce annual carbon emissions by 25% by 2012. by 109,520 tonnes by 2015, and should deliver Emissions from our facilities and transport –– Reduce CO2‑e emissions from Company 8.4% of the carbon emission saving we need continue to be our largest contribution to car fleet of 3,100 cars by 30% by 2010. for our 2015 target.. This continues on from the climate change emissions. Our focus remains estimated reduction of 53,237 tonnes in carbon on developing, testing and implementing Our 2010 performance emissions delivered by projects in 2010. innovation in refrigeration, lighting, air In 2010 our total carbon emissions in Australia conditioning and transport. and New Zealand were 4.09 Mt, which is higher Existing stores than our baseline total emissions of 3.7 Mt, To achieve our main climate change target and were 1.0% higher than the emissions we of 40% reduction in carbon emissions from reported last year. Emissions from electricity facilities, almost 85% of the carbon emission Project CO2 delivers an use and transport fuels continue to increase savings must come from our existing stores. average 7% reduction with the growth in our business; however, despite a 4.2% increase in sales revenue and The Project CO2 program of retrofitting in electricity use in a 2.9% increase in store numbers in 2010, energy efficient innovation into supermarket refrigeration systems continues to be retrofitted supermarkets total carbon emissions only increased by 1.0%. implemented through existing stores. Woolworths has continued to improve data By the end of 2010 we had retrofitted 98 collection and reporting of environmental supermarkets with technology including high inputs, including electricity, gas, fuel, efficiency fans, improved anti-fogging on glass refrigerants and waste. The development doors and glass lids for island freezers, leading of a new internal reporting tool will assist in to an average store electricity reduction of 7%. both regulatory and performance reporting. A further 70 stores will be retrofitted in 2011. 48 Woolworths Limited Total Emissions from Facilities 2006–2010 (Million Tonnes of CO2-e) 5.0 Actual emissions (Mt) 4.5 Millions tonnes CO2-e Business as usual 4.0 2015 Target 3.5 3.0 2.5 Replacement of T8 fluorescent lamps with 2.0 efficient T5 lamps is occurring in supermarkets, BIG W stores undergoing refurbishment, and Petrol. Total Emissions by Source – Australia BIG W is implementing air conditioning Electricity purchased 72.1% innovations during refurbishments, including Fuel combustion (stationary) 0.1% an adaptive optimum start control, which Fuel combustion (transport) 15.2% uses existing store temperatures to determine Gas consumption (stationary) 0.2% the best time to turn on the air conditioning Refrigerants 8.8% before opening. Waste 3.6% Petrol has continued the replacement of LED highbay lighting for its canopies and has run a trial of LED lighting for the price board. Total Emissions by Source – New Zealand In store drinks fridges are being replaced with EcoChill fridges. Electricity purchased 30.3% Fuel combustion (stationary) 0.1% Dick Smith implemented an energy efficiency Fuel combustion (transport) 13.7% program, using the traffic light system Gas consumption (stationary) 1.3% of our Petrol division’s Lights Off program. Refrigerants 42.6% The Dick Smith program includes colour Waste 12.0% coding lighting control and electrical displays, with controls that are never turned off (Red) for safety and security reasons; turned off at close of business (Amber); and turned off when Comparison of CO2-e Emissions by Division (Tonnes of CO2-e) not required (Green). Administration ALH BIG W BWS & DBS Dan Murphy’s Carbon emissions Dick Smith DSE NZ Fabcot from facilities are Home Improvement (Danks) Langton’s Logistics 13% lower than PEL Petrol estimated businessStatewide Independent Wholesalers (SIW) Supermarkets Thomas Dux as-usual emissions. 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 tCO2-e (’000s) Electricity Use (MWh) – Comparison by Division Supermarkets BIG W Dan Murphy’s Petrol stations ALH Dick Smith Logistics Administration Fabcot Langton’s SIW Thomas Dux BWS & DBS Home Improvement (Danks) 2010 2009 2008 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 49 Environment Green stores Emissions from Facilities (Tonnes of CO2-e) In 2010 we opened 26 new supermarkets, all Division Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total built to minimum sustainable design standards Supermarkets 313,483 1,696,736 389,627 2,399,846 – taking the total number of green stores to 51. The 2010 green stores have a reduction BIG W 8,207 184,635 28,794 221,636 in carbon emissions per square metre of Dan Murphy’s 918 44,644 6,186 51,747 25.8%, compared to business-as-usual stores. Petrol 898 39,387 5,618 45,903 Woolworths supports the development BWS and other liquor 7,960 57,703 8,511 74,174 and use of refrigeration plants using low ALH 20,473 229,993 29,086 279,552 global warming potential refrigerants. At Dick Smith 132 32,145 4,888 37,165 30 June 2010, Woolworths had more than 30 low carbon impact CO2 refrigeration Home Improvement 59 2,111 296 2,465 plants in operation throughout our fleet of Logistics – Distribution Centres 2,199 145,371 20,573 168,143 Supermarkets in Australia and New Zealand, Administration/Fabcot 576 37,756 7,354 45,686 making Woolworths the single largest end user Australia sub-total 354,905 2,470,480 500,932 3,326,317 of CO2 refrigeration systems in Australasia. Supermarkets NZ (PEL) 73,955 43,805 26,341 144,100 Our green store design continues to undergo Dick Smith Electronics (NZ) – 1,523 200 1,723 change as we trial new technologies. We have increased the use of LED lighting in stores, NZ sub-total 73,955 45,328 26,541 145,823 including the downlights in produce areas, and Total 428,860 2,515,808 527,472 3,472,140 have placed motion sensors on the lighting for the upright freezers. Emissions from Company Cars (Tonnes of CO2-e) Country 2007 2008 2009 2010 Australia 20,314 21,670 19,719 18,362 Partnering New Zealand 3,050 3,838 2,451 2,415 with suppliers Total 23,364 25,508 22,170 20,777 Through a collaborative partnership Converted with a major beverage supplier we have 2010 Fleet been working on solutions to target Total fleet size 3,808 our energy usage and CO2-e footprint. New fleet 2,739 71.9% As a result of this partnership, there has been significant alignment of our environmental commitments and Transport Emissions by Source – Australia and New Zealand goals. A significant result from this is Business travel 3.6% the roll-out of our new energy-efficient Home delivery from stores 0.3% front-of-store merchandising fridge, Logistics transport 3.4% which has delivered an energy reduction Logistics 3rd party rail 7.2% of 49% and a reduction of 5.6 tonnes Logistics 3rd party road 83.3% of CO2-e per annum on a per unit basis. Trolley collection 2.0% There are currently 140 of these new Forklifts 0.2% merchandising fridges in our stores and Transport Emissions by Use we are working closely with the supplier Australia New Zealand to roll-out a further 200 units per year. End use Total emissions tCO2e Total emissions tCO2e Business travel 19,806 2,599 Home delivery from stores 1,869 – Logistics transport 20,760 – Logistics 3rd party rail 44,530 – Logistics 3rd party road 496,341 20,481 Trolley collection 12,319 – Forklifts 1,400 – 50 Woolworths Limited Number of new supermarkets built to minimum sustainable design standards in 2010 26 Woolworths Caringbah, NSW BWS opened their first green store with the Improved consolidation and optimisation refurbishment of its Turramurra, New South of delivery schedules and route planning Wales store. This includes refrigeration with continues to reduce our carbon emissions LED lighting, efficient fans and low heat per carton delivered by our Victorian fleet. Total number doors, high efficiency fluorescent lighting and This year our emissions reduced a further economy cycle on air conditioning. Electricity 3%, bringing the total reduction to 9.4% of green consumption has been reduced by 30% since since 2007. the refurbishment. Dan Murphy’s has also Effective load building and record supermarkets trialled a new lighting plan using LED and management to increase the number of compact fluorescent lights. purchase orders on each delivery and the 51 BIG W opened its first green store in Inverell, number of pallets on each purchase order New South Wales in June 2010. It is expected at Distribution Centres has delivered an that electricity use will be reduced by 30% estimated 15–17% improvement in primary compared to a similar store. Energy savings freight efficiencies.(1) By delivering more will come from air conditioning optimum pallets per load into our Distribution Centres start times before store opening, improved we have estimated that primary freight has refrigerants, high efficiency fluorescent lamps, reduced carbon emissions by 14,844 tonnes. LED lighting and a reflective roof surface that 2010 green Thirty prime movers will be replaced in 2011 will reflect a significant amount of the sun’s with new safer and more fuel-efficient vehicles. heat away from the building. stores reduction We are investigating the sourcing of a Liquid Renewable energy Natural Gas (LNG) powered prime mover in carbon In March 2010 Woolworths commissioned that meets our safety and environmental two solar photovoltaic (PV) systems at Petrol requirements. A third party transport company emissions per sites in Hume and Belconnen in the Australian is trialling this technology in Western Australia. Capital Territory. The systems are expected to We have identified a vehicle being released in square metre provide 15% of each site’s electricity needs. 2011 which may meet our requirements. Since commissioning they have generated We successfully trialled a B20 biodiesel blend compared to 18,962 kWh and reduced carbon emissions with six vehicles in 2010, confirming no impact by 17 tonnes. to fuel economy or reliability. The trial involved Transport Transfer of our Company car fleet to diesel and the use of more than 40,000 litres of biodiesel, produced from waste products, which is business-as-usual hybrid options has continued, with 71.9% of our fleet in Australia and New Zealand now estimated to have reduced emissions by more than 10 tonnes. stores 25.8% converted. Since 2007, the carbon emissions Our national transport team has developed from our fleet have decreased by 11.1%, a trailer that allows the transport of both or 2,587 tonnes of carbon emissions, the inbound and outbound freight, maximising equivalent of taking 602 vehicles off the road. integration of primary freight (side loading This is the first year we have included our fleet at supplier depots) and secondary freight and emissions from ALH, and we acquired (rear loading at Distribution Centres and Danks during the year, so our fleet is 21.5% unloading at stores). This reduces the distances larger than we expected for 2010 and therefore travelled by the fleet and resultant emissions. it is difficult to compare emissions to our target. 36 trailers will be delivered this year. When comparing emissions per vehicle, if our fleet was still the same size as it was in 2007, our emissions would have reduced by 26.8%. (1) Based on assumptions of full loads and distances travelled. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 51 Environment Saved over 318 ML of water through rainwater harvesting and water efficient equipment Other Emissions Our 2010 performance In 2010 the estimated water use for Australian Ozone Depleting Substances Supermarkets was 1.81 GL. Average water use In 2010, total emissions of ozone depleting per supermarket decreased in 2010, and when substances were 24,626 kilograms from compared to the average water use from our refrigerant gas losses, primarily R22 baseline year of 2007 we have estimated that from air conditioning systems. This is a our Water Wise Project has saved 302 million 51.5% reduction in leakage of ozone litres of water in 2010. We have met our target depleting substances compared to 2009. of reducing water use by 200 million litres and we will continue to install water efficient Water equipment and promote water efficient Water is one of our most precious resources practices in stores. and its sustainable supply to homes, communities, farmers, businesses and industry In 2010, we completed a comprehensive is an ongoing challenge for which we all need baseline assessment of metered water use to find solutions. for our business. The data collection and assessment showed that 17.7% of our stores An average Australian household uses up to (in Supermarkets, BIG W, Petrol and Liquor), 330,000 litres of water per year. When you Distribution Centres and offices had individual include water for production of the food and water meters. The recorded water use of goods we buy, this adds up to 722,000 litres 734ML for these locations was extrapolated of water per person, annually. to a total water use of 2.97 GL per annum for all of our stores and sites. Why is this material to our business? As a retailer of fresh fruit, vegetables and The assessment also determined trends to meat, Woolworths relies upon the long-term provide the most accurate estimation of water sustainability and productivity of farmers. use possible. To improve the coverage of water Packaging Just as farmers have had to become efficient use data, all new supermarkets will have smart with the use of their water resources, our water meters installed. Why is this material to our business? business has made commitments to use Woolworths’ household brands include Our investment in large-scale rainwater water efficiently. Homebrand, Select, Fresh, Macro, Essentials, harvesting continued at our Distribution DSE and Distinct. The decisions we make in All water supplied to and discharged from Centres with the Wyong Regional Distribution designing the packaging for our products Woolworths stores and sites is managed Centre commissioning rainwater tanks with influences the amount and types of by licensed water authorities. We draw no 1.1 million litre capacity in January 2010. This packaging material customers take home. water directly from bores, rivers, or other project also received $150,000 in funding natural sources. from the New South Wales Department of Woolworths Limited is a signatory to the Environment, Climate Change and Water. National Packaging Covenant (NPC), an More than 80% of our stores are located in A refill point has been installed for the Fire industry agreement covering the whole of the shopping centres and billed for water usage Brigade and Rural Fire Service to fill appliances packaging supply chain with the aim to reduce through their lease outgoings. This means we and water tankers during fire emergencies. packaging waste. The NPC has reached the have metered water data for less than 18% of end of its term and the Environment Protection our stores. Our total water use is extrapolated Our first rainwater capture project at the and Heritage Conservation committee has from metered data. Sydney Regional Distribution Centre reused approved the Australian Packaging Covenant, 10.13 million litres of water in 2010. Along of which Woolworths will be a signatory. What is our commitment? with the five million litres harvested at other In summary, our commitments and targets are: systems, a total of 16.45 million litres of water has been captured and reused. –– Reducing water use by 200 million litres a year by 2010. –– Developing a more complete baseline of water usage; and –– Rolling out the Water Wise project nationally for all our supermarkets. 52 Woolworths Limited What is our commitment? Our own sustainable packaging guidelines Plastic Bags Issued per Customer In summary, our commitments and targets are: will be finalised to meet those set under Transaction (Supermarkets Only) the APC and their application formalised as –– Increase the number of reusable produce part of product development and packaging crates to 3.4 million; design. The guidelines include design –– Review private label procurement 1.97 strategies for effectiveness, efficiency, reuse, 1.87 policies and supplier guidelines; recovery, recycling, accessibility, safety and 1.75 –– Report annually to the NPC communication. and in Woolworths Corporate Responsibility Report; Progress on packaging targets, commitments –– Establish a supplier forum to work together and actions has been reported in on more sustainable packaging; and the NPC annual reports available on –– Establish more comprehensive baseline w w w.packagingcovenant.org.au. data for packaging of private label products. No further packaging assessments have been 08 09 10 conducted using the Packaging Impact Our 2010 performance Quick Evaluation Tool (PIQET). Further use Woolworths has continued to meet its annual of the tool will be considered under the new reporting requirements under the NPC and APC action plan. through our Corporate Responsibility Reports. With the Australian Packaging Covenant (APC) now formalised a new action plan and commitments will be developed, to cover private label products in all businesses. Number of reusable bags bought by our customers 14.3m Circulation of the 3.4 million reusable produce crates from supplier, to Distribution Centre, to store has reduced cardboard box usage by 41.2 million boxes in 2010. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 53 Environment Progress has continued on addressing nonWaste and Recycling Our 2010 performance conformances identified in the independent Our waste to landfill volumes decreased as Why is this material to our business? audit of private label packaging. This audit we continued our efforts to improve recycling Whenever a product goes to waste, the assessed compliance with the ISO14021 and divert waste from landfill. In Australia and resources that are used by the whole supply standard for environmental labelling and New Zealand the volume of materials recycled chain are wasted. Less waste and improved found 324 non-conformances. Of the or diverted in 2010 has increased by 2.8% and efficiencies also provide cost savings, which non‑conformances, 76% of the 21 high priority, 7.6% respectively. lead to a lower price for customers. Efficiency is 72% of the 46 medium priority and 48% of the a key principle that we always strive to achieve. Food waste to energy low priority actions have been addressed. Most Sixty-three supermarkets in Sydney now send related to the use of the Plastics Identification What is our commitment? their food waste, which is not fit for human Code (PIC) or adding an appropriate recycling In summary, our commitments and targets are: consumption, to EarthPower, where this material logo on suitable materials. is processed through a digestion system to –– Zero food waste in the waste stream by 2015; In 2009, we increased the number of reusable produce fertiliser and generate electricity. The –– Identify organics recycling technologies for produce crates to 3.4 million. In 2010 we volume of organic material diverted from landfill recycling food waste from supermarkets estimate that 41.2 million less cardboard boxes increased by 2.8% to 5,948 tonnes, enabling outside Sydney, and determine commercial ended up in landfill because of our use of the facility to generate 1,902 MWh of electricity. feasibility; crates. The crates are circulated from farms, to Woolworths has not yet achieved its target of –– Implement a waste audit program for all Distribution Centres, to stores and back, reducing 100 stores participating in EarthPower due to stores and distribution centres; emissions through their collapsible design and the higher than expected cost involved. –– Increase the number of Sydney stores using reducing damage to produce, meaning less food EarthPower from 53 to 100 by 2010; and An Expression of Interest was issued in waste, as per our commitment. –– Reduce the amount of cardboard and plastic 2010 to identify organic processing services in the general waste stream to less than 1%, and equipment available to Woolworths. by weight, by 2010. Submissions are being reviewed for suitability. In 2010 our E-Waste collection programs diverted 1,653 kg of mobile phones and accessories, 118,380 printer consumables (including cartridges) and 1,812 kg of batteries from landfill. BIG W collected 1,685 phones in support of cerebral palsy charities, which provided $2,988 in donations. 54 Woolworths Limited Waste Disposal and Recycled – Australia In 2010 BIG W Waste to landfill 41.0% reused and Cardboard 53.8% Plastic film 2.2% recycled 9,482 Organics to EarthPower 1.9% Food Diversion 1.0% palletised boxes, Polystyrene 0.0% Waxed Cardboard 0.0% Other (including commingled) 0.1% or an estimated equivalent of Waste Disposal and Recycled – New Zealand 28.7 million Waste to landfill 47.3% Cardboard 52.7% clothes hangers. Food Rescue programs Our Supermarket division has continued to expand Food Rescue programs, focusing on both the rescue of grocery products through Waste Disposal and Recycled – Australia and New Zealand Foodbank and fresh food through our Fresh Waste to landfill 41.7% Food Rescue program. More information on Cardboard 53.7% the expansion and funding of these programs Plastic film 1.9% is available in the Community Investment Organics to EarthPower 1.7% section on page 40. Food Diversion 0.9% Polystyrene 0.0% The volume of food rescued through Waxed Cardboard 0.0% Foodbank was 2,322 tonnes in 2010. A reverse Other (including commingled) 0.1% logistics process was implemented in 2010, where groceries that cannot be sold are transported from 567 supermarkets back to our Distribution Centres and then collected Recyclable Material in Supermarkets’ General Waste by Foodbank. Cardboard Plastics Fresh Food Rescue partnerships have been (including paper) (flexibles) formed with 423 supermarkets and local food % % relief organisations leading to the diversion 2006 Audit 7 10 of fit-for-consumption food for the provision 2009 Audit 7 8 of meals. These programs will continue to 2010 Audit 4 6 expand, particularly with the financial support from the $2 million Fresh Food Rescue Grants. Waste audits Woolworths is aware that there is always room Materials Diverted from Landfill for improvement in waste management and 2007 2008 2009 2010 we have set targets. (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) (tonnes) Follow-up waste audits were conducted on Australia 31 supermarkets in Australia and showed Organic waste from supermarkets 4,860 5,354 5,785 5,948 that recycling practices have improved in our Food to Foodbank 700 1251 1278 2322 stores. The volume of paper and cardboard in the waste stream decreased to 4%, compared Food Rescue (excluding Foodbank) – – 76 747 to 8% in the 2009 audit, while the volume Plastic film 6,055 6,057 6,207 6,956 of flexible plastic in the waste stream has Cardboard 147,189 165,908 167,787 170,585 decreased a further 1%, to 6% (including Polystyrene – 589 99 98.5 3% of non-recyclable plastic). Waxed cardboard – 220 268 6.5 The presence of an Eco Ambassador in Other (including commingled) – – 336 305.9 every supermarket has helped improve staff awareness on recycling practices, Total (Australia) 158,804 179,379 181,836 186,968.9 and help reduce waste and maximising New Zealand revenue from recycling. Recycled material – 21,188 19,105 20,559 Total tonnes 158,804 200,567 200,941 207,527.9 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 55 Environment Electronic waste Eco Ambassadors Trained Dick Smith is a founding member and ongoing participant of Product Stewardship Australia 2008 533 (PSA), an industry-led organisation that is developing nationally consistent solutions 2009 838 for end-of-life electronic and electrical 2010 183 products. PSA works with the Department Total 1,554 of Environment, Water, Heritage and the Arts developing appropriate legislation and regulations to ensure all consumer electronics and IT importers contribute to programs funding end-of-life recycling. Dick Smith has had good results in its E-waste collection programs, with mobile phones and accessories collected under the Mobile Muster program increasing by 70% and batteries recycled increasing by 125%. All catalogues for our businesses are Printer cartridges are recycled through the Cartridges for Planet Ark program. We had now produced on Programme for the a small decrease (2%) in the number of printer consumables recycled in 2010. Endorsement of Forestry Certification BIG W provides satchels in store for the recycling of mobile phones in support of (PEFC) paper, which promotes cerebral palsy charities. 1,685 mobile phones were recycled by this program in 2010. sustainable forest management. Eco Ambassador Program While Woolworths invests in energy and water efficient technology and implements programs to minimise waste, the true benefits of these commitments are only realised with the support of our staff. Our Eco Ambassador program continues to train staff on sustainability and how to engage their co-workers in sustainable work practices. In 2010 we continued the roll-out of the program in New Zealand by conducting workshops and issuing self-training toolkits. With 162 employees trained we have an Eco Ambassador in every supermarket in New Zealand. A further 21 employees were trained with self training kits in Dick Smith. 56 Woolworths Limited Supermarkets in Australia have continued their Biodiversity Woolworths reported refrigerant emissions Regional structure with Eco Ambassadors in Our property division complies with all federal, based on refill volumes for our systems every store, supported by Eco Ambassadors state and territory planning laws for all our instead of applying a loss factor, an unknown at Area and Region level and a Chairperson. store developments, in which we include a at the time, to total capacity of refrigerants. The 10 Chairpersons participate in a monthly Statement of Environment Effect. Biodiversity Woolworths Limited’s NPC Annual Report phone link with support staff, to share and environment protection measures and data for 2009 are available on the NPC initiatives and ideas and obtain technical are identified as part of the development website w w w.packagingcovenant.com. guidance. A monthly newsletter, the Eco application and consent process and we fully au. This annual report was approved and Times, is used to share information and facts, comply with all consent conditions imposed registered by the NPC in January 2010, and dispel some of the long-standing myths by the relevant authorities. with the assessor rating our report 3.7 stars about sustainability. None of the projects in construction in 2010 in the NPC 1–5 star rating system. had any issues with biodiversity. Two of the Paper Use Spills 10 projects in planning have undergone In 2010 the office paper use throughout all Woolworths Petrol had six spill incidents biodiversity assessments. One of these support offices was 74,626 reams of paper. in 2010, with only two of these incidents developments, currently undergoing an Woolworths awarded a new contract for office involving a regulatory body. The largest application for rezoning, has an identified paper supply, covering all business divisions spill was of 300 litres of unleaded petrol at threatened plant species present and a (excluding ALH and DSE NZ), and this included our site in Wynyard, Tasmania, caused by a Vegetation Management Plan has been the supply of Forestry Stewardship Council failed gasket. proposed to minimise the risk to this species. (FSC) certified paper products. Supply of A third party fuel transport company was this sustainably sourced paper now extends Voluntary Codes and Reporting issued an order by EPA Victoria to pay $80,000 into all businesses. towards two community projects following a Environmental compliance Across all Woolworths businesses(1) we spill at a Woolworths Petrol station in Wantirna. Regulatory reporting produced 911 million catalogues in Australia The spill involved the loss of 7,200 litres of Woolworths Limited has reported under the and 155.2 million catalogues in New Zealand. unleaded petrol, which entered the nearby Energy Efficiency Opportunities (EEO) Act This production used a total of 57,048 Dandenong Creek. Both the creek and wildlife 2006 and the National Greenhouse and Energy tonnes of paper. In 2010 we awarded a new were impacted by the leak. Reporting (NGER) Act 2007. Our 2009 EEO Company-wide contract for the production of report is available on our corporate website All incidents are reported and investigated our catalogues in Australia and New Zealand. homepage w w w.woolworthslimited.com.au. to determine the root causes, and remediation Meeting the sustainability criteria for the conducted where required. tender process, all catalogues for our Our first NGER report was submitted by businesses are now produced on Programme 31 October 2009 and covered the same Fines for the Endorsement of Forestry Certification reporting period as our 2009 CR Report. In 2010, there were no environmental incidents (PEFC) paper, which promotes sustainable NGER reporting covers only Scope 1 and that incurred monetary fines for Woolworths. forest management. 2 emissions and not all refrigerants, so the emissions reported to the NGER are less (1) than those reported in our CR Reports. Excluding DSE NZ. Woolworths also advised the office that our NGER reported emissions included emissions reported for refrigerant loss, which were estimated using a methodology that does not comply with NGER regulations. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 57 responsible retailing We understand that we have a duty to be more than just a retail outlet, but to also make a positive impact on the societies that we serve. We work to the principle that we can never take our customers for granted. We believe in earning our customers’ trust and respect by acting responsibly both inside and outside our stores and helping them make informed choices. 58 Woolworths Limited We are helping our customers make informed choices. Buy and sell responsibly. Deliver the best value for customers. Ensure quality and safety. Source sustainably and ethically. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 59 Responsible Retailing Salt reductions made since September last year in our Homebrand bread have resulted in over 50 tonnes less salt Responsible Food Retailing being in the food supply. Our wide-ranging commitment to responsible food retailing is demonstrated in a variety of ways, from our competitive pricing and fresh food offer to the confectionery-free checkouts in our supermarkets for parents who may be shopping with their children. All our stores have confectionary-free checkouts. Woolworths recognises that our customers are increasingly concerned about health and nutrition and we want to provide them with food that meets their expectations. We are working collaboratively as part of the Food and Health Dialogue to address poor dietary habits and promote healthier food choices for all Australians. 34% of Australians are estimated to consume sodium at levels above that recommended from salt alone. A key focus has been food reformulation, and category targets for sodium reduction have been set for both bread and breakfast cereals. We have already made progress in this area. Selling Alcohol Responsibly Alcohol consumption is ultimately an issue of individual responsibility. However, as a This policy has been incorporated into our Woolworths Liquor Group participates in responsible retailer of alcoholic beverages, we Responsible Service of Alcohol training. local community liquor accords, where go beyond regulatory compliance with a strict licensees and other stakeholders take action We have also initiated a point of sale campaign set of processes and procedures that govern all to improve safety in entertainment areas and ‘Don’t buy it for them’ to raise community aspects of our liquor operations to help protect reduce alcohol-related anti-social behaviour. awareness of the danger of secondary supply individuals and society from the harm caused Woolworths has approximately 457 licensed of alcohol to minors. by excessive alcohol consumption. stores involved in local liquor accords and In November 2009, in partnership with commits almost $411,990 in wages expense Annual audits of licensing and responsible Crimestoppers, we launched a point of sale and 13,980 labour hours to attendance at local service compliance are conducted in all of awareness campaign to further support liquor accords. our licensed outlets. our commitment to responsible retailing Any alcoholic or alcohol branded product All Woolworths Liquor Group staff are trained of alcohol. (such as branded chocolate, chips or soft in Responsible Service of Alcohol. Regular Woolworths Liquor Group has always been a drinks) submitted for potential sale by suppliers refreshers are undertaken to ensure that our conscientious participant in efforts by police, to the Woolworths Liquor Group must first be staff remain aware of their responsibilities in local councils and community groups to tackle benchmarked against our Charter. The charter this area. problem drinking. Woolworths Liquor Group includes 10 principles that aim to avoid the One of the challenges facing our 8,000 staff presented to the fifth Australian Drug Strategy sale of any products that appeal to minors, working in licensed premises is preventing Conference on best practice in responsible encourage inappropriate drinking practices sale of alcohol to underage customers and service of alcohol. We have introduced or make inappropriate associations. to people who are supplying them. a range of measures to better manage These practices send a strong message alcohol-related issues in some communities, To help our staff make the right decisions to the community and manufacturers that including removing ‘long-neck’ beer and some we have implemented our ID25 policy, which products targeting minors and encouraging wine products from our range in areas where requires employees to ask for identification irresponsible drinking are not welcome in these are prone to abuse; and voluntarily when customers appear to be aged 25 or our stores. reducing our trading hours. younger. This reduces the guesswork and potential stress for staff while helping to ensure we only sell to customers of legal age. 60 Woolworths Limited Woolworths Liquor Group participates in local community liquor accords, where licensees and other stakeholders take action to improve safety in entertainment areas and reduce alcohol-related anti-social behaviour. Our Charter for Ranging Alcohol in Our Stores Principle 1 The product should not have the potential to appeal to minors. Principle 2 The product should not have an appearance that could potentially lead to confusion with confectionery or soft drinks. Principle 3 The product should not have an appearance which may lead to confusion about its alcoholic nature or strength. Principle 4 The product should not draw any association with drug culture, narcotics or other illicit drugs or drug paraphernalia. Principle 5 The product should not encourage illegal or immoderate consumption such as binge drinking, drunkenness or drink‑driving. Principle 6 The product should not suggest any association with dangerous, violent, aggressive or antisocial behaviour. Principle 7 The product should not suggest that consumption can lead to social, sporting or sexual success. Principle 8 The product should not feature imagery or language that could be deemed offensive on cultural, religious, ethnic or gender grounds. Principle 9 The product should not suggest that any physical or mental health benefit can be obtained by consumption. Principle 10 Ready to drink (RTD) products containing more than two standard drinks per single serve container will not be ranged by Woolworths Liquor Group. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 61 Responsible Retailing Responsible Service of Gaming The ALH Group is committed to providing responsible gaming in our venues. We acknowledge that problem gambling is a serious community concern. The Productivity Commission in its Report into gambling (June 2010) estimates that between 0.5% and 1% of adult Australians are problem gamblers. We believe that the industry, government, community and individuals have a shared responsibility for the promotion, development and practice of responsible gambling. Our objective is for gambling facilities to be enjoyed as a social recreation by responsible individuals who choose to use them. We want to ensure that our hotels provide a safe and supportive environment where our customers make informed decisions about gambling and we want to provide timely appropriate assistance and information. ALH complies with all applicable responsible gambling legislative requirements in each state and participates in many state and local government gambling working groups to assist in identifying and developing appropriate responsible gambling initiatives. Our Hotel and Gaming Charter All ALH gaming staff are trained in the –– We strive to provide a safe and friendly environment in which all customers can responsible service of gambling and all socialise and enjoy themselves in a good atmosphere. frontline managers and staff are trained in the –– We provide good value, good quality meals and family friendly dining experiences. responsible service of alcohol. It is general ALH practice not to promote any practice –– We restrict gaming room access to adults and ensure gaming rooms are screened which may encourage rapid or excessive or separated from other areas of the hotel, so as to not attract children. consumption of alcohol, such as ‘happy hours’. –– We ensure responsible service of alcohol and provision of gaming, by making sure For the last three years, the ALH Group has management and staff adhere to all applicable rules and regulations and are trained worked with David Schwarz, a well known to encourage and promote responsibility. former AFL footballer and reformed problem –– We believe we have a shared responsibility, along with individuals, governments, gambler, as its Responsible Gambling families and the community, to prevent harm. Ambassador. The program involves working with ALH management to identify further –– We actively support campaigns that warn of the dangers of drinking and gambling opportunities where we can proactively assist to excess and that inform people where to get help. those who have a problem with gambling. –– We ensure that ATMs provided for the convenience of all patrons are in a safe, central David provides employee education and location and not in gaming areas. customer awareness about the importance –– We are committed to introducing voluntary pre-commitment – a system that helps of ‘being honest with yourself about your players stick to their limit by nominating spending or time limits on gaming machines. gambling’. Most importantly, David is available for our staff to discuss any gambling –– We do not engage in promotions that could encourage irresponsible drinking problems they or their families and friends or gambling or that are directed at minors or vulnerable groups. may be experiencing. 62 Woolworths Limited 52% of all corrective actions raised in ethical audits during 2010 Ethical Sourcing An important consideration here is the Woolworths is committed to upholding detrimental consequences this would be likely were addressed human rights not only with respect to its to have on the child and the family members own employees but also in its supply chain, who may depend on him or her – including and closed. and it has an Ethical Sourcing Policy which loss of income and the hunger, homelessness includes four key risk areas: bribery and and general deprivation and poverty that corruption; labour rights; working conditions; would inevitably follow. and environmental compliance. The policy In 2010, we completed audits of just over 42% is available on our website. Woolworths of factories making our own brand products. is also a signatory to the United Nations The delay has been predominantly caused Global Compact (UNGC). UNGC signatories by the time required to negotiate with some embrace, support and enact, within their suppliers to get the location of their factories spheres of influence, a set of core values in the and reach agreement to have access to the areas of human rights, labour standards, the factories for our auditors. However, we are environment and anti-corruption. committed to the monitoring program and Our policy is based on globally recognised will continue our implementation. standards the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Similar to 2009, in 2010 the most common and International Labour Organisation (ILO) area of non-conformance is in working hours conventions. Both standards are based on and living wages, an issue which is broadly the principles of the United Nations Universal recognised and acknowledged and more Declaration of Human Rights. specific throughout various areas of China All Woolworths suppliers are expected to where we source a significant portion of our comply with requirements of our policy, own brands. Employees are generally working which is complemented by a compliance more normal or overtime hours compared audit program predominantly for suppliers with local requirements; for example, more of our own branded products. than seven days consecutively without time off, or receiving wages which are not in line Audits are conducted by experienced with local award requirements for social third-party certification bodies. All audit criteria insurances or overtime awards. have been assessed according to the level of risk and categorised as critical and non-critical Some issues are bigger than Woolworths, and non-conformances. Non-critical is further we cannot fix these problems alone despite categorised as ‘high’ or ‘low’ in severity. our best efforts. For this we look beyond our own business to seek assistance and advice Areas of significant risk deemed to be critical about issues that are systemic and require include specific criteria relating to child labour, a global approach to bring about change imprisoned or bonded labour, health and and improvement. safety, or bribery and corruption. Breach of any specific critical criterion will result in a request Woolworths is an active member of for immediate resolution or corrective action the Global Social Compliance Program by the supplier. Woolworths is notified of any (w w w.gscpnet.com), a multi-stakeholder critical findings within 24 hours of the audit, program aimed at delivering a shared, often while the auditor is still on site. consistent approach for continuously improving working and environmental Audit Results – Factory Classification in 2010 Suppliers are categorised as ‘approved’, conditions across all categories and sectors. ‘conditionally approved’ or ‘at risk’ depending Approved 6% on the audit outcome and compliance with 52% of all corrective actions raised in 2010 Conditionally Approved 72% policy requirements. Our approach is to work were addressed and closed. We continue At Risk 22% with suppliers to help improve their labour monitoring the progress on resolving the and environmental practices no matter remaining corrective actions. Audit Results – Number of Corrective Actions Raised in 2010 which category they are in. This is particularly important in cases of child labour, Critical 2% where any threat of contract termination High 78% would typically result in the factory Low 20% terminating the child worker’s employment. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 63 Responsible Retailing We are mindful of the magnitude of change 36% of all fresh pork that is supplied and investment such developments may represent for our suppliers. We have a to Woolworths is produced from pigs responsibility to suppliers and customers to introduce any fundamental change such born to sows that have been reared as this in a responsible manner so suppliers have the capacity to invest in change and can in a sow stall free environment. provide our customers with affordable product. By the end of 2011 this will have The Woolworths Quality Assurance (WQA) standard now includes an animal increased to 42%. welfare module for all livestock products. These requirements are audited as part of the WQA audit program. Fairtrade The demand for Fairtrade certified products has steadily increased in recent years and our supermarkets range a number of Fairtrade certified products. While our range is regularly reviewed and is subject to change at the time of this report the Fairtrade certified brands ranged on our supermarkets include: –– Bean Ground & Drunk organic coffee Animal Welfare The new shelf layouts were released to all –– Cadbury Dairy Milk chocolates (200 g As communities become more affluent stores nationally in August 2009, and in revised block, share pack, 55 g roll, 50 g chunky bar) and better educated, they demand more form in February. A new and improved point of –– Green & Black’s chocolates information about how their food is produced, sale package is currently under development. –– Nerada tea transported and processed, and how animals –– Qi tea While we have seen a significant shift to are managed through the production chain. –– Republica Signature organic coffee and free-range eggs, cage eggs still represent drinking chocolate The consumer interest in animal welfare 49.8% of our total sales by value. The vast –– Robert Timms coffee bags has been increasing over the past few years. majority of this is Homebrand and it shows –– Scarborough Fair coffee and tea We have seen this reflected in our sales of, the proportion of customers who are looking particularly, free-range eggs and chicken meat. for value for money. Genetically Modified Foods We have responded accordingly by making In 2009, we introduced Bred Free Otway Woolworths is absolutely committed to more choices available to our customers. Pork in 23 stores in Victoria. In 2010, we sold food quality and safety. We also know that Our Select branded eggs currently Free Range pork in 272 of our Australian our customers expect food labelling and comprise free-range, barn-laid. As part supermarkets. 36% of all fresh pork that is advertising to be clear and accurate. of our commitment we discontinued supplied to Woolworths is produced from pigs Woolworths is committed to meeting very selling caged eggs under our Select brand born to sows that have been reared in a sow high standards, through: at the end of 2009. stall free environment. By the end of 2011 this will have increased to 42%. –– A standard policy of avoiding genetically In 2009, we made a decision to change modified (GM) material in our Private Label egg shelf layouts in all our stores to reflect We have extended our range to include food range. segregation by farming type such as caged, RSPCA accredited Free Range pork into –– Requiring suppliers to declare GM free-range and barn-laid. We have continued New South Wales, Australian Capital Territory ingredients. with this merchandising policy throughout and parts of Victoria in June 2010. The Primo –– If GM ingredients are declared, working with 2009–2010. This change is supported range is available in 245 stores. Woolworths suppliers to replace the GM ingredients. by point of sale material clearly identifying also carries Free Range pork in Western –– Contractually binding all suppliers to the range available to customers. Australia under the Plantagenet brand. adhere to agreed product specifications This range is stocked in 27 stores. and not changing any ingredients without our consent. –– Complying with all relevant national, state and territory food standards. 64 Woolworths Limited Woolworths also fully complies with the Food Standards Australia New Zealand prescribed Sales Growth for Animal Welfare Products mandatory labelling requirements for GM Percentage Percentage Percentage foods. These standards recognise the possibility increase increase of total in sales in sales category of unintentional minor traces of GM material to in 2009* in 2010* sales in 2010 be present and therefore don’t require labelling Product % % % if there is an unintentional trace of less than 1% Free range chicken (Macro meat) 33.6 30.1 16.4 of an ingredient. Free range chicken (Macro deli) n/a 263.8 2.3 Under these standards, Woolworths has had Free range eggs 32.0 15 35.8 no Private Label products labelled with GM Barn laid eggs 20.7 11 11.3 ingredients in the last year. However to ensure we are absolutely correct with our labelling, Organic Macro meat 25.8 10.0 0.8 we do not use the term ‘GM-free’ or ‘genetically * Percentage increase based on increased sales from previous financial year. engineered-free’, because it is not possible to give an absolute guarantee that there could never be such an unintentional, minor trace of GM material. Palm oil is an efficient crop, yielding up to Timber, pulp and paper We also acknowledge we are unable to give 10 times more oil per hectare than soyabeans, Woolworths is committed to purchasing an absolute guarantee that all stock feed used rapeseed or sunflowers. On 5% of the world’s timber, pulp and paper from legal, well in the supply chain is completely GM free. vegetable-oil farmland it produces 38% of managed or sustainable sources. We are output, more than any other oil crop and any progressively working through our range Responsible Sourcing substitute would need more land.(1) Therefore, of products and revising specifications for banning the use of palm oil could cause purchasing of these products. Palm oil more deforestation as other oil crops have Woolworths has been conscious of concerns In 2010, we introduced our new Select facial considerably less yield per hectare. about the impact that the growing demand tissues, toilet tissue and kitchen towels that are for palm oil is having on rainforest areas In 2010, Woolworths Supermarkets reviewed all Programme for the Endorsement of Forest in South-East Asia, West Africa and South its palm oil policy in consultation with WWF Certification (PEFC) certified. The pulp America. Deforestation in Indonesia is and announced its new policy on 29 March is sourced from Brazil, Chile, Canada and threatening the survival of many native 2010. The key commitments are: Australia and the product is made in Australia. species and the draining of peatlands is –– Moving to RSPO (Roundtable on Our copy paper used internally is certified contributing to climate change. Sustainable Palm Oil) certified sustainable by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Woolworths’ policy until early 2010 was to palm oil by 2015 for all Woolworths private mixed source. either ban or reduce the use of palm oil in label products; In 2010 we also completed our catalogue Select food products where alternative oil can –– On pack labelling of palm oil and derivatives tender. Our catalogue paper will be PEFC be used without compromising the product (greater than 5% by weight) in all certified from 2011. quality and increasing the trans-fat content. Woolworths private label products; and This position was taken because certified –– Applying to become the first Australian BIG W retails exclusively FSC-certified outdoor sustainable palm oil was not available. retail member of the Roundtable on furniture brand ‘Patio’ and we are working on Sustainable Palm Oil – a global not-forour Timber Sourcing policy for our new home profit organisation set up to advance the improvement business, with its first store use of certified palm oil and establish scheduled to open for trade in late 2011. Woolworths is a consistent standards. member of the Woolworths is a member of RSPO. At this time (1) The Economist 24 June 2010. Roundtable on only a small proportion of the total global supply of palm oil is certified sustainable Sustainable Palm Oil. under the RSPO certification scheme. Meeting our target date of 2015 is a significant challenge, but we are determined to do our best to meet our commitment. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 65 Responsible Retailing All our suppliers as part of our trading terms are required to maintain compliance to Fish and seafood all Government We have specific requirements for trade partners who supply seafood products to our regulatory supermarkets. These requirements support the requirements WQA Standard. All direct suppliers of seafood, both local and international, are required to related to the become certified to the WQA. The scope of seafood industry. the standard covers aquaculture, catch, harvest, procurement of raw materials and packaging materials, processing, packaging and distribution through to supply to Woolworths distribution centres and supermarkets. All our suppliers as part of our trading terms are required to maintain compliance to all Government regulatory requirements related to the seafood industry. We are reviewing our fish and seafood sourcing practices to include sustainable sourcing criteria. Quality Assurance, Product Information and Labelling The Quality Assurance (QA) function is an integral part of the Woolworths Limited business with over 70 people engaged in All suppliers of fresh food products and Consumer Electronics quality assurance activities across the divisions. private label food products in Australia and Our consumer electronics team manages Over the coming year, we are focusing on New Zealand must be certified to the WQA product compliance with Australian streamlining our current quality assurance standard. Currently more than 2,300 suppliers and international standards covering a processes to ensure that we continue to are independently audited biannually broad range of criteria including electrical provide products to our customers that they to demonstrate compliance to the WQA safety, human electromagnetic exposure, trust, that are safe and that meet customers’ Standard. The WQA program is also audited toy safety, radiocommunications and expectations on quality and value for money. globally to ensure compliance of suppliers. telecommunications compatibility and energy efficiency. Food The WQA program includes an ethical sourcing Our QA team is made up of over 24 qualified module for all private label suppliers and Our QA staff assess product safety impact technical staff in Australia and New Zealand. an animal welfare module for our suppliers prior to ranging products and monitor They include food technologists, nutritionists, of animal products. ongoing compliance using a combination chemists and the QA Laboratory team located of independent factory and incoming in state-of-the-art laboratory facilities at Consumer products, apparel goods inspections. Norwest in Sydney, Australia. and general merchandise Our quality assurance specialists in this area Liquor The QA team is responsible for ensuring all ensure all exclusive and private label products Woolworths Liquor Group has implemented its products sold in our fresh food departments are subject to our quality assurance process. quality assurance process in line with our WQA and under our private label brands are safe and Packaging and labelling for exclusive/private standard. This includes QA review and approval of the highest quality and that all claims made label brands are assessed at various stages of throughout the product development on products are validated and comply with product development to ensure compliance lifecycle. Our private label brands in liquor are relevant regulations. with regulatory requirements. Products are predominantly produced by reputable and assessed to ensure all required warnings, age well-known brand owners retailing products grade recommendations, measurements, under their own brands with established labels, care instructions and country of origin quality assurance processes. claims are correct. 66 Woolworths Limited Petrol Woolworths has comprehensive processes Fuel quality is subject to the Australian for conducting recalls in a speedy and Government’s Fuel Quality Standards Act 2000. efficient manner. This Act covers all fuel types including all Food and liquor recalls in 2010: gasoline, diesel and LPG. Refiners are required to manufacture fuel to comply with this Act, –– Woolworths Supermarkets – and all fuel is tested prior to release against the Woolworths Carbonara Salad 350 g – requirements under it. undeclared allergens. –– Woolworths Supermarkets – Woolworths Imported fuel is also subject to the standards Lite Milk 2 litre – potential food safety issue. imposed under the Act. Woolworths requires –– Woolworths Supermarkets – its fuel suppliers to complete testing and to Woolworths Prepacked Crumpets – furnish Woolworths with certificates of quality, metal contamination. certifying that fuel supplied to us complies. Apparel/general merchandise recalls in 2010: Environmental Claims –– BIG W Children’s Nightwear lines, which The retail market is becoming increasingly were incorrectly labelled as low fire danger saturated with products making environmental when they should have been labelled high claims. Unfortunately, some claims can be fire danger. misleading if they are not supported by –– Woolworths Supermarkets – Woolworths evidence or well explained. This practice of Essentials Travel Hair Dryer December 2009. ‘greenwash’ has led to a great deal of consumer confusion when making decisions about Customer Feedback and Complaints buying environmentally friendly products. Woolworths has policies to handle all types As a brand owner we are committed to of customer feedback: truth in advertising and have a Group-wide –– Service oriented; Environmental Claims policy to help our –– Product contamination; buying, advertising and marketing staff ensure –– Shortfalls in product quality; and that the environmental claims made on –– Transaction charging disputes. Woolworths’ private label brands and in our catalogues have been properly verified and We have systems in place to capture customer described in a way that does not mislead our feedback, compliments, general enquiries and customers or the general public. The policy complaints; in-store, by phone and online. was developed with reference to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission Privacy Policy (ACCC) guidelines Green marketing and the Woolworths complies with the National Trade Practices Act and the New Zealand Privacy Principles for the Fair Handling of Commerce Commission’s Guidelines for Personal Information that sets standards for Green Marketing. collection, use and disclosure, access, storage and destruction of personal information that Product Recalls we collect as part of our business operations. Woolworths conducts consumer product We also have a general privacy policy and a safety recalls in line with the FSANZ Product number of product specific privacy policies Recall Protocol and the ACCC Product covering various aspects of our business. Our Recall Guidelines. privacy policy is available on all our websites. Protecting our customers from potential In 2009, external consultants were appointed product safety hazards is very important to us. to review our privacy practice and procedures Many product recalls are initiated by suppliers across major streams of our business. when they become aware of safety issues or The review was completed in late 2009 by our quality assurance team as a result of and the recommendations are currently compliance checks of products. being implemented which will result in a strengthened approach to Privacy across all of our businesses. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 67 independent assurance statement Net Balance Management Group Pty Ltd Level 2, 215–217 Clarence Street Sydney NSW 2000 Australia Telephone. +61 2 9249 2100 Facsimile. +61 2 9262 2053 Email. info@netbalance.com Website. netbalance.com To the Board of Directors, Management and Stakeholders of Woolworths Limited: Woolworths Limited (Woolworths) commissioned Net Balance Management Group Pty Ltd (Net Balance) to provide independent assurance of Woolworths’‘Corporate Responsibility Report 2010’ (the ‘Report’). The Report presents Woolworths’ corporate responsibility performance over the period 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010. Woolworths was responsible for the preparation of the Report and this statement represents the assurance provider’s independent opinion. In performing its assurance activities, Net Balance’s responsibility is to the Board and Management of Woolworths alone in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with them. Other stakeholders should perform their own due diligence before taking any action as a result of this statement. Assurance Standard and Objectives The assurance engagement was undertaken in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard (AA1000AS (2008)). Assurance using this standard, provides a comprehensive process of ensuring an organisation is responsible for its management, performance and reporting on corporate responsibility issues. This is achieved through the evaluation of the organisation’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (2008) and by reviewing the accuracy and quality of disclosed corporate responsibility performance information. The AA1000 Accountability Principles (2008) against which Woolworths’ processes are assessed include: Inclusivity: An assessment is made on whether the organisation has included stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to corporate responsibility. Materiality: An assessment is made on whether the organisation has included in its Report the material information required by its stakeholders to be able to make informed judgements, decisions and actions. Responsiveness: An assessment is made on whether the organisation has responded to stakeholder concerns, policies and relevant standards and adequately communicated these in its Report. Assurance Type and Scope Net Balance provided ‘Type 2’ assurance in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008). This involved an assessment of the organisation’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles (2008) and an assessment of the accuracy and quality of the Report’s corporate responsibility performance related information. The review of accuracy and quality of corporate responsibility performance information was undertaken using Woolworths’ internal protocols and the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 principles of quality. 68 Woolworths Limited Assurance Level and Limitations The level of assurance provided is ‘moderate’ as defined by the scope and methodology described in this assurance statement. The assurance covered the whole Report and focused on systems and activities of Woolworths during the reporting period, with the following exceptions: –– The scope of work did not involve verification of financial data, other than that relating to environmental, social or broader economic performance. –– The verification process was conducted primarily at Woolworths’ Bella Vista Head Office as well as the Pennant Hills office, both located in New South Wales, Australia. Assurance Methodology The assurance engagement was undertaken from August to October 2010, and the process involved: –– Development of a materiality register using the AA1000 AS (2008) ‘five-part materiality test’, including a comparison of Woolworths against selected peers, a risk review, a review of selected Australian media, a policy review and review of stakeholder feedback. –– Senior management interviews to assess the effectiveness of policy, procedures and frameworks in place to manage corporate responsibility within the organisation. –– A review of the processes used by Woolworths to engage with its stakeholders and the outcomes of the external and internal stakeholder engagement undertaken during the reporting period in order to understand the nature of material issues raised by stakeholders. –– A review of Woolworths’ key corporate responsibility strategies, policies, objectives, management systems, measurement and reporting procedures, background documentation and data collection and reporting procedures. –– Interviews with key staff responsible for preparing the Report to ascertain their views, understanding and response to material corporate responsibility issues faced by the business. –– Interviews with key personnel responsible for collating and writing various parts of the Report in order to substantiate the veracity of selected claims. –– A review of the Report for any significant anomalies, particularly in relation to significant claims as well as trends in data. –– Examination of the aggregation and/or derivation of, and underlying evidence for 134 selected data points and statements made in the Report and evaluation of the data and statements against Woolworths’ internal data protocols and the GRI G3 Principles of Quality. –– Collecting and evaluating evidence to support the assurance work undertaken. –– A GRI G3 Application Level Check. Our Independence Net Balance was not responsible for preparation of any part of the Report. The assurance team’s independence was ensured by selecting a team that had no other involvement with Woolworths during the reporting period that could impair the team’s independence or objectivity. Net Balance also completed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 application level check for the 2010 Report and verification of Woolworths’ reporting data in relation to the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Act 2007. These projects were deemed complementary to the assurance function and therefore were deemed not to impact upon the team’s independence or objectivity. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 69 independent assurance statement Our Competency The Woolworths’ assurance engagement was carried out by an experienced team of professionals led by a Lead Certified Sustainability Assurance Practitioner (Lead CSAP), accredited by the International Register of Certified Auditors UK (IRCA UK). The project included specialists with expertise in environmental, social and economic performance measurement across a range of industry sectors. Net Balance is a global leader in the use of Accountability’s AA1000AS, having undertaken over 80 assurance engagements in Australia over the past three years. Findings and Conclusions Adherence to AA1000 Principles Inclusivity: Woolworths has effective systems in place to collect feedback from key stakeholders to ensure that the organisation appropriately measures, monitors and manages its material corporate responsibility issues. Its Corporate Responsibility Panel plays an important role in ensuring external views are included in internal decision-making processes. Net Balance investigated a number of material issues from the Report, and found comprehensive and continuous processes in place for communicating with key stakeholders. Issues and feedback channels are actively monitored at the corporate level as well as within each business division. The issues reviewed by Net Balance included corporate governance, anti-corruption, community engagement, government relations, responsible service of alcohol and gaming, employee and safety programs, and quality assurance of private label products. Materiality: Woolworths has multiple processes in place to determine material issues across the organisation. The Report was found to be in alignment with the outcomes of these processes and, as such, appropriately addressed Woolworths’ environmental, social and economic material issues. In addition, the Report was also found to provide balanced information about Woolworths’ corporate responsibility management and performance. Interviews with a selection of senior managers at the divisional level demonstrated a clear appreciation of relevant division-specific corporate responsibility issues. Responsiveness: Woolworths actively engages with customers, industry groups, media, government, and to the extent practical, the communities in which it operates to identify material issues. It also reports relevant and timely information in relation to those issues and this was demonstrated throughout the Report. Net Balance acknowledges the clarity with which Woolworths has articulated its understanding of their stakeholders and what is important to them. Net Balance encourages continued improvement in providing feedback and relevant performance information to communities and customers. Reliability of Performance Information Based on the scope of the assurance process, the following was observed with regard to performance information: –– The findings of the assurance engagement provide confidence in the systems and processes used for managing and reporting corporate responsibility performance information. –– The level of accuracy of corporate responsibility performance information was found to be within acceptable limits. –– Data trails selected were generally identifiable and traceable, and personnel responsible were able to reliably demonstrate the origin(s) and interpretation of data. –– The corporate responsibility performance disclosures presented within the Report appropriately reflect environmental, social and economic performance achieved during the period. –– The GRI Application Level Check found the Report was classified as A+. Overall, it is Net Balance’s opinion that the information presented within the Report is fair and accurate and that the Report is a reliable account of Woolworths’ corporate responsibility performance during the reporting period. 70 Woolworths Limited The Way Forward It is noteworthy that Woolworths continues to take a lead role with respect to its international peers as being one of the few top retailers to have its Report prepared and independently assured. It was found that Woolworths has appropriate processes in place for collecting corporate responsibility performance information and that the Report appropriately addresses Woolworths’ environmental, social and economic material issues. This year, improvements were observed in: –– dedicating resources and management to engage with stakeholders on key issues –– a group-wide focus on quality assurance and ethical sourcing –– management of group-wide environmental data through the recent implementation of a new management information system –– data management systems to track group-wide training data. In order to continue to enhance the reporting of corporate responsibility objectives across all divisions, Net Balance encourages Woolworths to: –– increase consistency in data collation across all reporting areas and divisions by using more consistent categories and boundaries for performance data aggregation –– establish and document formal data management and reporting protocols and procedures for performance metrics –– ensure all content providers and are fully engaged, trained and prepared for the assurance process as well as provide final sign-off of their respective report content –– formalise the process for embedding issues identified during stakeholder engagement into existing risk management frameworks. Net Balance has provided recommendations and suggestions that have been outlined in a separate, more detailed report presented to Woolworths’ Board and Management. On behalf of the assurance team 28 October 2010 Sydney, Australia Terence Jeyaretnam, FIEAust Director, Net Balance & Lead CSAP (IRCA UK) Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 71 united nations global compact In May 2009, Woolworths Limited became a The table below shows how Woolworths is UNGC signatory. The United Nations Global fulfilling the principles of the UNGC. Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Principles Actions Outcomes Human Rights Principle 1 Woolworths is committed to upholding human rights not only with Further information can be found under Protection of respect to its own employees but also in its supply chain, and has ‘Ethical Sourcing’ in the Responsible Retailing Human Rights an Ethical Sourcing Policy which includes labour rights and working section on page 63. conditions. The policy is available on our website. Our approach is to work with suppliers to Our policy is based on the globally recognised standards of the Ethical help improve their labour and environmental Trading Initiative (ETI) and International Labour Organisation (ILO) practices, no matter which category they conventions. Both standards are based on the principles of the United are in. Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In 2010, we completed audits of just over 60% All Woolworths suppliers are expected to comply with the requirements of factories making our own brand products. of our policy, which is complemented by a compliance audit program conducted by experienced third-party certification bodies. The audit includes specific criteria relating to child labour, imprisoned or bonded labour, health and safety, and bribery and corruption. Principle 2 See Principle 1. See Principle 1. No complicity in Human Rights Abuses Labour Principle 3 Woolworths aims to foster active partnerships with unions and respects Further information can be found under Freedom of the role these unions play in maintaining a positive, productive workplace. ‘Ethical Sourcing’ in the Responsible Retailing Association and Collective bargaining agreements cover over 70% of our employees. Our section on page 63 and in the Our People Collective Bargaining supermarket Enterprise Bargaining Agreement constitutes the largest section on page 30. agreement in Australia. In addition, Woolworths’ Ethical Sourcing policy includes the principles of freedom of association and collective bargaining and audits of the supply chain are conducted to monitor compliance. This policy can be found on our website. Principle 4 Woolworths’ policy and audit program are covered in Principle 1. Further information can be found under Elimination of Forced ‘Ethical Sourcing’ in the Responsible Retailing Audits include specific criteria relating to imprisoned or bonded labour. and Compulsory section on page 63. Labour Principle 5 Woolworths’ policy and audit program are covered in Principle 1. Further information can be found under Abolition of Child ‘Ethical Sourcing’ in the Responsible Retailing Audits include specific criteria relating to child labour. Labour section on page 63. 72 Woolworths Limited Principles Actions Outcomes Labour (continued) Principle 6 Woolworths does not tolerate discrimination and is committed to an Further information can be found under Elimination of inclusive workplace that embraces and promotes diversity. ‘Diversity and Equal Opportunity’ in the Discrimination Our People section on page 29. Woolworths will aim to have a 33% representation of women as Non‑executive Directors at Board level and within its senior executive group by 2015 as an early adopter of the new Australian Securities Exchange Corporate Governance guidelines for diversity. We also promote employment of people with a disability as a gold member of the Australian Employers Network on Disability. Our commitment to Indigenous employment is demonstrated through our participation in the Australian Employment Covenant (AEC), which promotes the employment of Indigenous Australians. Woolworths has commenced development of a Reconciliation Action Plan for Indigenous employment. Environment Principle 7 Woolworths does not explicitly reference the precautionary approach Further information on Woolworths’ risk Precautionary in its risk management framework. Woolworths employs sound risk management practices can be found in the Approach management practices. Risk management processes and key business Corporate Governance section of the Annual risks are disclosed in the Annual Report and on our website. Report on page 58 and on our website. Principle 8 Woolworths takes environmental responsibility very seriously. In Further information on our environmental Environmental November 2007 we launched our Sustainability Strategy 2007–15, initiatives can be found in the Environment Responsibility identifying our material environmental impacts, setting targets and section from page 44. commitments for improvement, and starting us on the pathway to change. The strategy is available on our website. Principle 9 Woolworths continues to investigate, trial and implement technologies Further information on Woolworths Environmentally which assist in reducing energy use and carbon emissions. environmental programs and achievements Friendly can be found in the Environment section Technologies on page 46. Climate change is addressed on page 48, water saving initiatives on page 52, energy saving initiatives on page 49 and transport on page 51. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Our anti-corruption principles are clearly communicated to our Further information on our anti-corruption Work against employees in our Code of Conduct. principles can be found in Our Approach Corruption on page 6. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 73 global reporting initiative (GRI) index Woolworths Limited’s annual corporate This index contains a summary of all Note: Woolworths Limited Annual Report 2010 responsibility reports are prepared in of the guidelines indicators and where (AR). Online GRI Index (GRI Index). Indicators accordance with the Global Reporting we have reported against them; a more not reported, were deemed not material. Initiatives Sustainable Reporting Guidelines comprehensive index can be found at (G3). More information on the GRI can be w w w.woolworthslimited.com.au. found at w w w.globalreporting.org. GRI Description Page GRI Description Page 1.1 Statement from the Chairman and CEO 2–3 4.10 Performance evaluation AR 41, 65–66 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 1–3, 4–7 4.11 Addressing precautionary principle 48 2.1 Name of the organisation Front cover 4.12 External corporate responsibility charters 5–6, 19, 38, 48, 57, 63 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Inside front cover, 4.13 Memberships in associations 30, 56, 63 16, 50 4.14 List of engaged stakeholders 8–9 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 16, 18, AR 179–181 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 8–9 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Inside back cover 4.16 Approaches to stakeholders 8–9 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates 16 4.17 Key topics and concerns for stakeholders 8–15 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 16, AR 63 Disclosure on Economic Management Approach 18–19, AR 5–12 2.7 Markets served 16–19 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16–19, 38, AR 3, 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 16–20 13–15 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 18, AR 6 EC2 Financial implications of climate change. 48 2.10 Awards Inside front cover, 7, EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations 25 18, 26–27, 40 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 79 3.1 Reporting period Inside front cover EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared 25 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Nov-09 to local minimum wage 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual EC6 Policy on locally based suppliers 18–19 3.4 Contact point for the report Inside back cover EC7 Procedures for local hiring 22 3.5 Process for defining report content 5–6, 12–15 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services for public benefit 40 3.6 Boundary of the report Inside front cover EC9 Indirect economic impacts 18, 39, 42 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary Inside front cover Disclosure on Environmental 44–57 3.8 Reporting on joint ventures and other entities Inside front cover, 18 Management Approach EN 3.9 Data measurement techniques Where relevant EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 53–54, 57 3.10 Explanation of re-statements Nil EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 53–56 input materials 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Nil EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 49 3.12 Table of Standard Disclosures 74–75 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 49 3.13 External assurance for the report 68–71 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 49–51 4.1 Governance structure 5, AR 33–36, 64 improvements. 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body 5 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient products 49–51, 65–67 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive members 5 and services 4.4 Mechanisms for providing recommendations to the Board 5–6, AR 79 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 49–51 4.5 Linkage between compensation and performance AR 41 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 52 4.6 Avoiding of conflicts of interest AR 43 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 52 4.7 Determining the qualifications and expertise of the Board 5, AR 33–36, 66–67 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 52 4.8 Mission statements, values and code of conduct 6–7, 35, 63, AR 76 EN11 Location and size of land owned near areas of high 57 biodiversity value 4.9 Management of performance 6, AR 74 74 Woolworths Limited GRI Description Page GRI Description Page EN12 Description of significant impacts on biodiversity in 57 Disclosure on Human Rights Management Approach 21, 29–30, 63 protected areas HR1 Significant investment agreements that include human GRI Index EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 57 rights clauses EN14 Managing impacts on biodiversity. 57, 65 HR2 Supplier screenings on human rights 63 EN15 IUCN Red List species 57 HR3 Employee training on human rights 30 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 48–50 HR4 Number of incidents of discrimination 30 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 50 HR5 Risks to right to exercise freedom of association and 31 collective bargaining EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 48–51 HR6 Risks of incidents of child labour 63 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 52 HR7 Risks of incidents of forced or compulsory labor 63 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type GRI Index and weight HR9 Incidents involving rights of indigenous people 30 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 52 Disclosure on Society Management Approach 7, 9, 18, 28, 37–39 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 54–56 SO1 Manage the impacts of operations on communities 10–11, 38, 58 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 57 SO2 Analysis of business units for risks related to corruption 7 EN24 Hazardous wastes 55 SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies 28 EN26 Mitigating impacts of products and services 52–54, 65–66 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 7 EN28 Non-compliance with environmental laws 57 SO5 Participation in public policy development 9 EN29 Impacts of transporting products and other goods 51 SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties 7 Disclosure on Labour Management Approach 21–23, 27–31, 33 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour Nil LA1 Total workforce 20, 23 SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations 34 LA2 Employee turnover 23 Disclosure on Product Responsibility 60–67 LA3 Benefits for full-time employees 25 Management Approach LA4 Collective bargaining agreements 30–31 PR1 Life cycle stages products and services 65–67 LA5 Minimum notice periods for significant 31 PR2 Non-compliance regarding health and safety impacts of 67 operational changes products LA6 Workforce represented in joint management–worker 34 PR3 Product and service information 65–67 health and safety committees PR4 Non-compliance regarding product and service 66–67 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 33–35 information absenteeism PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction 8, 67 LA8 Education, training and risk-control programs regarding 24, 34 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary 60, 62, 67 serious diseases codes related to marketing LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements 34 PR7 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Nil with trade unions concerning marketing LA10 Average hours of training per employee 26 PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 65 LA11 Career and skills management 27–29 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines Nil LA12 Employee performance and career development reviews 26 LA13 Governance bodies and breakdown of employees 29–31, AR 33–36 relating to diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women 31 by employee category. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 75 glossary Australian Competition Foodbank kt and Consumer Commission (ACCC) Foodbank is a not‑for‑profit, A kilotonne is equal to one million kilograms. ACCC is an independent Commonwealth non‑denominational organisation that sources statutory authority. The ACCC’s role is to and distributes food and grocery industry KWh/m2 promote competition and fair trade in the donations to welfare agencies that feed the This refers to kilowatt hours per square marketplace to benefit consumers, business hungry. Foodbank is Australia’s largest hunger meter. KWh is a unit of measurement for and the community. w w w.accc.gov.au relief organisation. w w w.foodbank.com.au electricity use. Australian Employment Covenant (AEC) Food Standards Australia Light emitting diode (LED) The covenant is a three‑way commitment New Zealand (FSANZ) A Light Emitting Diode (LED) is a between Australian employers, the Australian FSANZ is the statutory agency that develops semiconductor device that converts electricity government and Indigenous people aimed at food standards. w w w.foodstandards.gov.au into light. LEDs last considerably longer than securing 50,000 sustainable jobs for Indigenous incandescent or fluorescent lighting but are Australians. w w w.fiftythousandjobs.com.au Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) more expensive. FSC is an independent, not‑for‑profit Australian Food and Grocery Council organisation established to promote the Lost Time Injury (LTI) (AFGC) responsible management of the world’s forests. An LTI is defined as an injury or illness that The AFGC is the national body representing w w w.fsc.org or w w w.fscaustralia.org.au resulted in an employee being unable to work the nation’s food and grocery products a full scheduled shift (other than the shift on manufacturers. w w w.afgc.org.au Fuel Quality Standards Act 2000 (Cth) which the injury occurred). This Act covers all fuel types, including all Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2‑e) gasoline, diesel and LPG. Refiners are required Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) This is a standard measure used to compare to manufacture fuel to comply with this Act, LTIFR is the number of lost time injuries per the emissions from various greenhouse gases and all fuel is tested prior to release against million hours worked. based upon their global warming potential the requirements under it. (GWP). For example, one tonne of methane ML emissions is equivalent to 24.5 tonnes of GL This refers to a megalitre, which equates carbon dioxide emissions. Gigalitres or billion litres. to one million litres. EBIT Global Warming Potential (GWP) Mt EBIT – Earnings before Interest and Tax – is the This is the index used to translate the level This refers to a million tonnes or megatonnes, total earnings before provisions are deducted. of emissions of various gases into a common which equates to one billion kilograms. measure in order to compare the relative EEO Act radiative forcing of different gases without MWh The Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act directly calculating the changes in atmospheric Megawatt hours is a unit of measurement 2006 (Cth) took effect on 1 July 2006 (with concentrations. GWPs are calculated as the for electricity use, referring to the amount of an amendment in March 2007). It aims to ratio of the radiative forcing that would result electricity needed to supply power to 1,000 improve the identification, assessment and from the emissions of one kilogram of a homes for one hour. reporting of energy efficiency opportunities greenhouse gas to that from emission of one by large energy using businesses. kilogram of carbon dioxide over a period of National Packaging Covenant (NPC) w w w.energyefficiencyopportunities.gov.au time (usually 100 years). NPC is a voluntary initiative by the Commonwealth Government and industry Environment Protection Greenhouse gases to reduce the effects of packaging on the and Heritage Council (EPHC) These are gases that absorb infra‑red radiation environment. It is designed to minimise EPHC was created in 2001 by amalgamating in the atmosphere. The six greenhouse the environmental impacts arising from the National Environment Protection gases under the Kyoto Protocol are: carbon the disposal of used packaging, conserve Council (NEPC), the environment protection dioxide, methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), resources through better design and components of the Australian and New halogenated fluorocarbons (HCFCs), ozone production processes, and facilitate the re‑use Zealand Environment and Conservation (O3), perfluorinated carbons (PFCs) and and recycling of used packaging materials. Council (ANZECC), and Heritage Ministers’ hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). w w w.packagingcovenant.org.au Meetings. w w w.ephc.gov.au 76 Woolworths Limited NGER Act 2007 Scope 3 emissions The National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting These are other indirect greenhouse gas Act 2007 (Cth) took effect on 1 July 2008. NGER emissions that are a consequence of a establishes a national framework for Australian company’s activities, but that arise from corporations to report greenhouse gas sources that are owned or controlled by others. emissions, reductions, removals and offsets, and energy consumption and production Serious diseases w w w.climatechange.gov.au/reporting/ These are occupational or non‑occupational publications/index.html related impairments of health with serious consequences for employees, their families Occupational disease and communities, such as HIV/AIDS, diabetes, This is a disease arising from the work RSI and stress. situation or activity (eg. stress or regular exposure to harmful chemicals), or from T5 fluorescent light a work‑related injury. T5 fluorescent lights have the highest light output of any fluorescent lamp. In most Product Stewardship Australia (PSA) environments they offer energy savings of Product Stewardship Australia Limited nearly 30% compared to other fluorescent (PSA) is a not‑for‑profit, industry‑led lamps. organisation working on permanent solutions to recover and recycle consumer electronics in an environmentally sound manner. Dick Smith is a member of PSA. w w w.productstewardship.asn.au Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) Council The PEFC Council is an independent, non‑profit organisation that promotes sustainably managed forests through independent third party certification. w w w.pefc.org Scope 1 emissions These are direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company, such as combustion facilities (eg. boilers, furnaces, turbines, heaters, incinerators, engines, flares, etc.), combustion of fuels in company‑owned or company‑controlled transportation (e.g. cars, buses, planes, ships, barges, trains, etc.), and physical or chemical processes (eg. in cement manufacturing, catalytic cracking in petrochemical processing, aluminium smelting, etc.). Scope 2 emissions These are indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of purchased electricity, heat, cooling or steam. Purchased electricity is defined as electricity that is purchased or otherwise brought into the organisational boundary of the entity. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 77 store and trading area analysis Five Year Store and Trading Area Analysis Year Ended 27 June 2010 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Stores (number) full year full year full year full year full year NSW and ACT 248 241 234 237 238 QLD 189 186 177 168 161 VIC 200 192 187 183 182 SA and NT 74 72 72 72 69 WA 83 82 81 79 79 TAS 29 29 29 27 27 Supermarkets in Australia(1) 823 802 780 766 756 New Zealand Supermarkets (includes franchise) 152 149 149 149 152 Total Supermarkets 975 951 929 915 908 Thomas Dux 11 3 1 – – Freestanding Liquor (including Dan Murphy’s) 281 256 233 212 204 ALH Retail Liquor Outlets 480 463 434 424 432 Caltex/WOW Petrol 132 133 133 134 131 Woolworths Petrol – Australia 429 409 389 371 360 Woolworths Petrol/Convenience – New Zealand 22 22 22 22 22 Total Supermarket Division 2,330 2,237 2,141 2,078 2,057 BIG W 161 156 151 142 129 Dick Smith 394 349 310 277 243 Tandy 22 87 106 123 123 Total General Merchandise Division 577 592 567 542 495 Hotels (includes eight clubs) 284 280 271 263 250 Danks (Home Improvement Retail) 8 – – – – Total Group 3,199 3,109 2,979 2,883 2,802 Wholesale customer stores Dick Smith 18 35 43 55 55 Progressive 54 53 52 50 46 Croma (India CEG) 50 33 22 5 – Danks (Home Improvement Wholesale) 581 – – – – Statewide Independent Wholesale 220 218 216 217 215 Total Wholesale customer stores 923 339 333 327 316 Trading Area (sqm) Supermarkets Division – Australia (2) 2,127,195 2,037,680 1,945,641 1,848,792 1,784,279 Supermarkets Division – New Zealand(3) 325,256 303,889 296,549 291,092 291,792 General Merchandise Division(4) 1,061,934 1,038,561 989,767 930,288 843,316 (1) Supermarket Store Movements July 09 – June 10 New Stores – incremental 26 Closures – permanent (2) Closures – for re-development (3) Net New Stores 21 (2) (3) (4) Australian Supermarkets Division trading Excludes Gull and franchise stores. Excludes Woolworths India. area (excluding Petrol and ALH BWS outlets) has increased by 4.4% (FY09: 4.7%) 78 Woolworths Limited Table for Direct Economic Value 2009 2010 53 weeks 52 weeks inc $’000 $’000 % Direct economic value generated (a) Revenues 49,892,205 51,991,074 4.2 Total direct economic value generated 49,892,205 51,991,074 4.2 Economic value distributed (b) Operating costs (40,147,811) (41,721,761) 3.9 (c) Employee wages and benefits (5,724,343) (5,969,926) 4.3 (d) Payments to providers of capital (1,409,564) (1,587,711) 12.6 (e) Payments to government (1,964,199) (1,998,727) 1.8 (f ) Community investments (27,460) (36,371) 32.5 Total economic value distributed (49,273,377) (51,314,496) 4.1 Economic value retained 618,828 676,578 9.3 Accrued Liability for Benefit Obligation in the Financial Statements of Woolworths Limited As at June 2009 June 2010 $m $m Defined benefit obligation(1) (1,536) (1,837) Fair value of assets 1,444 1,753 Liability for defined benefit obligations (92) (84) (1) Includes contribution tax liability. Government Subsidies Received 2009 2009 52 weeks 52 weeks inc $’000 $’000 % Government subsidies 3,401 3,463 1.8 Total government subsidies received 3,401 3,463 1.8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 79 This page has been left blank intentionally. 80 Woolworths Limited Contact Details Woolworths Limited ALH Group Pty Ltd Principal registered office in Australia Registered Office 1 Woolworths Way 1 Woolworths Way Bella Vista NSW 2153 Bella Vista NSW 2153 Tel: (02) 8885 0000 Tel: (02) 8885 0000 Web: w ww.woolworthslimited.com.au Victorian Office Ground Floor BIG W 16–20 Claremont Street Web: w ww.bigw.com.au South Yarra VIC 3141 Tel: (03) 9829 1000 National Supermarkets Web: w ww.woolworths.com.au Queensland Office Level 1 Woolworths Petrol 152 Oxford Street Tel: 1300 655 055 Bulimba QLD 4171 Web: w ww.woolworthspetrol.com.au Company Secretary BWS Peter Horton Web: w ww.beerwinespirits.com.au Share Registrar Dan Murphy’s Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited 789 Heidelberg Road Level 3 Alphington VIC 3078 60 Carrington Street Tel: (03) 9497 3388 Sydney NSW 2000 Fax: (03) 9497 2782 Tel: 1300 368 664 Web: w ww.danmurphys.com.au Fax: (02) 8234 5050 Web: w ww.computershare.com.au Dick Smith/Tandy 2 Davidson Street Auditor Chullora NSW 2190 Net Balance Management Group Pty Ltd Tel: (02) 9642 9100 Level 4, 460 Bourke Street Fax: (02) 9642 9111 Melbourne VIC 3000 Web: w ww.dse.com.au Tel: +61 3 8641 6400 Fax: +61 3 9600 1295 Progressive Enterprises Limited Web: w ww.netbalance.com 80 Favona Road Mangere For more information about this report contact: Auckland Group Manager, Corporate Responsibility – New Zealand Community and Sustainability Tel: +64 (9) 275 2788 Armineh Mardirossian – at Fax: +64 (9) 275 3074 amardirossian@woolworths.com.au Web: w ww.progressive.co.nz For media enquiries: media@woolworths.com.au For general customer enquiries: Tel: 1300 767 969 w w_customer_feedback@woolworths.com.au.
