Our commitment Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Contents 1. Introduction 1 3. Performance Indicators 13 CEO’s Welcome and Statement 1 3.1. Economic Indicators 13 How ARM makes money 2 3.2. Environmental Indicators 13 ARM at a glance 3 3.3. Employment Practices and Work Environment Indicators 15 1.1. Organisational Profile 4 3.4. Human Rights Indicators 17 1.2. Reporting Period 5 3.5. Society/Community Impact Indicators 18 1.3. Report Scope 5 3.6. Product Responsibility Indicators 19 1.4. Structural changes from previous 5 1.5. Organisational Changes 5 4. Looking Forward 22 1.6. External Advisors 5 4.1. Committment to charters and partnerships 23 4.2. Significant awards and recognition 24 2. Stakeholder Engagement 6 2.1. Employees 6 5. Appendix 25 2.2. Shareholders 6 5.1. Global Reporting Initiative 26 2.3. Value Chain 8 5.2. United Nations Global Compact 27 2.4. Surrounding Communities 9 5.3. Blueprint fro Sustainable Leadership 28 2.5. Environment 11 5.4. Other Key Metrics 34 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc b 1. Introduction CEO’s Welcome and Statement Introduction CEO’s Welcome and Statement 2010 marked ARM’s 20th Anniversary and the year providing excellent in which the twenty-five billionth energy-efficient ARM service to our partners microprocessor was sold. It is impossible to say what task and shareholders, it now performs; it could be used in any one of a diverse fostering good range of devices: perhaps a heart monitor; a smart meter; relationships an electric motor; car infotainment system or a tablet PC. A with suppliers, total of 6.1 Billion ARM-based chips were shipped by our involvement with local partners in 2010. This unrivalled reach of ARM technology communities, and brings together the semiconductor industry’s largest partner minimising our impact community, consisting of 800+ technology companies, on the environment and the opportunity to create a world in which all products as well as designing and services are based upon efficient and sustainable energy-efficient technology. products. During 2010, ARM joined the United Nations The next century will witness a dwindling supply of the Global Compact (UNGC), took an active role by convening world’s finite resources, a 50% rise in population and the an IT Sector panel at the World Climate Summit and joined situation can be further exacerbated by a the UN Caring for Climate initiative. 1.3 changing climate and increasing demands for To take this further, ARM is the one of the energy. We believe that the global economy, With the right first companies to incorporate the UNGC’s from the biggest countries and companies to technology we Blueprint for Sustainability Leadership into each of us as individuals, can make dramatic will succeed: its reporting. 2011 will see us re-affirming improvements in energy-efficiency and our commitment to the UNGC as well as resource-sustainability. This will help people to we can maintain launching some exciting joint activities. We maintain or improve their quality of life, and will and extend a have also entered into a partnership with the International Business Leaders’ Forum also help companies to grow and increase their high quality of (IBLF) to research how the better use of profitability. I believe that technology’s role in achieving life, sustainably. technology can reduce energy consumption this will be of paramount importance. ARM is 100% and improve living standards globally. ARM has also been recognised by the NASDAQ Everyone and everything needs to work more focussed on OMX CRD Global Sustainability 100 Index, efficiently if we are to preserve and sustain our world’s resources; and technology will achieving this demonstrating how corporate responsibility help us get there. Our appliances, transport vision. has been incorporated throughout the systems, industrial processes, buildings and ARM way of business. 2011 began with a perhaps even our food will have embedded strengthening of ARM’s commitment to the smart technology to ensure that: empty buildings are Global Compact through our membership of LEAD and not unnecessarily heated, cooled and lit; appliances only some exciting joint activities are planned for the coming ever use the energy and resources needed to do their year. job; agricultural produce does not go to waste and new ARM’s heritage is in mobile devices, resulting in twenty products are designed considering the needs and budgets years’ experience of designing efficient processors. This of the billions of people yet to benefit from technology in technology is now being used in new applications where their lives. smarter, more efficient products are needed to reduce ARM is committed to implementing and developing best resource consumption whilst maintaining and improving practice Corporate Responsibility (CR) in our market living standards for everyone. segment (not just in our sector) and intends to become a With the right technology we will succeed: we can global leader in CR. ARM’s commitment to sustainability maintain and extend a high quality of life, sustainably. ARM and CR extends beyond the efficiency improvements that is 100% focussed on achieving this vision. our chip-designs help to achieve. As this report details, ARM’s CR strategy encompasses accountability to all stakeholders, including employees and their families, Warren East Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 1 1. Introduction How ARM makes money Introduction How ARM makes money Stakeholders engagement ARM is the world’s leading semiconductor IP company and The Architecture for the Digital World®. Performanace indicators ARM has an innovative business model. We design and Licenses by end-market license IP rather than manufacturing and selling of actual semiconductor chips. We licence IP to a network of Partners, called the ARM Connected Community, which includes the world’s leading semiconductor and systems companies. These partners utilise ARM IP designs to create and manufacture system-on-chip designs, paying ARM a license fee for the original IP and a royalty on every chip or wafer produced. In addition to processor IP, we provide a range of tools, physical and systems IP to enable optimised Looking forward system-on-chip designs. ARM’s strategy is for our technology to continue to gain Mobile 28 share in long-term structural growth markets such as Embedded 29 mobile phones, consumer electronics and embedded digital Enterprise 16 devices. An ARM processor design may be used in many Home 18 different chips and ship for over 20 years. Content indicies How ARM makes money 2-3 years 3-4 years 20+ years ARM research Partner chip Multiple applications and development development development and sales Licence Royalty Cost incurred revenue revenue $ $ Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 2 1. Introduction 1.1. ARM at a glance Introduction ARM at a glance Stakeholders engagement Our mission is to be the world’s number one processor architecture, and we envisage a world in which all electronic products and services are based on energy-efficient technology from ARM, Performanace indicators making life better for everyone. In order to achieve our mission we understand that ARM must be committed to implementing and developing best practice Corporate Responsibility (CR) in our market segment and intends to become a leader for CR in the sector. ARM celebrated its 20th anniversary in November 2010. As a business recognised for its innovation and world class intellectual property, ARM has been built around the highest quality people in the sector. Looking forward Figure 1 Worldwide ARM offices. United Sweden Norway Lund Kingdom Trondheim Cambridge Blackburn Maidenhead Belgium Sheffield Leuven Germany Munich Content indicies Washington Olympia Michigan France Seattle Detroit Paris China Massachusetts Grenoble Japan California Beijing Irvine Boston Sophia Antipolis Slovenia Israel Shanghai Yokohama Texas Sentjernej Kfar Saba Korea San Jose Austin Shenzhen Seoul San Diego Plano Taiwan India Taipei Bangalore Singapore Toa Payoh Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 3 1. Introduction 1.1 Organisational Profile Introduction ARM Corporate Governance Structure ARM’s Corporate Governance and organisational structure and as well as company Market and Financial Analyses can Shareholder percentages be found in the current Annual Report, published on www.arm.com. Save for those shown above, the Company has not been notified of any material interest of 3% or more or any nonmaterial interest exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the company. Janus Capital Management Thornburg Investment Management Legal and General Investment Mangement FMR Other Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 4 1. Introduction 1.2. Reporting Period 1.4. Structural Changes from Previous 1.6. External Advisors Introduction 1.3. Report Scope 1.5. Organisational Changes About this report 1.2. Reporting Period 1.4. Structural Changes from Previous This report covers the calendar year 2010. As part of our continued efforts to improve stakeholder 1.3. Report Scope communications, we have enhanced our 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report. In addition to employing the Global Unless otherwise indicated, data published applies to all Reporting Initiative (GRI), ARM is one of the first companies ARM offices worldwide. However, our largest four offices to incorporate the UNGC’s fifty-point Blueprint for in Cambridge (UK), Bangalore (India), San Jose (California, Sustainability Leadership into its full CR Report. USA), and Austin (Texas, USA) represent 78% of the estate Our most recent previous report was for calendar year portfolio and 76% of the total headcount. 2009. Headcount data used in the report is generally that on the 1.5 Organisational Changes final day of 2010, unless otherwise stated. Any explanations or exceptions for specific offices will be stated. There have been no significant organisational changes (i.e. acquisitions, changes in ownership structure) over 2010. 1.6. External Advisors The International Business Leaders Forum has reviewed an earlier draft and provided feedback that has been incorporated into this version of the report. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 5 2. Stakeholder Engagement 2.1. Employees Stakeholder engagement Stakeholders engagement ARM’s continued success has been achieved through the strength and depth of our stakeholder relationships. Our corporate governance framework and processes 2.1. Employees enable us to manage the Group effectively and to The welfare of ARM’s employees around the world is one of demonstrate transparent, consistent and effective our top priorities. ARM’s Corporate Vision and Management governance so that we remain accountable to our Charter include commitments to provide a sector-leading shareholders, employees, partners, suppliers and the local, environment for employees to develop their personal regional, and national communities we support and with and collective potential. The interests of employees and whom we interact. shareholders are aligned by providing equity participation to ARM strives to maintain a positive reputation built on all employees through restricted shares under the Employee corporate credibility and public trust. ARM’s CR strategy Equity Plan and the opportunity to buy shares through encompasses accountability to all stakeholders, including savings plans. When ARM’s quarterly results are published, employees and their families, providing excellent service to members of the executive committee also present the same our partners and shareholders, fostering good relationships results internally with suppliers, on-going involvement with local communities We have established a Global Equal Employment and minimising our impact on the environment as well as Opportunities policy covering the recruitment, transfer and designing energy efficient products. These stakeholders promotion of staff as well as their training and development. represent the groups most affected by ARM’s work and We have a formal progress measurement system which those the company must carefully consider in all decisions includes a number of processes. At least once a year, for business success. Proper stakeholder consultation employees and managers have a formal discussion on means engaged employees, supportive communities, performance and development through the ARM Feedback healthy environments, an effective supply chain, and and Development System (AFDS). Training needs are enthusiastic shareholders and customers. Each of these is tracked and delivered and progress is monitored through crucial to ARM’s success. our Learning and Development team, ensuring that the Group’s skills base is increased in line with business needs and employees’ personal aspirations. Figure 2 2010 ARM Austin’s 20th Anniversary Trivia Challenge raising money for the Capital Area Food Bank. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 6 2. Stakeholder Engagement Overall key drivers 2010 2.1. Employees Questions 2.2. Shareholders 1,471 (78%) ARM provides freedom to be creative 97 552 496 184 94 45 1,485 (90%) ARM provides challenging Employee global opinion survey – engagement 2010 and interesting work 245 762 333 75 50 20 1,468 (80%) Questions ARM provides sufficiently 103 633 442 161 93 36 1,321 (90%) varied work Overall I would recommend ARM as a great place to work 258 716 347 84 59 16 1,483 (91%) My work is meaningful to me 238 766 299 67 48 20 1,233 (88%) I have no plans to leave ARM in the next 12 months 416 576 241 98 71 44 1,463 (74%) Stakeholders engagement ARM is committed to my personal development 95 484 510 184 127 63 1,254 (87%) I am satisfied with my job 180 687 387 122 72 34 1,467 (85%) ARM provides opportunities 143 649 457 124 76 18 0% 100% to learn and develop new skills 1,473 (85%) Percentage of respondents ARM provides open and 1,490 (80%) employees responding honest communication 150 704 396 111 77 35 Overall engagement score: 86% 1,483 (81%) ARM actively cares about its staff 148 640 411 131 104 49 1,477 (87%) ARM is a fun place to work 135 668 482 109 63 20 Strongly agree 1,477 (88%) Agree ARM provides a collaborative 136 731 433 104 53 20 work environment Somewhat agree Somewhat disagree 0% 100% Disagree Percentage of respondents Strongly disagree 1,490 (80%) employees responding Overall engagement score: 86% In order to nurture a culture of openness, ARM focuses (with smaller follow-ups annually) to monitor employee views on open lines of communication in all directions (upward, and provide essential input on internal operations. This downward, and across divisions and functions). As part year’s Engagement Survey had 1490 respondents (80% of of this commitment ARM provides periodic question and total established employees worldwide). answer sessions at each site led by an executive committee The Executive Vice President of Human Resources sits on member where “no question is off limits”. Additionally, the the Executive Committee and has responsibility for matters ARM Consultation Forum (ACF) meets every two months, related to employees. and comprises nine employee representatives, who are 2.2. Shareholders expected to represent the views and interests of their respective constituencies. The ACF is a key consultation Communicating to and consulting with all our shareholders, mechanism for ARM to gather the views of UK employees both institutional and private, is a key priority of the and for employee representatives to talk openly about a business. The Executive Committee makes considerable wide range of issues that affect ARM employees. Amongst efforts to establish and maintain good relationships with the objectives are provision of a forum for employees and shareholders. The main channel of communication management to consult one another and capitalise on the continues to be through the Chief Executive Officer, the company’s cultural diversity and various experiences. At the Chief Financial Officer and the VP of Investor Relations, ACF, management will consult representatives on the basis although the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director of a constructive exchange of views on matters related and the other non-executive directors are available to to the organisation’s industrial, economic, commercial, engage in dialogue with major shareholders as appropriate. financial, technological, structural and HR development in There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders the context of the overall business performance. throughout the year. The board encourages communication Employee consultation groups advise the company with private investors, and part of ARM’s website is on various issues that impact employees, and a dedicated to providing accurate and timely information for comprehensive engagement is conducted every two years all investors including comprehensive information about Engagement scores over time 87% 85% 85% 83% 86% I am satisfied with my job I have no plans to leave ARM in the next 12 months 85% 84% 93% 83% 84% 89% 83% 84% 88% 81% 81% 85% 85% 85% 89% Overal I would recommend ARM as a great place to work 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Overal Positive Engagement I am satisfied with my job I have no plans to leave ARM in the next 12 months Overall I would recommend ARM as a great place to work Overall Positive Engagement Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 7 3. Stakeholder Engagement 2.2. Shareholders 2.3 Customers and Partners Figure 3 ARM partner meeting 2010. Stakeholders engagement the business, its partners and products, all press releases, More information about shareholder engagement can be and RNS and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) found in ARM’s 2010 Annual Report, available on announcements. At present, around 30 analysts write www.arm.com. research reports on ARM which appear on the website. 2.3. Value Chain Shareholders can also obtain telephone numbers from the website, enabling them to listen to earnings presentations ARM has built its business around a partnership model, and audio conference calls with analysts. Webcasts or working together with our customers to enable mutual audiocasts of key presentations are made available through success. ARM maintains continuous efforts to achieve the website. All shareholders may register to receive ARM’s class-leading levels of customer and Connected press releases via the internet. Community satisfaction, measured through regular surveys and feedback channels including an annual worldwide ARM Members of the Executive Committee attend the annual Partner Meeting and ARM Technology Conferences held in analyst and investor day and develop an understanding India, Asia, and the US. of the views of major shareholders through direct contact which may be initiated by shareholders, or through Engagement with customers happens at many levels in the analysts’ and brokers’ briefings. The Committee also organisation, from the executive committee level, through receives feedback from ARM’s brokers who follow investor sales, marketing and engineering. Customer satisfaction is roadshows and financial PR advisers who consult analysts. monitored and reviewed by management through a range The board actively encourages participation at the Annual of key metrics including product and project delivery dates, General Meeting (AGM), held this year on 14 May 2010, product quality levels, customer support satisfaction, and which is the principal forum for dialogue with private direct feedback gathered from customers and elsewhere shareholders. A presentation was made outlining recent in the Connected Community. The output is reviewed by developments in the business. An open question and management which, in turn, raises any pertinent issues with answer session followed. Results are available on ARM’s the executive committee. website. This year, ARM also undertook several special initiatives Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 8 2. Stakeholder Engagement 2.3 Customers and partners 2.4 Surrounding communities Figure 4 The Future Business Centre site, set for completion in 2012. Stakeholders engagement designed to develop partner engagement. The ARM 2.4. Surrounding Communities Connected Community Panel at the World Climate Summit It is ARM’s policy to be a good corporate citizen which (discussed further in Section 3.6) convened industry invests in and engages with surrounding communities. The representatives from ARM partners Microsoft, HP, and company President is responsible for cultivating high-level Texas Instruments, as well as ourselves, to discuss the role relationships with industry partners and governmental IT can play in mitigating and adapting to climate change. agencies. ARM undertakes many initiatives within the We’ve additionally contracted IBLF to research ways in communities in which it functions. which our technology can make strides in sustainability. In 2010, ARM invested £2.5 million in a charitable bond More information about customer engagement can for Cambridge-based social enterprise Future Business, to be found in ARM’s 2010 Annual Report, available on support the development of a brand new incubation centre www.arm.com. for social and environmental businesses in the region. This As a Group which does not have any manufacturing bond will generate a £566k donation the creation of the operations, ARM has a limited number of suppliers. Future Business Centre, aiming to develop businesses with Central procurement functions were enhanced in 2010 a social and/or environmental impact, whether operating on and the introduction of new policies and procedures, with a for-profit or not-for-private profit basis. Examples include training workshops, have enabled ARM to standardise the social businesses and clean-tech start-ups. procurement screening and feedback processes across ARM’s University Programme helps the next generation the Group. This new procurement system has enabled the of ARM engineers by donating equipment and software, introduction of corporate responsibility requirements so assisting students, helping to design courses and providing that any new supplier must demonstrate that they have a technical support and training. ARM is involved in a compatible ethical policy in place. number of STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) programmes at regional schools, sharing employees’ expertise with students. ARM is a founding member of The Learning Collaboration, enabling small and Figure 5 ARM Bangalore’s Charity Fair. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 9 2. Stakeholder Engagement 2.4 Surrounding communities Figure 6 Team ARM Austin in the Bowl for Kids’ Sake Event. Stakeholders engagement medium sized organisations around Cambridge to share the stars in the night sky, and a Car Safety Controller device their diverse experience and combine their buying power to monitor driving style. The company also supports a to purchase quality training and development services. new scheme called Go4SET which encourages company ARM is also a founder member of the Cambridge Network mentors to work with teachers and younger pupils on an which links people from business and academia to the energy and environment-themed technology problem in global high-tech community. This year, ARM partnered and around their school and home. This year, ARM mentors with The Humanitarian Centre to encourage research worked with schools devising ways to collect energy from and partnerships that improve the efficacy of information the environment to reduce costs. One school built a mock technology in international development. ARM has also solar water heater. ARM mentors are valuable inspiration to helped found the Cambridge Responsibility Forum, a joint the pupils, demonstrating how science and technology can venture between multiple local businesses to promote be applied to solving the society’s problems. ARM plans to corporate responsibility and sustainability issues in support and expand Go4SET further in the coming years Cambridge. as part of a longer term commitment to employee and ARM employees actively participate in multiple science, community development. technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) Team ARM, the Group’s global team-building and fundeducational efforts within the community. During the raising employee network, raised over £100,000 for charities 8-month long Engineering Education Scheme (EES), ARM through sponsored cycle rides, marathons, boat races and engineers present problems to students and help them even moustache-growing. Amongst other events, Team generate possible solutions. The students learn about ARM Bangalore sponsored a local spelling bee with INR project lifecycles, teamwork, time management, report 15,000 that aimed to build Basic English proficiency and writing, and presentation delivery. Example projects from improve the communication skills of financially-challenged 2010 are a progressive brake light, which was a retrofitted students from government schools. They also held a device whose brightness corresponds to the deceleration of Charity Fair, showcasing twelve local NGO’s, that raised INR the vehicle, a Stargazer prototype handheld device showing 91,360 for the Marathahalli Government School. In May Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 10 2. Stakeholder Engagement 2.4 Surrounding communities 2.5 Environment Figure 7 ARM China planting trees on the 20th Anniversary. Stakeholders engagement 2010, 67 employees participated in the Bangalore Sunfeast 2.5. Environment Marathon. The money raised from individual sponsorship An expanding global population, rising energy costs and and company matching was donated to Future and Light climate-change concerns are all driving renewed interest for the Young (Fly). This allowed 30 talented children across in energy-efficiency. ARM’s technology is inherently low7 states of India to continue their education by having their power and enables smarter, more energy efficient products fees paid. This was in addition to our role in the Anvas to be created. As ARM-designed chips are in over 20% of programme, where ARM and its employees sponsor all digital electronic products sold in 2010, this presents an a teacher in a government school to teach computer enormous opportunity for improved efficiency. education. TeamARM Bangalore also ran a number of other events including blood donation fairs through to the 20th For 20 years, ARM’s research and development has Anniversary celebrations where money was raised to help focussed on getting the best processing performance from a 6 month old child be treated for glass bone disease. The the least power. ARM technology allows partners to develop child had already suffered 10 fractures. smarter digital electronic products that can measure, manage and improve the environmental performance of Team ARM Austin and San Jose have been part of events consumer electronics and IT equipment, reducing the such as the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure, raising carbon footprint for many consumer products. money for breast cancer awareness, and the LiveStrong bike ride, benefitting prostate cancer research. ARM encourages a culture of environmental responsibility within its offices. T(n)S, the catering company contracted ARM encourages employees to support their local in the Cambridge headquarters, proudly sources locallycommunities by enabling them to act as school governors, grown Cambridgeshire food including baked goods, meat, mentors to young people, or volunteers to organise and produce. ARM actively promotes employees’ use events to raise money for charity. ARM’s sustainability and of alternative transportation by utilising the Cycle2Work communications staff are available for consultation with local scheme under which employees may choose to reduce communities through phone calls, emails, and post and basic salary through a sacrifice arrangement to purchase also attend local events and hold consultation meetings with bicycles and cycling safety equipment for commuting community representatives in ARM facilities. to work. The Austin, TX, USA office, in addition to using reclaimed grey water to run toilet facilities, recently replaced all paper cups in the cafe with reusable glasses and mugs. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 11 2. Stakeholder Engagement 2.5 Environment Figure 8 Grundfos pump on which ARM Cambridge is conducting smart water research. Stakeholders engagement Many offices furthermore employ motion-sensing lights in issue at stake. Caring for Climate has been endorsed by conference rooms to prevent unnecessary lighting use and ARM’s CEO. provide recycling facilities for paper, aluminium, plastic, and ARM is constantly improving its current strategy for low cardboard. carbon business operation, including setting goals of: ARM has participated for two years running in the Carbon • 30% emission reduction in tons of CO2 emission per Disclosure Project. The monitoring and analysis of energy employee by 2020 usage and methods to reduce associated impacts • 15% energy use reduction measured in KW Hours per employed by this effort ensures all our operations become employee by 2020 engaged in improvement objectives. Both targets refer to reductions against 2009 baseline. ARM facilitated a panel at the new World Climate Summit. This collaborative, global 10-year initiative, launched by UN The goals, which will be furthered by adoption of ARM Environmental Program partners such as World Bank, the technology wherever possible, are tracked monthly and UNGC, and the aforementioned Carbon Disclosure Project, is reported to ARM management as well as stakeholders. running in parallel with the Conference of the Parties of the UN We are also reviewing behavioural change issues relating Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP16). Its goal to the adoption of existing video-conferencing facilities and is to help governments, businesses, and financiers accelerate are investing in more equipment with a view to reducing solutions to climate change. ARM convened a panel of industry the number of flights per employee each year. The centrally peers from within our Connected Community. managed, reliable video-conferencing systems we are This year, we have also committed to the Caring for installing allow for monitoring, maintenance, and metricClimate platform. This offers an interface for business and collection. governments at the global level, transcending national interests and responding to the global nature of the climate Global Compact Communication on Progress The above goals are in line with the Environmental Issues Area of the UNGC. The goals are tracked monthly and reported to ARM management as well as stakeholders, as required by Principle Eight. The commitment to use all ARM-powered products moreover supports Principle Nine, as these products are highly energy efficient and will enable all of ARM’s offices to operate at a lower energy consumption level. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 12 3. Performance Indicators 3.1. Economic Indicators 3.2. Environmental Indicators Performance Indicators Profit from operations £m 06 49.2 81.8 07 39.7 82.1 08 59.9 97.7 09 45.6 95.1 10 107.0 164.3 Profit under IFRS Normalised profit Performanace indicators Growing revenues and continued financial discipline drive ARM’s profitability. ARM endeavours to be a responsible member of the 3.2. Environmental Indicators business community by taking into account the interests ARM’s direct activities do not produce harmful waste of all its stakeholders, including employees, customers, or emissions, and the Ethical Investment Research suppliers, local communities, and environments in which and Information Service (EIRIS) grades ARM as an it operates and by entrusting the Chief Financial Officer to environmentally “low impact” business. However, ARM take responsibility for these matters. recognises the need to mitigate any form of environmental The following indicators illustrate ARM’s performance to its impact, and our environmental performance is measured responsible business commitments. against targets to reduce resource usage, increase reuse 3.1 Economic Indicators and recycling, and control carbon emissions. We have set corporate goals of: As our customers are the world’s largest semiconductor manufacturers, their regular royalty payments have provided • 30% emission reduction in tons of CO2 emission per ARM with a highly reliable cash flow. Given our broad base employee by 2020 of partners and end markets, ARM’s business model is • 15% energy use reduction measured in KW Hours per strongly cash generative. In 2010, we generated £125 employee by 2020 million. Since 2004, ARM has returned over £360 million ARM works with Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance to shareholders through a mixture of share buybacks and (LRQA) environmental auditors to develop and improve our dividends. Full economic indicators and analyses can be environmental management system. LRQA’s twice yearly found in our 2010 Annual Report at www.arm.com. environmental and health and safety themed audits are now integrated with their other accreditation work, which has increased understanding of ARM’s environmental objectives among the local management and provided action plans for achieving these objectives. Adopting LRQA’s Business Assurance approach provides an independent assessment of the ARM Management System and the various review Revenue $m Sterling revenues £m 06 199.0 202.5 82.1 483.6 06 107.8 110.6 44.9 263.3 07 208.8 217.9 87.6 514.3 07 104.1 110.7 44.4 259.2 08 266.8 189.7 89.7 546.2 08 147.7 103.5 47.7 298.9 09 244.3 164.1 81.1 489.5 09 155.4 98.5 51.1 305.0 10 335.3 208.2 87.8 631.3 10 217.7 132.5 56.4 406.6 Royalty Licensing Other Royalty Licensing Other ARM’s revenue growth is sustained by our customers About 95% of ARM’s revenues are in US dollars, incorporating ARM technology in more of their product lines. but only about half of our costs are US dollar-based. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 13 3. Performance Indicators 3.2. Environmental Indicators Global CO2 emissions* UK waste and recycling* tonnes/employees m3/employee** 2.1 1.9 4.42 1.8 4.01 3.97 1.7 2008 2009 2010 Cambridge, UK San Jose, CA 2007 2008 2009 2010 Bangalore, India General waste Austin, TX** Cardboard and paper recycled Overall Plastics and glass recycled * Largest 4 offices, 78% of the Estate Portfolio. ** Data not available for 2008. * All UK offices: Cambridge, Blackburn, Performanace indicators Sheffield, Maidenhead, 41% of total headcount. ** Average number of all employees in year. procedures in place within the company. This approach a Threatened Species on the IUCN Red List . Though enables LRQA to verify ARM’s compliance with ISO9001 the species is classified as being of Least Concern, ARM and components of other relevant ISO standards. diligently complies with all applicable United States laws, At present, ARM is not certified to any industry including the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The ARM building environmental measurement standard. However, ARM is also adjacent to the Barton Creek Wilderness Park, works with LRQA to make a habit of operating informally a protected 1000-acre greenspace which is part of an to ISO14001 requirements. important watershed and home to many endangered species, such as the Golden-Cheeked Warbler . ARM’s ARM recognises that climate change is a significant risk impact on the Wilderness Park is minimal, as there are to the human population. With regard to any immediate no roads through it and no significant emissions from the impact to our business (such as climate change), ARM has building. developed business continuity plans for all of its operations worldwide to enable business to continue should a serious ARM’s CO2 emissions from air travel were not available event or incident occur. These plans are designed to protect in 2010, due to data inconsistencies. ARM contracted a the interests of ARM’s stakeholders and in particular ARM’s new travel supplier during the middle of the year whose employees, property, and other assets and to provide methods for carbon emission calculations were inconsistent facilities and infrastructure to reinstate business operations with those of the previous supplier. Data will be available, as quickly as possible after an event. The continual review however, for 2011. ARM recognises that because our of these plans forms part of the management review customer requirements call for regular face-to-face process alongside environmental management and health, interaction, business travel accounts for generally half of our safety and welfare. ARM’s Business Continuity Plan is CO2 emissions. We have undertaken a variety of initiatives, benchmarked against the British Standard BS25999. including use of state of the art video conferencing equipment, to reduce this. We have set an informal ARM’s Austin, Texas office is located within or around company goal of keeping all travel steady even while our several key areas of biodiversity. The building itself is inside headcount and sales increase. a protected habitat of the Turkey Vulture, or Cathartes aura, 1. BirdLife International 2009. Cathartes aura. In: IUCN 2010. IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Version 2010.4. www.iucnredlist.org. 17 December 2010 2. Nature Conservancy of Texas 2010, “Conservancy and Austin to Expand Barton Creek Wilderness Park”. www.nature.org/wherewework/northamerica/states/texas/news/ news3409.html. 17 December 2010. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 14 3. Performance Indicators 3.3. Employment Practices and Work Environment Indicators All employees by contract 2010 established 2010 established 2010 established types 2010 employees by region employees by age group employees by gender UK 41% 21-31 25% Male 83% 1,889 established US 27% 31-40 42% Female 17% employees 71% India 15% 41-51 25% Gender split of engineering graduates External 7% Continental Europe 11% 51-60 7% in the UK in 2010: 90% male, 10% Fixed term 3% Far East/Asia 6% 61-70 1% female. Performanace indicators 3.3. Employment Practices and Work Environment Being a company with such wide-reaching influence, Indicators ARM is committed to the equality of opportunity in its employment policies procedures and practices. ARM With headquarters in the United Kingdom and offices in is strongly bound by our Global and Local EEO Policies North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Asia, nearly and will therefore take the necessary action to ensure 1900 established employees worked for ARM in 2010. adherence. To this end, within the framework of the law, Ninety-one percent of employees are established, and we are committed wherever practicable to achieving and ARM’s Processor Division is the largest by headcount. maintaining a workforce which broadly reflects the national Including all employment contract types, ARM has a total of catchment area within which we operate. As an item of 2,081 employees, with over half being below the age of 40, note, we particularly believe our employment rates of in 2010. Analysis of our corporate governing bodies can be women to be above average, as the gender split of UK found in the Annual Report at www.arm.com. engineering graduates in 2010 was 90% men to 10% women. Per the above chart, 17% of ARM employees are female. IT Industry Average Gender Pay Gap: US average women’s salaries as % of men’s – 76% (2009)3 UK average women’s salaries as % of men’s – 80% (2007)4 ARM’s average women’s salaries as % of men’s – 93% Headcount Established employees 06 1,657 07 1,728 08 1,747 09 1,704 10 1,889 3. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, “Women’s earnings and employment by industry, 2009,” www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2011/ted_20110216_data.htm. 18 February 2011. 4. Taylor, Bill. “Women in ICT today: A UK Perspective” www.uniglobalunion.org/Apps/ UNINews.nsf/7a1fe394b29b0003c12574c6004d8645/2b07e695e33a5061c125757d0033b0b 9/$FILE/Taylor_CWU.ppt. 18 February 2011. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 15 3. Performance Indicators 3.3. Employment Practices and Work Environment Indicators AFDS completions Percentage of employees completed 95% 73% 82% 87% 76% EMEA UK India 66% 78% 85% 86% 83% 84% 83% 53% 99% 36% 81% 69% 90% 87% 81% 73% 96% 95% 96% 92% Asia Pacific Overall 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 EMEA Performanace indicators US India AsiaPac While the company does not maintain a specific policy in Overall ARM employs a number of assistance and wellness regards to local hiring, we maintain recruitment relationships programmes for workers and their families. Employees with universities local to ARM offices. We have also adopted receive benefits including private medical insurance, travel a Global Equal Employment Opportunities Policy covering and life insurance, pensions/401k plans, sabbaticals, the recruitment, transfer and promotion of staff as well as company sick pay, holiday pay, and flexible working. their training and development. We promote the best use Unum LifeWorks is an independent Employee Assistance of our human capital and encourage continuous learning Programme contracted by ARM for employee counselling and development, in order to fulfil career aspirations and support, and ARM’s health insurance providers offer and promote innovation and continuous improvement mental health coverage. Core Cambridge is employed throughout the Company. Composition of hired senior at ARM’s headquarters for physical therapy and athletic management is discussed further in our Corporate training, and on-site gym facilities are provided at many Governance sections of the Annual Report on ARM offices. ARM also offers family-friendly programmes www.arm.com. such as maternity, paternity, and parental leave, a child care ARM believes that every employee should have the voucher scheme in the UK, and a flexible spending account opportunity for regular and comprehensive feedback on his in the US. or her job performance. As such, the group employs the AFDS process to identify gaps in employees’ abilities and to provide training or other suitable remedy. This ensures all staff have clear accountabilities and objectives that relate to the wider organisational objectives is regulated by the ARM Management System (AMS). 06 Health insurance 199.0 US employees coverage: 202.5 82.1 07 208.8 217.9 87.6 Dental 128 298 83 509 Medical 133 302 73 508 Vision 126 73 104 509 87.8 Employee only Employee + family Employee + spouse Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 16 3. Performance Indicators 3.3. Employment Practices and Work Environment Indicators 3.4 Human Rights Indicators Formal training hours Training (hours/established employee) Stakeholders engagement 25.2 23.5 23.2 20.3 EMEA 5.5 UK India 0.6 11.2 15.1 18.1 32.6 15.4 18.8 16.1 49.4 24.6 15.7 46.3 27.4 20.6 36.5 16.4 Asia Pacific 5.5 3.7 9.6 6.4 Average 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 EMEA US India AsiaPac ARM hasAverage adopted UK health and safety legislation as the 3.4. Human Rights Indicators global corporate standard due to its depth and breadth and As part of our commitment to the UNGC, ARM adheres maintains membership of the British Safety Council to reflect to the Universal Declaration on Human Rights. ARM this standard. ARM’s global internal audit programme, the recognises its ethical responsibilities to all stakeholders which Facilities Management Review, evaluates health and safety are manifested in a range of policies and processes. ARM performance across all sites with a goal of consistency of conducts its business with integrity, respecting all cultures and health and safety provision world-wide. the dignity and rights of individuals. Although the nature and Due to these efforts, rates of absence from work due to locations of ARM’s businesses make the risk for human rights sickness, injury, or occupational disease have decreased in violations minimal, the company takes seriously its obligations recent years. Missed work time in the UK in 2010 was 20.8 to promote respect for and observance of human rights and hours per capita and 46.9 hours per capita in India. fundamental freedoms for all. ARM engages in active dialogue with suppliers with whom we have an ongoing, long-term relationship. In suppliers’ contracts, they are encouraged to abide by ARM’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics policy in their own organisations. The supplier approval procedure is also under review to make such ethical policies a requirement and no longer optional. Figure 10 Team ARM Cambridge raising money for Breakthrough Breast Cancer in the London to Cambridge Bike Ride. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 17 3. Performance Indicators 3.4 Human Rights Indicators 3.5 Society/Community Impact indicators Figure 11 ARM Trondheim’s 20th Anniversary Robot Racing Competition with local schoolchildren. Performanace indicators ARM’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available affiliation, gender, gender reassignment, sexual orientation, on the website at www.arm.com. This Code contains marital status, family connections, membership or nonprovisions against conflicts of interest, corruption, illegal membership of a trade union, disability, or any other group. activity, inaccurate public reporting, insider trading, As such, ARM takes internal charges of discrimination very bribery, and anti-competitive behaviours. The company seriously. Any employee who has a concern of this sort can regularly monitors employees’ awareness of ARM policies make use of the Company’s grievance procedure. There and procedures, including its ethical policies. All ARM were two grievances raised in 2010, both relating to bullying employees are obliged to read the company’s Global Code and harassment and in one case perceived discrimination. of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy, mandating honesty Human Resources followed a formal investigation process and accountability in all business activities. In 2010, the in both cases, and found no evidence to support either Code of Conduct also became aligned with the new UK claim. There were no other cases of discrimination or unfair Bribery Act 2010 which applies to offences committed in treatment during 2010. There were 16 capability/disciplinary the UK irrespective of nationality and those committed by cases in 2010, however these were in the majority due to UK companies or by UK citizens or residents even if the act poor performance and managed formally in line with our or omission occurs abroad. As such, ARM’s code regulates policies. Historically, numbers of such claims have been of conflicts of interest, bribery, legal compliance, insider trading, similar magnitude. information and company asset protection, political activities, 3.5. Society/Community Impact Indicators and employee whistle-blowing. Additionally, the employee handbook states that ARM It is the Company’s policy not to make any political is committed to human rights and ethical trading in its contributions or donations to solely religious causes. This business activities and employment practices; ARM policy applies to the use of company assets and is not requires respect for economic, social, cultural, political intended to discourage or prevent individual employees, and civil rights, compliance with human rights law, and officers, or directors from making such contributions or prevention of discrimination based on race, creed, colour, engaging in these activities on their personal capacity. nationality, ethnic origin, age, religion or similar belief, political No one may be reimbursed directly or indirectly by the ARM is also committed to complying with the tenants of the Universal Figure 12 Declaration of Human Rights, from which the First and Second UNGC ARM Bangalore’s blood drive. Principles are derived. More information on the Declaration can be found at www.un.org/en/documents/udhr. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 18 3. Performance Indicators 3.5 Society/Community Impact indicators 3.6. Product Responsibility Indicators Money raised for charity Europe £71,000 Figure 13 US £18,000 Team ARM Cambridge raising money for India £7,000 East Anglia’s Children’s Hospices in the Far East £2,000 Dragon Boat Race. Performanace indicators Company for personal political or religious contributions, and in contracts, then project progress, risks, and quality subject to ARM’s charity giving policy. of deliverables are managed using design reviews and The company has also been actively working to improve the assessments. Because our primary business is the transparency of its business practices. By joining multiple licensing of intellectual property, customer health and safety partnerships with external organisations such as IBLF, impacts from our products are minimal. However, through the UNGC, and the CDP (see Section 1), ARM hopes to internal communication tools, we do embed lessons demonstrate improvement in this area. learnt into review and assessment templates, monitor and develop employee performance through AFDS, actively Team ARM also actively raises money for charities local seek feedback from customers to improve products and to ARM offices. In 2010, ARM raised, through employee services, and monitor business performance using Key initiative and corporate gift-matching, nearly £100,000 for Performance Indicators. These are tracked at monthly the benefit of community charities, sponsoring such causes Customer Satisfaction Meetings to help drive improvements as hospices, homeless shelters, schools, and medical in product and service quality. research. Additionally, ARM’s Matching Gift Donation Programme will double, up to a reasonable limit set by each Most ARM-powered goods are manufactured by the office, employees’ own contributions to charity. Additional ARM Connected Community of companies. However, as information on our charitable contributions can be found in part of our participation in the World Climate Summit and the Director’s Report of ARM’s Annual Report. commitments to IBLF and UNGC, we work continuously with our Partners to improve sustainability across this 3.6. Product Responsibility Indicators Connected Community. We collaborate with research and ARM’s Quality Policy demands satisfaction of Customer development organisations such as university science and needs and expectations by delivering products that engineering programmes worldwide. We also participate in are verified to meet the agreed requirements on time. European Union-funded research to improve the efficient Understanding customer needs and expectations is an and responsible development of ARM-powered products integral part of ARM’s product development process. and worked with the American Council for an EnergyCustomer requirements are set out in product specifications Efficient Economy (ACEEE) to help found its intelligent Global Compact Communication on Progress Employees’ explicit acceptance of ARM’s Global Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy is tracked through internal systems and demonstrates ARM’s commitment to the Tenth Principle of the UNGC. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 19 3. Performance Indicators 3.6. Product Responsibility Indicators Figure 14 ARM sponsored the Humanitarian Centre’s year of ICT for international development (photo courtesy of Ken Banks). Performanace indicators efficiency advisory board. all company marketing and communications. Our corporate Part of ARM’s commitment to low-power products is policies prevent sponsorship of illegal activities or those that demonstrated in our Processor Optimisation Packages. We violate Equal Opportunity and Discrimination laws. ARM’s offer optimised physical IP that will deliver a pre-determined Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (available on the processor implementation, based on the customer’s choice website at www.arm.com) requires full, understandable, from amongst different options for higher performance or and accurate information in our public disclosures as lower power. Supporting a range of Cortex processors, well as complete compliance with all applicable laws and process nodes, and foundries, we allow the customer regulations, including those of the United States Securities to make the decision as to power-consumption versus and Exchange Commission and the United Kingdom Listing processing performance. Authority and Financial Services Authority, in all material respects about the company’s financial condition and We have also taken responsibility to influence how results of operations. We maintain the highest standards in information technology can be used to aid in poverty all matters relating to accounting, financial controls, internal reduction. ARM’s partnership with the Humanitarian Centre’s reporting and taxation. All financial books, records and ICT4D Year funded networking events, presentations, accounts must accurately reflect transactions and events, and research into the innovative use of information and and conform both to required accounting principles and communication technology to alleviate global poverty and to the company’s system of internal controls. Records inequality. Events in this series include Professor Tim Unwin, shall not be distorted in any way to hide, disguise or alter UNESCO Chair in ICT4D at Royal Holloway, University of the company’s true financial position.. The company’s London, analysing evidence for how new technologies Disclosure Committee consisting of senior management impact on poverty, and Prof. Geoff Walsham, Prof. Ian assists in monitoring such disclosures. Leslie, Dr. Peter Gough, and the Hon. Minister of Health, Rev. Dr John Seakgosing, from Botswana, examining ARM also is committed to safeguarding the protection e-Health for International Development. More information on of data collected from employees, suppliers, customers this can be found at www.humanitariancentre.org/ict4d. and other third parties. Our Global Data Protection Policy, owned by ARM’s Data Protection Officer, summarises the ARM believes ethics and accuracy must be maintained in Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 20 3. Performance Indicators 3.6. Product Responsibility Indicators Figure 15 Some of ARM’s Processor Optimisation Packages Dual Core Cortex-A9 Dual Core Cortex-A9 Dual Core Cortex-A5 Cortex-M0 Speed opimised Power optimised Power optimised Ultra low leakage 2GHz 1.9W 0.5W 80mW 5mW 800MHz 600MHz 50MHz Performanace indicators standards followed to protect this data and is available on www.arm.com. Except as expressly stated in the policy, we do not provide data to third parties without consent, though ARM may share data within the ARM group and may be required to disclose or share personal data in order to comply with legal obligation or to protect rights. For employees, we may process data in the ordinary course of employment within the Group. With a supplier, customer, or other third party, ARM processes data in the ordinary course of business, including using outside companies to send marketing information and ship orders. ARM always uses industry-standard encryption technologies when transferring and receiving data and has appropriate security measures in place to protect against any loss, misuse, or alteration of information that it has collected. ARM maintains all accounting and administration information for auditing purposes in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and generally accepted accounting principles. Global Compact Communication on Progress ARM’s work with R&D partners is further evidence of our commitment to the UNGC’s Principle Nine, which calls for encouragement of environmentally-friendly technologies. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 21 4. Looking Forward Looking Forward Over the next year ARM will continue its commitment to the charters and partnerships outlined in this report. In particular we will reaffirm our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the Global Reporting Initiative. In 2011 we will assess and re-evaluate a number of ARM’s CR policies and processes. Looking forward Environment Workplace • Continue our efforts to reach our two emissions reduction • Assess our Corporate Governance structure in relation targets (see page -13) to CR to maintain and improve responsibility and • Asses our emissions data management system accountability. • Encourage staff to contribute improving ARM’s • Improve employee participation in Team ARM environmental impact. • Improve internal CR Communications and reporting. Community Marketplace • Review our Charitable Donations and Sponsorship • Continue to explore how to engage the ARM Connected policies and process. Community in relation to Corporate Responsibility, • Continue to improve external CR communications and Sustainability and International Development. reporting • Improve external CR communications and reporting. • Develop new programmes to demonstrate the positive potential of ARM technology to improve global energy efficiency. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 22 4. Looking Forward 4.1. Commitment to Charters and Partnerships 4.1. Commitment to Charters and Partnerships ARM is certified to ISO9001 and audited externally by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance (LRQA) for compliance. ARM’s current certificate was due for expiry in November 2010. We were audited by LRQA during that time for ISO9001 renewal and for the annual Sarbanes-Oxley (SOx) survey, which is a required corporate governance qualification for any company traded in the US market. There were no major non-conformances raised in either audit, and virtually all topic areas of the SOx review showed some level of improvement over last year’s results. As such, LRQA made a recommendation to renew ARM’s ISO9001:2008 certification. More information can be found in ARM’s Annual Report at www.arm.com or on LRQA’s website at www.lrqa.co.uk/ help/casestudies/arm/Default.aspx. ARM is a contributor to the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent database recording greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies of major global corporations. More information can be found at www.cdproject.net. This year, ARM became a new participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a voluntary strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are also an active member of the local UK-based UNCG member network. More information can be found at www.unglobalcompact.org. As part of ARM’s commitment to the UN Global Compact, the company has also committed to the Caring for Climate Looking forward action platform for those who seek to demonstrate leadership on the issue of climate change. More information can be found at www.unglobalcompact.org/Issues/Environment/ Climate_Change. In 2010, ARM partnered with the International Business Leaders Forum (IBLF), an independent, not-for-profit global organisation working with business leaders to deliver innovative solutions to sustainable development challenges worldwide. This partnership will explore how more effective use of smart technology can reduce energy consumption and improve living standards. More information can be found at www.iblf.org. ARM is committed to the National Association of Pension Funds’ Pension Quality Mark (PQM), a benchmark scheme recognising high quality defined contribution pension schemes with strength of employer contributions, fund management, and stakeholder communications. More information can be found at www.pensionqualitymark.org.uk. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 23 4. Looking Forward 4.1. Commitment to Charters and Partnerships 4.2. Significant Awards and Recognition In 2010, ARM was again included in the FTSE4Good Index, designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally-recognised corporate responsibility standards. www.ftse.com/Indices/FTSE4Good_Index_Series ARM was acknowledged by the techMARK group with a nomination for 2010 Achievement of the Year and an award for 2010 Company of the Year, identifying technological achievement along with sound commercial and financial success and long term growth potential. www.techmark-event.co.uk The 2010 Electronic Engineering Times Annual Creativity in Electronics award for Company of the Year, which recognises professionalism, staff development and retention, customer focus, technical excellence, and profitable growth, was presented to ARM this year. www.eetimes-ace.com The National Microelectronics Institute recognised ARM with two Excellence Awards in 2010, one for Low Power Design and another for Services to Training and Education. The former rewards innovative and novel designs that significantly reduce energy consumption without compromising end-user functionality, and the latter is for significant commitment to a healthy and vibrant microelectronics industry in the UK and Ireland. autodiscover.nmi.org.uk/events/annual-dinner-2010 ARM was again added to the Corporate Research Foundation’s list of Britain’s Top Employers, certifying organisations on the leading edge of growing professional Looking forward careers. Their research showed ARM to have outstanding HR policies and excellent working conditions. www.britainstopemployers.co.uk ARM was honoured by the Austin American-Statesman newspaper as one of Austin, Texas’ Top Workplaces of 2010. The Top Workplace Awards, which recognised 75 companies in the Austin region, lead the way in measuring the health of US companies based upon employee opinions and survey responses. Over 2,000 designated Top Workplaces nationally are now better positioned to attract and retain industry leading talent. statesman.topworkplaces.com ARM was included in the recent listing of the NASDAQ OMX CRD Global Sustainability 100 Index, benchmarking companies on a major US stock exchange making advances in sustainability performance reporting. The Index, created through evaluation of more than 3,000 global companies, is comprised of those that have taken a leadership role in disclosing their carbon footprint, energy usage, water consumption, hazardous and non-hazardous waste, employee safety, workforce diversity, management composition, and community investing. indexes.nasdaqomx.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 24 5. Appendix 5.1. Global Reporting Initiative Appendix 5.1. Global Reporting Initiative 5.2. United Nations Global Compact 5.3. Blueprint For Sustainable Leadership: Corporate Action Plan 5.4. Other Key Metrics Content indicies Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 25 5. Appendix 5.1. Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3 Guideline Item Page Number GRI G3 Guideline Item Page Number Standard Disclosures: Standard Disclosures: 1.01 4.13 Statement from the most senior decision-maker Memberships in associations and/or advocacy organisations 23 of the organisation 1 4.14 2.01 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 6 Name of the organisation 1 4.15 2.02 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Primary brands, products, and/or services 2 engage 6 2.03 4.16 Operational structure of the organisation 4 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 6 2.04 5.00 Location of organisation’s headquarters 3 Management Approach and Performance Indicators 2.05 EC1 13 Number of countries where the organisation operates 3 EC2 13 2.08 EC3 15 Scale of the reporting organisation 4, 5 EC6 8,16 2.10 EC7 8,16 Awards received in the reporting period 24 EC8 8 3.01 EN1 13, 14 Reporting period 5 EN11 13, 14 3.02 EN12 13, 14 Date of most recent previous report 5 EN15 13 3.04 EN16 13, 14 Contact point for questions regarding the report of its contents 5 EN22 13 3.06 EN25 1, 14 Boundary of the report 5 EN26 1 3.07 EN29 19 Specific limitations on the scope of the report 5 EN3 19 3.09 EN5 19 Data measurement techniques and assumptions 5 EN7 13, 14 3.11 HR2 17 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 5 HR4 18 3.12 HR6 17, 18 Table identifying location of Standard Disclosures 26 HR7 17, 18 3.13 LA1 15 Current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the LA10 17 report 5 LA11 16 Appendix 4.01 – 4.10 LA12 16 Governance 4 LA13 15 4.08 LA14 15 Internally developed statements of mission or vision 3 LA3 16 4.12 LA7 16 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social LA8 15 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses 23 PR1 16 PR5 8, 19, 20 PR6 19, 20, 21 SO3 18 SO6 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 26 5. Appendix 5.2. United Nations Global Compact 5.2. United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact holds at its core the following ten principles within four issue areas. www.unglobalcompact.org Human Rights Issue Area • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and •  Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Issue Area • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; •  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Issue Area • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Issue Area • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Communication on Progress As part of ARM’s participation in the UNGC, we are submitting this Corporate Responsibility report as our official Communication on Progress (COP). The requirements of a COP report, and where in this CR report they can be found, are summarised below. Requirement: Page Number 1. A statement by the CEO (or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the participant’s ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles 4 2. A description of practical actions (i.e., activities and, if applicable, policies) the company has taken to implement the Global Compact principles and to support broader development Appendix goals. During the first five years of participation, a COP must address at least two of the Global Compact’s principle issue areas. Environmental Issues Area 17, 29 Transparency and Anti-Corruption Issues Area 27 3. A measurement of outcomes (i.e., identify targets, define performance indicators, Throughout and in or measure outcomes). the Blueprint overleaf. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 27 5. Appendix 5.3. Blueprint for Sustainable Leadership Blueprint for Sustainability Leadership: Corporate Action Plan Plan Item Location and Explanation Implementing the Ten Principles into Strategies and Operations Full Coverage and Integration Across Principles 1. Implement all the ten UN Global Compact principles Environment and Anti-Corruption Issue Areas are already into strategies and operations embedded in our policies, as noted in the COP Index. Human Rights and Labour are respected by the culture and business of ARM but not explicitly stated in our policies as our business stream is inherently low risk of violations due to child or compulsory labour or collective bargaining failures. Reference Sections: 2.1, 2.5, 3.4, 5.34 2. Design corporate sustainability strategy to leverage ARM's environmental strategy has several checks and balances synergies between and among issue areas and to deal to ensure trade-offs are considered. Through R&D investments in adequately with trade-offs. energy efficiency, creation of more responsible business practices (e.g., video conferencing to reduce travel), and formation of external partnerships such as IBLF, synergies are leveraged appropriately. 3. Ensure that different corporate functions coordinate ARM’s business is small enough that most are constantly in touch closely to maximize performance and avoid with multiple functional departments but large enough to demand unintended negative impacts. an executive emphasis on teamwork. The ARM Management System (AMS) is a corporate-wide structure that standardises procedures and ensures all departmental objectives feed into overarching corporate goals. Reference Section: 3.3 Robust Management Policies and Procedures 4. Assess risks and opportunities on an ongoing basis Direct impacts are assessed every year by the relevant employee’s at both enterprise and product level and undertake annual objectives (e.g., environmental waste reductions). due diligence to ensure that the company identifies Assessment of indirect impacts are an area of growth potential for any negative impacts caused by its operations and ARM, as we have historically assumed we were low risk due to the activities. nature of our business. However, our Corporate Roadmap is driving us to increase the sustainability of ARM-powered products. Reference Section: 3.6 5. Develop strategies and policies specific to the Macroscopic, corporate-wide business policies are in use and company’s operating context – as well as scenarios for mandatorily reviewed by all employees annually. Corporate-wide the future – and establish measurable short, medium, goals are set by the Board, managed by the Corporate Operations and long term goals. Group (COG), and maintained in AMS. These goals are then flowed down to individual employees through the AFDS process. Reference Section: 3.3 Appendix 6. Engage and educate employees through training Training is performed through the Learning and Development activities, the development and adjustment of business department. Through on-the-job and formal training we aim to processes, and sound incentive schemes. promote and support the development of everyone both individually and in teams to fulfil their full potential and contribute to the wider success of ARM. ARM encourages each individual to embark upon a path of self-betterment by using a blend of: reflection and feedback, coaching, mentoring, training and education, experience and exposure and on the job training. ARM also offers equity participation and conducts regular Employee Engagement Assessments. Reference Sections: 2.1, 2.2, 3.3 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 28 5. Appendix 5.3. Blueprint for Sustainable Leadership 7. Implement a system to track and measure Each employee’s performance is tracked and measured through performance based on standardised performance the ARM Feedback and Development System (AFDS). On a metrics. corporate level, ARM’s sustainability performance is tracked through reporting on the GRI and UNGC’s Communication on Progress and Blueprint for Corporate Sustainability Leadership. Reference Sections: 3.3, 5 Mainstreaming into Corporate Functions and Business Units 8. Place responsibility for execution of sustainability Corporate-wide sustainability goals have been set and approved. strategy in relevant corporate functions (procurement, Human Resources, Marketing, Facilities, and Product Design all government affairs, human resources, legal, etc.) have portions of the responsibility for this strategy, allocated by and ensure that no function is operating in conflict relevance and ability. Appropriate goals for each functional group with sustainability commitments and objectives of are managed by the AMS. company. Reference Section: 2.5 9. Align strategies, goals and incentive structures of See item 8 above. Corporate goals apply across all business units all business units and subsidiaries with corporate and subsidiaries. sustainability strategy. 10. Assign responsibility for corporate sustainability See item 8 above. Corporate goals apply across all business units implementation to an individual or group within each and subsidiaries. business unit and subsidiary. Value Chain Implementation 11. Analyse each segment of the value chain carefully, An area of growth potential for ARM, as we have historically both upstream and downstream, when mapping risks, assumed we were low risk due to the nature of our business. opportunities and impacts. However, through our Roadmap, we are striving for greater energy efficiency and sustainability in our value chain. Reference Section: 3.6 12. Communicate policies and expectations to suppliers This is in progress with continued partnership meetings as well and other relevant business partners. as more formal arrangements such as through the Cambridge Responsibility Forum, Caring for Climate, the World Climate Summit. We are also pushing for more sustainable ARM-powered products. Our procurement policy is also changing in this regard. Reference Sections: 2.3, 3.6 13. Implement monitoring and assurance mechanisms ARM’s Procurement policies are evolving to include ethical within company’s sphere of influence. requirements. Reference Sections: 2.3, 3.4 14. Undertake awareness-raising, training and other types This is being accomplished through our partnerships such as the of capability building with suppliers and other business commissioned research with IBLF, our Connected Community partners. panel at the World Climate Summit, and our participation with ACEEE. Reference Sections: 2.3, 3.6 Taking Action in Support of Broader UN Goals and Issues Core Business Contributions to UN Goals and Issues Appendix 15. Align core business strategy with one or more relevant ARM’s vision is for a world in which all electronic products and UN goals/issues*. services are based on energy-efficient technology from ARM, making life better for everyone. We are also extending this vision into issues relating to education, health, and poverty reduction. This is in line with the UNGC’s Principles Eight and Nine, calling for environmental responsibility. Reference Sections: CEO Welcome, 1 , 3.6 16. Develop relevant products and services or design See item 15 above. ARM strives to create the most energy-efficient business models that contribute to UN goals/issues. processors in the world and to enable products that drive intelligent efficiency such as smart appliances, smart meters, and smart water. Reference Section: 3.6 17. Adopt and modify operating procedures to maximise See items 15 and 16 above. This will also be developed as our contribution to UN goals/issues. participation with the UNGC grows. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 29 5. Appendix 5.3. Blueprint for Sustainable Leadership Strategic Social Investments and Philanthropy 18. Pursue social investments and philanthropic ARM’s policy on charitable giving is to support Science, contributions that tie in with the core competences or Mathematics, Technology, and Engineering (STEM) fields operating context of the company as an integrated within communities local to ARM, as this is our core business part of its sustainability strategy. competency. We are also pursuing major investments with organisations such as social enterprise/clean-tech non-profit Future Business. Reference Section: 2.4 19. Coordinate efforts with other organizations and ARM is a founder/major contributor within several relevant initiatives to amplify – and not negate or unnecessarily partnerships such as the ACEEE, Cambridge Responsibility duplicate – the efforts of other contributors. Forum, Learning Collaboration, and World Climate Summit which include many other major corporations such as Schneider Electric, Microsoft, Hewlett Packard, Texas Instruments, and IBM, as well as small businesses local to ARM offices. Reference Section: 2.4 20. Take responsibility for the intentional and unintentional Each individual office makes decisions on local charitable giving, effects of funding and have due regard for local allowing them to appropriately consider community priorities. customs, traditions, religions, and priorities of pertinent Additionally, ARM has a policy against donations that target political individuals and groups. and religious causes in order to prevent effects other than those for contributing to the common good. Reference Section: 3.4 Advocacy and Public Policy Engagement 21. Publicly advocate the importance of action in relation We are taking a leadership role by incorporating UNGC’s Blueprint to one or more UN goals/issues. for Sustainability Leadership into the company’s CR Report, which no one has done prior to this year. We are also participating in the World Climate Summit alongside UNGC. Reference Sections: 2.4, 5.2,5.3 22. Commit company leaders to participate in key See item 22 above. Company leaders are committed to a series of summits, conferences, and other important public sustainability-related events. ARM’s CEO attended and presented policy interactions in relation to one or more UN at the Cambridge Responsibility Forum. goals/issues. Reference Section: 2.4 Partnerships and Collective Action 23. Develop and implement partnership projects We have help found the Cambridge Responsibility Forum, with public or private organizations (UN entities, designed to facilitate networking and idea-sharing, with several government, NGOs, or other groups) on core other local Cambridge businesses. We have also partnered with business, social investments and/or advocacy. the Humanitarian Centre to promote the use of IT in international development. ARM also entered into a partnership with non-profit IBLF to research sustainability in the IT sector and coordinate relevant events. We are additionally instrumental in founding ACEEE’s Intelligent Efficiency Board. Reference Sections: 2.4, 3.6 Appendix 24. Join industry peers, UN entities and/or other See item 23 above. We also joined the World Climate Summit, are stakeholders in initiatives that contribute to solving a regular participant in the local UK Network of the UNGC, and common challenges and dilemmas at the global and/ worked with the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy or local levels with an emphasis on initiatives that (ACEEE) to help found its intelligent efficiency advisory board. ARM extend the company’s positive impact on its value endeavours to have a positive impact on its value chain, as listed in chain. item 19. Reference Sections: 1, 4.1, 4.2 , 3.6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 30 5. Appendix 5.3. Blueprint for Sustainable Leadership Engaging with the UN Global Compact Local Networks and Subsidiary Engagement 25. Contribute to the building and operating of at least one We regularly attend meetings of local UK Network and are UN Global Compact Local Network and help elevate investigating how we can help with training, mentoring, etc., performance of other companies through training, amongst our peers. ARM’s Director of Sustainable Development mentoring, COP peer review, etc. recently joined the Local Network’s Advisory Board. 26. Encourage subsidiaries to engage with UN Global Our commitment to the UNGC is corporate-wide. Compact Local Networks and to participate actively in events and activities. 27. Publish sustainability information related to each This report covers all of ARM Holdings corporately. ARM has no individual subsidiary separately or reference it explicitly subsidiaries involved in anything outside our core business of in the Communication on Progress of Corporate semiconductor IP. Headquarters. Global and Local Working Groups 28. Participate in relevant global or local working groups We participate in meetings of our local UK network and are and share experiences, networks, tools and good members of the Caring for Climate Working Group. ARM’s Director practices with other UN Global Compact participants. of Sustainable Development recently joined the Local Network’s Advisory Board. 29. Take active part in defining scope and objectives of ARM is one of the first companies to suggest incorporation of this new working groups when relevant. Blueprint in a CR Report. Reference Section: 6.2 Issue-Based and Sector Initiatives 30. Join and help advance one or more existing UN Global We are committed to the Caring for Climate initiative. Compact initiatives, e.g. Caring for Climate, CEO Reference Section: 4.1 Water Mandate, Women’s Empowerment Principles, and Global Business Initiative on Human Rights. mentoring, COP peer review, etc. 31. Spearhead need-driven development of new issueSee item 29. This is an area of potential growth for ARM. This will based or sector initiatives within the UN Global be developed as we progress in our participation. Compact and the wider United Nations. Promotion and Support of the UN Global Compact 32. Advocate the UN Global Compact to business We invite the UNGC to participate in many of our ARM-sponsored partners, peers and the general public. networking events to allow them interaction with ARM’s Connected Community. We have also sponsored UNGC research projects. 33. Encourage suppliers and other business partners to This is also accomplished on a one-to-one basis during our join the UN Global Compact, and take on mentoring interactions with suppliers and partners. We invited several to the role on issues related to the initiative. World Climate Summit. 34. Participate in activities to further develop and We have suggested use of this Blueprint as possible framework for strengthen the UN Global Compact. CR reports. We are also a participant in the World Climate Summit Appendix and are developing further activities in close cooperation with the UNGC. Reference Sections: 2.3, 2.5 The Cross-Cutting Components CEO Commitment and Leadership 35. CEO publicly delivers explicit statements and Our CEO’s statement in this report demonstrates the commitment. demonstrates personal leadership on sustainability He also presented at the Cambridge Responsibility Forum and and commitment to the UN Global Compact. attended the Technology for Sustainability conference. Reference Section: CEO’s Welcome and Statement. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 31 5. Appendix 5.3. Blueprint for Sustainable Leadership 36. CEO promotes initiatives to enhance sustainability The CEO supports the corporate vision of energy-efficient ARMof the company’s sector and leads development of powered products through integration of sustainability within the industry standards. ARM Connected Community. Reference Section: CEO’s Welcome and Statement, 3.6 37. CEO leads executive management team in CEO has endorsed the company’s low carbon goals and initiatives development of corporate sustainability strategy, and communicated them to the entire ARM workforce personally defining goals and overseeing implementation. through emails and presentations. The CEO receives regular updates on these issues through the Executive Committee. Reference Section: 2.5 38. Make sustainability criteria and UN Global Compact Executive goals include transparency, employee engagement, and principles part of goals and incentive schemes for development of more energy-efficient ARM technologies, which all CEO and executive management team. support the principles of the UNGC. Board Adoption and Oversight 39. Board of Directors (or equivalent**) assumes ARM’s Board and executive team recognise that continued responsibility and oversight for long term corporate success has been achieved through the strength and depth of our sustainability strategy and performance. stakeholder relationships, and thus manage the Company via a transparent, consistent and effective governance framework so that we remain accountable to all stakeholders. Reference: Annual Report 40. Board establishes, where permissible, a committee or The board has approved the internal committee to drive the assigns an individual Board member with responsibility company’s low carbon strategy and hired a Director of Sustainable for corporate sustainability. Development. Reference Section: 2.5 41. Board (or committee), where permissible, approves Delegated staff, including several Board members, will approve the formal reporting on corporate sustainability CR report. (Communication on Progress). Stakeholder Engagement 42. Publicly recognize responsibility for the company’s This takes the form of our corporate CR Report. Also, ARM has impacts on internal and external stakeholders. an “open-door” policy in regards to sustainability issues and is willing to share our strategy and challenges with any stakeholder or industry partner that enquires. Also, we are active in the UNGC Local UK Network, allowing for knowledge-sharing and feedback. Reference Section: 2 43. Define sustainability strategies, goals and policies in Employees are actively engaged with policy development consultation with key stakeholders. through regular Employee Engagement surveys as well as the ARM Consultation Forum. Other stakeholders are engaged at every available and appropriate opportunity. ARM’s sustainability strategies and goals are in constant development. Reference Section: 2 44. Consult stakeholders in dealing with implementation See item 43 above. This also takes the form of our CR report. dilemmas and challenges and invite them to take active part in reviewing performance. 45. Establish channels to engage with employees and This is integrated and well-established within ARM’s business. Appendix other stakeholders to hear their ideas and address Reference Section: 2 their concerns, and protect ‘whistle-blowers’. Transparency and Disclosure 46 Share sustainability information with all interested This takes the form of our CR report. Additionally, ARM’s parties and respond to stakeholder inquiries and sustainability team regularly responds to individual stakeholder concerns. enquiries. 47. Ensure that Communication on Progress covers all The COP is integrated into the CR Report, which uses the GRI aspects of the Leadership Blueprint and utilise, where framework where possible. appropriate, the Global Reporting Initiative framework. Reference Section: 1.4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 32 5. Appendix 5.3. Blueprint for Sustainable Leadership 48. Integrate Communication on Progress into annual The COP is integrated into the CR Report, which is linked to the financial report or publish them together. annual financial report. This relationship is expected to evolve over time. Reference Section: 5.2, 5.3 49. Secure external verification of Communication on The COP will be validated by the UNGC as criteria for participation. Progress or seek other methods for legitimization by We are also sharing this report with IBLF prior to publishing for their external stakeholders. impartial advice. Reference Section: 1.4 Appendix Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 33 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics 5.4. Other Key Metrics ARM is committed to reporting on as many key performance indicators (KPI) as possible to ensure transparency and monitor performance. In order to cover all relevant KPIs, including those not significant enough to be mentioned in the main body of the report, an index of these has been included below. Environment Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Resource Reduction Emission Reduction/Waste EPI_01_Waste Total recycled and reused UK-based data provided; UK offices Recycling Ratio waste produced in tonnes account for 48% of total ARM divided by total waste headcount. Reference section 4.2. produced in tonnes. Processes are in place to record data from other offices for next year. Energy Use Total (J/$M) EPI_02_Energy Total direct and indirect energy This data is not yet available for 2010. consumption in joules. Energy Purchased – EPI_02_Energy Direct energy purchased in 2.2x1013 J for the largest four offices: non-renewables (J/$M) joules. Austin, Bangalore, Cambridge, and San Jose. Indirect Energy Use (J/$M) EPI_02_Energy Indirect energy consumption This data is not yet available for 2010. in joules. Purchased-Renewables (J/$M) EPI_02_Energy Total primary renewable energy 2.3x1013 J for the largest four offices: purchased in joules. Austin, Bangalore, Cambridge, and San Jose. Water Use Total (m3/$M) EPI_03_Water Total water use in cubic In Cambridge, this was 4622 m3. Data meters. is not available for other sites. Many of ARM's offices are located within multi-tenancy buildings of which we do not control the purchase of water. Additionally, many of these buildings have toilet and kitchen facilities shared amongst many tenants. However, measures are being put in place to measure this in the future where possible. Fresh Water Use Total (m3/$M) EPI_03_Water Total fresh water use in cubic Not available. Many of ARM's offices meters. are located within multi-tenancy buildings of which we do not control the purchase of water. Additionally, many of these buildings have toilet and kitchen facilities shared amongst Appendix many tenants. However, measures are being put in place to measure this in the future where possible. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 34 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Water Recycled (m3/$M) EPI_03_Water Amount of water recycled or Not available. Many of ARM's offices reused in cubic meters. are located within multi-tenancy buildings of which we do not control the purchase of water. Additionally, many of these buildings have toilet and kitchen facilities shared amongst many tenants. However, the ARM-Austin office uses greywater reclamation for toilet facilities. Reference section: 3.2 Natural Gas (J/$M) EPI_02_Energy Natural gas energy purchased Not verifiable for this year, due to the in joules. amount being negligible. However, measures are being put in place to measure this in the future where possible. Electricity (J/$M) EPI_02_Energy Electricity purchased in joules. 4.6x1013 J for the largest four offices: Austin, Bangalore, Cambridge, and San Jose. Emission Reductions CO2 Equivalents Emission EPI_04_Emissions Total CO2 and CO2 equivalents 5,462 tonnes for the largest four (mt/$M) emission in tonnes. offices: Austin, Bangalore, Cambridge, and San Jose. CO2 Equivalents Emission EPI_04_Emissions Direct CO2 and CO2 Nil or negligible. None of ARM's direct Direct equivalents emission in tonnes. business activities produce this. Some trace undetectable emissions may occur during facilities maintenance. ARM is continually exploring ways to reduce even this small amount. CO2 Equivalents Emission EPI_04_Emissions Indirect of CO2 and CO2 5,448 tonnes for the largest four Indirect equivalents emission in tonnes. offices: Austin, Bangalore, Cambridge, and San Jose. CO2 Equivalent Indirect EPI_04_Emissions Total CO2 and CO2 Scope ARM's CO2 emissions from air travel Emissions, Scope Three Three equivalent emission in were not available in 2010 due to tonnes. data inconsistencies from our travel providers. Reference Section: 3.2 Ozone-Depleting Substances EPI_04_Emissions Total amount of ozone Nil or negligible. None of ARM's direct depleting (CFC-11 equivalents) business activities produce this. Some substances emitted in tonnes. trace undetectable emissions may occur during facilities maintenance. ARM is continually exploring ways to reduce even this small amount. Appendix NOx Emissions EPI_04_Emissions Total amount of NOx emissions Nil or negligible. None of ARM's direct emitted in tonnes. business activities produce this. Some trace undetectable emissions may occur during facilities maintenance. ARM is continually exploring ways to reduce even this small amount. SOx Emissions EPI_04_Emissions Total amount of SOx emissions Nil or negligible. None of ARM's direct emitted in tonnes. business activities produce this. Some trace undetectable emissions may occur during facilities maintenance. ARM is continually exploring ways to reduce even this small amount. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 35 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance VOC Emissions EPI_04_Emissions Total amount of volatile organic Nil or negligible. None of ARM's direct compounds (VOC) emissions business activities produce this. Some in tonnes. trace undetectable emissions may occur during facilities maintenance. ARM is continually exploring ways to reduce even this small amount and tries to use water-based paints wherever possible. Waste Total EPI_01_Waste Total amount of waste Data for UK provided. Reference produced in tonnes. section: 4.2 Processes being put in place to collect data for other offices, where possible. Many of ARM’s offices are located within multi-tenancy buildings of which we do not control the waste collection processes. Non-Hazardous Waste EPI_01_Waste Total amount of non-hazardous Data for UK provided. Reference waste produced in tonnes. section: 4.2 Processes being put in place to collect data for other offices, where possible. Many of ARM’s offices are located within multi-tenancy buildings of which we do not control the waste collection processes. Hazardous Waste EPI_01_Waste Total amount of hazardous ARM complies fully with the EU Waste waste produced in tonnes. Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive, which classifies waste IT equipment as hazardous. To this end, our electrical surplus in European offices is recycled and reused by local IT disposal firms. Processes are being put in place to record the amount of this discarded equipment in the future. None of ARM’s direct business activities produce other forms of hazardous waste. Effluents Discharged EPI_01_Waste Total weight of water pollutant None of ARM's direct business emissions in tonnes. activities produce these emissions. Biodegradable washing products (such as Ecover) are used in many offices. Other effluents are limited to the equivalent domestic-type wastes. Appendix Environmental Provisions EPI_05_RiskMitigation Other or environmental There are none reported in the balance (per $M) provisions as reported within sheet. the balance sheet. Environmental Management EPI_05_RiskMitigation The percentage of company 0%. We are certified to ISO9001. As System Certified Percent sites or subsidiaries that are a non-manufacturing company, EMS certified with any environmental certification has not been a priority. management system. However, our facilities department is continually working with LRQA to informally follow ISO14000 procedures. Reference section: 4.2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 36 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Environmental Partnerships EPI_05_RiskMitigation Does the company report on Reference sections: : 4.1, 2.5, 3.2 partnerships or initiatives with specialised NGOs, industry organisations, governmental or supragovernmental organisations, which are focused on improving environmental issues? ISO 14000 EPI_05_RiskMitigation Does the company claim See above. to have an ISO 14000 certification? Commercial Risks and/or EPI_05_RiskMitigation Is the company aware that Reference sections: 4.1, 2.3, 2.5, 3.2 Opportunities Due to Climate climate change can represent Change commercial risks and/or opportunities? Environmental Investments EPI_05_RiskMitigation Does the company report Future Business is an investment Initiatives on making proactive in clean-tech and future environmental investments entrepreneurship. Reference section: or expenditures to reduce 2.4 future risks or increase future opportunities? Social Product Responsibility Customer Health & Safety SPI_01_ProductResp Does the company have Reference Section: 3.6 appropriate internal communication tools (whistle blower, ombudsman, suggestion box, hotline, newsletter, website, etc.) to protect customer health & safety? Quality SPI_01_ProductResp Does the company have Reference section 3.6 appropriate internal communication tools (whistle blower, ombudsman, suggestion box, hotline, newsletter, website, etc.) to improve products and services quality? Responsible R&D SPI_01_ProductResp Does the company describe, Reference section 3.6 Appendix claim to have or mention processes in place to maintain responsible R & D practices? Responsible Marketing SPI_01_ProductResp Does the company describe, Reference section 3.6 claim to have or mention processes in place to maintain responsible marketing practices? Product Access SPI_01_ProductResp Does the company describe, As a business-to-business supplier, claim to have or mention this is not an issue. However, we processes in place to provide are working closely with emerging product access to low income economies (such as Brazil) and are or disabled customers? researching technology appropriate for developing countries. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 37 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Product Quality and SPI_01_ProductResp Does the company conduct Reference section 3.6 Responsibility Internal Audits internal audits on the elements driving its product quality and responsibility? Community Good Citizen SPI_02_Community Does the company have a Reference section: 2.4 policy to strive to be a good corporate citizen? Critical countries SPI_02_Community Does the company have No. a policy to limit activities in undemocratic countries abusing human rights? Indigenous People SPI_02_Community Does the company have a The nature of ARM's business is such policy to respect the rights of that risks of this nature are minimal. indigenous people? See 2.3 Indirect Economic Impact SPI_02_Community Does the company have a Reference Sections: 2.4, 3.5 policy to strive to increase the indirect economic impact it has on local communities? Good Citizen SPI_02_Community Has there been a public CEO Warren East signed the UNGC. commitment from a senior Both he and HR VP Bill Parsons management or board were participants in the Cambridge member to good corporate Responsibility Forum, which was cocitizenship? founded by ARM. Reference Sections: 4.1, 2.4 Stakeholder Dialogue SPI_02_Community Has there been a public This is demonstrated by senior commitment from a senior management's endorsement of management or board the UNGC and its Blueprint for member to encourage Sustainability Leadership, as well dialogue with stakeholders? as ARM's participation in the World Climate Summit and our regularly conducted Employee Engagement Surveys. Reference Sections: 4.1, 2.1, 5.3 Business Ethics SPI_02_Community Has there been a public This is shown by management's commitment from a senior endorsement of the UNGC and management or board participation in the Cambridge member to general business Responsibility Forum. ethics? Reference Sections: 4.1, 2.4 Good Citizen SPI_02_Community Does the company have Reference Section: 3.4 appropriate internal communication tools (whistle Appendix blower, ombudsman, suggestion box, hotline, newsletter, website, newsletter, website, etc.) to improve its good corporate citizenship? Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 38 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Suppliers or contractors SPI_02_Community Does the company have Reference Section: 2.3 appropriate communication tools (whistle blower, ombudsman, suggestion box, hotline, newsletter, website, etc.) to improve its partnership with suppliers and contractors? Indirect Economic Impact SPI_02_Community Does the company have Reference Section: 2.4 appropriate communication tools (whistle blower, ombudsman, suggestion box, hotline, newsletter, website, etc.) to improve the indirect economic impact it has on local communities? Fair Competition SPI_02_Community Does the company have Reference Section: 3.4 appropriate communication tools (whistle blower, ombudsman, suggestion box, hotline, newsletter, website, etc.) to improve fair competition? Bribery and Corruption SPI_02_Community Does the company have Reference Section: 3.4 appropriate internal communication tools (whistle blower, ombudsman, suggestion box, hotline, newsletter, website, etc.) to avoid bribery and corruption at all its operations? Political contribution SPI_02_Community Does the company have Reference Section: 3.4 appropriate internal communication tools (whistle blower, ombudsman, suggestion box, hotline, newsletter, website, etc.) to improve its compliance with local regulations regarding political contributions? Business Ethics SPI_02_Community Does the company have Reference Section: 3.4 appropriate communication tools (whistle blower, Appendix ombudsman, suggestion box, hotline, newsletter, website, etc.) to improve general business ethics? OECD Guidelines SPI_02_Community Does the company claim to ARM believes the guidelines are follow the OECD guidelines? covered by our UNGC commitments. Reference Sections: 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 Community Reputation SPI_02_Community Does the company show These measures are contained Progress Surveys through the use of surveys throughout this report. Additionally, our or measurements that it is reputation is monitored through our improving its success on the UNGC commitments. elements driving its reputation Reference Sections: 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 within the global community? Cash Donations SPI_02_Community Total amount of cash Reference Section: 3.5 (% of 2008 Rev) donations by the company. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 39 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Lobbying Political Donations SPI_02_Community Total spending for political It is the Company’s policy not to make lobbying, support of political any political contributions. candidates or donations to Reference Section: 3.4 parties. Human Rights Freedom of Association SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company have a This is covered through ARM's policy to ensure the freedom of endorsement of UNGC Principles. association of its employees? Reference Sections: 3.4 Child Labour SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company have a This is covered through ARM's policy to avoid child labour? endorsement of UNGC Principles. Reference Sections: 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 Forced Labour SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company have a This is covered through ARM's policy to avoid forced labour? endorsement of UNGC Principles. Reference Sections: 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 Supply Chain Human Rights SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company have a In suppliers' contracts, they are human rights policy applying to encouraged to abide by ARM’s Code its supply chain? of Business Conduct and Ethics policy in their own organisations. Reference Section: 3.4 Human Rights SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company have a ARM's Code of Business Conduct general, all-purpose policy and Ethics regarding human rights? Reference Section: 3.4 Freedom of Association SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company describe, The nature of our business is such claim to have or mention the that dangers to these rights are processes in place to ensure minimal. In addition, ARM's Code of the freedom of association of Business Conduct and Ethics requires its employees? us to follow all applicable laws of the countries in which we operate. Reference Section: 3.4 Child Labour SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company describe, This is covered through ARM's claim to have or mention endorsement of UNGC Principles. processes in place to avoid the Reference Sections: 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 use of child labour? Forced Labour SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company describe, This is covered through ARM's claim to have or mention endorsement of UNGC Principles. processes in place to avoid the Reference Sections: 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 use of forced labour? Supply Chain Human Rights SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company describe, We believe that through the claim to have or mention combination of ARM's Code of processes in place to apply Business Conduct and Ethics, the human rights standards to its nature of ARM's business, ARM's Appendix supply chain? commitment to the UNGC, and regular internal audits, the company has sufficient processes and communication tools in place to avoid use of child and forced labour, to ensure freedom of association, to apply human rights standards to the supply chain. Reference Section: 3.4 Human Rights SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company describe, See above answer. claim to have or mention Reference Section: 3.4 processes in place to ensure the respect of human rights in general? Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 40 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Fundamental Human Rights SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company claim to This is covered through ARM's ILO UN comply with the fundamental endorsement of UNGC Principles. human rights convention of Reference Sections: 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 the ILO or support the UN declaration of human rights? Human Rights Internal Audits SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company conduct This takes the form of our Employee internal audits on the elements Engagement survey, supply driving human rights? chain satisfaction audits, and the procurement screening process. Reference Sections: 2.1, 2.3 Human Rights Contractor SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company report or In suppliers' contracts, they are show to use human rights encouraged to abide by ARM’s Code criteria in the selection or of Business Conduct and Ethics policy monitoring process of its in their own organizations. suppliers or sourcing partners? Reference Section: 3.4 Human Rights Breaches SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company report or This is demonstrated through our Contractor show to be ready to end a inclusion of ethical principles in partnership with a sourcing the sourcing process so that such partner if human rights criteria issues are visible to the Procurement are not met? department. Reference Section: 3.4 Human Rights Communication SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company report Through initiatives such as the NGOs Local Communities to communicate with local Cambridge Responsibility Forum, communities (and NGOs) ARM's local community engagements, concerning human rights? and local networks of the UNGC, ARM uses many vehicles to communicate on all aspects of its sustainability policy. Reference Section: 4.1, 2.4 Human Rights Improvement SPI_03_HumanRights Does the company have the We believe that through the Tools appropriate communication combination of ARM's Code of tools (whistle blower, Business Conduct and Ethics, the ombudsman, suggestion box, nature of ARM's business, ARM's hotline, newsletter, website, commitment to the UNGC, and etc.) to ensure the respect of regular internal audits, the company human rights? has sufficient processes and communication tools in place. Reference Section: 3.4 Diversity and Opportunity Diversity and Opportunity SPI_04_Diversity_ Has there been a public There was no specific public Opportunity commitment from a senior commitment in 2010. management or board Appendix member to diversity and equal opportunity? Diversity and Opportunity SPI_04_Diversity_ Does the company describe, Our corporate policies prevent Opportunity claim to have or mention sponsorship of illegal activities or those processes in place to that violate Equal Opportunity. This is drive diversity and equal encouraged through our employee opportunity? training courses and AFDS process. Reference Section: 3.3 Women Employees SPI_04_Diversity_ Percentage of women Reference Section: 3.3 Opportunity employees. Women Managers SPI_04_Diversity_ Percentage of women Reference Annual Report. Opportunity managers. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 41 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance HRC Corporate Equality Index SPI_04_Diversity_ The score of the company in As this index is comprised of US Opportunity the HRC corporate equality companies, ARM is not on the HRC index from the Human Rights Corporate Equality Index. We believe Campaign Foundation. the principles are covered through ARM's endorsement of the UNGC. Diversity and Opportunity SPI_04_Diversity_ Has the company won any Yes, and we have also given Awards Opportunity prize or award relating to community awards, such as the diversity or opportunity? Arkwright Scholarship, to local students of a diverse nature. Reference Section: 4.2 Diversity and Opportunity SPI_04_Diversity_ Does the company have the This takes the form of our Employee Improvement Tools Opportunity appropriate communication Engagement Surveys, AFDS process, tools (whistle blower, and ARM Consultation Forum. ombudsman, suggestion box, Reference Section: 2.1 hotline, newsletter, website, etc.) to improve diversity and opportunity? Employment Quality Generous Fringe Benefits SPI_05_ Does the company claim to Reference Section: 3.3 EmploymentQuality provide its employees with a pension fund, health care or other insurances? Turnover of Employees SPI_05_ Percentage of employee 10.94% EmploymentQuality turnover. Net Employment Creation SPI_05_ Net Employment Creation: Starters: 360 EmploymentQuality calculated from the company's Leavers: 173 employment records Net Employment creation = 187 Health and Safety Total Injury Rate SPI_05_ Total number of injuries and Reference Section: 3.3 EmploymentQuality fatalities including no-lost-time injuries relative to one million hours worked. Employee Fatalities SPI_05_ Number of employee fatalities Reference Section: 3.3 EmploymentQuality resulting from operational accidents. Contractor Fatalities SPI_05_ Number of contractor fatalities Reference Section: 3.3 EmploymentQuality resulting from operational accidents. Lost Time Injury Rate SPI_05_ Total number of injuries that Reference Section: 3.3 EmploymentQuality caused the employees and Appendix contractors to lose at least a working day relative to one million hours worked. Lost Time Injury Rate SPI_05_ Number of injuries that caused Reference Section: 2.3 Employees EmploymentQuality the employees to lose at least a working day relative to one million hours worked. Training and Development Training and Career SPI_05_ Does the company show Reference Section: 4.3 Development Progress EmploymentQuality through the use of surveys Surveys or measurements that it is improving its success on the elements driving employee training and career development? Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 42 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance University Donations SPI_05_ Does the company make Reference Section: 2.5, 3.5 Scholarships EmploymentQuality donations or scholarships to schools and universities? Training and Development/ SPI_05_ Average hours of training per Reference Section: 3.3 Training Hours EmploymentQuality year per employee. Training and Career SPI_05_ Does the company have the This takes the form of our AFDS Development Improvement EmploymentQuality appropriate communication process. Tools tools (whistle blower, Reference Section: 2.1, 3.3 ombudsman, suggestion box, hotline, newsletter, website, etc.) to improve employee training and career development? Corporate Governance Board Functions Nomination GPI_01_ Does the company have a Reference Annual Report: Corporate BoardFunctions policy to maintain an effective Governance Section. and independent nomination committee? CSR GPI_01_ Does the company have a Not at present. BoardFunctions policy to maintain an effective and independent CSR committee? Corporate Governance GPI_01_ Does the company have a This is not a UK requirement. Issues BoardFunctions policy to maintain an effective addressed by audit, nominated, and and independent corporate remuneration committee. governance committee? Reference Annual Report: Corporate Governance Section. Effective Board GPI_01_ Does the company have a Reference Annual Report: Corporate BoardFunctions general, all-purpose policy Governance Section. on the effectiveness and independence of its board committees? Audit GPI_01_ Does the company comply Reference Annual Report: Corporate BoardFunctions with regulations regarding audit Governance Section. committees? Nomination GPI_01_ Does the company comply Reference Annual Report: Corporate BoardFunctions with regulations regarding Governance Section. nomination committees? Compensation GPI_01_ Does the company comply Reference Annual Report: Corporate Appendix BoardFunctions with regulations regarding Governance Section. compensation committees? Corporate Governance GPI_01_ Does the company comply ARM does not have a Corporate BoardFunctions with regulations regarding Governance Committee. corporate governance committees? Corporate Governance GPI_01_ Does the company have ARM does not have a Corporate Committee BoardFunctions a corporate governance Governance Committee. committee? Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 43 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Audit GPI_01_ Does the company describe This is described in the committee's BoardFunctions in the bylaws, statutes or Terms of Reference. code of conduct that it strives Reference Annual Report: Board to maintain an effective and Evaluation in Corporate Governance independent audit committee? Section. Nomination GPI_01_ Does the company describe This is described in the committee's BoardFunctions in the bylaws, statutes or Terms of Reference. code of conduct that it strives Reference Annual Report: Board to maintain an effective and Evaluation in Corporate Governance independent nomination Section. committee? Compensation GPI_01_ Does the company describe This is described in the committee's BoardFunctions in the bylaws, statutes or Terms of Reference. code of conduct that it strives Reference Annual Report: Board to maintain an effective and Evaluation in Corporate Governance independent compensation Section. committee? CSR GPI_01_ Does the company describe ARM does not have a CSR BoardFunctions in the bylaws, statutes or committee. code of conduct that it strives to maintain an effective and independent CSR committee? Corporate Governance GPI_01_ Does the company describe ARM does not have a Corporate BoardFunctions in the bylaws, statutes or Governance Committee. code of conduct that it strives to maintain an effective and independent corporate governance committee? Attendance GPI_01_ Does the company describe in This is described in the committee's BoardFunctions the bylaws, statutes or code Terms of Reference. Attendance of conduct that it strives to is required as described in each maintain high board meeting member's contractual obligations. attendance? Reference Annual Report: Corporate Governance Section. Effective Board GPI_01_ Does the company describe This is described in the committee's BoardFunctions in the bylaws, statutes Terms of Reference. or code of conduct that Reference Annual Report: Board it strives to maintain the Evaluation in Corporate Governance general effectiveness Section. and independence of its committees? Board Functions and GPI_01_ Does the company have Reference Annual Report: Corporate Committees Improvement BoardFunctions the necessary internal Governance Section. Appendix Tools improvement and information tools to develop appropriate and effective board functions and committees? Audit GPI_01_ Does the company describe, Reference Annual Report: Corporate BoardFunctions claim to have or mention the Governance Section. processes in place to maintain an effective and independent audit committee? Nomination GPI_01_ Does the company describe, Reference Annual Report: Corporate BoardFunctions claim to have or mention the Governance Section. processes in place to maintain an effective and independent nomination committee? Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 44 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Compensation GPI_01_ Does the company describe, Reference Annual Report: Corporate BoardFunctions claim to have or mention the Governance Section. processes in place to maintain an effective and independent compensation committee? CSR GPI_01_ Does the company describe, ARM does not have a CSR BoardFunctions claim to have or mention the committee. processes in place to maintain an effective and independent CSR committee? Corporate Governance GPI_01_ Does the company describe, ARM does not have a Corporate BoardFunctions claim to have or mention the Governance Committee. processes in place to maintain an effective and independent corporate governance committee? Attendance GPI_01_ Does the company describe, Attendance is required as described BoardFunctions claim to have or mention in each member's contractual the processes in place to obligations. maintain high board meeting Reference Annual Report: Corporate attendance? Governance Section Effective Board GPI_01_ Does the company describe, Reference Annual Report: Corporate BoardFunctions claim to have or mention the Governance Section. processes in place to maintain the general effectiveness and independence of the board committees? Board Meeting Attendance GPI_01_ The average overall attendance Reference Annual Report: Corporate Average BoardFunctions percentage of board meetings Governance Section. as reported by the company. Board Structure Independence Does the company have Yes, as required by the UK Corporate a policy regarding the Governance Code. independence of its board? Reference Annual Report. Gender GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company have a Our board gender diversity in balance policy regarding the gender with the industry. While ARM has diversity of its board? no explicit policy, there is a desire is to have further qualified women on board, as we recently brought on a new one. Reference the Chairman’s Introduction to the Corporate Section of the Annual Appendix Report. Culture GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company have a While ARM has no explicit policy, policy regarding the cultural there is a desire is to have more diversity of its board? diversity on board, subject to skills and experience. Experience GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company have a Reference Annual Report: Corporate policy regarding the adequate Governance Section. experience on its board? Balanced Board GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company have a While ARM has no explicit policy, general, all-purpose policy there is a desire is to have a balanced regarding a balanced board? board. Reference Annual Report: Corporate Governance Section. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 45 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Independence GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company comply Reference Annual Report: Corporate with regulations regarding Governance Section. board independence? Experience GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company comply Reference Annual Report: Corporate with regulations regarding the Governance Section. experience on the board? Board Member Corporate GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company train Training is given, and individual Governance Training its board members on the members are allowed to attend elements of good corporate outside training at the company's governance? expense. Reference Annual Report: Corporate Governance Section. Balanced Board Structure GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company have Reference Annual Report: Corporate Improvement Tools the necessary internal Governance Section. improvement and information tools for the board members to develop an appropriate balanced board structure? Size GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company describe, We comply with the UK Corporate claim to have or mention Governance Code. processes in place to achieve Reference Annual Report: Corporate an appropriately sized board? Governance Section. Independence GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company describe, We comply with the UK Corporate claim to have or mention Governance Code. processes in place to achieve Reference Annual Report: Corporate an independent board? Governance Section. Culture GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company describe, We comply with the UK Corporate claim to have or mention Governance Code. processes in place to achieve Reference Annual Report: Corporate cultural diversity on the board? Governance Section. Experience GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company describe, We comply with the UK Corporate claim to have or mention Governance Code. processes in place to achieve Reference Annual Report: Corporate adequate experience on the Governance Section. board? Balanced Board GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company describe, We comply with the UK Corporate claim to have or mention Governance Code. processes in place to achieve Reference Annual Report: Corporate a general balanced board? Governance Section. Board Structure/ GPI_02_BoardStructure Percentage expressed Reference Annual Report: Corporate Specific Skills numerically of board members Governance Section. who have either an industry Appendix specific background or a strong financial background. Board Structure/ GPI_02_BoardStructure Percentage expressed Reference Annual Report: Corporate Non-Executive Board numerically of the board that Governance Section. Members is comprised of non-executive board members. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 46 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Board Structure/ Percentage of GPI_02_BoardStructure Percentage expressed Reference Annual Report: Corporate Independent Board Members numerically of independent Governance Section. board members as reported by the company (whereas the company stipulates that there is no significant institutionalised interest link between the company or the executives and the independent board members). Balanced Board GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company describe in This is described in the committee's the bylaws, statutes or code of Terms of Reference. We also comply conduct that it strives to have with the UK Corporate Governance a general balanced board? Code. Reference Annual Report: Corporate Governance Section. Independence GPI_02_BoardStructure Does the company describe in This is described in the committee's the bylaws, statutes or code of Terms of Reference. We also comply conduct that it strives to have with the UK Corporate Governance an independent board? Code. Reference Annual Report: Corporate Governance Section. Compensation Policy Executive Retention GPI_03_Compensation Does the company have a Reference Annual Report. general, all-purpose policy regarding compensation to attract and retain executives? Performance Oriented GPI_03_Compensation Does the company Reference Annual Report. comply with regulations on performance oriented compensation? Extra-Financial Performance GPI_03_Compensation Does the company comply Our Remuneration report sets out our Oriented with regulations on extracompensation policy, which complies financial performance oriented with market norms for UK-listed compensation? companies. Reference Annual Report. Executive Retention GPI_03_Compensation Does the company comply Reference Annual Report. with regulations on general compensation to attract and retain executives? Performance Oriented GPI_03_Compensation Does the company describe, Reference Annual Report. claim to have or mention Appendix processes in place for performance oriented executive compensation? Extra-Financial Performance GPI_03_Compensation Does the company describe, Our Remuneration report sets out our Oriented claim to have or mention compensation policy, which complies processes in place for extrawith market norms for UK-listed financial performance oriented companies. executive compensation? Reference Annual Report. Executive Retention GPI_03_Compensation Does the company Our Remuneration report sets out our describe, claim to have or compensation policy, which complies mention processes in place with market norms for UK-listed for appropriate general companies. compensation to attract and Reference Annual Report. retain executives? Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 47 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance CEO Compensation Link to GPI_03_Compensation Is the CEO's compensation In part. We have a TSR performance Total Shareholder Return linked to total shareholder condition related to a long-term return (TSR)? incentive plan, from which a portion of the CEO compensation's derived. Reference Annual Report: Remuneration Section. Vision and Strategy Integrated Strategy GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company have a Reference Annual Report. Strategy policy to integrate ESG issues into its strategy and day-to-day decision making? Extra-Financial Transparency GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company have Reference Annual Report. Strategy a policy to communicate transparently on ESG issues? Sustainable Development GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company describe ARM's Code of Conduct and Strategy in the code of conduct that it Business Ethics requires ethical strives to improve its general behaviour in all dealings. sustainable development? Reference Section: 3.4 Integrated Strategy GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company describe, Reference Annual Report. Strategy claim to have or mention processes in place to integrate ESG issues into its strategy and day-to-day decision making? Extra-Financial Transparency GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company describe, Reference Annual Report. Strategy claim to have or mention processes in place to communicate transparently on ESG issues? Sustainable Development GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company describe, Reference Annual Report. Strategy claim to have or mention processes in place to improve its general sustainable development principles? ICC's Business Charter for GPI_04_Vision_ Is the company a signatory of No, but we believe the requirements Sustainable Development Strategy the ICC's Business Charter for to be covered by our commitment to Sustainable Development? the UNGC. Reference Sections: 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 CSR Sustainability Index GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company monitor the ARM is listed on both the FTSE4Good Rating Monitoring Strategy success of its overarching and and the NASDAQ OMX CRD Global integrated vision and strategy Sustainability 100 Index. by publishing a sustainability Reference Sections: 4.2 Appendix rating or by belonging to a specific sustainability index? Integrated Vision and Strategy GPI_04_Vision_ Is the company openly Reference Annual Report. Challenges Strategy reporting about the challenges of integrating financial and extra-financial issues, and the dilemmas and trade-offs it faces? Global Compact GPI_04_Vision_ Has the company signed the Reference Sections: 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 Strategy UN Global Compact? Global Compact Years GPI_04_Vision_ Number of years the company One. Strategy has been a signatory of UN Reference Sections: 4.1, 5.2, 5.3 Global Compact. Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 48 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance CSR Sustainability Report GPI_04_Vision_ Number of years (including Over 5 years. Strategy current) the company has published a separate CSR/ H&S/Sustainability report. CSR Sustainability Reporting GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company publish Yes, both. Strategy a separate CSR/H&S/ Sustainability report or publish a section in its annual report on CSR/H&S/Sustainability? (0 = No, 1 = Yes) GRI Report Guidelines GPI_04_Vision_ Is the company's GRI report Reference Sections: 1.4, 5.1 Strategy published in accordance with the GRI guidelines? CSR Sustainability Report GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company's extraReference Annual Report. Global Activities Strategy financial report take into account the global activities of the company? CSR Sustainability External GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company have an Reference Section: 1.6 Audit Strategy external auditor of its CSR/ H&S/Sustainability report? CSR Sustainability External GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company have an Reference Section: 1.6 Data Audit Strategy external auditor that audits the data in the sustainability report? Vision and Strategy/ GRI GPI_04_Vision_ Does the company publish a Reference Sections: 1.4, 5.1 Report Strategy yearly GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) report in accordance with the guidelines and which meet all five GRI conditions? Shareholder Rights Shareholder Rights GPI_05_ Does the company have a This is in the Company's Articles of ShareholderRights general, all-purpose policy Association. regarding shareholder rights? Reference Annual Report. Equal Voting Right GPI_05_ Does the company comply ARM complies with all relevant UK ShareholderRights with regulations regarding legislation. There is only one class of equal voting rights principles? shares; all have equal voting rights. Reference Annual Report. Anti-Takeover GPI_05_ Does the company comply ARM complies with all relevant ShareholderRights with regulations regarding antiUK legislation. There is nothing to takeover devices? disclose. Reference Annual Report. Appendix Proposal Right GPI_05_ Does the company comply We comply with the UK Corporate ShareholderRights with regulations regarding Governance Code. shareholder engagement, Reference Annual Report. resolutions or proposals? Voting Procedure GPI_05_ Does the company comply Reference Annual Report. ShareholderRights with regulations regarding shareholder voting procedures? Shareholder Rights GPI_05_ Does the company describe, This is in the Company's Articles of ShareholderRights claim to have or mention Association. processes in place to maintain Reference Annual Report. general shareholder rights? Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 49 5. Appendix 5.4. Other Key Metrics Title KPI Definition ARM's 2010 Performance Corporate Governance Report GPI_05_ Number of years (including Over 10 years. ShareholderRights current) the company has Reference Annual Report. published a separate corporate governance report. Golden Parachute GPI_05_ Does the company have a There is nothing of this sort for ShareholderRights golden parachute or other shareholders. We comply with the UK restrictive clauses related Corporate Governance Code. to changes of control Reference Annual Report. (compensation plan for accelerated pay-out)? Majority Vote GPI_05_ Does the company describe This is in the Company's Articles of ShareholderRights in the bylaws, statutes or Association and is required by the code of conduct that it strives Companies Act of 2006, which ARM to require a majority vote of follows. shareholders for resolutions Reference Annual Report. and board member elections? Appendix Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 50 Further information To view the CR Report online visit: www.arm.com Questions about this report can be directed to: Company Secretary ARM Holdings plc Liberty House Moorbridge Road Maidenhead SL6 8LT UK Phone: +44 (0)1628 427 700 Fax: +44 (0)1628 427 701 E-mail: company.secretary@arm.com ARM Holdings plc 110 Fulbourn Road Cambridge CB1 9NJ United Kingdom Telephone +44 (0)1223 400 400 Facsimile +44 (0)1223 400 410 www.arm.com Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 ARM Holdings plc 51
