corporate social responsibility complete report France Telecom Orange 2010 contents 1 edito, Stéphane Richard, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2 an international group 4 CSR, at the very heart of the Group’s strategy 14 a responsible employer 28 a world lived in trust 52 a world accessible 80 moving towards a greener world 104 appendices edito Stéphane Richard, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer For France Telecom-Orange, being a responsible corporate citizen means first and foremost building a more supportive, more caring, more human enterprise that is attentive to its employees. In 2010, a new social contract was drawn up and circulated to every employee in France. It lays the foundation for a new labour relations framework within the Group, notably by making the quality of the social climate one of the factors that determine senior management’s performance-related compensation. That responsibility also means developing equal opportunities and diversity at every level of the company. Indeed, I am convinced that strong social performance is an essential precondition for sustainable economic performance. Being a responsible company also means bringing the benefits of the digital world to the greatest number, and striving to avert a digital divide. It means opening up new perspectives in fields such as education, culture, and healthcare. Being a responsible company means ensuring that telecommunications usage is constantly made easier and safer, and providing top-quality services by helping our customers protect themselves against the potential risks that new technologies can bring. Being a responsible corporate citizen also means tackling environmental challenges head-on. It means innovating to better control our energy consumption, despite rocketing data volumes, through initiatives such as the optimisation of our data centres and the deployment of solar-powered base stations in Africa. It means increasing off-site maintenance in order to cut down on travel and focusing strongly on collecting and recycling used mobile handsets. Being a responsible company also means ensuring exemplary corporate governance day by day. Our own was strengthened in 2010 when we set up a committee within the Board of Directors explicitly tasked with overseeing these issues and with improving the quality of our reporting, which has been verified by an external auditor for the past several years. Being responsible underpins everything we do at France Telecom-Orange. It is the inspiration that drives us each and every day, and it makes us an integral part of the global economy and of society at large. France Telecom-Orange 1 an international group France (including enterprises services) 102,552 employees*(1) Net revenues: 61.5% of Group TO Energy consumption**: 2,508 GWh (49% of total Group consumption) Spain 3,181 employees* Net revenues: 8.3% of Group TO Energy consumption**: 315 GWh (6.2% of total Group consumption) Poland San Francisco 25,080 employees* Net revenues: 8.6% of Group TO Energy consumption**: 697 GWh (13.6% of total Group consumption) Europe and Middle East (EME Region) (Armenia, Belgium, Dominican Republic, Moldova, Romania, Slovakia, Switzerland) 9,523 employees* Net revenues: 10.6% of Group TO Energy consumption**: 430 GWh (8.4% of total Group consumption) Africa, Middle East and Asia (AMEA Region) (CSR*** reporting countries: Botswana, Petropolis/ Cameroon, Central African Republic, Republic Rio de Janeiro of Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Jordan, Kenya, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritius, Niger, Senegal, Uganda) > business activities 18,337 employees* Net revenues: 6,8% of Group TO Energy consumption**: 1,066 GWh (20,8% of total Group consumption) 220 countries Enterprises (Orange Business services), and territories excluding France 11,943 employees* > customers/business activities Net revenues: 4.3% of the Group’s turnover Energy consumption**: 99 GWh Armenia Cameroon France (1.9% of total Group consumption) Austria Republic of Guinea * Active Employees on 12 December 2010. Bahrain Côte d’Ivoire Guinea-Bissau ** Excluding transportation. Belgium Egypt Equatorial *** HR reporting is complete on 100% of the Group. Botswana Spain Guinea (1) Including French employees of Orange Business Services (8,972). 2 CSR, at the very heart of the Group’s strategy London Warsaw 8 in France Madrid Cairo Amman New Delhi Beijing Tokyo Mauritius Orange Labs Main enterprises customers service centers Jordan Mali Uganda Dominican Senegal Kenya Morocco Poland Republic Slovakia Liechtenstein Mauritius Portugal United Switzerland Luxembourg Moldova Central African Kingdom Tunisia Madagascar Niger Republic Romania Vanuatu France Telecom-Orange 3 CSR, at the very heart of the Group’s strategy Corporate social responsibility is vital to the success and ongoing viability of France Telecom-Orange, and one of the core elements of its strategy. Becoming the preferred operator whilst maintaining balanced growth and creating value for everyone involves committing to simultaneously serving the Group’s employees and customers, and society in the broad sense. This aim, which is manifested at the highest levels of the Group, translates into concrete undertakings in four priority areas: • recognizing and supporting employees; • ensuring transparency, quality, security and safety for our customers; • making the benefits of the digital world accessible to as many as possible; • finding innovative solutions for a new and greener world. To implement these undertakings, Orange uses a structured long-term process, supported by responsible governance and fuelled by dialogue with stakeholders. 5 a long-term ambition 9 a responsible governance 11 a process fuelled by dialogue a long-term ambition the Group’s approach France Telecom-Orange believes that progress is worth nothing unless it is shared by all. Corporate social responsibility is a key factor in the Group’s future success, and a source of value creation for all its stakeholders. Based on this conviction, Orange has defined an ambitious strategy to enable it to become the benchmark for corporate social responsibility in the telecommunications sector. This strategy, which is core to the company’s “Conquests 2015” project, is translated in practical action plans revolving around four basic commitments that embrace every entity in the Group: • recognize and support employees, who are on the ground level in social links; • ensure transparency, quality, security and safety for our customers; • make the benefits of the digital world accessible to as many as possible; • find innovative solutions for a greener world. Implementing the strategy requires a structured approach, based on a dedicated organization and tools, and a reliable, verified reporting process. a historic • The ORSE (Observatoire de la Responsabilité Sociétale des Entreprises – corporate a strengthened commitment social responsibility research institute), which dynamic brings together companies and their financial Corporate social responsibility is deeply rooted partners with a concern for CSR; In 2009, Orange gave new momentum to its in the history of the France Telecom-Orange • CSR Europe (European network for corporate historic commitment by setting itself an ambiGroup. The Group is founded on a set of core social responsibility, whose members include tious goal: to become the “CSR leader” in the values that guide the principles of its activities over 60 Europe-based multinationals); telecommunications sector. This ambition vis-à-vis its stakeholders, and translate into a • The Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), responds to the Group’s deep conviction that long-standing commitment to sustainable which includes telecommunications manucorporate social responsibility is a lever for development. facturers and operators from around the creating value for both the Group and its France Telecom-Orange signed the ETNO world and whose aim is to promote sustainstakeholders. (European Telecommunications Network able development in the sector; The company’s new “Conquests 2015” project, Operators) Environmental Charter in 1996, and • The Energy Efficiency Inter-Operator Colunveiled in July 2010, confirms the central in 2000 was also one of the first companies laboration Group (EE IOCG), which brings position of CSR at the very heart of the Group’s to sign up to the United Nations Global Commajor global operators together to promote new strategy. pact. energy efficiency in the ICT sector; The Group is also involved in a wide range of • The Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse four major commitments organizations and initiatives focused on corContent – an alliance of mobile telephone France Telecom-Orange’s approach to CSR porate social responsibility and sustainable operators to combat the sexual abuse of is shaped by four fundamental commitdevelopment such as: children on the Internet, launched in 2008. ments: France Telecom-Orange 5 • recognize and support employees, the first to develop bonds with society; a structured A network of CSR Managers helps with the operational deployment of the CSR policy. • ensure transparency, quality, security and approach In 2010, to help incorporate CSR issues into safety for our customers; the decision-making processes of subsidiaries, • make the benefits of the digital world accesTo implement its corporate social responsibilCSR committees were established in a number sible to as many as possible; ity strategy, France Telecom-Orange deploys of countries (Senegal, Poland, Spain, Roma• Find innovative solutions for a greener resources to support its ambitions, helping to nia). Their introduction will be extended to most world. make CSR a genuine vector for transformation countries during 2011, with each subsidiary in the Group. adopting the methods it considers most suiteight strategic priorities able. The purpose of these committees is to The definition of Orange’s strategic CSR pristrengthened organization approve and manage the progress of the CSR orities is based on two complementary eleThe Group’s corporate social responsibility is projects presented to them (through milements: managed by a dedicated organization: the stones, deliverables, resources, etc.). • analyzing the requirements of stakeholders, CSR Department. Reporting to one of the which are identified through regular discusGroup’s Assistant General Managers, the CSR a rigorous and verified process sion and research carried at Group level and Department answerable to the Executive ComFrance Telecom Orange’s CSR policy implein the main countries (see p. 11-13); mittee and its Manager is a member of the ments the principles of inclusivity, materiality • identifying risks and opportunities relating to management team. and responsiveness as defined in the AA1000 sustainable development and assessing their In order to achieve optimum management of APS (2008) standard, the international referimpact on the company’s growth. the actions undertaken in each entity, CSR ence for corporate social responsibility that Priorities in this respect are updated at least sponsors reporting to the highest organizafocuses on taking stakeholder requirements once a year to keep account of changes in tional level have been appointed in each Group into account (see page appendices for more the context. function and entity operating in all the markets details on the application of the AA1000 standEight strategic priorities have been defined for in which the Group is active. Meeting six times ard). The Group has also adopted the princithe period 2010-2012. Each of these priorities a year within the CSR Sponsors Committee, ples defined in the new ISO 26000 standard is broken up into precise objectives accomthey ensure the implementation of the straterelating to Social Responsibility, published in panied by key performance indicators (see gic orientations decided upon by the Group’s November 2010 (see appendices). opposite). Executive Committee. main awards won by Orange in 2010 > France Telecom-Orange ranks 25th among the world’s greenest companies according to Newsweek’s 2010 Green Ranking. > France Telecom-Orange was selected in the Top 5 of the Capitalcom 2011 Barometer for CSR, an annual barometer assessing the corporate and environmental responsibility of large French companies included in the CAC 40. > For the second consecutive year, Orange Business Services was recognized as a global leader in the Verdantix Green Quadrant report for its solutions to promote sustainable development. > The Green Power Innovation Award was presented to Orange at the Global Telecoms Business Innovation 2010 Conference for its solar base station deployment programme. > Prize for the “Best technological advance in mobile telephony” awarded to Orange at the Mobile World Congress 2010 for its innovation in respect of high definition (HD) voice for mobiles. > Three Orange services nominated for the GSMA Global Mobile Awards: “Best Mobile TV or Video” for Orange Mobile TV, “Best Mobile Technology Breakthrough” for HD voice on mobile, “Green Network Award” for the solar base station programme. > Orange won two awards at the AfricaCom Awards 2010 – “Best new entrant of the year” for Orange Tunisia and “Best solution for rural services” for the community phone concept developed by the Group in Mali. > Two prestigious awards for Orange Business Services at the World Communication Awards 2010: “Best Managed Service” for its leading position in the MPLS IP-VPN managed services market and “Best Project Management” for the Hermes II project implemented for the Belgian Ministry of Foreign Affairs (a full set of secure, added value services deployed in 100 countries). > IdClick, Orange’s internal participative innovation website, won an award in the “Business and social networks” category at the itNIGHTpremiere in Paris on 31 May 2010. 6 CSR, at the very heart of the Group’s strategy CSR is managed through a dedicated reportwork undertaken: every year and maintains a regular dialogue ing tool, “Indicia”, which measures changes • Nine entities audited, including in the three with financial analysts and socially responsible in the performance of each entity through main countries (France, Spain, Poland), investors. qualitative and quantitative questionnaires. The Orange Business Services, Orange The Group has been included in the FTSEdefinitions and methodologies for reporting Switzerland, Orange Romania, Orange 4Good index since 2002, as well as in the each indicator have been clearly formalized in Slovakia, Orange Senegal and Mobinil Aspi Eurozone® index managed by ratings line with the relevant international guidelines, (Egypt); agency VIGEO. particularly those of the Global Reporting Ini• 19 audited indicators (11 environmental, The Group also ranks fourth in the global tiative (GRI – appendices). 6 social, 1 customer relationship and 1 pur“Tomorrow’s Value Ratings” for the information To ensure the reliability of indicators and manchasing policy) including the consolidation and communication technologies sector, and age the proper application of the Group’s of data at Group level; second for telecommunications operators. This commitments in the entities, for a number of • 20 projects verified (see table in appendices). classification, which is the successor to the years Orange has had a selection of published Accountability Rating scheme, compares the non-financial information audited by one of its recognized performances environmental, corporate and communityauditors (see appendices). In 2010, the scope In order to gain an external view of its policy, related performance of the world’s largest of these audits was extended both in terms France Telecom-Orange responds to questiongroups. of geographic coverage and the nature of the naires from non-financial ratings agencies commitments priorities objectives & kpis • Place people at the heart of the • % of women on management recognize company through a new social committees contract to support employees in their • Social barometer and support development and meet corporate and employees societal challenges, particularly in respect of equal opportunity • Lead the way in service quality with our ensure transparency, European activities • average percentage of recommendations reported quality, security • Promote and ensure safe and responsible use of products and services, by the Customer Experience Tracker and safety for our particularly with regard to protecting children, respecting privacy and data customers security • Promote the economic and social Make the benefits development of countries in which the • Payment times for local suppliers in the AMEA zone of the digital world Group operates, through its services • Strengthen and extend the Group’s (under construction) accessible to as leadership in accessibility offerings and their specialized distribution many as possible • Bring eco-designed products and services to market, and help to reduce • Turnover of offers customers’ environmental footprint Contributing to a reduction in find innovative through the Group’s offerings the environmental impact of our • Play a significant role in the collection customers. solutions for a new and recycling of mobile handsets • rate of mobiles collected in comparison to the number sold and greener world • Manage the Group’s energy consumption to decrease its CO2 by Orange. emissions by 20% by 2020 • Total energy consumption of the Group France Telecom-Orange 7 CSR organization within France Telecom-Orange Executive Committee CSR Group Division Entities Group Functions Country CSR committee CSR Sponsor Committee CSR sponsor CSR Sponsor (6/year) chairman CEO or 1 Executive director or direct report Operational CSR Committee CSR Manager CSR Manager (6/year) work Project managers Project managers for each area for each area as a network key dates relating to the Group’s commitment to sustainable development 1996 > Signing of the ETNO Environmental Charter. 2000 > Signing of the UN Global Compact. 2003 > Formalization of the Group’s Code of Ethics. 2004 > Signing of the ETNO Sustainability Charter. 2006 > Signing of the Group agreement with UNI Global Union. 2007 > Signing of the European Framework for Safer Mobile Use t by Younger teenagers and Children. 2008 > Signing of Caring for Climate under the aegis of the United Nations Global Compact. 2009 > Signing of the Code of Best Practice for Women in ICT drawn up under the aegis of the European Commission. 2010 > Launch of the company’s “Conquests 2015” project. 8 CSR, at the very heart of the Group’s strategy responsible governance a fundamental languages enables each employee to take on board the principles of the Code through pracIn 2006, France Telecom pushed its commitment to new heights by signing a global agreedocument: tical simulations inspired by actual cases. The questions are updated regularly and tailored ment with UNI Global Union on basic social rights within the Group. Through this agreethe Group’s Code to countries and business lines to be as close ment, France Telecom strongly reaffirmed its as possible to the everyday experiences of desire to respect basic human rights, both of Ethics employees. internally and in its relations with its suppliers All countries use in-house communications every and subcontractors (see p. 43 to 47). In 2003, the Board of France Telecom adopted year to bring the Code to life among employees Implementing these commitments is a complex a Group Code of Ethics. by adapting it to the local context. process, rolled out progressively in different The Code, available on the www.orange.com/ In France, a dedicated intranet page contains countries according to the local context and en_EN/responsibility/our_approach/ethics/, 12 quizzes and ethics guides for 13 business respecting national sovereignty. sets out the Group’s values and principles of lines. These allow employees to test their In order to continue to make progress, France action with regard to its customers, shareholdknowledge of the rules of conduct specific to Telecom-Orange depends on its policy of diaers, employees, suppliers and competitors, their business lines. logue with stakeholders to identify priority and also with regard to the environment and A procedure for dealing with conflicts of interissues in each country and put the appropricountries in which the Group operates. It also est has also been provided for managers. ate actions in place. The Group has undertaken sets out a certain number of principles relating to provide a transparent account of its actions, to individual behaviour with which each a concept extended to service providers and for this, uses indicators of respect for employee, manager and director is expected In 2010, Orange France initiated a process to human rights defined by the Global Reporting to comply. raise awareness among some service providInitiative (GRI – see table of correspondence This Code of Ethics – the cornerstone of the ers, by drawing up a specific quiz for outside in appendices). Group’s ethics policy – is one of the basic sets call centres. A similar process is under way of principles governing the Group’s operation, for employment agency networks and homealong those of the Universal Declaration of help services. Moreover, as part of the Group’s Human Rights, the International Labour Organresponsible purchasing policy, all contracts clear structures and ization (ILO), the United Nations Global Compact and the guiding principles of the OECD with suppliers listed at Group level and a growing proportion of local purchasing contracts governance rules for multinational corporations. include a clause on “Ethical practices – corclear structures and governance rules France porate responsibility” that sets out France a network of advisers on ethics Telecom-Orange complies with the principles Telecom-Orange’s demands in this area (see The Group has established a dedicated organof corporate governance defined specifically p. 43-47). ization to ensure the implementation of the by the Loi de sécurité financière (financial principles set out in the Code: security act) in France and the Sarbanes-Oxley • The Group Ethics Committee, consisting of Act in the United States. The Group is parfour members appointed by the Chairman, a firm commitment ticularly vigilant regarding the responsibility and integrity of its managers and directors, ensures the consistent application of the principles of the Code and advises entities to human rights the independence of Board members, the on their implementation. transparency and divulgence of information, • In each country or entity, a network of advisFrance Telecom-Orange was one of the first the respect of shareholders’ rights and the ers on ethics helps to coordinate the policy companies to sign the United Nations Global Group’s Code of Ethics. and ensures that its principles are applied Compact in 2000, thus asserting its commitin a manner appropriate to local contexts ment to respect and promote basic human The governance of France Telecom is strucand disciplines. rights in its activities and sphere of influence. tured around the Board of Directors and its Respecting the basic principles set out in the specialized committees: employee awareness Universal Declaration of Human Rights and • Audit Committee; The Code of Ethics has been communicated the International Labour Organization figures • Governance and Corporate Social Responto all employees worldwide. explicitly in the Group’s Code of Ethics, pubsibility Committee; An online e-learning module available in eight lished in 2003. • Strategic Committee. France Telecom-Orange 9 In 2010, the company’s Governance and It is also an instrument in the fight against Included in this strategy is the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Committee fraud and more generally compliance with the approach to anti-corruption. met seven times. Its remit was extended at relevant laws and regulations including the The anti-fraud policy, which has been updated the beginning of 2010 to include examining US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Loi de sécurité during 2010, is accessible to all employees the main risks and opportunities relating to financière (financial security act) in France. via the intranet and is available in French and the environment, the Group’s social policies, The Global Security Policy includes and coorEnglish. Each entity has its own localised antiall the information published by the Group on dinates three domains: fraud policy based on the principles of the community and environmental matters and • information security, Group policy. Several anti-fraud modules have the main orientations of the Corporate Social • the health and safety of individuals, been published, including one specifically Responsibility policy. • environmental safety. targeting the prevention and detection of the risks of corruption. The anti-corruption modFor more information: see the 2010 France It applies to the entire Group, the parent comule was rolled-out to the major entities in the Telecom-Orange reference document, Chappany and consolidated subsidiaries. Group which together represent more than ter 14. 97% of Group turnover. Anti-corruption awareA Security Management System based on ness and e-learning was rolled out on a GroupISO 27001 ensures the application of the wide basis in 2005. A module designed to Security Policy in all entities. Its objectives: to prevent the risks of fraud at a management rigorous risk assess risks, help managers define priority level was also implemented in these same management measures for risks accepted, train and raise awareness among employees to improve entities. Both modules were the subject of internal and external audits in 2009 and 2010 behaviours, and provide offerings that are as part of the controls required under the The dynamic of ongoing improvement of intersuited to security requirements. Sarbanes-Oxley Act. nal control within the Group is based on All employees receive regular training on the organization, procedures and controls impleidentification of major risks risks of fraud and corruption. Further informamented by General Management and all perAt least once a year, each of the Group’s tion and training tools are accessible via the sonnel under the responsibility of the Board operational entities identifies the major risks Group intranet, including a library of practical of Directors, and is intended to give reasonwithin its scope of operation (including envicase studies, an anti-fraud guide for use by able assurance as to the realization of operaronmental, companyand community-related). managers and e-learning modules. tional objectives, compliance with the laws This identification, completed by the descripAs part of the implementation of the Fraud and regulations in force and the reliability of tion of the action plans intended to cover these strategy, Fraud and Revenue Assurance Manfinancial information. The Group’s system of risks, constitutes the risk map of each of these agers visit the entities on a regular basis. In internal control is managed by the Group’s Departments. Changes in the list of these risks 2010 they visited 34 countries to train senior Internal Control Department. The Group Audit and the implementation of action plans are local staff on the major fraud and corruption and Risk Control Department and the Group checked during internal control reviews and risks. Fraud and Revenue Assurance Department also, once a year, by the Risks Committee. We actively encourage staff and suppliers to help to assess this system. help with the detection of fraud and the whispro-active management of fraud and tle-blowing mechanism, as defined in the Code For more information on internal control: corruption risks of Ethics, enables anyone to flag-up, using a see the 2010 reference document, p. 161 to In addition to the principles set out in the dedicated e-mail address, any facts which may 169. Group’s Code of Ethics, France Telecomconstitute breaches or frauds in the areas of Orange has defined a strategy to prevent and finance, accounting, treasury and anti-corrupa global security policy mitigate the risks of fraud. This programme tion. This procedure makes it possible to The purpose of the Group’s Global Security has been rolled out across the entire Group guarantee confidential treatment of these mails Policy is to heighten the level of security within since 2006. This approach is led by Group in an independent manner whilst guaranteeing the company in order to reduce risks and limit Fraud and Revenue Assurance, which is the protection of the employees. the consequences of claims and crises as responsible for the implementation and awarewell as the safety of products and services ness of the strategy throughout the Group. offered to customers. 10 CSR, at the very heart of the Group’s strategy a process fuelled by dialogue the Group’s approach Listening to and incorporating stakeholders engagement form the basis of France Telecom-Orange’s CSR policy, in accordance with the principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness defined in the AA1000 standard. For Orange, a structured, regular dialogue with those concerned in the company’s operation – employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, public authorities, civil society, etc. – meets three objectives: • ensuring that the Group’s CSR projects are consistent with the priorities of the stakeholders; • mapping risks and opportunities linked to community issues and the needs of countries in which Orange operates; • identifying opportunities for innovation opening up new prospects of growth for Orange whilst supporting the social and economic development of the countries concerned. This dialogue provides an opportunity for stakeholders to put forward their most pressing requirements and perpetuate these exchanges in the long term. a multi-level focus In 2010, TP Group, the Polish subsidiary of France Telecom-Orange, dialogue developed a structured process for dialogue with stakeholders intended to enrich its CSR strategy in 2010-2012. As a company established in multiple locations, The new, improved dialogue process, which has been established in France Telecom-Orange is involved in dialogue accordance with the principles of the AA1000 standard, meets a with its stakeholders on several levels: number of objectives: • at Group and business line level, which • ensuring the completeness (inclusion) and relevance (materiality) of ensures consistency throughout the comthe Group’s CSR process; pany; • implementing responses suited to the issues and requirements • at country level, which is the most in touch identified (responsiveness); with local issues and players. • having a consolidated, centrally managed approach; • enriching the existing CSR strategy and enhancing its external value. In addition to exchanges carried out at Group Having formalized the stakeholders mapping and drawn up an inventory level, each country draws up and implements of existing dialogue tools, TP carried out three types of survey among its own system of dialogue with its local stakeits stakeholders: holders, using a number of tools (surveys, • meetings with 18 local players; individual meetings, panels of stakeholders, • a national poll carried out by an independent body to identify the etc.). expectations of the general public in relation to CSR, with a focus on the issues of the information and communication technologies sector; structured processes in the main • a second poll to measure the awareness of ICT sector employees of European entities CSR – this included employees of TP and its subsidiary PKT The three main countries (France, Spain and Centertel. Poland) have created their own systems for These surveys are currently under way and the project will continue in dialogue with stakeholders, in line with the 2011 to identify avenues for progress and create action plans that will priorities of the Group’s CSR policy. In 2010, fuel TP’s CSR strategy. France Telecom-Orange 11 Orange France also revived its biannual stakea methodological kit for subsidiaries The CSR Dialog Toolkit helps to enhance the holder survey, and the TP Group in Poland Since 2009, Orange’s CSR management has value of CSR initiatives already embarked upon introduced a strengthened dialogue process developed a methodological tool to help counby subsidiaries and to increase their impact (see inset). A similar process is in preparation tries that do not yet have a structured process by integrating the perceptions and requirein Spain, with deployment scheduled for for dialogue with stakeholders: the CSR Dialog ments of the leading local stakeholders. In this 2011. Toolkit. way it contributes to the deployment of the Group’s CSR strategy by providing a common framework ensuring the consistency of the stakeholders mapping actions carried out in the different countries. 360° vision of stakeholders to be identified Based on internal “blue sky” workshops and external meetings with stakeholder repreSanitary authorities Regulation authorities Customers sentatives, the toolkit enables subsidiaries to gain an understanding of internal and external views of CSR issues and gives rise to the Environmental ICT and development Employees Suppliers creation of a matrix of materiality and a plan authorities authorities of CSR actions suited to local issues and consistent with the Group’s CSR priorities. The Local authorities Shareholders methodology is simple to implement and has been designed to be easily adapted to all Group entities, whatever are their resources. Local communities Real estate landlords Tested in 2009 in two pilot countries (Madagascar and Republic of Côte d’Ivoire), the method was then deployed in 2010 in four Opinion leaders Telecom partners new countries in the Africa-Middle East zone: Niger, Botswana, Jordan and Mali, and in NGO and associations Universities/academies Cameroon at the beginning of 2011. Several Eastern European entities are also planning to deploy the method in 2011, with Professional an analytical approach suited to European Experts General public Distributors organisations issues. Moldova and Armenia were the first two countries to deploy the stakeholder diaActors of the Media development Competitors logue at the beginning of 2011. The matrix of materiality drawn up at the end authorities civil society business internal of the process makes it possible to view and prioritize the CSR issues identified with the stakeholders. By way of illustration, here are two matrices of materiality, one resulting from dialogue in illustration of the method the Africa zone and the other in the Europe INTERNAL VISION zone. These diagrams clearly show the diverA workshop using a precise sity of stakeholder requirements in different methodology to federate a comcountries and large regions, and enable the mon vision of community-related Group to tailor its CSR policy as near to local risks and opportunities and to needs as possible. identify the subsidiary’s priority ACTION PLAN stakeholders. Feed into the CSR/project action plans by comparing the internal vision (workshops) with the external vision (stakeholders). EXTERNAL VISION Consultation with about twenty key stakeholders for the subsidiary to ensure that their views FOLLOW UP and expectations of Orange are Sharing the action pan with taken into account. external stakeholders. Executing the action plan. Measuring the results. 12 CSR, at the very heart of the Group’s strategy importance matrix of materiality in an Eastern European country for stakeholders 4,00 Customer care Network and service quality Local Economic inclusion value chain Local (Internet) 3,00 Local employment economic ICT for banking support ICT for education Physical Privacy Child accessibility data protection Local digital content Geographical security Philantropy inclusion ICT for citizen ICT for Transparency of the health offers Electromagnetic and waves and fair pricing 2,00 ageing Internal impacts on climate/energy Economic ICT to reduce Environmental inclusion (phone) customers impacts of P&S environmental footprint 1,00 Nuisance 0,00 0,0 0,1 0,2 0,3 0,4 importance for business importance matrix of materiality for an African country for stakeholders 4,00 Economic Economic inclusion inclusion (phone) (internet) ICT for health Local economic support ICT for local dev. Philantropy Network and Local and sustainable service quality value chain ICT and agriculture Geographic inclusion Local employement 3,00 ICT and access Customer care to essential services Transparency Child protection of the offers ICT for citizens Privacy data security Electromagnetic Environmental impacts waves of P&S Content 2,00 Internal impacts on climate/energy Physical accessibility Accessibility for litteracy Nuisance 1,00 0,00 0 1 2 3 4 importance for business France Telecom-Orange 13 a responsible employer For France Telecom-Orange, being a responsible company is above all a case of recognizing and supporting its employees, who are on the ground level in social links. This commitment to being a responsible employer has been strongly reasserted in the new company project, “Conquests 2015”, which places the men and women of France Telecom-Orange firmly at the heart of the Group’s thinking. With one goal: to be recognised by 2015 as one of the favourite employers in the main countries in which the Group operates. To achieve this, Orange undertakes to be a group that is good to work for, by rethinking its view of human resources, adopting a new style of management and reasserting common values. In France, the new “Social contract” lays the foundations for a new corporate model and reaffirms the Group’s commitments as a responsible employer. As an international group, a leader in numerous markets, France TelecomOrange has a duty to set an example by promoting equal opportunity and combating all forms of discrimination in access to employment, career development and recognition. 15 implementing a new social model 21 promoting diversity and equal opportunity 26 2010 review 27 2011 roadmap implementing a new social model the Group’s approach At the end of 2009, France Telecom-Orange undertook a radical reform of its social policy in order to reestablish its people at the heart of the company. The new social contract proposed in France, the result of an unprecedented process of listening and dialogue, lays the foundations for a new social model and reaffirms the Group’s primary commitments as a responsible employer: • an active, motivating and caring employment policy; • an organisation that places more value on the work of each employee; • improved quality of life at work; • managers who are empowered and recognised; • fair remuneration for the commitment of each and every employee; • an HR department that is closer to employees. strengthened of 2,700 meetings held in the field; • the start of a number of negotiations between to employees, by agreements and collective reflections undertaken early in 2010, is both social dialogue unions and management. the expression of this new social ambition and Negotiations began in September 2009, and a response to the human issues that have The Group’s financial success cannot be led to the conclusion of five social agreearisen. as an integral part of the development achieved without social success. To help recments: strategy, it forms a framework for a new relaoncile these two dimensions, France Telecom • prospects – jobs and skills – career developtionship between the Group and its employees. Orange must listen more to all its employees ment – training – mobility; They will be invested in recruitment, IT, improvand establish a constructive dialogue between • work-life balance; ing the working environment, setting up relaxunions and management. • operation of employee representative bodies ation areas… (IRP); €900 million will be invested between 2010 social reform in France • assessment and prevention of psychosocial and 2012 to give substance to the new “Social In view of the social crisis encountered in France risks; contract” and establish it solidly in the day-toin 2009, France Telecom Orange embarked • work organization. day lives of employees. They will be invested on an initiative to strengthen dialogue with its Structural agreements relating to social reform in recruitment, IT, improving the working enviemployees to help it understand the reasons were also signed at the end of 2009 and in ronment, setting up relaxation areas… for the discontent and remotivate all its teams 2010: in support of a new company plan. • agreement on the employment of seniors The “Social contract” has three main objectives: and measures to enrich the later years of • to indicate the Group’s determination to keep Specifically, this initiative has given rise to: employees’ careers; its commitments by reconciling economic • an inventory on stress and labour conditions • FTSA 2010 salary agreement; performance, corporate social performance carried out by an independent firm of con• Group agreement on the payment of a profitand customer service quality; sultants that specializes in these issues and sharing bonus based on the 2009 results. • to define and optimize the operating principles was selected by the trade unions; In September 2010, Stéphane Richard, then of the company by allowing everyone to take • meetings on the restructuring of the Group, Chief Executive Officer of France Telecomthe initiative and assume responsibility; or “reform conferences”, a participative Orange, sent each of the 102,000 employees • to confer on every employee resources to scheme accenting the primordial role of in France a document entitled “for a new social enable them to know and understand the management in the creation of a new contract”. nature of actions being undertaken, and to dynamic of expression, which took the form This new “Social contract”, fuelled by listening provide them with direction. France Telecom-Orange 15 The originality of the “Social contract” lies not reality) and national and supranational bodies, In May 2010, a new Group agreement on the only in the concept of consulting employees enabling major issues to be dealt with from a operation of employee representative bodies was on its content, but also the scope of the conGroup viewpoint. signed in France to improve the operation of tract. Exchanges between unions and management employee representative bodies and make it It touches on all areas of the company: the are taking place as part of a very comprehensive easier for trade unions to operate within the employment policy, work organization, role of programme: Group. The agreement reasserts that the trade managers, quality of life at work, remuneration • almost 400 local employee representative bodunions and employee representative bodies are of employees and the Human Resources funcies in Europe and in a number of African suband continue to be – the preferred contacts of tion. Many actions have already been undersidiaries; the employer in the corporate life of the comtaken and pragmatic results achieved. • a Central Committee of the economic and pany. social unit in France; The significant number of social agreements dialogue bodies at all levels • a French Group Committee; signed in 2010 (62 in France) attests to the new To support social dialogue at all levels of the • a European Group Committee, where employdynamic of social dialogue embarked upon by company, France Telecom Orange is encouragees from 20 countries are represented; the Group and its social partners. ing the establishment of local employee repre• a new Global Works Council, established in sentative bodies (as close as possible everyday 2010 (see opposite). an active, motivating and training hours per employee, in France, at France Telecom SA, concerning 80,308 trained employees caring employment policy > 50 years old between 30 & 50 years old To support the Group’s development and < 30 years old growth, it is vital to anticipate the skills of tomorrow and offset demographic shocks. As senior manager a world-ranking telecommunications operator, (level E, F or G) France Telecom-Orange must do so in a manager (level DBis) responsible, sustainable manner. supervising staff foreman (level D) With this in mind, the Group has made strong employee-technician undertakings to: (level A, B or C) • increase exter nal recruitment, with 10,000 recruitments planned in France for woman permanent contract positions in 2010-2012. man • assist young people into employment: part0 10 20 30 40 50 nerships with schools, taking on 5,300 apprentices and 2,500 interns per year, training of more than 1,300 learning supervisors to take care of those apprentices, 150 PhD’s, etc. • support every employee in the long term: focus – 250 dedicated people in “Orange futures” areas to advise employees on their career path. France: 10,000 DIF (individual right to training) courses in 2010 – Older employees receive specific support: 10,000: the number of training courses followed in 2010 by French possibility of opting for senior part-time hours, employees under the individual right to training (Droit Individuel à la “cap seniors” interviews for over 55s to take Formation or DIF) This represents 208,000 hours, three times more a bearing on their intended career path. than in 2009! • enable everyone to develop recognized This acceleration is explained both by the diversification of Orange’s experience and skills: over three million hours’ offering in the areas of professional and personal development and training per year, 17 trade schools, increased by the opportunity offered to each employee of being involved in developing their own skills. 16 a responsible employer • the signature of a “Work-life balance” focus agreement in France in March 2010 (see p. 22-23); • the signing in September 2010 of an agreeGlobal Works Council ment on work organization in France to On 23 June 2010, France Telecom-Orange and its social partners prevent psychosocial risks, give employees signed an agreement on the establishment of a Global Works Council. more autonomy and strengthen links between In this way, the Group has set up a new dialogue body covering all the colleagues; countries in which it is present. Establishing this Committee will help • the launch of Plazza: the internal social netthe Group to take better account of the reality of an international group work already uniting after barely three months that currently has almost 40% of its workforce outside France. 19,000 employees in France, and 700 comComposed of 33 members elected for four years representing countries munities, which will shortly be expanding to with over 400 employees, this Worldwide Group Committee will be a other countries; forum for discussion and debate between employee representatives • actions and investment to improve the workfrom all continents, on Group issues at world level and global and ing environment: €50 million invested to transnational economic, financial and social issues. make information systems more user-friendly and €10 million in 800 sites. Improved prevention of psychosocial risks The Group’s “Assessment and prevention of psychosocial risks” agreement signed on 6 May 2010 with the main trade unions reinforces the accreditation of prior experiential learning • the implementation of a Seniors agreement actions embarked upon since 2009 in respect (APEL), monitoring employees aged over 45 to promote the maintenance of, and access of negotiations on stress management. This who have not completed a training course for to, jobs for seniors, to enhance the transfer agreement provides for: several years, etc. of experience and knowledge, and support • the undertaking at least every three years by • Foster diversity and particularly gender equalthe retirement phase; an independent expert of an employee satity, with an objective of 35% of women in the • the integration of over 5,300 young apprenisfaction survey (see p. 18); “leaders” network 2015. tices into teams in France in 2010. • the establishment of a National Stress Prevention Committee (CNPS) to include repreBecause training is a vector for the fulfilment sentatives of trade unions and management, and employability of staff, the Group is adopting an ambitious policy, as witnessed by the creating and stress prevention advisers; • a systematic analysis of the psychosocial risks 9,000 online training modules available to employees. In 2010, every employee received the conditions associating those involved in health in the workplace and Committees for Hygiene, an average of 32 hours of training (29 hours for fulfilment Safety and Working Conditions in organizafor the Group and as much as 55 hours in tional change projects; Spain); this places France Telecom-Orange in Improving the day-to-day quality of life and • training and action to heighten awareness the two leading companies in France in terms work organization: this is one of the main chalamong all those involved in this field (managof training for employees. lenges of the “Social contract”. The Group aims ers, HR, employee representatives, etc.); The Group also intends to play a key role in the to achieve this by simplifying IT tools, creating • the establishment of psychosocial risk prevenemployment market by integrating new talents. closer relationships and increasing cooperation, tion commissions in Local Works CommitObjectives: to support the teams in place and allowing free and frank expression, setting tees; provide better service to customers. fewer, more appropriate individual objectives • the organization of discussion meetings to As a result, the Group recruited 3,800 new and optimizing working conditions. The ultimate encourage collective expression by employemployees in France in 2010 out of a total of goal? To provide everyone with a motivating ees; 10,000 planned between 2010 and 2012. work environment that enables them to do • taking into account demands related to health France Telecom-Orange is also committed to their work with confidence, for their comfort and safety in the selection and assessment employing seniors and young people. Two and the satisfaction of their customers. of service providers. major decisions were taken in this context in Practically, this commitment has been given 2010 with: expression by: France Telecom-Orange 17 To support employees in difficulty, the Group psychosocial risks, a film on the role of pre• a motivating increase system: in France, the has launched a free phone dialogue line, created venter was posted on the Group intranet, and salary agreement of 26 April 2010 specifically 11 listening and support areas, trained the training course on stress, psychosocial allows for an average increase of 3% with a 7,000 managers in the management of sensifactors and risk prevention continued, together guaranteed €500 for all. tive situations and recruited additional company with a course on the function of the “Auditor doctors with the aim of having an average of of the system for the management of health a barometer of the quality of life at work one doctor per 1,500 employees. and safety in the workplace”. The Group has also undertaken actions and To further improve the monitoring of people in Deployment of the Group’s policy on health surveys among employees to find out their difficult situations, the Group set up a national and safety in the workplace is monitored perception of their quality of life at work. support and mediation mission at the beginning through a three-yearly audit system. 2010 saw In France, a social barometer was introduced of 2011. This structure, composed of 10 human the concept of ongoing improvement affirmed in 2010 in the form of a regular survey intended resources professionals, will help to improve with the publication of new thresholds triggerto assess employee satisfaction within the the prevention of psychosocial risks and the ing audits managed at national level. Audit Group. It is based on a set of very practical identification of delicate situations, and thereby frequency is now determined according to the criteria, making it possible to ascertain employee improve social cohesion within the company. level of deployment: satisfaction as objectively as possible. The first From 1 September to 31 December 2010, version of this barometer was produced in Ongoing improvement of health and safety 60 audits were carried out and 49 are proJune 2010, followed by a second survey in conditions in the workplace grammed for 2011, mainly in the first quarter. 2010 of 4,000 employees of all categories, age Since 2006, company entities have been congroups and geographic locations. tinuing to deploy their health and safety manfair remuneration for the commitment This barometer is also included in the basis agement system in the workplace. Besides of each and every employee for calculating the variable portion of the actions undertaken in the areas of stress manTo be motivated, employees need a system Group’s 800 top managers in France (see insert agement and the prevention of psychosocial of fair remuneration, and the recognition and p. 19). risks, efforts in 2010 centred on training the valuing of each person’s commitment and preventer network and the deployment of the collective successes: health and safety audit programme in all Group • preferred methods of linking employees with entities. the company’s results (profit-sharing plans, managers who are Two new training courses for preventers were introduced in 2010. The coordination of the employee share ownership); • protection schemes for the future: Group empowered and preventer network across business lines has continued: a day of discussions was held on Savings Plan, Collective Pension Savings Plan (PERCO); recognised Key players in the implementation of the new Social contract, managers will play a decisive role in the new era opening up between the frequency rate of work related accidents Definition of TFRAC: the level of frequency for work (TFRAC) – France Telecom SA accidents (TFRAC) corresponds to the declared number company and each of its employees. Manag5.5 of work accidents on the way to work, by million of ers embody the company’s values, its operatheoretical working hours. Precision: this level is expressed by the number of work tion and its objectives. To succeed in their 5.0 accidents with sick leave per million of theoretical workmission, they must share a common frameing hours by the following calculation formula: work, be supported and have the resources 4.5 number of work accidents x 1 million (amount by equivalent full time activity x number of 210 days worked x to take action. This is vital to strengthen close, 4.0 7,6 hours). trusting relationships and to encourage 2007 2008 2009 2010 employees to take the initiative. severity rate of work related accidents Definition of TGRAC: the rate of seriousness of work In 2010, it was manifested specifically by: (TGRAC) – France Telecom SA accidents corresponding to the number of days of sick • the launch of Orange Campus, a key leave following a work accident, by thousands of theo0.4 “Conquests 2015” programme dedicated retical hours worked. 0.3 Precision: this rate is expressed by the number of days to developing managers’ skills throughout of sick leave for a work accident, by thousands of hours 0.2 the world – between June and Decemworked by the following calculation formula: 0.1 number of days of sick leave for work accidents x 1,000/ ber 2010, over 10,000 managers partici0.0 (amount by equivalent full-time activity x 210 number pated in “Orange Campus Meetings” held 2007 2008 2009 2010 of days worked x 7,6 hours) throughout France; 18 a responsible employer • the introduction and dissemination of a New Management Charter to unite the community of managers in the same vision; focus • strengthening dialogue with the teams by improved management of corporate social performance heightening awareness among managers of France Telecom Orange is one of the first companies in France the importance of annual appraisals, the to introduce a composite corporate social performance indicator, application of best working practice and a which will be taken into account in calculating the variable portion regular exchange with employee representof remuneration of the 800 top managers in France, members of the atives; leaders’ network. This indicator combines management indicators • the introduction of a corporate social per(such as the rate of absenteeism) in equal parts with indicators drawn formance indicator in the variable remufrom the results of the social barometer carried out twice yearly. The neration of the principal executives. Group’s intention is to pursue social solidarity and progress. Therefore, it is the progression in the results that is used and not the absolute The Talent Sharing exchange programme also values. The results affect all Group managers in the same way: helps to disseminate an international managemanagers are jointly responsible for the quality of social relations rial culture. Introduced in 2004, this programme in the Group, whatever division they belong to, which ensures greater enables employees to spend three to solidarity, common interests and motivates them to work together 18 months in another Group entity before and support each other so that more humane and socially binding rejoining their original entity. Over 20 Group types of structures can emerge. countries participate in this scheme. 330 employees have benefited from this programme since 2004, including 33 in 2010. Same percentage for management indicators and 50% employees’ perceptions 5 social survey themes becoming closer to (six monthly survey) Composite employees Social Performance Becoming closer to employees, taking better Indicator account of human factors in decisions, develA limited number of indicator oping a high quality social dialogue, supporting 50% A simple method of calculation managers and monitoring the company’s cor5 RH indicators in pursuit of progress porate social performance: these are the pri(HR dashboard) orities of the Human Resources function. The common theme is the desire to be of more support to employees and ensure their wellbeing at work. In 2010, this was manifested by: • the creation of 180 local human resources ment and mobility. This latter agreement is management functions; a real breakthrough, particularly in respect • the participation of HR managers in manageof mobility, retirement and site closures; ment committees to measure the human • improved monitoring of the company’s social impact of operational decisions; performance: a social barometer, an indica• the signing of major agreements between tor of corporate social performance with an unions and management on issues impactimpact on the remuneration of executives, ing the lives of employees such as the first six-monthly survey. agreement on the work-life balance and that on employment, skills, professional developFrance Telecom-Orange 19 focus training in Africa In Dakar, Senegal, a sales school for trainers from French-language subsidiaries of Orange Africa was inaugurated in October 2010. Its aim: to increase the skills of trainers through a course adapted to suit local conditions. After the two-year course, trainers may – if they so wish – apply for “animateur-formateur” (leader/trainer) certification, which is open to Group trainers and delivered by Sciences Po Paris in partnership with France Telecom. Three classes are already subscribed in Dakar, a total of over 30 people. A second training centre will open its doors in early 2011 in Nairobi for trainers from English-language subsidiaries in the AMEA (Africa-Middle East-Asia) zone. A business selling school project is currently being established in Africa. This operationally-focused training scheme is intended for managers, marketeers, salespeople and maintenance engineers in the Business market. This pan-African school started up in Republic of Côte d’Ivoire in July 2010 before being rolled out to other African countries. key dates relating to the Group’s social policy 2002 > Launch of the “Telecom Talents” programme to recruit, support and generate loyalty among young people with high potential. 2003: > Framework agreement for forward planning of employment and skills in France. > Establishment of the Group’s Redeployment Committee to examine reorganization projects and manage external recruitment. 2004 > Establishment of the European Group Committee. > Launch of the international “Talent Sharing” programme to encourage and foster the sharing of experience within the Group. > Formalization of the policy relating to health and safety in the workplace and establishment of a Health and Safety Department. > Production of guidelines on Group Business Lines. 2005 > Establishment of new employee representation bodies (IRP) in France according to the methods defined in the Act of 31 December 2003. > Launch of the ACT programme: “planning and skills for the transformation of the Group”, to encourage career development within the company. 2006 > Signing of the Group agreement on basic social rights with UNI Global Union. > Establishment of the first Development Areas in France and Poland. > Production of a map of business lines in France. > Establishment of Orange management schools in France, the United Kingdom and Poland. 2007 > Launch of Orange Passion to support the passions of Group employees in the fields of sport, cinema and music. > In the context of the ACT programme, increase training effort. 2008 > Associating employees with the Group’s success. > NExT Reward based on annual results: free allocation of shares in 2009. 2009 > Inventory of stress and labour conditions and launch of open discussions on reform. > Creation of 160 local human resources management positions. > Signing of an agreement on the employment of seniors and measures to enrich the later years of employees’ careers. 2010 > Establishment of the Global Works Council. > Signing of 6 social agreements. > Introduction of the new social contract and the social barometer. > Introduction of a composite corporate social performance indicator to be included when calculating the variable portion of remuneration of the 800 top managers in France, members of the leader network. 20 a responsible employer promoting diversity and equal opportunity the Group’s approach France Telecom-Orange intends making equal opportunity a trademark of its human resources policy, right from the point of recruitment throughout its employees’ working lives. This commitment to promote diversity and equal opportunity not only reflects the Group’s values, but also its conviction that diversity contributes to the company’s performance, innovation capacity and attractiveness. Diversity also enables customers to see themselves in the image projected by the Group through its employees, its points of sale, its offers and products. The Group’s diversity policy is based on one flagship theme: gender equality in the workplace, and other themes on the basis of which each country builds its own policy as a function of local issues; helping disabled people to find employment and develop in the workplace, combating any and all forms of discrimination within the company. gender equality: A mixed and international Strategic Committee for gender equality was formed in 2010 at work (EPWN) of which the Group is a platinum member with 120 female employees a Group priority the request of Stéphane Richard, the Group’s actively involved; Chief Executive Officer, and is led by Delphine • the network is, among other things, a ‘think Ernotte, Executive Director of Orange France. tank’, which aims to increase the number France Telecom Orange has made gender Its aim is to define and validate the broad outof women in senior positions; equality a priority in its equal opportunity lines of the Group’s gender equality policy. • the equality laboratory, created at the start policy. With the ambitious objective of having of this year, brings together associations, 35% of women in the leaders network by 2015, an active presence in think-tanks unions, networks and institutes which work in line with the average percentage of women France Telecom-Orange participates in various for equality at all levels of society. in its workforce, and of attracting more women think-tanks on gender equality such as: • the “Cercle InterElles”, created in 2002 at in scientific and technical careers. • the Women’s Forum for the Economy and the initiative of a number of female managSociety, which brings together companies ers and business leaders including an exTo achieve this objective, the Group is deploystrongly committed to the issue of divermember of the France Telecom Orange ing action plans in each country with three sity; Management Committee, to debate and complementary focus areas: • Women In leadership (WIL), a Europe wide share the practices of companies that already • promoting access by women to positions NGO founded in 2010 at the request of top have a network of women active in scientific of responsibility (through measures such as representatives from industry, government, or technological fields. In 2010 the Group mentoring, analysing gender mix in applicant academic institutions and NGO’s, who were took part in two workshops (“Women and lists and succession plans); convinced of the need to improve women’s scientific and technical professions” and • encouraging gender mix, particularly in techstanding in the socio-professional sphere. “Guilt”) and in preparing for Women’s Day. nical functions; The objective: to build a network of influen• introducing measures to improve the worktial women interested in broadening their France Telecom-Orange has also contributed life balance. professional horizons in order to promote to a number of intercompany projects on the equality in the workplace; same topic, such as compiling the Code of • The European Professional Women’s NetBest Practices for women in information and France Telecom-Orange 21 communication technologies, developed under the aegis of the European Commission and the guide to parenting and the guide to diverfocus sity published by the ORSE (www.orse.org). Orange, a founder member of the Arborus fund Since 2009 in France Orange has sponsored Alongside other large groups recognized for their commitment to the Mutationnelle study, an annual survey of gender equality, Orange participated as a founder member in the women engineers and scientists. The 2010 establishment of Arborus: Europe’s first subsidies fund for equal edition, compared to 2009, shows a decrease opportunity in the workplace, launched in April 2010 under the in the numbers of women engineers and techpatronage of the European Economic and Social Council. Arborus’s nicians, particularly in the information and first concrete achievement was the launch of the European Gender communication technologies sector, which European Standard. justifies the Group’s commitment to the proBy becoming a partner in this European initiative, Orange is looking to motion of scientific careers for young encourage the promotion of a common European culture in the matter women. of equal opportunity in the workplace and benefit from innovative The Group is also a sponsor of the TerraFemina ideas to establish this ambition in all its European subsidiaries. association (www.terrafemina.com). Fifteen videos with testimonials from male and female employees in the Group talking about the work-life balance and the advantages of managing a mixed team, along with job descriptions have been placed online on the TerraFemina site. The Group has also contribpercentage of females in the group uted to creating an observatory of women and the digital world and produces a quiz on equalFrance ity in the workplace. Poland Spain promoting scientific and technological OBS International careers for women (Equant) Belgium Since 2009, Orange has been developing Romania shadowing actions enabling female students from the scientific or technical sectors to find Switzerland out about the day-to-day life of the Group’s Slovakia women engineers. In France, these actions Dominican Rep are carried out in partnership with the AssoSenegal ciation des Femmes Ingénieurs (association Republic of Côte d'Ivoire of female engineers) and allowed French Kenya female students to each spend a day in the Madagascar workplace with one of the Group’s women Egypt engineers. Similar actions have taken place in Jordania a number of subsidiaries. In 2010, Orange Rest of the Word Business Services also hosted a total of 50 young women from Egypt, Singapore, Total Group Germany, Italy, Brazil and Canada. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 % women in total headcount % of female and female top managers (out of total fostering the work-life balance management and top management population) In France, an agreement on the work-life balance aimed at better reconciling personal life and work organization (in the tradition of the unions and management. It anticipates several personal constraints in the organization of their parenthood charter signed in 2008) was signed concrete measures to provide each employee work, whilst at the same time respecting the in March 2010. with a satisfactory work-life balance, to give company’s requirements. This agreement is a first stage in negotiations them the time required to deal with major on this theme being undertaken between events in their life, and to take account of their 22 a responsible employer giving an opportunity supporting the employment of young people from disadvantaged neighbourhoods • Nos quartiers ont des talents (there’s talent in every community), a project that aims to to people To encourage the employment of young peosupport young graduates from working class ple, France Telecom-Orange has adopted a backgrounds in employment, and discover experiencing proactive policy in respect of school courses new talents lacking on the traditional recruitdifficulty entering combined with work experience, and relationships with universities. In France, the Group ment circuits – 160 Orange mentors participated in this initiative in 2010 and many the workplace has built up numerous partnerships with schools, has trained 400 learning supervisors employees joined in the first national Nos quartiers ont des talents meetings to introAs part of its corporate social responsibility in dealing with young people on work experiduce their disciplines to students at partner approach, France Telecom-Orange supports ence, supports 150 young PhD students and Paris universities, to help them analyse job company projects aimed at giving an opportakes on 4,500 apprentices and 2,500 interns offers, build a career path and improve their tunity to those who might otherwise encounevery year. image on the Internet. ter difficulty accessing employment. A dynamic policy of integrating young people • the Train pour l’emploi et l’égalité des chances from sensitive areas has been initiated through (jobs and equal opportunity train), a national a historic commitment in favour commitments to various organizations. initiative in which the Group participated for of disabled workers In February 2008, the Group was one of the the third consecutive time in 2010, interviewIn France, the Group’s Mission Insertion Handfirst companies in France to sign up to the Plan ing 2,090 candidates from all over France, icap (Mission for the Inclusion of the Disabled) Espoir Banlieues (Hope for the Suburbs). over 460 of whom were selected to pursue has been active for nearly ten years in assistOrange more than achieved its three year tarthe recruitment process into the Group. ing disabled workers to find jobs. gets: 335 compared to a target of 250 in 2010. • Passeport Avenir (passport to the future), an Every year, to help change the view of disabil13% of part-time contracts in 2010 are for inter-company organization that supports ity in the company, Orange France organizes young people eligible for the Plan Espoir over 700 young people from modest backa week of “Hangagement” (a play on the French Banlieues. This result is a clear illustration of grounds through their preparation for the words handicap = disability and engagement the Group’s pro-active approach to equal competitive entrance exams to the prestig= commitment), a major campaign to raise opportunity and non-discrimination during ious Grandes Écoles and thereafter until they awareness and help to involve managers, who recruitment. As part of its support of this govgraduate – with impressive results: 92% of play a key role in the integration and well-being ernmental programme, Orange supports a the students in the programme in 2010 were at work of disabled employees, and also to number of national initiatives in favour of equal accepted into a Grande École. Orange combat preconceived ideas and lift the psyopportunity, such as: chological barriers, particularly those that prevent some employees from requesting recognition as a Disabled Worker. This policy is also expressed in the external recruitment of disabled people whose profiles correspond with the Group’s requirements. In 2010, a major external communications campaign was undertaken in France, and resulted focus in the recruitment of 114 people with disabilOrange Dominicana moves into action to help integrate disabled ities (68 permanent employment contract and workers 46 apprentices in alternation/trainees). In 2010, Orange Dominicana (the Group subsidiary in the Dominican It is now also easier to insert and retain disaRepublic) launched a programme to help integrate disabled people bled staff in the Group, thanks to the latest in partnership with a national institution working for deaf and dumb innovations relating to the planning of workstapeople (Instituto de Sordos Mudos de Santa Rosa). Six disabled tions and positions by the Accessibility Centre workers currently occupy positions within the subsidiary’s customer of Excellence and Orange Labs. service and administration department. In addition, the Orange In 2010, Orange’s Mission Insertion Handicap Foundation helped to set up digital equipment in a number of incorporated the new network of Global organizations working for disabled people, such as the Dominican Business and Disability correspondents estabRepublic’s national organization for the blind (Organización Dominicana lished by the International Labour Organization de Ciegos), the Hermanas Misioneras del Corazón de Jesús, the (ILO). Santa Maria home and the Jose Ignacio Morales Foundation. France Telecom-Orange 23 supplies over 40% of the learning supervisors To encourage discussion and break down Orange Business Services organizes a worldwide in the organization thanks to its highly comprejudice, the Group Diversity Department organcampaign to raise awareness every year. Divermitted training personnel. ized four “diversity talks” in 2010: filmed debates sity debates are held every four months at the • the entretiens de l’excellence (talks on excelwith internal and external experts that are availSaint-Denis Head Office in France. In 2010, interlence), a project run in partnership with the able to all on the Group intranet and website. national webinars were launched to raise awareInstitut d’études politiques de Paris, whose These meetings had four themes corresponding ness among employees of topics such as cultural aim is to inform and advise schoolchildren, to major issues of diversity: diversity and intercultural communications. secondary school pupils and students from • the generation gap; In 2010, France Telecom Orange also launched modest backgrounds about the existence • the religious issue; a training programme about discrimination speand operation of courses “of excellence”. • sexual orientation; cifically for the HR function and created a fun 10 Group employees took part in 2010 to • women in technical disciplines. e-learning program that helps to share the issues talk about their training and discipline. France of diversity with all employees. Telecom-Orange was also a partner in the The debates in these videos were based on New training courses have been added to the event held in Pointe-à-Pitre, Guadeloupe on studies carried out with Orange’s participation. Group’s catalogue: 24 April, which was attended by over The aim of these videos is to raise awareness • the aim of the “be a responsible communica700 young people. among employees of the issues and benefits of tor” course is to raise awareness among peodiversity and help them to deal with these issues ple in charge of internal and external comIn France, regional branches of the Group also from day to day. munications to gender stereotypes in order to run numerous events to promote equal oppormove gender equality forward and, more glotunities alongside organizations such as FACE For more information: view the videos on www. bally, encourage responsible Orange commu(Fondation Agir contre l’Exclusion, foundation orange.com/fr_FR/recrutement/diversite. nications; acting against exclusion) and IMS-Entreprendre • The aim of the Orange Campus managers’ pour la Cité (IMS – undertake for the city). course on diversity for managers is to overcome decisional bias and stereotypes. raise awareness recruitments – departures to remove prejudice 20000 recruitments departures 15000 Any and all forms of discrimination within the company are combated by regularly raising the awareness of employees to the issues of 10000 diversity. 5000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 number of employees of the different population of open ended employees contracts (Group without UK) 40000 140 000 35000 120 000 30000 100 000 25000 20000 80000 15000 60000 10000 40000 women man 5000 20000 0 <21 21-25 26-30 31-35 36-40 41-45 46-50 51-55 56-60 0 >60 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 for the Group for the Group, France not included for France 24 a responsible employer focus Orange Business Services: a diversity policy representative of the Group’s commitments Since 2009, Orange Business Services has been deploying a highly dynamic diversity policy, both in France and abroad. In 2010, the policy was applied through the introduction of a diversity scorecard for the Orange Business Services Executive Committee, together with a number of regularly monitored indicators, including the number of women on management bodies. It was also illustrated by very strong commitment on the part of Orange Business Services employees: in 2010, over 200 employees became involved in diversity and equal opportunities programmes. Thanks to this commitment, projects like the Sunshine Project have come into being and the shadowing programme has been rolled out across all regions, with more than 50 young girls receiving assistance in Singapore, Egypt, Brazil, Canada, Germany and Italy. In parallel, these actions have been accompanied by internal communications suited to the local context in each zone, such as the “Join the conversation” campaign and diversity webinars in the Americas zone, which attracted over 100 participants for each session. Lastly, two diversity networks, whose members act as diversity ambassadors in their entity, were launched this year in France and the Americas zone. key dates relating the Group’s diversity and equal opportunity policy 2001 > Participation in the establishment of the Cercle InterElles to promote gender mix in the world of work. 2003 > Agreement between FT SA management and unions on the employment and integration of disabled workers. > Establishment of Mission Insertion Handicap (Mission for the Inclusion of the Disabled). 2004 > Signing of the Diversity Charter within the company. > Collective agreement to promote gender equality. 2005 > Orange France is the first technology company to obtain the Gender Equality label awarded by AFNOR. 2007 > Group agreement on gender equality (2008-2010). > New company agreement in favour of employing disabled people. > Creation of the Group Diversity Department. 2008 > Signing of the Charte de la parentalité en entreprise (charter for parenthood and work). > Signing of the Plan Espoir Banlieues (governmental plan to bring hope to underprivileged inner city suburbs). 2009 > Signing of the Code of Best Practice for Women in ICT and launch of shadowing actions. > Signing of a Group agreement on the employment of seniors and measures to enrich the later years of employees’ careers. 2010 > Establishment of a Strategic Committee on Gender Equality. > Signing of the first Group agreement on work-life balance. > Participation in the establishment of the Arborus fund for gender equality in the workplace in Europe. France Telecom-Orange 25 2010 review objectives deadline status main achievements in 2010 Social commitments Extend employee dialogue in all countries in which Negotiation and signing of major agreements in France. the Group is present using methods suited to the 2010-2012 Establishment of employee forums in Romania, Dominican local circumstances (employee representation Republic and Switzerland. bodies, commitment surveys, forums, etc.). Define a social performance indicator, a reflection of Introduction of composite social performance indicator. employee satisfaction, which will be incorporated in 2010-2011 Indicator incorporated in H2 2010 bonus for top executives the variable share of Group executives. in France. In France, production and distribution to all employees of the Define “employee commitment principles” at Group document entitled “for a new social contract”. level and tailor these principles to all Country entities, 2010-2011 As part of the “Conquests 2015” plan, each Country whilst factoring in specific local requirements. commits to the first section on “men and women”. Finalize the establishment of the Worldwide Group 2010 Signing of the agreement on 22 June 2010. Committee. Skills development Courses expanded internationally as in Senegal, which now Continue to develop professional courses and has certified “technician” and “customer” courses. 2010-2011 increase the number of certified courses. Launch of “orange expert”. Number of employees concerned: 1389 (SEU perimeter). Voluntary work In conjunction with the Foundation, launch a skills Skills patronage is incorporated in agreements relating to patronage programme in France and assess the employment of seniors and the work-life balance signed conditions for its extension to other territories in 2010-2012 in 2010. which the Group is present, depending on local A dedicated extranet site and helpline number have been legislative frameworks. set up to publicize the offering. Diversity policy Launch of a Group strategic committee for equality. A large number of initiatives launched by various Group Strengthen the gender equality policy in all Group entities, eg. OBS, which introduced: countries through the use of tools and schemes 2010-2011 – “shadowing days” (to promote technical disciplines specifically created to help implement this policy among girls) in France, Egypt, Germany, Brazil, Canada, (training courses, mentoring, shadowing, etc.). etc. 50 participants in 2010; – update meetings for women returning to the company from maternity leave or after a long absence. Introduce monitoring of gender mix indicators within Definition, implementation and monitoring of a gender mix the Group (number of women in technical disciplines 2010-2011 indicator in networks of “leaders” (approx. 1,000 executives) and women in management positions, percentage of Percentage as at December 2010: 23.15% women in management bodies). objective achieved objective not achieved (project cancelled or deferred) 26 a responsible employer objectives deadline status main achievements in 2010 Actions stepped up across all entities. For example: – Disability policy (Romania): Two new disabled people hired by the Consumer Service department; Continue programmes to address other areas of – Social exclusion (Orange Business Services): introduction diversity identified within Group countries in line with of dedicated programmes (“Passeport Avenir” (passport 2010-2011 local issues and set up a system to monitor action to the future) – 40 volunteers, Nos quartiers ont des plans and related results. talents (there’s talent in every community)) in partnership with Actenses. In India, launch of the “Sunshine Project” programme to increase the skills of 70 young girls from poor villages, etc. Human rights Policy defined on the basis of the Group’s historic Define a Group policy on the basis of the UNI 2010 commitments using GRI indicators, and distributed to all agreement and identify the relevant indicators. CSR correspondents within the Group. 2011 roadmap new objectives deadline Social commitments Extend employee dialogue in all countries in which the Group is present using methods suited to the local circumstances (employee representation bodies, commitment surveys, forums, etc.). The progressive international roll-out of the principle 2011-2012 of the social barometer. Deploy the composite social performance indicator on a six-monthly basis in France and roll it out internationally 2011-2012 in an adapted form. Extend the principles underlying the “social contract” in France by the deployment of a Group “employee charter”, 2011 which will help to entrench employee commitments at local level. The development of internal tools and services specifically to strengthen social links within the company. 2011 Put in function the Global works council. 2011-2012 Recognize the performance collectively by valuing the implication of the employees in the successes of the company and by 2011-2012 associating them with the sharing of the performance. Skills development Continue to develop professional courses and increase the number of certified courses. 2011 Diversity policy Strengthen the gender equality policy in all Group countries through the use of tools and schemes specifically created 2011 to help implement this policy (training courses, mentoring, shadowing, etc.). Continue to monitor gender mix indicators within the Group. 2011 Continue actions to address other areas of diversity identified within Group countries in line with local issues and strengthen 2011 the monitoring of action plans and related results. France Telecom-Orange 27 a world lived in trust The digital world opens up many opportunities for interaction but is also a vector for complexity, even risks: new tools, new pitfalls. Orange’s ambition is to be the operator that provides the best customer experience by supporting its customers and making their digital life easier at each stage of the relationship. Apart from the basic demands of service quality, the Group also endeavours to set an example in ensuring the security of data and respecting privacy, supporting teachers, parents and children towards safe, responsible use of technologies, answering questions on radio waves, and promoting responsible purchasing principles. 29 building customers’ loyalty 35 communicating with peace of mind 37 promoting safe and responsible use 40 answering questions about radio waves 43 promoting the principles of responsible purchasing 48 2010 review 50 2011 roadmap building customers’ loyalty the Group’s approach Winning new customers is important, winning their loyalty is vital. The Group undertakes to be a digital partner to each and every one by supporting them as and when they need it. To achieve this objective, the Group is implementing a programme of ongoing improvement in service quality and customer relations, making offers easier to understand and providing service more closely matching customers’ needs. The programme is based on: • a system of service quality measurements across all markets; • targeted improvement plans to optimize services all along the customer journey; • trained, committed teams to meet the requirements of customers in different types of market; • incorporation of customer perception prior to launch and at all stages in the lives of offerings. Orange also endeavours to establish a relationship of trust with its customers by implementing a responsible marketing and communications policy. a firm ambition in • quality of the customer relationship; • simplicity of offers and the customer jourAmong these various monitoring indicators, the Customer Experience Tracker (CET) helps respect of service ney; to manage strategy relating to the Customer • team involvement and training, core to the Experience. This indicator makes it possible quality customer relations system; to compare the quality of the customer’s expe• the end-to-end reliability of offerings; rience with both Orange and the competition, In a world where customers are increasingly • quality management. throughout the customer journey. well equipped and some may be lost due to the wealth of technology, the quality of customer support and service become major elements in generating loyalty and differentiating between competitors. As part of its Conquests 2015 plan, France Telecom-Orange has set itself the goal of becoming the benchmark telecommunications operator for service qualfocus ity in all markets by 2015. a club for European customer services managers To support customer service managers in the drive to improve the service quality that is continually performance of European call centres, Orange has established the monitored CCSO (Chief Customer Service Officers) Club. Here its members can The quality of service offered by the Group to discuss best practice and the challenges facing them in an atmosphere its customers as a whole (retail, professional of mutual assistance and sharing. The first meeting of the Club took or business), is continually measured in all place on 28 and 29 September in southern France, with the markets. participation of 10 countries (Armenia, Austria, Belgium, Spain, A survey-based tool comprising specific Moldova, Poland, Dominican Republic, Romania, Switzerland, studies, an analysis of customer requests Slovakia). The meeting agreed joint priority focus areas for improving and the monitoring of performance indicators customer satisfaction, and the countries concerned have undertaken to results in improvement plans with five target implement transformation plans in these areas. areas: France Telecom-Orange 29 Since the second half of 2010, the bonus calproblems or faulty cells) on Google maps. This skilled and motivated teams culation for the Group’s 1,000 top managers product is a diagnostic aid provided to cusOrange customer services teams are the first has included a goal relating to improving the tomer services that enables them to pass point of responsibility for the quality of the customer experience measured via the CET. information about problems on to customers. service delivered to customers. To achieve the Already in use in France and Tunisia, it will objectives of excellence set in this area, the analysis tools available to countries shortly be introduced in Spain and Poland. Group has launched two initiatives to strengthen To analyse end-to-end service quality, the skills and increase the involvement of employGroup has developed a methodology to anaa policy of excellence for business ees that come into direct contact with customlyse the customers’ perception of the quality markets ers: of the networks, throughout the customer To meet the requirements of business custom• the Orange certification programme offers journey. This analysis is not limited to techniers, Orange Business has for several years customer services employees a two-level cal aspects, but also encompasses areas such now used a transformation programme named accreditation recognising their professional as local competition, communications on offer“Customer Excellence” which is subject to qualifications; ings, customer services, etc. specific monitoring using dedicated indica• the “Orange customer champions”, a new The methodology was first applied by Mobinil tors. international initiative launched in 2010 to in Egypt, in close collaboration with the Group An in-depth knowledge of customers gained reward the best customer services employQuality Department. Their work gave rise to a through surveys and interviews enables the ees. The largest internal competition ever working seminar that involved all the Mobinil case-by-case implementation of customer launched by the Group, these awards reflect teams playing a role in the customer experiimprovement plans, makes it possible to learn the Group’s ambitions in relation to service ence. It ended with the proposal of a vast global lessons from them and install quality quality. The first year saw 220 champions action plan focusing on eight key areas to loops. from all the countries in which the Group improve perception of the mobile network. As part of the Conquests 2015 plan, new operates receive their awards at a ceremony In 2011, this methodology will be extended actions have been launched to improve cusin Dubai. to other countries in line with their priorities in tomer satisfaction and increase customer respect of the customer experience. Another loyalty. New governance has been introduced reacting effectively in emergency specific tool has been developed for customer to promote co-construction and mutual supsituations relations departments: the service forecast. port between the Group and operational entiFrance Telecom-Orange is strongly committed This tool enables customer service to view ties in the countries, based on the shared aim to providing continuity of service. A crisis manproblems on the mobile network (coverage of improving the customer experience. agement process ensures a rapid, effective response in emergency situations. This system showed its effectiveness during Atlantic storm Xynthia, which hit the west of France at the end of February 2010, causing considerable damage in the Centre, Poitou-Charentes and Pays de la Loire regions: 170,000 customers focus without access to landlines or the Internet, 100,000 phone lines down, etc. Over 2,000 technicians and network specialists quality committees to reinforce the dynamic of change were mobilized to reestablish communications The Group established Quality Committees in 2010 to achieve its as quickly as possible. Mobilizing Orange’s ambitions in respect of customer experience. Their objective: to move technical teams and subcontracting partners action plans forward rapidly in respect of quality and the customer meant that the network was back to normal experience. in less than ten days. These quality committees meet every fortnight, and are also attended by a number of members of the Group’s Executive Committee. The committees enable customer experience managers and sponsors from subsidiaries to put forward their action plans and request assistance from the Group on the occasional strategic points that need in-depth analysis based on Customer Journey surveys. The members of the Executive Committee undertake to provide their support and follow-up plans for the actions are put in place. In 2010, nine Quality Committees met in Poland, France, Romania, Spain, Senegal, Egypt, Switzerland, Jordan and at Orange Business Services. The committees helped to start or accelerate the change dynamics to improve the customer experience in the countries. They also gave rise to a number of joint actions in areas such as the customer journey, end-to-end reliability, the improvement in customers’ perception of the network, network quality, the offering launch process, the handling of customer incidents and the marketing of offerings. 30 a world lived in trust focus quality recognized through numerous awards In 2010, the Group’s commitment to service quality was recognized once again through numerous awards, among them: • the prize for the “Best technological advance in mobile telephony” awarded to Orange at the 15th Global Mobile Awards for its innovation in respect of high definition (HD) voice for mobiles; • the “Best managed service” and “Best project management” awards presented to Orange Business Services at the 2010 World Communication Awards; • the “Best IP Network” award at Financial-i.com’s 2010 Leaders in Innovation Awards; • world’s leading business Ethernet operator according to the Vertical Systems Group’s “Mid-2010 Global Provider Leaderboard”; • two prizes awarded to Orange at the AfricaCom Awards: “Prize for the year’s best new entrant” for the successful launch of Orange Tunisia in May 2010 and “Best solution for rural services” for the community phone concept developed by the Group in Mali; • prize for the best mobile network in Metropolitan France according to ARCEP’s 2010 report: the reliability of the Orange network makes it the leader in both mobile data services (WAP, SMS, MMS, “Visio”) and key 3G+ services across all the towns assessed. As well as providing the best service quality, Orange is currently the only operator to cover more than 99% of the population with GSM/EDGE and 92% of the population with 3G/3G+ (95% at end 2010). key dates relating to the Group’s ongoing policy of improving the customer experience 2004 > Launch of the simplicity + programme. 2006 > Publication of responsible marketing guides. 2008 > Signing in France of the responsible communications charter of the Union des Annonceurs (advertisers’ union – UDA). 2009 > Publication of the responsible communications code. > Launch of Orange Care services. 2010 > Incorporation of CET (Customer Experience Tracker) in the bonuses of 1,000 leaders. > Establishment of Quality Committees. > Launch of professional certification programme for customer services employees and of the internal competition “Orange customer champions”. France Telecom-Orange 31 simplifying the focus telecommunications new certifications for Orange Business Services For the third consecutive year, Orange Business Services has received experience three renewals of major ISO certifications for its international Simplicity is a fundamental customer requiremanagement systems: ment and an essential criteria for a totally • ISO 27000, Security Management: certification renewed for the main fulfilling experience of new technologies. international Customer Service Centres in Egypt and India, as well as Rather than technological complexity, the for the IT Services activities (Messaging/Hosting/Security) in Rennes Group decided to focus instead on reliability in France, and extended to the Global Network Management Centre and the simplicity of its offerings, and develop in New Delhi; efficient support services to accompany its • ISO 20000, Services Management: certification extended to the customers throughout their user journey. “Business Together” telephone service. Renewals were granted for existing services, as well as for the main Customer Service Centres a criterion incorporated in the offering in France, Egypt, India and Switzerland; design phase • ISO 9001, Quality Management: renewals were granted to the main To improve the simplicity of the customer jourCustomer Service Centres in France, Egypt, India and Switzerland. ney from end to end – from information to Orange Business Services also received Cisco’s “Unified Contact installation, usage and after sales service – Center Enterprise” (UCCE) certification, enabling it to meet the Orange factored the criterion of simplicity into requirements of complex contact centres of global customers. its “Time to Market” (TTM) launch process for new offerings. consumer customer satisfaction Intention to recommend – Customer Experience Tracker (average score out of 100) Broadband Internet Mobile Services 90 90 75 75 60 60 45 45 30 30 15 15 0 0 France Poland Spain Belgium Switzerland Romania Slovakia Armenia Austria Dominican France Poland Moldova Spain Republic 2008 2009 2010 element verified by Deloitte, moderate assurance notable changes in 2010 > France has put plans in place to improve the customer experience and simplify its offers whether for mobile or multi-play, OPEN being on e of the best examples, and to guarantee the customer the best possible speed for the offer he subscribes to. The coverage offered by the mobile network remains much appreciated by the customers. > Poland has completely overhauled its fixed line high speed offer; the aim is to greatly simplify the portfolio and to be more competitive in terms of speed and pricing. > Spain has launched a very ambitious plan to transform the customer experience in a highly competitive environment; simplification of its offers, quality of customer service and teams motivated to achieve it. > In all other European countries, the teams are highly committed to making Orange the best in terms of customer experience by 2015. Orange Romania, for example, has placed a particular emphasis on the customer journey for pre-paid customers. > All the countries are making an equally impressive effort in terms of the customer experience and customer loyalty in the area of mobile internet. 32 a world lived in trust Simplicity is thus taken into account when two in Poland, two in Spain, and one in each encourages the capitalization, sharing and designing offerings, and is monitored after they of Switzerland, Romania, Slovakia, the particularly cross-fertilization of skills between are launched. Dominican Republic, Egypt, Madagascar, countries. For each TTM project, someone is nominated Republic of Côte d’Ivoire and Senegal) to ensure customer satisfaction. This “cusstaffed by over 150 people; In 2010, based on a very similar methodology, tomer champion” ensures that the customer’s • Two centres devoted to employee tests Simplicity+ launched the “TO BEE” project, viewpoint is recognized throughout the project (France and Poland). whose aim is to place the employee at the by organizing: heart of the observations and improve their • customer presentation meetings during the Six other customer test centres are due to “employee experience” (their working position offering design phase; open in 2011 (Morocco, business customers in the broad sense including the applications • customer tests of the offering before its in Spain, Moldova, Belgium, Tunisia, Jorused, their workstation, processes, applicalaunch; dan). tions, understanding of the meaning of the • a customer survey immediately after launch business, organization, etc.). (peK survey – product experience KPI). This wide geographic coverage helps to appreciate the cultural parameters that can influence In 2010, Orange carried out over 300 customer In the countries, all this is the responsibility of local perception of the complexity of a product tests aggregating the three experiences, the Country TTM Manager and “customer or service, and enables a corrective action including: voice” experts, assisted by the Group Quality plan to be launched. • 133 tests on the understanding of offerings Department. The Simplicity+ programme is being rolled out by “prospects”; progressively in all countries according to a • 369 tests on the usage experience; The system, launched at the beginning of 2010 decentralized approach built up using a com• 184 tests on the customer contact experiand deployed in 16 countries by the end of mon methodology around a network that ence. that year, will be strengthened still further in 2011 to: • systematize the integration of the customer perception upstream of any offering launch, according to the principle of co-design; number of customer tests carried out by the Simplicity+ network • roll out the peK survey in all countries to 350 assess the quality of the customer journey 300 as actually perceived by customers downstream of offering launches 250 200 Simplicity+: a network of test centres to 150 observe customers and identify problems 100 The aim of the Simplicity+ programme launched 50 in 2004 was to amplify this search for quality 0 and simplicity by incorporating the customer’s viewpoint at the very heart of the launch procH1 2006 H2 2006 H1 2007 H2 2007 H1 2008 H2 2008 H1 2009 H2 2009 H1 2010 H2 2010 ess, and keeping it there throughout the life of an offering. customers indirectly involved customers directly involved grand total The programme depends on a network of customer test centres, which forms a central unit in each country striving to improve the customer experience by assessing customers’ perception of the level of simplicity at each stage: • understanding of the offering by prospective customers; focus • experience of users under day-to-day connew Orange megastores in Lille and Lyon: a first in Europe ditions (installation and uses); In December 2010, Lille and Lyon saw Orange open the two largest • experience of customer journey when makstores of any telecoms operator in Europe, with over 400 m² dedicated ing contact (shops, customer service). to customer service and the customer experience. These new areas enable Orange’s employees and visitors to share a common experience These assessments may then give rise to recof, and discuss, Orange products and services. Using the principle ommendations to enable offerings to be of digital coaching, Orange’s “expert advisers” – who receive solid changed before their launch. ongoing technical training – are on hand to answer customers’ The Simplicity+ network achieved full maturity questions and teach them to use the technology in their day to day life. in 2010. It now has: With an innovative design focused on comfort, these megastores also • 15 customer test centres (three in France, comply with the ecodesign charter signed with the WWF. France Telecom-Orange 33 optimized customer journeys Orange has undertaken a programme to simlaunch of new offerings, include requirements In order to improve the customer experience, plify its catalogues. Beneficial to customers, relating to security, the confidentiality of prithe Group has introduced a methodological this wide scale simplification will enable advisvate data and the protection of children. approach in countries that helps not only to ers to get to know the Group’s offerings betFrance Telecom-Orange also applies codes improve communications with customers ter, and therefore guide customers more of conduct developed by the sector, such (shops, web, customer service) but also to effectively. In Belgium, Mobistar has eliminated as that of the Mobile Marketing Association optimize organizational and operational proc40% of its offers through this programme. relating to marketing on mobile phones. esses. This “customer journey” approach has enabled • The Group’s Code of Responsible Comthe launch of a set of constantly changing and corrective projects affecting customers directly promoting munications, published in 2009, has five main principles: in their interaction with Orange. In 2010, nearly 50 customer journeys were a responsible – respect individuals; – be reliable and transparent; optimized in this way in eight countries (France, relationship with – behave responsibly; Spain, Slovakia, Romania, Belgium, Switzer– take conservation of the environment into land, Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, the Dominican our customers consideration; Republic). They resulted in the launch of more – encourage our partners to respect these than 200 corrective actions. To have a sustainable relationship with customprinciples. In 2011, this approach of optimizing customer ers, France Telecom-Orange has defined journeys will be extended to other countries responsible marketing and communication In 2010, a survey of internal and external stakein the Africa-Middle East-Asia zone. principles directly in line with the values and holders was undertaken with the intention of principles of conduct expressed in the Group’s rolling out the Code of Responsible Commusimplified catalogues Code of Ethics. nication at Group level and in six countries Technological innovations mean that new offer(France, Spain, Poland, Jordan, Slovakia, ings are launched every year. This profusion • The responsible marketing guides produced Kenya). of offerings sometimes leads to difficulties: a in 2006 help to ensure that Orange’s adverA programme to raise awareness and train lack of legibility for customers, misunderstandtising campaigns comply with international communications teams has been launched in ing of offers by advisers, complexity of the codes of conduct and the Group’s undertakFrance; Group training will take place in 2011 invoicing processes, etc. In order to change ings with regard to corporate social responin a number of languages. the customer experience to one of simplicity, sibility. These guides, which are factored into the Time to Market process governing the promoting safe and responsible uses Besides information efforts made specifically in the area of child protection (see p. 37 to 39) and radio waves (see p. 40 to 42) Orange is scrupulous in promoting the responsible use focus of products and services among all its customers. With one basic principle: providing transparent information on the risks involved and a new service to enrich the Orange Care range: Expert Assistance the means of protecting against them. Launched at the end of 2009, Orange Care is a comprehensive range In most countries, Orange portals provide a of innovative services to support customers in their experience of wide range of simple and pragmatic advice new technologies. In June 2010, Orange launched “Expert Assistance”, on how to protect one’s own privacy and that a new pay service giving smartphone users access to advice of others, manage one’s mobile phone budget, and a technical helpline that goes beyond classic Internet and report illicit content, protect against mobile telephone support. In the six months following its launch in June, phone theft, extend the lifetime of equipment, 100,000 customers used the telephone support service, and the volume together with reminders not to phone whilst of calls increased by 10% each month. By mid-2011, 3,000 specialist driving and to avoid taking calls in a public experts will be providing personalized assistance to smartphone users place… so that use of the new technologies in 1,300 shops in 13 countries. remains a pleasure for all. 34 a world lived in trust communicating with peace of mind the Group’s approach Spam, phishing, computer viruses: the growth of the Internet uses goes hand in hand with new risks, and it is important to warn users against them effectively. For over 10 years, France Telecom-Orange has been carrying out a technology watch on network security, enabling it to monitor the development of threats and design appropriate responses. As part of its Global Security Policy, the Group deals with different risks from the beginning of the offering design phase, and puts tools in place to ensure data security and privacy for its customers. a global security Money”, which is deployed in a number of African countries with few banking facilities ensuring the confidentiality of personal data policy and demands a very high level of security (see Respect for privacy is an integral part of France p. 59). Telecom-Orange’s Global Security Policy. The Group’s security activities are coordinated Half-yearly reporting is now in place in all Group Specifically, the Group complies with European and run by the Group Security Department, entities as part of the Security Management Directive 95/46/CE on the protection of perwhich reports to the General Secretariat. This System, in compliance with the guidelines for sonal data. department is responsible for implementing the ISO 27001 standards (see p. 10). Each Rigorous measures are implemented in all the Global Security Policy, which has three country is therefore required to assess its risks, countries: focus areas, including information security (see report all incidents and/or non-compliance, • data protection requirements are incorporated p. 10). and implement the necessary security measin all employment contracts. A charter named The policy is reviewed every three years to ures. the “Confidential Code”, translated into eight take account of the emergence of new risks. Internal audits are commissioned by the Group languages, sets out the information security The last update was in 2007, so the next will Security Department to verify the application rules that must be applied by each and every take place in 2011. of the policy. employee. For more information, employees managing security risks The Group applies a method for assessing major risks (High Level Risk Assessment – HLRA) to anticipate threats relating to security and data confidentiality and to factor them in from the design phase of new products and services. Security teams regularly raise awareness among product marketing managers of the different risk factors, and provide security focus monitoring throughout development. All proda day of discussion devoted to the protection of privacy ucts and services that emerged from the techOn 16 June 2010, Orange organized the first “Privacy Day” to galvanize nocentres in 2010 were therefore put through its teams into action on the issue of protecting personal data. A large a variety of checks, from design phase to number of people from the CSR Department, marketing services, audits following the implementation of the Orange Labs and support functions (legal, security), together with products. The management of security risks representatives from three countries (France, Belgium, Switzerland) met relates more particularly to offerings specific together to share their reflections on the issues involved, regulatory to the banking sector, such as “Orange developments and customer requirements. France Telecom-Orange 35 may consult the dedicated intranet site, “Secuin preparation; the complexity of the subject assistants), secure management of fleets of rity online”, or contact a global security coorand the difficulty in converging the approaches mobiles; dinator in a Group entity; of different countries have delayed its publica• securing network access (Internet, virtual • the Group has introduced a restricted and tion, initially scheduled for 2010 but now due private networks); clearly identified list of people authorized to to take place in 2011. Orange France pub• protection of company resources from access databases containing customers’ lished a code on the protection of personal attempts to listen in or destroy information; personal data; data and privacy in 2010. • detection and anticipation of attacks. • user identities are checked using very strict authentication methods; Practical advice is regularly dispensed to cus• the Group’s responsible marketing guides ensure that personal data is never used for solutions for tomers to heighten their awareness of risks and promote safe, responsible uses that will commercial purposes unless the customer customers help to protect their personal data: has given their consent; • private individuals and business people may • all contracts with suppliers and partners Besides internal measures implemented to also consult the “Protecting yourself” section include a specific clause on the protection protect the security and confidentiality of data, on the Orange Assistance website (http:// of personal data. Orange offers its customers a comprehensive assistance.orange.fr/IHD/); range of security solutions helping to facilitate • for businesses, the Orange Business ServIn 2010, an initiative was launched to improve electronic exchanges whilst providing end-toices Security blog (http://blogs.orangerecognition of the risks relating to the protecend protection: business.com/securite/) provides very comtion of personal data in all countries. A Group • securing workstations (PCs) and communiprehensive information on security issues policy relating to the protection of privacy is cation tools (mobiles, PDA-type personal and allows experts to discuss their experiences and best practice. A number of articles and videos have been posted too, to raise awareness among Internet users of safe use of social network sites. focus stepping up the fight against spam In 2010, Orange France mounted a new campaign to raise awareness of risks connected with fraudulent or unsolicited messages (spam), by encouraging Internet users to use dedicated websites to report them: • 33700 (http://www.33700-spam-sms.fr/) for spam received via SMS on a mobile phone; • signal Spam (https://www.signal-spam.fr/) to transfer any unsolicited message received via fixed/Internet messaging. A similar campaign was undertaken in Spain. key dates relating to the implementation of the security and private data protection policy 2007 > Publication of the Group’s global security policy. > Appointment of a private data protection manager. > Establishment of a working group to assess risks relating to customers’ personal data. > Deployment of a security management system throughout the Group in compliance with the ISO 27001 standard. 2008 > Publication of the “Confidential Code”, an internal charter on the protection of private data translated into eight languages, and the launch of a campaign to raise awareness among employees in 118 countries. 2009 > Introduction of security monitoring for all multi-country offerings developed by the Orange Technocentre. 2010 > Extension of security monitoring to mono-country offerings and certain Orange Business Services offerings. > A global initiative to improve recognition of risks relating to the protection of customers’ personal data. 36 a world lived in trust promoting safe and responsible uses the Group’s approach the Group’s approach Internet and mobile telephony are an integral part of the daily life of the younger generations. These new services give rise to new uses that require Internet users to learn about them in order to exploit all their opportunities to the full without exposing themselves to new risks, particularly for minors. Given the use of blogs and social networks in particular, parents often feel disempowered. To help them support their children towards the safe and responsible use of new technologies, Orange uses two key principles: • developing technical and fun tools to help youngsters and those supporting them to master the uses of new technologies; • heightening awareness in families and schools of the positive effects and points for vigilance connected with inappropriate use of the Internet and mobiles by relaying information about legitimate organizations and contacts in the field. level of deployment of child protection tools appropriate tools TV/VOD at As a content provider, Orange ensures approMobile Fixed line Internet home priate protection across its own range of services and establishes mechanisms for classifyage parental age parental access verification control verification control control ing content, checking age, and filtering. Orange also moderates its discussion forums. France – Poland – As an access provider, Orange has introduced a parental control option in most European Spain countries, enabling parents to block access Belgium – – – by minors to inappropriate content from computers, mobile phones and digital television. Romania – – – Switzerland Slovakia Moldova – – – state by end 2009 progression by end 2010 France Telecom-Orange 37 raising awareness in families and focus schools a new action to raise awareness in Slovakian schools To educate children, as well as their parents In 2010, Orange Slovakia collaborated with the Nadacia pre deti and educators, who are sometimes less at Slovenska (“The children of Slovakia”) Foundation in a project called ease than their children in the use of new infor“Media Education and Child Protection Against Inappropriate Content”, mation technologies, Orange is progressively which had several aims: introducing a policy of raising awareness, • to prepare and implement an innovative methodology for educating embodied by: teachers in primary and schools on the challenges of protecting • guidelines for parents providing simple, effecchildren against inappropriate content and promoting proper use of tive advice to enable children to use their information and communication technologies; mobile phone or the Internet in complete • to help children develop the ability to discriminate by evaluating and safety. These guides are available in seven checking information and seeking other ways of spending their free languages and may be downloaded free of time; charge from the Group’s European web• to encourage cooperation between parents and teachers so as to sites; improve the protection of children from inappropriate content on the • websites dedicated to the correct use of Internet, in the media and on social networks. services, in place in a number of European By the end of 2010, 50 teachers, 1,000 parents and 4,500 children had countries (France, Spain, Slovakia, received training. Poland); • the dissemination of recommendations by organizations dedicated to the issues of childhood and to protecting them via various media, for example by relaying messages from the “e-Enfance” organization in Orange shops in France. To heighten awareness in schools, the Group works in partnership with specialist organizafocus tions such as the Family Online Safety Institute, Kidprotect in Poland, the Protégeles! Foundation in Spain and e-Enfance in France. In SloOrange France raises awareness of child protection among its teams vakia, Orange has joined forces with specially and customers trained psychologists working in schools to In response to requests from its employees for information on child educate pupils in the correct use of new techprotection, Orange France held several awareness-raising workshops nologies. between 15 October 2010 and 31 January 2011 covering uses connected with the Internet, mobile phone and television. Nearly an international commitment 600 employees participated in one of the workshops, which was held As part of its child protection policy, France at a total of 49 sites in all regions. In addition, Orange organized Telecom-Orange supports the implementation a conference with the organization e-Enfance for its Orange Village of: employees, which helped them to gain an outside view. • the European Framework for a Safer Use of Orange also stepped up communications to its customers in 2010: Mobiles by Young Teenagers and Chil• inclusion of information on the worlds of the internet, mobile and TV dren; in the catalogue of offerings; • the Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual • enrichment of the dedicated section on orange.fr (tools available, Abuse Content, which fights child pornogusage recommendations); raphy on the Internet. • development of usage recommendations for mobiles and dedicated offerings on the parents’ page of the online shop; • participation within the AFOM (French association of mobile operators) in the publication of a new brochure for parents, “Your teenager and the mobile phone”; • provision in all Orange shops of the e-Enfance information leaflet that promotes the European “net ecoute” programme, a national helpline for parents who are concerned about their children’s use of the Internet, mobile and/or video games (0820 200 000 – www.netecoute.fr). 38 a world lived in trust a strengthened Group policy positive effects and points for vigilance conIn 2010, an in-depth study on protecting chilnected with inappropriate use of the three dren was carried out: screens (Internet, mobiles and TV) by relaying • inventory of actions undertaken by all subinformation about legitimate organizations and sidiaries; contacts in the field, whilst at the same time • inventory of national and European studies providing tools to manage uses (technical and on the topic; educational tools). • benchmark of actions implemented in the information and communication technologies sector; • organization of meetings with experts (sociologists, child-psychiatrists, organizations for the protection of childhood, etc.). This work contributed to a deeper and more focus exhaustive reflection on the definition of a new Spain: a thorough investigation of youngsters’ uses Group policy on the protection of children. Orange Spain contributed to a study on the safety and protection of Initially planned for 2010, the policy will be privacy of young users of mobile services published in April 2010 in deployed in 2011 to take account of the new partnership with INTECO, Spain’s national institute of communication issues raised by the study and the work assotechnologies. 322 Spanish households were questioned in two ciated with it. The objective of the policy is to interviews apiece, one with a minor and one with one of its parents. heighten awareness in families, schools and The survey was rounded out by contributions from 55 multi-discipline those supporting them in their use of the experts. The study report presented a precise and informative inventory of mobile uses among Spanish children and teenagers, and the associated risks, seen from the dual perspective of minors and their parents. Carrying out this study also enabled recommendations to be made to the Government to improve the protection of children with regard to mobile use. key dates relating to the Group’s policy on the protection of children 2005 > Publication by a number of European subsidiaries of guidelines for parents on the subject of children and mobile phones. 2006 > Production of responsible marketing guides to ensure that the Group’s advertising campaigns incorporate its commitments in respect of the protection of children. > Signing in France with the Ministry of the Family of the charter on mobile multimedia to ensure the protection of children. 2007 > Signing of the European Framework for a Safer Use of Mobiles by Young Teenagers and Children. > Study by Orange Slovakia on the use of mobiles and the Internet by children, and the launch of a campaign to raise awareness in schools with the help of specialist psychologists. 2008 > Contribution within GSMA to the launch of the Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual Abuse Content. > Study on the Internet and child safety by the TP Group (Polish subsidiary of France Telecom-Orange) in partnership with Nobody’s Children Foundation. 2009 > Signature in Poland, on the initiative of the TP Group, of a national agreement on the safety of children on the Internet. > Signature of a partnership between Orange Spain and the Protégeles! organization to carry out joint actions to protect children and combat illicit content. 2010 > Inventory of child protection actions in all Group subsidiaries and preparation of a Group policy. > Publication of the Orange Charter on Child Protection in France. France Telecom-Orange 39 answering questions about radio waves the Group’s approach Faced with questions about the potential effects of radio waves emitted by mobile phone systems and new communication technologies, France Telecom-Orange has established a policy based on five main principles: • total transparency in its communications with its various stakeholders regarding radio waves and communication technologies, using appropriate information materials and discussion channels; • contributing to research into radio waves; • ensuring compliance with local regulations (whenever such regulations exist) or international recommendations issued by the ICNIRP and the IEEE on exposure thresholds; • promote proper mobile use, as set out by public and other relevant authorities, in order to limit exposure to radio waves; • implement a Group policy on radio waves in the workplace. This policy is deployed via a network of radio waves correspondents within the Group and its subsidiaries. total transparency contribute to and biological research programmes as part of programmes set up by the World Health in communications research efforts Organisation (WHO) and the Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified Accordingly, the Group undertakes to: For over ten years now, Orange researchers Health Risks (SCENIRH). • monitor the results of scientific studies have played an active role in technological around the world relating to radio waves; research, developing methods and tools to • provide stakeholders with information conmeasure and display radio wave intensity, and cerning radio waves and answer their quescarrying out dosimetry and metrology studies. ensuring tions using appropriate means of communication (internet, extranet, seminars, leaflets, In 2010, France Telecom-Orange devoted € 715,000 to research on radio waves. compliance with etc.); • enter into open discussions with all stakeholdThe Group contributes its knowledge of mobile regulations ers, local residents, consumer associations telephone networks and its expertise in dosimfor relay antennae and local authorities on the topics of radio etry. It takes part in numerous national and In the absence of local regulations, all the waves and communication technologies. international research programmes, contributGroup’s subsidiaries must comply with recomNot least, and independently of compliance ing in particular to: mendations regarding public exposure threshwith regulations, plans for new installations or • dosimetry research carried out by the Agence olds issued by the ICNIRP and the IEEE relatupgrading relay antennae are being drawn up Nationale de la Recherche (ANR – French ing to relay antennae. in consultation with the local authorities. national research agency) and the WHIST Subsidiaries carry out field measurements to For example, the Group’s subsidiaries in laboratory, in cojunction with the Institut Telcheck the compliance of installations. The France, Switzerland and Spain have drawn ecom; results are made public on the national authorup best practice guides with local and national • groups working on international standardisaity’s website, whenever there is one. In 2010, authorities, some of them in partnership with tion (CENELEC, ITO, ETSI, etc.); the Group performed over 15,000 measuremobile operator associations. • funding public and private epidemiological ments on its base stations. 40 a world lived in trust The measurements carried out around the Group’s relay antennae reveal exposure levels for local residents which are well below ICNIRP focus threshold values. Spain: more information for local authorities In 2010, the Spanish telephony operators’ association (REDTEL), of for mobile phones which Orange Spain is an active member, signed an agreement with All mobile phones marketed by Orange comthe federation of Spanish municipalities (FEMP). A specific service ply with ICNIRP standards and have an SAR (SATI) has been set up to inform and provide support and advice to (Specific Absorption Rate, indicating the municipalities regarding the deployment of the mobile network. SATI maximum level of radio waves to which users organises one-day training modules on mobile telephone services for can be exposed) of less than 2 W/kg. municipal technicians. The seminars include information on technical In many countries, the SAR of mobiles is comand health-related topics, as well as recommendations on how municated in various ways. In France, for to handle issues pertaining to social acceptance. example, the SAR of all mobile phones sold is communicated in and on various media such Egypt: an extensive information programme as web sites, sales brochures, points of sale, In Egypt, Mobinil has, for some years now, been running an extensive Orange Guides, etc. programme designed to inform the public about radio waves: 35 information and external communication meetings and 12 internal sessions were organised in 2010, raising awareness among some 6,400 participants. Information is available on the Mobinil website and promoting in three brochures concerning responsible mobile phone use, how the the correct use of networks work and their impact on health and the environment. In 2010, Mobinil also helped the GSMA – the mobile industry’s worldwide mobile phones association – to produce its first information brochure in Arabic concerning mobile networks and radio waves. To encourage its customers to adopt responsible use of their mobile phones, the Group: • systematically proposes a headset with its mobile phone packs either when buying or in the store; • provides information to customers through appropriate channels on the correct use of mobile phones, as set out by public or other relevant authorities, in order to reduce their a Group policy on exposure to radio waves (use of a headset, phoning when reception is good, etc.). radiowaves in the To help increase the use of headsets, Orange workplace launched an international design competition In 2010, the Group established and presented in October 2010 aimed at designing the headto its subsidiaries a policy concerning radio set of the future – a fashionable, comfortable waves in the workplace. and ergonomic item that makes you want to This policy anticipates the implementation of use it. European Council Directive 2004-40 concernFor more information: see the mini-site ing minimum provisions aimed at promoting dedicated specifically to the competition, an improvement in the level of health and safety “Orange lends an ear” (http://www.orangeprotection for workers. vous-souffle-a-loreille.com). In accordance with these regulations, the policy sets out the goals to be achieved, the principles to be complied with and the basic values to be adopted in order to enable subsidiaries to consistently implement the required provisions. France Telecom-Orange 41 all the subsidiaries follow the ICNIRP recommandations legislation applies european recommandations Orange follows the european recommandations other local legislations followed by Orange Tunisia Jordan United Kingdom Egypt Mali Niger Poland Senegal Guinea-Bissau Central Africa Belgium Guinea Cameroon Republic Luxembourg Republic of Côte d’ivoire Slovakia Equatorial Guinea Uganda Kenya Austria Moldova Switzerland Dominican Republic France Romania Caribbean Madagascar Spain Botswana Mauritius Armenia La Réunion Portugal Vanuatu key dates relating to the Group’s action in respect of radio waves 1994 > Development of a dosimetric technique for mobile telephony by France Telecom researchers (electromagnetic field measurement method). > First Group colloquium on radio waves. 1998 > The ICNIRP, a body recognized by the WHO, issues recommendations concerning protective thresholds relating to exposure to electromagnetic fields. France Telecom-Orange thinks ahead by applying these limits to its relay antenna installations in France before they are adopted in French regulations. 2002 > Orange France provides a hands free kit for customers with all its mobile packs. 2005 > Orange France adopts AFSSET recommendations and publishes a guide advising parents to encourage their children to moderate their use of mobile phones. 2006 > A Group strategy is launched to strengthen and harmonise communications on the impact of radio waves in all its subsidiaries. 2007 > Orange extends the inclusion of a hands free kit in all its packs to subsidiaries using its mobile catalogue. > Appointment of an officer responsible for radio waves at Group level and establishment of a network of radio waves correspondents in all entities. > Formalization of the Group’s policy on radio waves. 2008 > An international watch unit is set up to monitor progress in research on radio waves and ensure the same level of information in all the Group’s countries. 2009 > The Group takes part in the “Radio frequencies, health and environment” round table organised by the French public authorities in May 2009, and in the Operational Committee responsible for exposure modelling and experimentation, as well as the consultations set up after the round table. 2010 > Publication of a Group policy on radio waves in the workplace. 42 a world lived in trust promoting the principles of responsible purchasing the Group’s approach The corporate social responsibility policy of France Telecom-Orange is also applied to its relations with suppliers. The Group’s purchasing policy is a vital pillar in its management of social and environmental risks: • he assessment and selection of suppliers takes account of environmental, social and ethical criteria suited to the different categories of purchase; • all the Group’s purchasing contracts and a growing proportion of local contracts include a clause on “Ethical practices – corporate responsibility” that sets out France Telecom-Orange’s demands in these areas; • the overall performance of the Group’s suppliers is regularly assessed using a dedicated tool, QREDIC®, which is progressively being deployed for local contracts of the main European entities; • a monitoring and control system is applied to the management of risks relating to purchasing and supplies, and uses several complementary tools (document-based assessments and on-site audits). Orange also endeavours to form long term partnership relationships with its suppliers and subcontractors, helping to implement the Group’s corporate social responsibility strategy. a structured demanding contractual requirements with regard to human rights and respect for the contracts include this clause. Figures for the Africa-Middle East zone vary depending on assessment and environment the maturity of the subsidiary. All contracts with suppliers listed at Group Specific environmental demands are also monitoring process level contain a responsible purchasing clause incorporated in calls for tender and contracts entitled “Ethical practices – corporate responfor some types of purchase to support the The France Telecom Group selects its supplisibility”. Group’s aim of reducing its impact and/or ers using a structured seven-step process, This clause has been strengthened since the improving the environmental performance of including an assessment of suppliers at the Group’s signature with UNI Global Union in the products and services it sells. moment of their selection or listing and over 2006 of the global agreement on basic social In order to better explain the Group’s CSR the lifetime of the purchase contract. rights, which contains a section on suppliers commitments and requirements to its suppliAs well as the three part assessment (qualityand subcontractors. ers and enable them to transmit same to their timeframe-cost), the assessment and selection This document ensures that all suppliers and own subcontractors, France Telecom-Orange of a supplier takes account of: service providers to France Telecom commit drew up a Code of Supplier Conduct in 2010 • compliance with the relevant laws and regto: that will be deployed in 2011. ulations; • combat any and all forms of compulsory or • adherence to the rules of confidentiality, forced labour; a system to monitor overall performance loyalty and subcontracting; • prohibit child labour; Since 2004, the QREDIC® tool developed by • the existence of clearly formalized commit• non-discrimination. the Group has enabled it to measure the overments and action principles; all performance (economic, environmental, and for the purchasing category: This clause is progressively being deployed in social and ethical) of its suppliers. This tool is • the consumption of energy and natural local country contracts, which also take used for all contracts listed at Group level. resources; account of the local regulatory context. A surEach contract is assessed once or twice a • actions to manage environmental, ethical vey carried out in 2009 of some European year or on request, with the support of the and social risks. subsidiaries showed that 80-100% of local entities concerned. The results are presented France Telecom-Orange 43 to the suppliers and if necessary, lead to the A dedicated training course on responsible These suppliers are regularly assessed: definition of progress plans. purchasing was introduced in 2007. It incor• for CSR and performance (quality, timeframe, Beside Group contracts, this system has been porates issues relating to human rights and innovation) by the Supplier Performance deployed for local purchasing contracts in six particularly the prohibition of child labour. This Development Department; countries (France, Spain, Switzerland, Romacourse originated in France and is now in the • for financial matters, by a dedicated team; nia, Moldova and certain purchasing categoprocess of being redesigned for international • for production and supplies by the Orange ries in Poland). use. purchasing office in China. In 2010, QREDIC was used for 59% of all Group purchases (consolidated data taking a new CSR assessment strategy for into account a reduction in purchases). improved Group suppliers In addition to the CSR assessments carried raising awareness among purchasing personnel management of out by Group experts, France Telecom-Orange chose, in 2010, to entrust the assessments Internally, rules have been defined to supplesupplier risks to a company specializing in responsible purment the Code of Ethics. chasing. In addition, awareness-heightening actions are A system to monitor and issue alerts to differSuppliers were asked to complete an online regularly undertaken among all those involved ent types of risks relating to purchasing and questionnaire. These assessments were in the purchasing process to ensure that the supplies has been introduced for suppliers undertaken as part of a joint initiative underGroup’s responsible purchasing policy is propconsidered to be key or strategic to the comtaken with the French Telecommunications erly applied. pany, whose bankruptcy could have major Federation. consequences on the Group’s business. on-site audits In parallel, audits on the production sites of suppliers considered to be strategic or presenting a risk in terms of CSR are perindicators 2007 2008 2009 2010 formed: % of purchases 350 Group • in Asia: since 2007, France Telecom-Orange 83% of 100% of key subject to 82% of Group contracts = has been carrying out audits and checks of strategic and strategic the QREDIC® purchases 80% of Group suppliers suppliers its Asian suppliers, particularly in China. system purchases These audits have been performed since 59% over 2009 by an external specialist company and fewer include a corporate section based on the Use of purchases international SA 8000 standard to ensure QREDIC® (in % 59% 59% taking of total amount that suppliers and their subcontractors into account of purchases) comply with the Group’s undertakings a reduction in purchases in terms of decent working conditions, proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers: the percentage of the local purchases of the Group is 15.4% 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 France without Poland Spain Belgium Romania Switzerland Slovakia Dominican Senegal Jordania Egypt Republic of Madagascar rest of the world FT Group Republic Côte d'Ivoire OBS & SCE spending on imported items spending on imported items element verified by Deloitte, moderate assurance 44 a world lived in trust and not using forced or child labour. A joint audit cooperation agreement (JAC) was signed in December 2009 with Deutsche Telekom and Telecom Italia to optimize these audits. The aim is to undertake joint CSR audits of Asian suppliers using a common methodology. By optimizing the assessment process for both suppliers and operators, this initiative strengthens the recognition of the principles of corporate responsibility in the supply chain (see insert); focus JAC: an international cooperation initiative in favour of CSR • in Europe: in 2010, the Group Supplier PerThe geographical distribution of the telecommunication equipments formance Development Department carried production makes necessary a preventive control of the supplied out a CSR assessment on the production products and check of the working conditions, on the very scene of the site of a supplier of SIM cards and M2M manufacturing. In this context, the joint CSR audit cooperation initiative solutions. The discussions carried out on launched at the beginning of 2010 by France Telecom, Telecom Italia this occasion gave the supplier a better and Deutsche Telecom assumes capital importance. Formalized by a understanding of the Group’s requirements memorandum of agreement, it enables the performance of joint audits and enabled the identification of new areas relating to the social and environmental responsibility of their common of progress. As an extension to this action, suppliers established in Asia. supplier audits will be performed in 2011 in The three operators identified common suppliers and subcontractors other European countries. to be audited, and allocated to them an “overseer” operator, which will be responsible for the audit and its costs. The audits are carried out by international bodies specializing in CSR and speaking the same language as the supplier to be audited, on the basis of a checklist defined upstream by the members of the JAC. In accordance with the SA 8000 standard, the audit checklist is structured around 10 themes: • child labour; • forced labour; • health and safety; results of the JAC audits held in 2010 • freedom of association and the right to collective negotiation; 67 non-conformities • discriminatory practices; • disciplinary practices; discrimination 2 forced labour 1 • working hours; business • remuneration; environment ethics 3 1 • environment management system; child • ethics. labour 6 health & safety pay 6 26 The checklist itemizes over 110 parameters, 19 of which are of a critical nature, in other words they determine the end result of the audit, in the event of a negative assessment. working hours The JAC audits began in July 2010: 19 audits were undertaken 22 of suppliers with factories in China, Taiwan, India, Japan and Korea. … 21 are critical Out of a total of 1,500 items verified, less than 5% instances of nonchild labour 1 compliance were recorded, the most common relate to working hours, discrimination 1 overtime 11 health and safety and wages. Very few cases of discrimination or child labour were established. pay 3 A report based on the results of the audit is sent to the supplier. It describes any instances of non-compliance that have been brought to light and proposes an ad hoc corrective action plan. In the event of health & severe non-compliance, a new inspection is planned very quickly, and safety 5 the corrective action plan is examined very closely by the “overseer” operator, who keeps the other two operators informed. France Telecom-Orange 45 stronger links with • the second project relates to the development of “network” skills, and aims to upgrade The Charter reinforces the voluntary approach taken by the Group since 2003 to outsource suppliers and existing skills and ensure their continuity a minimum of €10 million of purchases per through the recruitment of young people. It annum to companies in the ‘protected and subcontractors is currently planned to recruit approximately adapted’ sector (specialised in the employment 170 local loop network technicians per year of disabled people). In 2010, France Telecom In addition to its programme for assessing and from outside the company. To overcome the Orange spent €16 million with these compamanaging purchasing risks, France Telecom lack of skills in the market, Orange has estabnies. changed its approach to the supplier relationlished training courses combining school ship in 2010, to one of partnership. and work experience in partnership with In addition, the promotion of diversity being AUXO and Pôle Emploi. Successful compleone of the important initiatives included in the creating a common vision tion of these courses results in a “BAC Group’s strategic plan, tenders in France now It is vital to give suppliers a clear vision of the professionnel”-level qualification recognized include criteria that enable suppliers to be Group’s new objectives and changes in its in the market. These training courses are assessed according to their commitment to activity in order to link them more closely to offered to subcontracting companies and four main issues: gender equality, the employthe Group’s strategy. some have become involved in the proment and retention of disabled people, equal In France, in the area of the network, where gramme. At least 250 future technicians per opportunity and the fight against all forms of cooperation with suppliers and subcontractors year will be trained in this way over the next discrimination. is particularly important, two key projects were five years, and will then be able to join Orange initiated in 2010: or its subcontractors. • the ETR Excellence programme consists of contributing to local economic growth and strengthening the partnership between sustainable development Orange and its subcontractors in the area The quality of our networks and services of support/maintenance (on networks or in involves a centralized purchasing policy for customers’ homes), which is subject to technical equipment. Complying with this strong fluctuations in activity. The aim of this policy does not exclude supporting one of the project is to handle problems at the interface CSR priorities: contributing to the economic in order to facilitate the work of the various growth of the countries in which the Group is people involved and ultimately increase cusestablished. In 2010, a new indicator was tomer satisfaction. Five support/maintenance introduced to monitor the proportion of local units and seven subcontractors took part in purchases in each country. This will help to the pilots and the pre-roll-out phase, which set the direction according to the issues speresulted in the development (and subsequent cific to each geographic zone. testing) of corrective action plans, before the general roll-out. This project should give In France on 28 June 2010, the Chairman, subcontractors a better overview of business Stéphane Richard, signed the Credit Mediation forecasts, help to smooth out their work plan, and CDAF (the association of French buyers) provide joint reflection on skills management, Charter that regulates the relationship between help them implement improvements, improve major customers and SME’s. The Charter the performance of interfaces, etc. Extension commits France Telecom Orange to 10 major to all Orange support/maintenance units and points including its responsibility for the develtheir subcontractors is scheduled for midopment of SME’s in France. 2011; 46 a world lived in trust key dates relating to the Group’s responsible purchasing policy 2004 > Introduction of the QREDIC® tool to assess the overall performance of suppliers. > Incorporation of an “Ethical and environmental” clause in all Group purchasing contracts. 2005 > Launch of a programme to develop cooperation with key strategic suppliers. 2006 > Definition of a purchasing risk map. > Incorporation of an “Ethical and environmental” clause in all local France contracts. 2007 > Communication to suppliers on undertakings made as part of the agreement between the Group and UNI on basic social rights. > Introduction of a dedicated training course on responsible purchasing (including human rights). 2008 > The “Ethics and environment” clause becomes the “Ethical practices – corporate responsibility” clause and now includes five of the basic ILO conventions on forced labour, child labour and combating discrimination. > Distribution of a questionnaire to all suppliers of customer equipment to whom the REACH regulation applies. > Strengthening of the programme to cooperate with key strategic suppliers, which becomes the Supplier Relationship Management process. 2009 > Development and implementation of a system to monitor and report on any supplier risks. > Launch of first social audits of Chinese suppliers, performed according to the SA 8000 standard by an independent specialist firm. > Signing of a cooperation agreement between Deutsche Telekom, Telecom Italia and France Telecom-Orange to undertake joint CSR audits of Asian suppliers. > Organisation of a seminar on eco-rating to familiarize and link suppliers of mobile and fixed terminals with the environmental labelling programme. 2010 > Launch of 20 CSR audits of Asian suppliers under the cooperation agreement between Deutsche Telekom, Telecom Italia and France Telecom-Orange. > Launch of a new CSR assessment strategy with the support of an external specialist company. > Drawing up of a Code of Conduct for Group suppliers. > With the Supplier Relationship Management process implementation of structured dialogue with the Group’s key strategic suppliers. France Telecom-Orange 47 2010 review objectives deadline status main achievements in 2010 Customer relations General roll-out of the CET (Customer Experience Tracker) in all European countries to measure customer satisfaction Improvement of pre-launch tests to enhance the customer Introduce action plans to improve the customer 2010 journey. experience in the eight main European countries. Deployment of new tools to monitor the service quality of different networks and services. Specific action plans in the most critical fields. Responsible communications Training of communications teams in France. Extend the responsible communications code Launch of a programme to enable internal teams and 2010 introduced in France to our European activities. external stakeholders in six countries to take ownership of the code. Safe and responsible use of our products and services Governance Identification of the structure to be put in place, its role and Establish a committee for safe and responsible 2010 governance. usage. Child Protection Define a policy for the Group and draw up a action Preparation of a Group policy that will be finalized and 2010 plan for the local implementation of the charter in disseminated in 2011. every European country. Systematically introduce parental control for all Parental control is available for mobile offerings, TV on ADSL 2010-2011 content offerings. and Internet access. Launch communication and awareness-raising Organization of awareness-raising campaigns in France, 2010-2011 campaigns among users. Spain, Slovakia, Poland and Egypt. Data security Continue to raise awareness among employees Addition to internal “confidential code” charter, effective on the necessity to ensure security of information, 2010 delivery Q1 2011. particularly when travelling. Strengthen IT and network security surveillance and Conclusions delivered end 2010, for implementation during continue development of secure services for PCs 2010 2011. and PDAs. Continue to factor security into the development of offerings by appointing dedicated security Appointment of a Security Manager for Orange France 2010 correspondents for offerings in the main business products and services, roadmap for 2011. entities. Continue to implement improvements in the security management system (SMS) in entities, with an 2010 Increase in global maturity – recurring operation. accent on managing security-related events and business continuity. objective achieved objective not achieved (project cancelled or deferred) 48 a world lived in trust objectives deadline status main achievements in 2010 Protection of privacy Publication by Orange France of a charter on the protection Define a policy for the Group and draw up an action 2010 of personal data and privacy, a precursor to the Group’s plan for local implementation of the charter in every policy to be published in 2011. European country. All the Group’s search engines comply with the legal Define a maximum period for the retention of data by 2010-2011 timeframes in each country, including when they are each of the Group’s search engines. subcontracted out. Develop and deploy tools to enable all customers to Provision of an interface (openid.orange.fr) enabling improve the management of their data posted to 2010 customers to manage and share their personal data on third Orange services. party websites. In France, making educational videos on correct usage Provide information for our customers on the risks available online: for example, erasing one’s browsing history. 2010 and correct use of mobile phones. In Spain and Poland, raising awareness about advertising and cookies. Institute a Privacy Day, an internal event to get people The first Privacy Day was held on 16 June 2010: three 2010 on board. countries and all corporate functions participated. Radio waves Define a policy governing exposure of personnel Group policy on radio waves in the workplace drawn up 2010 in the workplace. and disseminated in countries. Extend antenna compliance audits (2010-2012). 2010 Compliance audit of Mobistar (Belgium). Responsible purchasing A code of conduct was drawn up and distributed to suppliers to heighten their awareness (and that of their Review the responsible purchasing clause to make it 2010 subcontractors) to the social, ethical and environmental easier for our stakeholders to comply with it. commitments they are required to satisfy when working with the Group. Introduction of a shared process within the French Telecommunications Federation to assess suppliers’ levels Implement a shared system for assessing social and 2010 of maturity in respect of corporate social responsibility and environmental supplier risks. sustainable development. 49 suppliers assessed. 30 CSR audits performed on suppliers’ production sites Continue to carry out social audits of our suppliers located in Asia, 15 of which were carried out in cooperation 2010-2011 and subcontractors in China. with Telecom Italia and Deutsche Telekom as part of the audit cooperation agreement. Use of QREDIC® consolidated in Spain (18 QREDIC® assessments on a total of 43 suppliers) and in Romania. Launch of the programme in Moldova (7 QREDIC® Deployment of our tool QREDIC® for local contracts assessments launched by end of year for 18 suppliers). 2009-2010 in Poland and Slovakia. Switzerland approached us in 2010 to carry out 7 QREDIC® assessments on 24 suppliers. Used for purchases of IT, services and consulting in Poland. Scheduled for introduction in Slovakia and Belgium in 2011. France Telecom-Orange 49 2011 roadmap new objectives deadline Customer relations Intensify action plans to improve the customer experience in the seven main European countries. Extension of the field of 2011 application of the CET (12 countries). CSR dimension factored into the CET. Responsible communications Extend the responsible communications code introduced in France to other European countries. 2011 Deploy training for communication teams. Safe and responsible use of our products and services Governance 2010 Establish a structure linking the worlds of science and medicine to promote safe and responsible usage. Child Protection Disseminate and roll out the Group policy in all European countries. 2011 Continue the extension of the parental control functionality to all countries. Continue targeted communication and awareness-raising campaigns (employees, customers, society in general). Data security New awareness-raising campaign (paper, intranet and/or e-mail) targeting Group managers, relating to protecting information whilst travelling: to be rolled out across activities in France. Summary of decisions on measures aimed at Group employees with a view to ensuring the security of company data on personal mobile handsets used in a business context. 2011 Implementation of encryption measures for IT resources of Group entities in France that have expressed a need for same. Publication of a best practice policy and guide to the responsible use of social networks by Group employees with a view to a pilot awareness-raising campaign in the future. Drawing up and implementation by those responsible for marketing in at least one of the Group’s Country divisions of a questionnaire to assess the processing of private data in new product and service concepts. Protection of privacy Finalize the Group policy and draw up an action plan for its local implementation in every European country. 2011 Develop and deploy tools to enable all customers to improve the management of their data posted to Orange services. 2011 Increase the amount of information provided for our customers on the risks and correct use of mobile phones, through 2011-2012 the use of partners. 50 a world lived in trust new objectives deadline Radio waves Extend antenna compliance audits. 2011-2012 Deploy an active communications policy on electromagnetic waves 2011 Responsible purchasing Implement the Code of Conduct in the various subsidiaries and finalize the implementation of the “corporate responsibility” 2011 clause in all countries in the AMEA zone. Continue with the deployment of QREDIC® in 15 countries. 2011 Carry out CSR assessments of suppliers – the aim is to assess 500 suppliers (either strategic or at risk from the point of view 2011-2013 of CSR) in a three-year cycle. Implement action plans with suppliers that have poor CSR assessments. 2011 Carry out social audits of suppliers and subcontractors at risk, and monitor action plans. 2011 France Telecom-Orange 51 a world accessible Making information and communications technologies accessible to as many as possible is core to the Group’s commitment and in perfect alignment with the way in which France Telecom-Orange sees its business. To achieve this, the Group acts on all causes of digital divides: • geographic – by developing networks and deploying alternative solutions for isolated areas; • economic – by developing offerings suited to low incomes and creating conditions favourable to local economic development; • physical – by taking account of the needs of elderly and disabled people from the design phase of products and services; • cognitive – by breaking down cultural or educational barriers that could hamper the use of new technologies. Apart from developing access, the Group endeavours to facilitate the adoption of digital uses and open up new perspectives in essential fields such as health, education and culture. In an extension of the company’s mission, the Orange Foundation and Group employees are mobilizing to make the world more accessible by all. 53 combating the geographic digital divide 58 supporting local development 61 ensuring accessibility by elderly and disabled people 65 meeting the challenges of health and dependency 69 inventing new ways of accessing education and culture 72 making the world more accessible to all (Orange Foundation) 77 2010 review 79 2011 roadmap combating the geographic digital divide the Group’s approach As part of its strategic “Conquests 2015” plan, France Telecom-Orange has embarked on an ambitious plan of action to improve network coverage and increase bandwidth for all in order to anticipate the explosion of uses. This plan of action is based specifically on: • developing infrastructures to extend the coverage of fixed and mobile networks; • deploying alternative innovative solutions for isolated areas; • expanding the network of broadband optical fiber submarine cables to improve Internet connectivity in countries in Africa, the Middle East and the Indian sub-continent; • an in-depth renovation of the networks and their equipment, and the deployment of new technologies meeting requirements for increased bandwidth. extending network innovative solutions for isolated areas To help open up isolated areas, where ADSL technology. 100% of Senegalese villages with over 500 inhabitants now have access to the coverage technology cannot be deployed for techniInternet thanks to this technology. cal or economic reasons, the Group deploys The Flybox enables inhabitants of regions Covering populations with fixed and mobile alternative innovative solutions. without fixed ADSL coverage to gain WiFi or broadband and delivering a high quality offerIn France, the Nœud de Raccordement landline access to the Internet via a mobile ing are the main issues guiding the Group’s d’Abonnés Zone d’Ombre (NRA-ZO – hub broadband network. By the end of 2010, development/growth, and differ according to for grey zone subscribers) makes it possible the Flybox had been deployed in eight counthe nature of the markets. to extend access to broadband Internet to tries (Romania, Slovakia, Egypt, Switzerland, In mature countries, the levels of coverage the most isolated communities, in partnership Moldova, Armenia, Botswana and Tunisia). achieved are already high in both fixed and with the local authorities. By the end of 2010, In Africa, Orange deploys an original solution mobile broadband. In these countries, cover1,259 NRA-ZOs had been deployed. This new enabling collective access to be brought to isoage is improved by concluding pooling agreeequipment makes an additional 100,000 cuslated villages: “community phones” (see insert). ments with other operators and introducing tomers in Metropolitan France eligible for ADSL Nearly 200 villages have been equipped with alternative solutions for isolated areas, in partofferings. community phones in Mali and a pilot has been nership with the local authorities. The satellite Internet offering developed in partlaunched in Republic of Côte d’Ivoire. In emerging countries, the challenge is to nership with Nordnet in Metropolitan France The deployment of solar stations also helps establish – rapidly and at a controlled cost – provides 100% broadband coverage of the to develop access to communications in rural coverage enabling the greatest possible country up to 4Mbit/s. In 2010, this solution areas without electricity, whilst at the same number of potential customers to access the received the French Ministry of the Economy’s time preserving the environment. By the end services available. In these countries, Internet “Broadband for all” label WiMax (Worldwide of 2010, a total of 1,554 solar stations had been access increases mainly through the deployInteroperability for Microwave Access) techinstalled, including 922 stations for mobile comment of mobile 3G networks, which help to nology enables broadband connections to be munications, in 14 African and Middle Eastern compensate for the low deployment of copper made by radio link. This has been deployed countries, together with the Dominican Republic networks. in Botswana, Cameroon and Mali. and Armenia (see p. 85). The CDMA technology deployed by Orange in Senegal enables isolated areas not covered by ADSL to access the Internet using wireless France Telecom-Orange 53 cables to connect Africa Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Lebaextension of the LION cable – which has France Telecom-Orange is investing in a non, Italy and France. The cable supports linked Madagascar, Reunion and Mauritius number of projects to lay broadband optical the strong growth of traffic in the Indian since 2009 – to provide broadband Internet fiber submarine cables to improve the capacity sub-continent, and also provides the Middle access to Kenya via the island of Mayotte. and quality of Internet connectivity in countries Eastern countries with a new connection to It is scheduled to be commissioned in the in Africa, the Middle East and the Indian subinternational broadband networks. In addifirst half of 2012; continent: tion, IMEWE comprises an alternative route • ACE (Africa Coast to Europe): in June 2010, • EASSy (Eastern Africa Submarine System): that secures broadband telecommunications France Telecom-Orange signed the concommissioned in July 2010, this cable suptraffic transmitted over Sea-Me-We 4, also struction agreement for the ACE cable. The plies 10 countries in East Africa with access held in co-ownership by the Group, which 17,000 km cable will extend from France to to global Internet highways and provides links South East Asia to Western Europe; South Africa and will be operational in 2012. genuine regional connectivity; • LION2: the construction agreement for the It will connect 23 countries, either directly • IMEWE: commissioned on 10 December LION2 cable, signed in September 2010 (coastal countries) or via terrestrial links (land2010, this cable of over 13,000 km serves by France Telecom-Orange and the other locked countries such as Mali and Niger). eight countries: India, Pakistan, the United members of the consortium, will enable the These major investments by France TelecomOrange are a concrete expression of two sections of its strategy: making Internet access more widely available (narrowband and broadnetwork of optical fiber submarine cables band) in Africa where the new technologies are a vital driver of economic and social developVers l’Asie, l’Europe ment, and helping to develop the quality of its UAE-Kenya Sea-Me-We-3 EASSy global network to meet the requirements of Kenya its customers. Tanzanie IMEWE Sat3-Wasc-Safe Sea-Me-We-4 UAE-Kenya Mayotte increased ACE du Sud érique Madagascar Île Maurice bandwidth for all e iqu Vers l’A e, l’E La Réunion m uro Vers l’A sie The new “digital ecosystem” is marked by EASSy p Tokyo R&D LION2 l’Afr a tremendous growth in the volume of data Ver Sat3-Wasc-Safe s being exchanged. The Group’s increasingly LION Vers l’Asie efficient international super-fast broadband network is fully capable of coping with this increased traffic. Sat3-Wasc-Safe increased bandwidth of mobile networks The Group is pursuing the deployment of third generation mobile networks (3G/3G+) in all its countries that support broadband data services. In most European countries, the entire 3G network is now 3G+. 3G+ enables a considfocus erably higher bandwidth and capacity than previous generations, and is comparable to the leap represented by ADSL over the fixed €500 million invested in Tunisia network. Launched in May 2010, Orange Tunisia is the country’s first alternative 3G is also being deployed in a number of convergent operator. Orange invested €500 million to launch its emerging countries. Orange has already operations and install the first 3G network in the country. Only a few deployed 3G in eight African countries (Botmonths after its launch, the new network covers over 50% of the swana, Egypt, Jordan, Madagascar, Mali, population. This successful launch won Orange Tunisia the “Best new Mauritius, Uganda and Tunisia). In Egypt and entrant of the year” award at the 2010 AfricaCom Awards. Senegal, deployment in high traffic zones in 54 a world accessible major cities has leapfrogged directly to 3G+. growth in traffic and requiring good responsiveIn France, where the Group already leads ness) and most particularly towards Germany, mobile coverage, Orange is developing its Poland, Spain and Great Britain. The REE is 3G+ network by doubling the speed of its netbased on a technology that makes it possible work, moving up from the HSDPA 7.2 Mbit/s to move up to a bandwidth of up to 100 Gbit/s standard to HSDPA 14.4 Megabits/s. Already per wavelength; deployed in the 12 largest conurbations, over • the submarine cables act as broadband half the population was covered by 3G+ by arteries, enabling France Telecom-Orange to the end of 2010. have the broadband capacity necessary to satisfy the growing demands of its customFrance Telecom-Orange is also anticipating ers. Besides its projects to connect the African the arrival of the fourth generation of mobile continent, 2010 saw the Group quadruple the networks: the LTE (Long Term Evolution), transmission capacity it holds in the Americas 2 sometimes called 4G. This new technology cable, which links Brazil with the United States is designed to provide the best performance, and serves Guiana, Surinam, Guyana, Trinidad greater capacities and lower costs in an enviand Tobago, Venezuela, Curaçao, Martinique, ronment where data exchange and creation Sainte-Croix and Puerto Rico. is growing strongly. Orange has carried out a series of tests on an experimental network in France in order to gain an in-depth and detailed understanding of this new technology and to ensure it has fully mastered it before any commercial launch. super-fast broadband over optical fiber In France the “La Fibre” programme is confocus tinuing with its ambitious objectives: investCommunity Phone honoured in the AfricaCom Awards ment of €2 billion to ensure coverage of 40% Every year, the AfricaCom Awards recognize the most striking of households in all regions by 2012 and all innovations and performances in the communications industry on départements by 2015 (including three overthe African continent. seas départements). In 2010, France Telecom-Orange won the “Best solution for rural The deployment of super-fast broadband services” award for its community phone concept. Orange provides access over optical fiber is also continuing comprehensive kits for micro-entrepreneurs, enabling them to become in Slovakia. telephony operators for their communities by reselling communication Pilot networks have been launched in Spain time. The aerial supplied enables the GSM signal to be relayed into and Poland. areas that are not otherwise covered (up to 35 km from the nearest base station). This technology is opening the way to communication for a high quality global network remote communities and improving their daily lives by stimulating the Through its investments, Orange is contributlocal economy. This solution, launched in October 2010 in Mali under ing to the development of a high quality global the name of Djamaa Phone, now enables 200 previously isolated network consisting of three sub-networks: villages to communicate with the entire world. • the European Backbone Network (EBN), an optical fiber network still present mainly in Germany, Spain and Switzerland and interlinking the networks of France Telecom’s subsidiaries and partners; • France Telecom’s Réseau Express Européen (REE – European express network), which links 23 of the largest cities in Europe, including focus seven in France, by interconnecting with the Spain: more than 3,800 shared stations networks of France Telecom’s subsidiaries and In Spain, Orange and Vodafone have been pursuing an agreement partners. The REE has replaced the EBN netto share their 3G networks since 2007, with the aim of strengthening work in its most dynamic areas (characterized UMTS coverage for towns of under 25,000 inhabitants. By the end of by particularly broad bandwidths, substantial 2010, over 3,800 base stations were being shared by the two operators. France Telecom-Orange 55 focus Orange Armenia increases its mobile coverage Orange made significant efforts in 2010 to increase the coverage of the mobile network in Armenia. In under two years – by the end of 2010 – the network reached 94% of the population (vs 83% at the end of 2009). Its capacity had also been increased to support strong growth in data traffic. growing proportion of broadband (ADSL) customers in the Group in million – France Telecom-Orange source) 15 12 9 6 3 Broadband (ADSL) Internet 0 (excluding ADSL) 1Q07 2Q07 3Q07 4Q07 1Q08 2Q08 3Q08 4Q08 1Q09 2Q09 3Q09 4Q09 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 key dates relating to the Group’s geographic accessibility policy 2003 > Signature in France of the national agreement on the coverage of “white zones” (zones blanches). 2005 > Launch of Phase 2 of the “white zones” programme, fully financed by the operators. 2007 > Launch of the programme to construct solar base stations to develop access in rural areas of African countries (35 solar stations in Senegal). > Signing in Spain of a 3G infrastructure sharing agreement with Vodafone. > Launch in France of the “NRA-Zones d’Ombres” technology providing broadband access in areas not covered by ADSL. > Launch of fiber in France and Slovakia. > Launch of the “Internet Republic” project in Poland to increase Internet usage in rural areas. > Launch of the Flybox in Romania. > Launch of the “botikas” network in Madagascar: franchized shops distributing Orange solutions in isolated areas. 2008 > Deployment of the Flybox in Slovakia, Egypt and Switzerland. > Launch in France of a satellite Internet access solution in partnership with Nordnet. 2009 > Commissioning of the LION submarine cable (Indian Ocean). > Introduction of the first “community phones” in Mali. 2010 > Commissioning of the EASSy (Eastern Africa) and IMEWE (India and Middle East) submarine cables. > Signing of the construction agreement for the new ACE (Africa Coast to Europe) cable and the construction agreement for the LION2 (Indian Ocean) cable. 56 a world accessible 3G population – 2G population 3G Voice Outdoor population coverage Europe 2G Voice Outdoor population coverage Orange Belgium Orange Poland 89.9%. 56.0%. 99.7%. 99.6%. Orange Luxembourg Orange Slovakia 69.3%. 69.2%. 99.6%. 99.6%. Orange France Orange Moldova 93.0%. 75.8%. 99.6%. 99.4%. Orange Switzerland Orange Roumania 90.5%. 52.3%. 99.3%. 99.5%. Orange Austria Orange Armenia 68.4%. 92.0%. 93.5%. 93.3%. Orange Spain 89.7%. 99.2%. 3G population – 2G population 3G population coverage Africa 2G population coverage Orange Tunisia Orange Jordan 65.0%. env. 50%. 88.0%. 99.1% Orange Mali Egypt NA. NA. 46.5%. 99.65% Orange Niger Central African Republic 2011. 2011. 55.0%. 6.4% Orange Senegal Orange Uganda NA. 30.0%. 88.6%. 40.0% Guinea-Bissau Orange Kenya 2012. 2011. NA. 52.0% Guinea-Conakry Orange Madagascar 2013. 9.5%. 32.0% 64.1% Orange Republic of Côte d’Ivoire Orange Mauritius 2011. 81.0%. 87.0%. 99.0% Orange Cameroon Orange Botswana 2011. 30%. NA. 90.0% Orange Equatorial Guinea Orange Dominican Republic 2011. 58.1%. 91.0%. 94.9% France Telecom-Orange 57 supporting local development the Group’s approach As a major economic player in most of the countries in which it operates, France Telecom-Orange has a particular responsibility with regard to local populations and economic players. Besides developing telecommunications infrastructures, the Group endeavours to support the social and economic development of countries through the use of two levers: • Increasing access to information and communication technologies, by providing offerings suitable for people with low incomes in emerging countries and mature markets alike; • Developing innovative solutions suited to the economic and social context of each country in which it is established, according to the principle of co-construction with local players. increasing access ries of handsets, is on sale at attractive prices innovative concepts in developing for pay-as-you-go offerings or to accompany countries to information and Orange’s special RSA prepay package. The first focus area for innovation in Africa communication All these reconditioned handsets are delivered with a charger, battery and hands-free kit, and and the Middle East is facilitating access to all essential telephone services (Voice & SMS) technologies carry a six-month guarantee. In 2010, Orange France continued this initiative by offering a by finding solutions to overcome the barriers of poverty, illiteracy and exclusion. Orange is committed to encouraging access range of secondhand smartphones in its • For people with low incomes, Orange has to the new technologies by the largest posonline shop, which met with great success launched a range of very low-priced handsible number of people in all countries, and (see insert). sets together with services that allow reverse as a result, has created specific offerings for charge calls (Call Me Back, Pay For Me), people with low incomes. social offerings in developed countries In Metropolitan France since May 2009, all recipients of income support (Revenu de Solidarité Active or RSA) may subscribe to the special RSA prepay package available for focus €10 per month. Similar offerings exist in other Emerginov: the toolbox for content creators European countries such as Belgium. To stimulate innovation in emerging countries, Orange is providing its In Slovakia, Orange offers special discounts local partners with the Emerginov incubator: a multimedia IP platform – of up to 99% of the monthly bill – for disenabling the development and testing in the field of micro-services advantaged people or those suffering from connected with information and communication technologies, on the long-term ailments. principle of co-innovation. Already available for universities and soon for SMEs, Emerginov provides service creators with the resources to Secondhand phones: an economical and innovate at a reduced technical cost. Services developed locally by eco-friendly solution! locals, for locals! Since June 2009, secondhand mobile phones This solution was introduced in Mauritius in March 2010, then in have been available from Orange shops in MetSenegal (December 2010), with a view to regional co-innovation in ropolitan France. A wide range of simple and WestAfrica via the addition of gateways distributed in the other up-market mobiles consisting of three categocountries that are candidates for the process. 58 a world accessible or offers attractive prices depending on the level of traffic on the network (Bonus Zone). The Group is developing community focus solutions such as the “community phones” Voice SMS: an economic and user-friendly solution accessible to (see p. 55) and “Femmes Actives” (Active illiterate people Women) offering launched in Republic of Simple for anyone to use, even without knowing how to read or write, Côte d’Ivoire in 2009, which offers a highly Voice SMS provides a solution for a short, practical communications. attractive “fleet”-type tariff. Orange also With Voice SMS, the recipient can listen to a highly economical voice offers an e-top-up system whereby a premessage of a few seconds long, free of charge. In Cameroon for pay account can be topped up electroniexample, a 10-second “Voice Flash” costs only FA15 (€0.02). By the cally from a mobile. A less expensive, more end of 2010, this service had been deployed in Botswana, Cameroon, secure and more eco-friendly solution than Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Jordan and Madagascar. scratchcards, already available in 16 African countries (Botswana, Cameroon, Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Guinea-Bissau, Guinea Conakry, Jordan, Kenya, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritius, Niger, Uganda, Central African Republic, Senegal and Tunisia). For illiterate people, Orange has launched encouraging entrepreneurship of supporting 30 companies for three years, Voice SMS, which allows users to leave a For the past 10 years, Orange has been in collaboration with the public authorities. short voice message for the price of an SMS supporting the “Banespyme” project (www. Sonatel will supply the servers and Internet (see focus). banespyme-orange.org) in Spain, the aim of connection, and will also contribute to a skills To increase access to Internet content, Orange which is to encourage the creation of innovatransfer. has developed Magic Portal and Voice Portal, tive enterprises based on new technologies The France Telecom Group has also been which allow users to access basic information through an annual competition. Since it began, supporting the creation of young innovative from any mobile connected to a standard GSM this programme has helped to support the enterprises in the field of information and comnetwork. In the same way, the Popmail solucreation of over 70 technological enterprises munication technologies in Europe and North tion enables users to receive and send emails that have received over €6 million in finance. America since 1988 through its venture capital from any type of mobile phone without being More than 160 teams of entrepreneurs have company, Innovacom. connected to the Internet. received training, with particular attention being paid to drawing up and implementing business fostering the growth of mobile banking For further information on offerings suited projects, and their growth. services in Africa to emerging countries: consult the “Africa and In France, Orange – in partnership with AlcatelIn Africa, about 50% of the population own Middle East, lands of innovation for Orange” Lucent – is contributing to the development of a mobile phone but only 10% of the populafolder on orange.com. the Arc Bretagne Atlantique, an ambitious open tion hold a bank account. For this reason, innovation initiative. The Group makes knowthe Group launched Orange Money in 2008: how from its regional R&D centres available to a simple, secure solution enabling users to creating conditions provide the local economic fabric with services to support and develop new innovative open a payment account linked to a mobile number. favourable to communication services and new-generation With Orange Money, a whole set of services content. becomes available to populations without economic In Egypt, Mobinil signed an agreement in 2008 access to traditional banking functions: opendevelopment with the Fond Social de Développement to help young entrepreneurs create small service ing an account, transferring money to family members or paying bills becomes easy and centres allowing local people to buy top-ups accessible. To support local development. France Teleor change their SIM card. The goal is to create Also, Orange Money is a means for companies com-Orange favours the path of open inno333 centres throughout the country. A similar or small businesses to simplify payment for vation to enable it to work with local players project is being undertaken in conjunction with trade services and even wages. to create solutions that are best suited to the the Cairo Chamber of Commerce. This service, offered in partnership with a major requirements of the area. In Dakar, Senegal, Orange supported the bank, has a high level of security to avoid the In this regard, the Group is particularly dependestablishment of a business incubator for the risk of theft or fraud. By the end of 2010, it was ent on its 15 Orange Labs, which make up the new technologies sector. Its aim: to contribute already available in Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Group’s global innovation network, with 3,500 to the development of the new information Senegal, Mali, Niger, Madagascar and Kenya, employees (researchers, developers, marketand communication technologies industry and will be rolled out in the other countries of eers, ergonomists, designers, sociologists, by supporting small and medium enterprises the Africa Middle East zone during 2011. etc.) spread across four continents. in promoting local content. This programme, supported by the World Bank, consists initially France Telecom-Orange 59 supporting farming industries in emerging Rongead and Inadès Formation. Orange The Public Visio Point is a video conferencing countries supplies dedicated widgets to follow the marsolution that brings public services closer to New technologies can also play a key role ket rate for cashew nuts, and also facilitates citizens and helps them to carry out adminisin the rural and agricultural development of exchanges and communications between trative procedures remotely and interactively. emerging countries. In 2010, Orange launched producers. A dedicated handset has been The service takes the form of an audiovisual two innovative projects: developed in collaboration with Alcatel. After terminal (a large plasma screen and desk) with • in Niger, in partnership with the network of an initial pilot phase, this project will be rolled communication and work functions to enable Chambers of Agriculture, Orange developed out more widely in 2011. the exchange of documents. A particularly usea system enabling market prices of agriculful tool for people starting up a business, who tural products to be transmitted by SMS so increasing the appeal of the territories can undertake their administrative procedures that farmers can sell their harvest to the highBroadband coverage also contributes to the remotely and easily contact specialists for their est bidder. The second phase of the project growth of innovative uses in all domains of projects without changing location. will consist of supplying meteorological data local public activity, to the benefit of all. Besides and personalized advice to subscribers; increasing access, Orange offers services helpFor more information on innovative uses • In Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, a project aimed ing to make the territories more attractive and in the community: visit the “Paroles d’élus” at supporting the cashew nut industry was support local development whilst at the same TV channel on www.orange.com/fr_FR/collaunched in July 2010 in collaboration with time making the lives of citizens easier. lectivites/tv/. key dates relating to the Group’s economic inclusion policy 2003 > Launch of the Banespymes project in Spain to support the creation of innovative SMEs based on new technologies. 2004 > Launch of Plan ZAE to bring broadband to 2,000 areas of economic activity in France. 2005 > Launch of “Plan 3 x 10” in France to provide innovative solutions for communities. > Establishment of the first Visio Points in France. 2006 > Launch in Poland of the “Internet Republic” project under the aegis of the United Nations Development Programme, with strong involvement by the TP Group. 2008 > Launch of “Call Me Back” in Cameroon. > Launch of Orange Money pilot in Republic of Côte d’Ivoire. > Launch of the “NetPC” offering by Orange Mauritius. 2009 > Launch in France of the RSA mobile offering for recipients of income support. > Launch of a range of secondhand mobiles in Orange France shops. > Launch of “Pay For Me” in Cameroon (reverse charges mobile offering). > Launch of OFA offering in Republic of Côte d’Ivoire (community offering). > Launch of “Bonus Zone” in Botswana. > Launch of Orange Money. 2010 > Launch of the “Djamaa Phone” community phone programme in Mali (200 villages equipped). > Deployment of Orange Money in five new countries in Africa. > New range of secondhand smartphones available from the orange.fr online shop. 60 a world accessible ensuring accessibility by elderly and disabled people the Group’s approach Developments in communication technology are opening up new horizons for everyone, but most particularly for elderly and disabled people. This is why Orange has for many years been committed to breaking down the physical and cognitive barriers that can restrict access to the benefits of the new technologies. The Group’s Accessibility Department ensures that accessibility is factored in from the design phase of Orange products and services right the way through to after sales service, and focuses on four areas: • adapting all products and services offered by the Group and designing specific products, the Autonomy offerings; • establishing a tailored distribution network; • incorporating the notion of accessibility in all processes, from design through to marketing, in all markets; • interacting with national and international institutions, organizations and customers to better identify their requirements and develop partnerships. a design strategy focus for all simplified telephones for use by the elderly Following France and Slovakia, three of the Group’s European To enable everyone – and particularly disabled subsidiaries launched mobile handsets in 2010 specially designed or elderly people with some type of impairto meet the needs of the elderly. All these phones have simplified ment – to access communications and the ergonomics with large buttons, magnified characters, a list of prebest technologies, Orange has adopted a recorded numbers, higher volume and an easily accessible “SOS” “design for all” strategy. button enabling an emergency number to be recorded, to which a call Managed by the Group’s Accessibility Departor SMS can be sent by merely pressing the button. ment, this strategy ensures that specific feaIn May 2010, Orange Romania launched the ZTE S302, accessible from tures relating to disabilities are factored in €1.00 per month as part of a senior package. A senior tariff reserved way before the launch of any offering, thus for pensioners, consisting of 500 minutes of free calls on the Orange enabling innovation, simplicity and ergonomics network and all the fixed national networks is also available from to be combined to cater for any type of dis€6.00 per month. ability (hearing, vision, mobility, grip, speaking, In September 2010 Orange was the first mobile telephone operator in cognition). This strategy is based on usage Switzerland to launch the new Doro PhoneEasy® 410 gsm phone. feedback from impaired elderly and disabled Orange Spain launched “Esencial de Orange”, a handset developed by customers. ZTE for seniors, distributed exclusively in pharmacies. A first in the R&D “accessibility” projects explore mechaSpanish market. nisms for integrating disabled or dependFrance Telecom-Orange 61 ent people with difficulties using traditional a dedicated distribution network France Telecom-Orange applies an active polcommunication tools into various population In France, Autonomy offerings are distributed icy of meetings and partnerships with specialist groups. The goal is to design methods of through a specifically tailored distribution netprofessionals, institutions and organizations. interaction and new interfaces that use their work: Specifically, the Group participates in: sensory and perceptional skills. 20 technical • over 5,000 salespeople and 360 qualified • the work of AFOM (Association Française des projects, studies and experiments are currently advisers, all trained in the Autonomy offerings Opérateurs Mobiles – French mobile operaunder way. and in dealing with disabled people; tors’ association) and the yearly overview • 214 approved “Autonomy” shops and four of the AFOM Charter signed by operators offerings adapted to every need dedicated Rainbow areas; to promote access by disabled people to An accessible range, “autonomy offerings, a • a remote sales service available by phone mobile telephony; solution for everyone”, provides a response (freefone number 0 800 11 22 33), email • the work of the Club Accessibilité des to every type of impairment (hearing, vision, (offres.autonomie@orange-ftgroup.com) or Grandes Entreprises (large corporations’ speaking, mobility, grip and cognition). fax (0 800 24 69 96). This service has been accessibility club); These fixed and mobile, internet convergent accessible to the deaf and hard-of-hearing • international working groups on accessibility telephone offerings are presented twice a year every Tuesday since November 2009: it within the European Commission, the UIT in a catalogue available in a paper version, enables customers to interact directly with and AFNOR, particularly the e-Accessibility electronic version and audio CD (for the sighta specially trained adviser, either in French Standardization Commission and the ISO impaired). sign language (videoconference via a webSC35 Group; These offerings are currently being deployed in cam with the possibility of subtitles) or in text • meetings of the Comité Interministériel du the main European countries. In 2010, stratemode in real time. Handicap (interdepartmental disability comgic meetings and workshops were held in the In the shop, on the website or in the catamittee) and other players (Arcep, meetings eight main European countries with Marketing logue, specific signage system using pictoof the Fédération Française des TelecomDirectors, with the aim of adapting existing grams helps to identify the best solutions for munications – the French telecommunicaproducts and preparing the next set of cataeach disability. tions federeation – and the Observatoire de logues. Orange Spain already has a catalogue l’Accessibilité – accessibility research instifor Autonomy offerings on its website, accesien to every idea tute) in the context of the publication of Eurobilidad.orange.es. Poland’s is in the process To constantly improve its offerings and respond pean Directive 2009/136/CE of 25 Novemof being finalized. to the new requirements of disabled people, ber 2009 and the launch of Project Reach 112 (emergency calls for deaf people); • all the major exhibitions and conferences relating to disability and dependency such as Autonomic, the Serenite Show, the European e-Accessibility Forum and actions such as the Institut de la Vision in Paris and other focus events run by associations to gather user feedback on products and services during demonstrations, and stay in tune with Orange partners the “JustBip” project customers. Winner of the “Proxima Mobile” call for projects, JustBip is an entirely free mobile service enabling people with reduced mobility to regain involving employees their autonomy by improving accessibility to the city. In France, nine regional accessibility repreJustBip operates on almost all mobile phones and is compatible with sentatives – regional relays for the Group’s all operators, offering a collaborative search engine for places in France Accessibility Department – coordinate the local with disabled access, and enabling communication with traders, fabric, support approved “Autonomy” shops, administrations and public establishments that have signed up to the feed back needs expressed by disabled cusservice. It also informs motorists of free disabled parking spaces in tomers, manage communications and lobby their current location. This service, developed by the JustBip SAS in prescribers (organizations, regional authorities partnership with Orange, has been available in France since June 2010. and business people from the sector). Presentations on accessibility are regularly delivered to Group teams. In 2010, signage with pictograms featured in a wide communications campaign in the main European countries. 62 a world accessible Training is one of the priorities of Orange’s number of orange stores labelised “autonomy solutions” (France) accessibility system: 214 two e-learning modules have been developed to train salesforces (over 5,000 salespeople 189 trained), and marketing and Technocentre 159 149 teams (new module deployed in 2011). 100 81 ensuring website 45 accessibility 15 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Since 2005, the Group has been involved in a vast project to make its internal and external websites accessible, in line with the international Web Accessibility Initiative (WAI) standards. By the end of 2010, 460 webmasters had received training and on average, the Group’s main websites met 70% of the requirements for WAI AA classification, but had no critical issues. Several accessibility functions are already available, particularly on the homepages of orange. fr, orange.com, the Orange Foundation blog, the customer space on orange.fr and the narrowband version of the customer space. focus Also, in partnership with Urbilog, France an international conference on e-Accessibility in Warsaw Telecom-Orange has developed Ocawa: a tool In November 2010, the Accessibility Department of France Telecomthat automatically assesses the degree of accesOrange and TP, the Group’s Polish subsidiary, helped the University sibility of websites and checks various levels of of Warsaw to organize an international conference on the opportunities rules, such as the international WCAG (Web provided by new technologies in respect of accessibility by disabled Content Accessibility Guidelines) and French people to information and education. The conference provided an RGAA (Référentiel Général d’Accessibilité pour opportunity to present the Group’s accessibility policy and the B-Link les Administrations – general guidelines on program developed by TP, which enables browsing on websites and the accessibility for administrations). A free restricted use of applications such as Word Pad, MS Word and MS Outlook version has been made available on the Internet: through a mouse or keyboard, both controlled by blinking the eyes. This www.ocawa.com. application – available in French, English and Polish – was awarded Since 2010, Orange and Urbilog have been a Gold Medal at the Geneva 2010 International Inventions Exhibition. carrying out accessibility audits of websites of some of the Group’s customers and partners. 90 external and 23 internal sites were audited in 2010, including the websites of disabled employee associations ATHA (Association des Travailleurs Handicapés ou reclassés de La Poste et France Telecom – the association for Post Office and France Telecom employees who are disabled or in the process of rehabilitation) and APCLD (Association au service des personnes malades et handicapées de la Poste et de France Telecom – the association for Post Office and France Telecom employees suffering from illness or disabilities). France Telecom-Orange 63 key dates relating to the Group’s accessibility policy 1993 > Opening in Paris of the first “rainbow area” specially organized to accommodate customers with disabilities. 2002 > First edition of the “Solutions Handicap” catalogue. 2003 > Establishment of the “Mission pour les Clients Handicapés du Groupe” (service for the Group’s disabled customers). 2004 > Launch of a solution to make access to mobile telephony easier for blind and partially-sighted people; > Establishment of a customer service dedicated to solutions for disabled people that can be reached by phone (freefone number 0 800 11 22 33) or email (agence.vad@francetelecom.com). 2005 > In partnership with Urbilog, Orange Lab launched OCAWA (a tool to assess the accessibility of websites). 2006 > The “Mission pour les Clients Handicapés du Groupe” becomes the Group Accessibility Department. > Launch of e-billing for partially-sighted people. > Launch of the Voice Assistant, a pre-installed program that vocalizes the functions of a mobile phone and enables the customization of commands and texts displayed on mobiles. 2007 > First experiments with customer service accessible to deaf and hard-of-hearing customers through direct contact over the Internet using French sign language or text in real time. > Establishment of the AFNOR “Accessibilité aux TIC – Accessibility to ICT” standardization commission chaired by Orange. 2008 > Launch of an “Autonomy Solutions” catalogue in Spain. > The Group received the APAJH “Citizen Company” trophy awarded to companies with over 5,000 employees who practise a global, company-wide policy in favour of people with disabilities. 2009 > General roll-out of customer service accessible over the Internet every Tuesday in French sign language or text in real time. 2010 > The Group received the Gold Medal at the Geneva 2010 International Inventions Show for its B-Link project, an application developed by Orange Labs Poland enabling users to control their computer by blinking their eyes. > The Group received the “Sérénité Trophy” (Lyon). 64 a world accessible meeting the challenges of health and dependency the Group’s approach France Telecom-Orange is developing dedicated solutions to meet challenges in the areas of health and dependency: • solutions enabling better coordinated care and improved comfort for the ill; • offerings helping elderly, handicapped and dependent persons to continue to live at home; • solutions facilitating the development of hospital treatment in the home and the remote monitoring of patients suffering from chronic illnesses; • offerings meeting the specific needs of emerging countries in the area of health by focusing on developing services for mobiles and remote access; • services enabling every individual to play a role in their own healthcare by focusing on personalized services relating to health, safety and well-being. Since 2007, these offerings have been deployed by a dedicated e-Health division: Orange Healthcare. creating a quality of care. Using the interactive handsets provided, patients can access entertainment helping elderly and dependent persons to continue to live at home connected services and medical personnel through a The ageing population is both a social issue secure system for the exchanging and consul– increasing numbers of elderly people, the healthcare system tation of medical data. This interactive solution desire to live independently at home for as long is being adopted in an increasing number of as possible – and an economic one – lack of Communication solutions are a genuine opporhospitals in France and is also under developplaces in specialist institutions, cost of living tunity for the world of healthcare. They help ment in Poland and Mauritius. in an institution. to meet the challenges facing our society: an ageing population, a shortage of medical resources and the need to cut costs. Communication solutions place patients at the heart of the healthcare system by giving them an innovative solution at each stage of their treatment. better coordinated care, increased comfort for patients One of Orange’s main objectives is to ensure focus that healthcare professionals have simple, Orange receives the 2010 Frost & Sullivan Product Differentiation secure methods of collaborating and exchangExcellence Award ing information, even in rural or isolated pracIn December 2010, Orange Healthcare was honoured for the quality of tices. The remote consultation solutions develits work in the field of e-Health in Western Europe when Frost & Sullivan oped specifically for nursing homes are directly awarded it the 2010 Product Differentiation Excellence Award. This aligned with this objective. award is one of the highest distinctions awarded in the field of e-Health The Connected Hospital solution is an excellent in Western Europe. It recognizes the leadership of Orange Healthcare, example of the way in which Orange proposes the first telecommunications operator approved to host personal health improving both the comfort of patients and the data by the French Ministry of Health and Sport. France Telecom-Orange 65 In the face of these issues, Orange Healthcare “solution residence seniors” is a good examThe Remote Health Management solution has launched a global offering of home help ple of the way in which the new technologies is a good example of the way in which new services aimed at the dependent elderly, but can make day-to-day life more comfortable technologies can improve the day-to-day life also targeting their carers and loved ones, for elderly people in retirement homes: This of people who are ill. This solution provides home care professionals and institutions. solution consists of a series of organizational patients at home with a simple tool enabling The offering has three aims: tools, such as a mobile station to call a nurse, them to: • to maintain social links and encourage commonitoring bracelets and systems to alert car• monitor the progress of their health; munication; ers if a patient with cognitive problems wanders • be reminded of when to take their medication • to make elderly people feel safe and reassure off or a fragile or dependent person falls. or of appointment times; their loved ones; • simplify communications with their carers; • to monitor those entering an elderly person’s Supporting development of hospital • detect possible health problems at an early home. treatment in the home stage so as to remedy them more quickly and Hospital treatment in the home meets two avoid visits to emergency departments and/ “Teleassistance mobile” is the first offering to needs: or costly and harrowing hospitalizations. couple remote assistance and personal serv• greater comfort for patients who can then live ices accessible through a mobile, provided more peacefully with a chronic illness, and Orange has also developed innovative soluas an option to a subscription. Developed the possibility of taking care of disabled, vultions to remotely monitor patients suffering in partnership with Mondial Assistance, it nerable or elderly people in their own homes from chronic illnesses (cardio-vascular disease, operates with the Doro PhoneEasy mobile, rather than in medical establishments; diabetes, kidney failure, etc.): an ergonomic mobile phone that is particu• decreasing the length of time these patients • for people suffering from heart rhythm problarly easy to use and has an easily accessible remain in hospital, which helps to reduce lems and carriers of heart defibrillators, a “remote assistance” button on the back of costs for health establishments and others remote monitoring offering has been develthe handset. involved. oped in partnership with Sorin Group, the leader in the treatment of cardio-vascular disease; • for diabetics or people with obesity, the GREC solution introduced in Spain, in partnership with the University Clinic of Navarre, enables doctors to monitor the blood sugar levels of their diabetic patients directly through their focus mobiles; • for people suffering from kidney failure, a remote monitoring offering has been introOrange Healthcare joins the m-Health Alliance to deploy mobile duced in partnership with CALYDIAL (Centre healthcare solutions in West Africa Associatif Lyonnais de Dialyse – the Lyon In 2010, Orange Healthcare joined the “m-Health Alliance”, a joint dialysis centre) and Grenoble University Hosinitiative launched in 2009 to use rapid technological progress in the pital. It uses a touch terminal to transmit the area of mobile telephony to improve public healthcare, healthcare clinical signs of a patient quickly and simply systems and the treatment given to patients in developing countries. to the care team. This partnership will help to boost the innovative actions already undertaken by Orange in terms of healthcare services delivered by For further information: consult the e-Health mobile telephony in emerging countries. New projects currently on trial brochure on orange.com. in Kenya, Senegal and Mali will be rolled out in partnership with m-Health Alliance. contributing to the development and growth of remote medicine in emerging countries Remote medicine solutions cater specifically for the issues faced in emerging countries, in which the hospital infrastructure and healthcare offering are often sadly lacking. 66 a world accessible Orange Healthcare has launched experiments working towards a better life moderated and enriched community spaces in a number of African countries using inforThere are many studies showing that proac– to support Internet users from day to day. mation and communication technologies to tive health management, which consists of Since its launch, the Tendance Santé portal has improve prevention efforts, the care provided empowering individuals, helps to prevent the received a average of nearly 300,000 unique to patients, medical assistance and the coloccurrence of medical problems. To support visitors per month. lection of medical data: this transition to preventing illness, Orange In 2010, Orange launched Coach forme: a Healthcare is developing services, tools and new personalized e-service offered on the In Madagascar, Orange is collaborating with specialist Web and mobile portals to help tendance.sante.fr portal to enable women to the Akbaraly Foundation on a remote oncology people find out about, and take, better care take up sport, take care of their health and project supported by the Ministry for Public of their health and energy levels. improve their day-to-day well-being. Orange Health to increase prevention and improve the In France, Orange Healthcare and Sante Maghas also launched an electronic inoculation accessibility and quality of treatment of gynaeazine have joined forces to establish “Tendance record service that helps parents to keep their cological cancers. The project plans to estabSanté”: a public portal dedicated to health children’s inoculations up to date and enables lish three cancer screening centres. Remote and well-being, launched in July 2009. With travellers to find out about the inoculations they medicine will be used to both train doctors and a scientific and medical committee composed require for the countries they are visiting. treat patients. Orange Madagascar is providing of eminent figures to ensure the reliability and technical and financial support and supplying independence of its information, Tendance For more information: all the equipment to connect the three cenSanté offers free and pay e-Services – including www.tendance-sante.fr/. tres and enable them to establish contact with international institutes in France and Italy. In 2010, Orange Madagascar also signed a partnership with AMADIA (l’Association Malgache contre le Diabète – the Madagascan diabetes association) to facilitate the work of doctors through remote diagnosis (see insert). In Mali, Orange provides a service monitoring the health of 200 children in Bamako Coura in real time, in partnership with the Pesinet organfocus ization. A new remote medicine project is to be Madagascar: videoconferences to improve healthcare launched in Mali early in 2011 in conjunction In 2010, Orange Madagascar signed a three-year partnership with with the Agence nationale de Télémédecine. AMADIA (Association Malgache contre le Diabète – the Madagascan Initially, this will entail providing a dedicated diabetes association) to facilitate the work of doctors through remote fleet to link the country’s main hospitals. diagnosis. In October 2010, Orange Madagascar hosted the first videoconference between Antananarivo and Paris at its premises: In Egypt, Mobinil is contributing to a remote Swiss and French medical specialists were able to share their dermatology project undertaken in collaboraexperiences with doctors from AMADIA. Thanks to this partnership, tion with Click Diagnostics, a pioneer company Madagascan patients are benefiting from increased exchanges in the field of mobile health (m-Health). This between foreign and local medical teams. project aims to improve access for Egyptians The partnership is also planning to: to dermatological care through an application • link up four more hospitals (Tana, Fianarantsoa, Tamatave, Diego) available for mobile phones, which enables to the AMADIA centre within the next two years; the collection of patient data, the transmission • hold three-monthly videoconferences; of photos to experienced dermatologists and • set up a blog to improve communications between specialists and the receipt in return of a diagnosis and perdoctors; sonalized treatment care plan via a dedicated • provide information for the general public on the Orange Madagascar website. A similar project is being undertaken website; in Botswana. • hold a yearly celebration of World Diabetes Day every November. France Telecom-Orange 67 focus Mobile et Badge, the technological partner of those working to help people continue to live at home In 2010, Orange developed a new mobile service, supplied as an option with business call subscriptions: the “Mobile et Badge” offering. This business application enables the tracking of work carried out in the homes of elderly people and provides invoicing and management services. Thanks to this service and its information system, personal service providers can provide their field agents with a light, practical, easy-to-use tool to communicate with the company and improve the trackability of their work. In 2010, this service received the Convergency Award in the Technological Innovation category from the Journal des Telecoms key dates relating to the Group’s action in respect of healthcare and dependency 2005 > Launch of the Hostonautes project enabling children in hospital to remain in contact with their schools and families. 2006 > Launch of the Columba bracelet enabling better monitoring of patients suffering from Alzheimer’s. 2007 > Establishment of Orange Healthcare, the Group’s healthcare division. > Launch of Connected Hospital and Connected Emergency. > Launch of the electronic inoculation record. 2008 > Launch of Teleassistance Mobile in partnership with Mondial Assistance. > Experiments with the University Clinic of Navarre on the use of mobiles to monitor people with chronic illnesses. 2009 > The service to help people remain in their homes – designed by Orange and tested in the Cantal region – received the “Territoria d’Or” award from the Observatoire National de l’Innovation Publique (France’s public innovation research institute) in the “service to people” category. > Signing of a collaboration agreement with Sorin Group to develop a remote monitoring solution for patients with artificial hearts. > Launch of the third party payment service. > Establishment of the tendance-sante.fr portal in collaboration with Santé Magazine. 2010 > Orange Healthcare joins the m-Health Alliance. > Signing of a partnership with AMADIA (Association Malgache contre le Diabète – the Madagascan diabetes association) to facilitate the work of doctors through remote diagnosis. > Orange Healthcare and Sopra preside over the Syntec white paper on the digital hospital as the market opens up. > Orange Healthcare launches the Mobile et Badge offering, a mobile reporting service for agents of personal service organizations. > Orange Healthcare receives the Frost & Sullivan Product Differentiation Excellence Award. > Orange is certified to host health data, which gives it the right to store, host and archive personal health data. > Launch of the flexible health computing offering: health data hosting offering. > Launch of shared medical imaging offering. 68 a world accessible inventing new ways of accessing education and culture the Group’s approach The new technologies are revolutionizing ways of accessing knowledge. With the Internet, everyone has access to almost-unlimited resources for learning, information or accessing culture. To enable the greatest number possible to access these new opportunities, France Telecom-Orange is endeavouring to: • help educational and cultural institutions to acquire digital equipment through preferential offers; • develop innovative solutions opening up new uses in the fields of education and culture; • encourage the adoption of digital technology by fostering the discovery of new uses, particularly by people with learning difficulties. The Group’s involvement in these areas is also illustrated in a philanthropic sense by actions undertaken by the Orange Foundation to promote the education of girls in developing countries and combat illiteracy (see p. 72-75). innovative tools As well as developing access and technical solutions, Orange endeavours to help schools A few examples of projects undertaken by the Group: at the service to find out about new uses available to them • in France, Orange has been helping since by raising awareness of safe and responsible 2003 to deploy Espaces Numériques de of education uses among teachers, pupils and their families Travail (ENT – digital workspaces), a plat(see p. 37-39). form of online services facilitating commuThe use of information and communication technologies in education is today seen as a necessity and an opportunity, for two main reasons: • the new technologies help to make education more accessible and more motivating; • they play a key role in improving communications between the spheres of family and focus school. Catedra Orange: a chair of research in network science Orange Spain and the Telecommunications Engineering School A great number of applications have already of the Technical University of Madrid (UPM ETSIS) have concluded been absorbed into the daily lives of parents, a partnership aimed at integrating network science and analysis pupils and the educational community. techniques based on social networks into university teaching and the A set of services that simplifies not only the development of innovative projects through the “Catédra Orange”. parent-teacher relationship but also the eduThe Orange Spain Chair will help to raise the profile of the Group’s cational monitoring of children and the sharing expertise in a wide range of disciplines and high potential projects in and dissemination of knowledge. the School of Telecommunications, which is renowned for its pioneering approach. France Telecom-Orange 69 nications between teachers, administrative and teachers will provide feedback when the • Orange Guinea launched its “Wontanara” staff, school heads, parents and pupils. In trial ends. programme on 16 June 2010. This entailed 2009, the Group also launched a specific • In Slovakia, Orange created an educational providing the Gamal Abdel Nasser Univer“rural digital schools” offering to support the portal devoted to the school environment sity in Conakry with a fully equipped IT room government’s programme to provide 5,000 (www.oskole.sk) with the intention of supand a broadband Internet connection. The rural schools with digital equipment. As well porting the development and growth of digital subsidiary has undertaken to contribute to as technical equipment (secure storage uses in teaching. Orange has also underthe country’s socio-economic development, units, portable micro-computers for pupils taken a number of operations in schools with particularly by supporting the culture of exceland teachers, a work supervision program, the assistance of specialist psychologists lence within teaching institutions. a wireless network solution, an interactive (see p. 38). whiteboard and a network printing solution), • In Jordan, Orange has for several years been the solution offered by Orange includes high supporting the Jordan Education Initiative. added-value solutions: The aim of this programme, launched in facilitating – training suited to teachers’ requirements – both e-learning and “live”, with a trainer in 2003 under the aegis of the World Economic Forum, is to introduce digital technologies the assimilation the classroom, – close support provided by the Group’s local widely in core primary and secondary school subjects. Jordan Telecom has been involved of digital uses support and maintenance units, in the programme since 2004, mainly through These days, it is vital to know how to operate – easy-to-use digital tools, financing and coordinating the development the digital tools that have become essential – high performance, secure digital equipment of courses in Arabic. In 2010, an Internet to both social and business life, in the same suited to the existing network; competition was held in several schools on way as it is vital to be able to read, write, or • in Poland, the “Education with TP Internet” International Telecommunications Day with drive. programme deployed since 2004 continues the aim of raising awareness and promotFor some people, the use of new technoloto provide schools with Internet access at ing Internet use among pupils. The Orange gies is nevertheless hampered by cultural or preferential rates. Over 14,500 schools and Internet Broadband Fund project will also cognitive barriers: illiteracy, reticence about 4.5 million pupils have Internet access at enable 24,000 teachers to be trained in using IT tools, etc. For this reason, Orange special rates through this programme. TP the use of ICT and 500 public schools to is endeavouring to develop simple offerings, has also provided Internet access to 2,600 be equipped with a low-cost broadband accessible to the greatest possible number, municipal libraries; connection; such as Voice SMS: an easy-to-use solution • in Spain, Orange and the University of Catalo• In Madagascar, Orange has signed a partnerthat enables the sending of a voice message nia have launched a remote e-learning experiship with the World Bank to increase the ability that is only a couple of minutes long, even if ment based on the use of digital tablets. For of secondary school teachers to understand the sender cannot read or write. this project – tested by 45 students over a the issues related to sustainable development Besides tools, the Group works with groups period of four months – Orange developed and to enable them to access two websites experiencing learning or inclusion difficulties to an application for accessing a virtual campus set up by the World Bank as sources of inforhelp them take advantage of the opportunities that improves on the “classic” Internet experimation for young people, and which include a offered by the new technologies. ence from a PC. The participating students section on teaching new technologies; A good example of this is the Orange Solidarité Numérique (Orange digital solidarity) project launched by the Orange Foundation towards the end of 2010 (see p. 75). This project enables Orange employee volunteers to help focus organizations that are partner members of the Orange Foundation to enter the digital world. In 2010, two organizations based in Lille inauOrange Academy: promoting modern methods for educating young gurated the scheme. In other regions, at least people about culture one trial of the Orange Solidarité Numérique Launched at the end of 2009 by the Orange Foundation in Poland, scheme will be launched at the beginning of Orange Academy is a programme aimed at supporting educational 2011. and cultural projects for young people, based on the use of new Another example: in India, Orange Business technologies. A committee of experts from the fields of education, Services and the Orange Foundation have culture, the media and new technologies is responsible for evaluating been supporting the “Sunshine Ray of Hope” and selecting projects submitted to the Orange Academy. The first project since 2009. This project provides 70 phase of the programme led to finance being granted to 38 innovative young girls from poor villages with lessons in projects selected from the 621 that were submitted. Projects English and the use of IT tools, with strong were entered by 78 organizations and involved 4,000 children and involvement from the volunteer employees. teenagers throughout the country. The second phase, launched in September 2010, selected 42 projects, which will be carried out during the first half of 2011. For more information: visit the dedicated website www.akademiaorange.pl (in Polish) or the Orange Foundation website. 70 a world accessible new ways An initiative aimed particularly at children, the “virtual museum” is an excellent educational behind the “Orange Academy” programme, which aims to promote innovative activities to of accessing culture tool for teaching yesterday’s history using modprovide education in culture for children and ern methods. The Orange Foundation is also teenagers (see insert). Digital technology can also contribute a great deal to public mediation and social links. France Telecom-Orange has formed a number of partnerships with prestigious institutions to develop joint projects such as “VersaillesLab”, the “Communauté Louvre” (a collaborative web platform focus based on the riches of the Louvre) and the an interactive visit to the gardens of the Château de Versailles Louvre’s “Galerie Tactile”. In 2009, the Group The Chateau of Versailles and Orange have been implementing projects also signed a new six-year partnership with at the crossroads of culture and innovation for some years under the the Louvre-Lens, whose opening is scheduled VersaillesLab label. Since the end of 2009, Orange and the Chateau for the end of 2012. Orange will help to inteof Versailles have offered a new visitor experience to the gardens of grate new technologies into the Louvre-Lens Versailles thanks to the mobile multimedia application “Jardins de in order to enrich access to, and discovery of, Versailles®”. the museum by visitors. After being tested late in 2009 by more than 200 visitors, the application (now the definitive version) offers a wide range of specific audio and In Poland, the concept of the “virtual museum” video content about the gardens. Leading specialists on Versailles as envisaged by the Orange Foundation has (museum curators, architects, gardeners and hydraulic engineers) brought together a number of specialists, hisprovide visitors with facts of historic interest, point out decorative torians and IT engineers with one aim: to create details, uncover interesting angles and reveal hidden aspects of life a virtual exhibition for Internet visitors across on the estate… This enriched visit enables visitors to find out about the planet, devoted to the Warsaw Uprising. the gardens of Versailles in real life or from a distance. The on-site visit includes two innovative modules, geolocation and enhanced reality, which are activated as soon as a visitor arrives in the gardens. Orange and the Chateau of Versailles have also developed a virtual visit for those who prefer to prepare their visit beforehand or cannot physically get to the gardens of Versailles. key dates relating to the Group’s action to integrate ICTs into education and culture 2003 > Launch of the Jordan Education Initiative. 2004 > Launch in Poland of the “Education with TP Internet” programme to increase the use of ICTs in primary and secondary schools and colleges. 2007 > Introduction of virtual visits to certain parts of the Chateau of Versailles that are closed to the public, using a robot with a camera that can be remotely controlled by Internet users. 2008 > Inauguration of the virtual museum on the Warsaw Uprising. > Introduction of webcams to enable virtual visits to the gardens of Versailles and the Chapelle Royale. 2009 > Launch in France of the “rural digital schools” offering. > Signing of a partnership with the Louvre-Lens. > Launch of the “VersaillesLab” project to enable an interactive visit to the gardens of Versailles. 2010 > Launch of the Orange Academy in Poland. > Launch of the “Wontanara” programme in Guinea. > Launch of the Louvre Community. France Telecom-Orange 71 making the world more accessible to all the Group’s approach The Orange Foundation is the central component of the France Telecom Group’s sponsorship policy. As such, it is an extension of the Group’s corporate social responsibility. Since its first steps in 1978, it has been proactively involved in a natural extension of the company’s mission: enabling everyone to communicate better. The purpose of the Orange Foundation is to create links between individuals, in particular to facilitate communications for those who are otherwise excluded for health, disability or economic reasons. In combating sensory isolation, by fostering improved autonomy in day-to-day and work life, and by encouraging cultural and social opening up, the Orange Foundation is acting to make the world more accessible. This commitment is manifested internationally through projects being undertaken in 30 countries. transparent sponsorship by breakdown of sponsorship expenditure throughout the world operation a global operator Africa and Middle East France 44% Conscious of the need to set an example and Since 2005, the Orange Foundation has been 22% ensure that its decisions are fully transparent, providing sponsorship in Africa, Europe, the the Foundation in France has set up expert Middle East and Asia. It supports projects in committees for each of its focus areas. These 30 countries in which the France Telecomcommittees meet two to four times a year to Orange Group is present. assess the projects submitted. The commitEurope and tees consist of individuals selected for their • In Africa, the Middle East and Asia, the main Santo Domingo 34% skills in the field concerned. A total of over areas of action are healthcare and educa25 people work alongside the Foundation’s tion, more specifically providing schools and team. All projects selected for sponsorship helping girls to remain at school. breakdown of sponsorship expenditure are subject to an agreement, monitoring and • In Europe, the Foundation works to improve in France by area of operation an appraisal. life for people suffering from autism and Equivalent structures exist on the international people with sensory disabilities. The Founautism 32% social links front – the operator either chooses to underdation also works to foster social inclusion 32% take local sponsorship actions or sets up a through projects in healthcare, education local foundation. and access to culture, particularly collective vocal music. vocal music 36% 72 a world accessible The Orange Foundation also participates in solidarity projects in emergency situations. tion to support people with autism and their families, this organization now has over 80 projects encouraging In 2010 for example, during the food crisis volunteers. social integration in Niger, the Foundation contributed to the purchase of 500 tons of cereal for distribution For more information: see the Orange Enabling everyone to communicate better is to the groups affected. Foundation blog (www.blogfondation.orange. enabling access to everything that integrates To ensure a successful outcome to projects, com). people into society. It also involves understandthe Orange Foundation works in close coling the issues involved and helping to change laboration with the Group’s subsidiaries in healthcare programme in Africa them. The Orange Foundation sees access each country, and in partnership with nonIn many countries in Africa, the Orange Founto education, culture and the digital world as governmental and other organisations. dation is involved in programmes to improve priorities in terms of social integration. To date, nine subsidiaries have established access to healthcare for local populations local foundations that manage sponsorship and improve mother and child healthcare. education for girls in developing countries activities in conjunction with the Group (Spain, For example, 26 maternity hospitals or health More than 77 million children around the world Senegal, Mali, Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Camcentres in Republic of Côte d’Ivoire have been are deprived of the right to education. In develeroon, Slovakia, Poland, Republic of Moldova, renovated and equipped in the past four years: oping countries particularly, for economic and Dominican Republic). 35,000 people have received ophthalmic and cultural reasons, girls usually have to overcome auditory screening. greater obstacles than boys to go to school In Senegal, Mali and Guinea, thousands of and complete their education. impregnated mosquito nets and coupons for The Foundation actively contributes to educathealthcare projects anti-malarial drugs are distributed every year ing girls from the very beginning of their school in the most vulnerable areas. careers and helping them to stay at school In 2010, 132 projects were supported in the The Orange Foundation in Mali became beyond Year 4 through long-term projects run field of healthcare and disability, 65 for autism, involved in the fight to eradicate obstetric fisby various organizations. 25 for visual impairment, 33 for hearing impairtula two years ago, and financed 50 surgical ment and nine international projects. kits in 2010. A few examples: In Senegal, Mali and Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, • in Niger, a three-year programme aims to historic support for autism substantial effort is being made to modernize encourage education for girls in 50 rural The Orange Foundation has been working with healthcare equipment by providing scanners, schools in the Dosso and Tilaberi region, parent associations since 1991 to put different ultra-sound scanners and ambulances. where education levels are particularly low; players in touch with one another, encourage the recognition of this disability by the public authorities, and raise awareness among the general public. In 20 years, the Foundation has contributed financially to 1,700 projects helping to improve the lives of autistic people and their families. The Orange Foundation also extends its involvement to the development of digital resources for autistic families, for example focus the “Participate!” information and communiproject Azahar: digital resources for autistic people cation platform for families in Belgium, and Since the end of 2009, a team of Spanish researchers from the educational IT tools in Spain. University of Valencia has been developing a series of applications for The Foundation is also stepping up its recruittelephone or PC that are suited to autistic people. An unprecedented ment of volunteers to provide personalized project in Europe, named Azahar and supported by the Orange back-up support to families through the organiFoundation. Its aim: to ease life for autistic people by reducing their zation Volontaires pour les personnes avec fears through new digital tools. Five applications based on the use Autisme (volunteers for people with autism). of pictograms and customizable sounds and images were developed Established in 1992 as part of a sponsorship in 2010 and can be downloaded free of charge on the Project Azahar drive by France Telecom and the Foundawebsite: http://www.proyectoazahar.org. France Telecom-Orange 73 • in Vietnam, study bursaries have been A few examples: • since the beginning of 2010, visually-impaired awarded to 23 underprivileged girls in the • in France, collaboration with the Centre of people in Poland have been given an opporMekong Delta and Ho Chi Minh-City; National Monuments has enabled the pubtunity to discover the pictures in the sump• in Madagascar, a centre in Tamatave that lication of adapted works for visuallyand tuous collection of the Silesian Museum in trains 30 girls a year in sewing and cooking, hearing-impaired people: the “SensitinéraiKatowice. As a result of the “Orange Acadhas been renovated and re-equipped; res” Collection; emy” programme (a new call for projects • in the Central African Republic, a daycare • in 2010, a new tactile route was set up in the by the Orange Foundation in Poland), the centre and boarding school are to be creChildren’s Gallery in the Evolution Gallery of museum has launched a programme of visits ated in Bangui so that particularly vulnerable the French Natural History Museum; entitled “What is a picture?” intended for girls can have a safe place to be cared for • the Foundation has encouraged the instalvisually-impaired youngsters. and educated, or receive training to enable lation of audio-description equipment in a them to earn a living; number of venues providing various types of The Orange Foundation has been committed • in Guinea Conakry, the École Amie des Filles entertainment – the Opera Houses in Lille and to vocal music since 1987. It has enabled the (school, a friend for girls) project has been Bordeaux, the Opéra-Comique in Paris, and emergence of numerous vocal ensembles that launched in 50 rural schools and will run the Nîmes and Strasbourg Theatres; make up the current baroque vocal scene. It is for three years. • the Foundation also endeavours to make the continuing this support whilst at the same time cinema accessible to visuallyand hearingopening up to other genres of music (classic, access to culture impaired people: in France, the Foundation contemporary, jazz, world music, etc.) and A world accessible to all, also means access collaborates with the Valentin Hauy Associaother audiences. In 2010, the Foundation to culture by people who are excluded from tion to develop audio-description for films and supported the following projects: it. With nearly 600 projects supported from its partnership with the organization “Ciné• the Night of the Voice associated the Polish 2005 to 2010, the Foundation gives priority ma Difference” has enabled adapted showOrange Foundation with a joint project on the to the creation of sensory routes in museums ings in a number of towns. The Cinéma pour occasion of Chopin Year, a high profile illusand historic monuments, the production of Tous (cinema for all) programme is aimed at tration of the Group’s international presence works suited to a hearingor visually-impaired disadvantaged population groups. In Spain, (Opéra-Comique – September 2010); audience, the audio-description of cinematothe Orange Foundation’s “Ciné Accesible” • 20 festivals were supported in 2010 throughgraphic works and equipping theatres or opera project helps make access to the cinema out France (Festival Beaune, la Chaise Dieu, houses with audio-description equipment. possible for people who are hearingor Perigord Noir, Les Orientales de Saint-Florentvisually-impaired; le-Viel, Académie Bach, Froville, etc.); • the Orange Foundation supports musical initiatives aimed at audiences who otherwise have little or no access to music, for example the Festival de Clairvaux (writing workshops and musical creation with offenders), Music’O senior (concerts for elderly people in retirement homes) and Concerts de Poche (concerts in difficult-to-access suburbs and focus rural areas); • in order to communicate better internally on the Foundation’s activities relating to Moldova: 80 study bursaries for professional training vocal music, and create solidarity with the for underprivileged girls cause of autism, the Foundation launched In October 2010, the Orange Foundation Moldova launched a new the “Orange Chante” project, which offers programme of study bursaries for highly motivated female secondary employees the opportunity to take part in a school students to enable them to continue their studies to learn a corporate choral society in the workplace. trade or enter the world of work. The Orange Foundation Moldova is Over 1,300 employees participate in the financing this programme for the 2011-2012 academic year in 28 Orange choirs created in this way. A partnership with the “Educational Advising Center”, an organization concert will be held in 2011 in aid of autism that comes under the Moldovan Ministry of Education, Labour, Social (also celebrating the Foundation’s 20th year Protection and the Family. 80 bursaries of US$1,000 will be granted to of commitment). help the girls pay for their education. 74 a world accessible involved employees sponsorship and calls for internal skills sponsorship solidarity-type projects A long-term skills sponsorship policy has been Employees of the France Telecom-Orange Since 2005, employees have been able to set up as part of the seniors plan proposed in Group are core to the company’s sponsorship link their personal commitment with that of France. Employees of the company are made effort, undertaking voluntary work, sponsoring the company by proposing to the Foundation available to organizations to which they conprojects and joint activities for humanitarian projects run by an organization in which they tribute skills acquired during their career. causes, and carrying out skills mentoring. are involved on a voluntary basis. To date, more than 50 French employees with As an extension to this sponsorship scheme, a wide variety of profiles have carried out long active voluntary work the Orange Foundation launched its first exclumissions (from one to three years) for organizaMore than 1,000 volunteer employees are sively internal call for solidarity-type projects tions they have chosen. The Red Cross, the involved in a variety of sponsorship projects. in September 2010. More than 200 projects Valentin Hauy Association, Secours Populaire were entered, 150 of which met the criteria (help the poor), FACE (Fondation Agir contre A few examples: required: enabling everyone to communicate l’exclusion – the foundation for action against • during the Monuments pour tous (monubetter, creating social links and fostering exclusion), and other more local organizations ments for all) operation, 200 volunteers access to culture and education. 79 projects have all benefited from this scheme. spent a week accompanying and guiding received financing from the Foundation. Two disabled people at 50 French heritage sites other calls for internal projects will be launched that are part of the Centre of Historical Monuin 2011. ments; • during the year, some employees spend solidarity leave in countries where the Group operates to help local populations with training and multimedia. For international volunteer missions, the Orange Foundation works in partnership with two organizations: Planète Urgence and Coup de Pouce focus Humanitaire; Orange digital solidarity • technical and commercial operational units These days, it is vital to know how to operate digital tools, for both our assist in joint actions initiated by employees social and business lives, in the same way as it is vital to be able to and supported by local management to raise read, write, or drive. A logical consequence to the Orange Foundation’s awareness and collect funds: for example, assistance in combating illiteracy, the Orange digital solidarity the Paris technical support and maintenance programme launched at the end of 2010 helps organizations to immerse unit has financed the building of a school in their members in the digital world so that they can master the use of Niger, the Marseilles customer centre prothe multimedia and the Internet. The Group provides training rooms that vided electrical fittings for a local hospital in are fully equipped and connected to the Internet throughout France. Madagascar, the submarine cable unit col10 cities are already involved. Volunteer employees with various skills lected school supplies for a girls’ school in initiate and support beneficiaries recruited by partner organizations: the Congo, etc.; Secours Populaire, Force Femmes, Fondation Agir contre l’Exclusion, • employees swung into action to raise money Solidarité et Avenir, etc. following the Haiti earthquake – €2 million The Orange Foundation also helps these organizations to acquire was collected in France, but also in Spain, IT resources, particularly recycled computers from the company, Poland and Romania. to benefit their most needy members. France Telecom-Orange 75 key dates relating to the Group’s sponsorship policy 1987 > Establishment of the France Telecom Foundation with two focus areas: vocal music and gymnastics. 1990 > Sponsorship “Oscar” (Admical). > First “Night of the Voice” at the Théâtre des Champs-Élysées, attended by 1,200 people. 1991 > Commitment to helping people suffering from autism and their families. > Creation of the organization Volontaires pour les personnes avec Autisme (volunteers for people with autism), made up of volunteer employees from the Group. 1995 > Community “Oscar” (Admical). 2001 > First Autism Days organized in partnership with parent associations. 2002 > Phoenix Award from the UDA (French advertisers’ association). 2005 > Four new areas of commitment: healthcare, visual and hearing impairment, education, combating illiteracy and education for girls in developing countries. > Growth in international sponsorship. 2007 > 20 years of commitment… The France Telecom Foundation becomes the Orange Foundation. 2010 > Launch of the Orange Solidarité Numérique (Orange digital solidarity) programme. 76 a world accessible 2010 review objectives deadline status main achievements in 2010 Reducing the geographic digital divide Continue the deployment in Africa of mobile relay 922 solar radio sites were in service by end 2010. Annual stations that are fully powered by solar energy, production of solar energy is estimated to be 6.7 GWh, 2010 thereby enabling services to be provided in even corresponding to the equivalent of 30,151 tons of CO2 the most isolated regions with no electricity supply emissions and 11.3 million litres of fuel being saved. Over 200 villages equipped in Mali and a number of pilot Extend the deployment of the “Community Phone” schemes coming to an end in Republic of Côte d’Ivoire. to connect remote villages using a shared telephony 2010 Africa Com Awards 2010 – prize for best service in rural solution. areas. 5 June 2010: signing of the ACE (Africa Coast to Europe) agreement.. 30 July 2010: commissioning of the EASSY cable, which Continue to improve international connectivity interconnects with the SEA-ME-WE cable. in Africa through new submarine cables: EASSy 23 September 2010: signing of the construction agreement in 2010, ACE and LION2. for the LION2 cable. 10 December 2010: commissioning of the IMEWE (India-Europe) cable. Combating the geographic digital divide The number of subscribers to the prepay mobile package for recipients of income support in France reached 4,365 Social offerings in Europe in December and is serving as a model for the institutional Provide low-priced offerings (fixed and mobile) for the labelling system formalized by the French Government and 2010 most needy user categories in the main European the French Telecoms Federation; payment default insurance countries. and Orange Smart package (no commitment, no subscription) in Slovakia; Oferta Senior for pensioners launched in May 2010 in Romania. Offerings for low-income users in developing countries Deployment of Pay For Me in Egypt and Kenya. Innovate to develop offerings for the poorest sectors e-Top up available in countries in the Africa-Middle of the population (eg. Pay For Me). 2010 East-Asia zone. Drop minimum offering and prepay top-up levels/ Deployment of Country Transfer in three new countries expand very low price top-up offerings: e-Top up. (Niger, Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Tunisia). Extend “Country Transfer” coverage. objective achieved objective not achieved (project cancelled or deferred) France Telecom-Orange 77 2010 review objectives deadline status main achievements in 2010 Socio-economic development of territories in emerging markets Contribute to the socio-economic development of the countries in which we operate, particularly Launch in Niger of a system enabling market prices the emerging markets of agricultural products to be transmitted by SMS. 2010-2012 Develop offerings for sectors that are key to Introduction of remote diagnostic services in Madagascar, development (agriculture, healthcare, education, Egypt and Botswana. etc.). Support entrepreneurship and local innovation by setting up incubators in African countries together with an investment fund. Specifically, finalize the Creation of an incubator in Dakar (Senegal), operational since 2010 establishment of the first enterprise incubator in end 2010. Senegal and set up an incubator in a second country. Launch of an investment fund to support social Discussions under way to determine the best support 2010-2012 entrepreneurship. initiatives. Deployment of Orange Money in five new countries (Senegal, Continue the deployment of Orange Money. 2010 Niger, Mali, Madagascar and Kenya). 1 million customers by end 2010. Continue the deployment of “Voice SMS”, an SMS New voice-to-text and text-to-voice solutions are under 2010 service for illiterate people. development, which will be more user-friendly. Accelerate the deployment of “Mail by SMS” to Launch in Madagascar, Senegal, Niger, Mali, Guinea, extend the use of email to all users of mobile phones, 2010 Guinea-Bissau, Central African Republic and Republic and in this way help to combat the digital divide. of Côte d’Ivoire. Accessibility by elderly and disabled people Continue the deployment of a range of adapted or Holding of strategic meetings and workshops with dedicated offerings and tools for commercial marketing directors in each of the eight main countries with 2010-2012 communications in the eight main European the aim of bringing out new products and preparing future countries and at least two developing countries. catalogues. By the end of 2010, the Group’s main websites met Launch a policy to make websites accessible 2010-2012 an average of 70% of the requirements for WAI AA in these countries. classification, but had no critical issues. Establish suitable physical or remote distribution 2010-2012 Under process. channels in these countries. Combating cultural barriers Develop offerings, incorporate simplified interfaces Deployment of Voice SMS, enabling illiterate people and launch awareness-raising actions to remove to send short voice messages. 2010-2011 psychological or cultural barriers to the use of the Launch of an employee volunteer programme to assist Internet. organizations working to support digital usage. objective achieved objective not achieved (project cancelled or deferred) 78 a world accessible 2011 roadmap new objectives deadline Reducing the geographic digital divide Continue the deployment in Africa of mobile relay stations that are fully powered by solar energy, thereby enabling services to 2011-2012 be provided in even the most isolated regions with no electricity supply. Extend the deployment of “Community Phone” in Africa. 2011-2012 Commitment on country numbers (4 in 2011, 6 in 2012 to be validated by AMEA). Continue to improve international connectivity in Africa through new submarine cables. 2011-2012 Combating the geographic digital divide Social offerings in Europe Develop mobile offerings for the lowest income groups. 2011-2012 Develop second-hand mobile offerings. Develop offerings for the poorest sectors of the population (fixed, voicemail, virtual safe deposit box). Offerings for low-income users in developing countries 2011-2012 Continue the deployment of Pay for Me, e-Top up and Country Transfer. Socio-economic development of territories in emerging markets Create a framework to encourage innovation in the AMEA zone. Launch an award for social entrepreneurship in AMEA. Create and institute an innovation laboratory centred around the concept of a village phone. Support social entrepreneurship and local innovation by setting up incubators in African countries together with 2011-2012 an investment fund. Continue to develop offerings Provide solutions contributing to rural development and particularly agriculture. Continue the deployment of Orange Money. Accessibility by elderly and disabled people Continue the deployment of a range of adapted or dedicated offerings and tools for commercial communications (catalogue, leaflet) in the seven main European countries (and at least two countries in the AMEA zone), and pursue a policy to increase 2011-2012 website accessibility. Continue to establish suitable physical or remote distribution channels in these countries. 2011-2012 Combating the cognitive digital divide Develop offerings enabling internet access by people who hesitate to use computers. Develop offerings suited to illiteracy and multilingualism (Voice SMS). 2011-2012 Launch of the voice portal. France Telecom-Orange 79 moving towards a greener world Eco-citizenship is a core value in France Telecom-Orange’s CSR strategy. Initiated in 1996 with the signing of the ETNO Environmental Charter, the Group’s eco-citizen commitment focuses on three complementary areas: • setting an example as a company by reducing the environmental impact of the company’s activities through an ongoing process of improving the performance of its various entities, focusing first and foremost on combating climate change and optimizing waste management; • reducing the impact of products on customers by developing eco-design procedures and encouraging and supporting customers to move towards eco-responsible uses; • developing innovative products and services that contribute to the protection of the environment (and especially to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions) and placing them at the service of society. 81 an ambitious environmental policy 84 reducing the Group’s carbon footprint 88 a new lease of life for waste 91 reducing the impact of products 94 contributing to eco-citizen progress 98 2010 review 102 2011 roadmap an ambitious environmental policy the Group’s approach France Telecom-Orange has adopted a proactive approach to managing risks and their potential impact, helping to preserve the environment and maintaining the trust of its stakeholders. For the period 2006-2020, the Group has set ambitious objectives: • reducing CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020 (vs. 2006); • reducing energy consumption by 15% by 2020 (vs. 2006); • providing 25% of energy from solar sources for new mobile stations in the Africa-Middle East-Asia zone by 2015; • raising the awareness of all employees of environmental issues by carrying out “green gesture” campaigns in the different countries; • ensuring the compliance of the whole Group by 2015 with the most stringent regulations relating to substances of concern(1) (European ROHS Directive). a structured The environmental policy is managed by a dedicated organization: in its main countries in accordance with the ISO 14001 standard document. This interapproach • the Group Environment Department, reporting nationally recognized standard describes the to the Group CSR Department, which coormanner in which companies must be organAn environmental roadmap updated annually dinates and manages the action programme ized to manage the impact of their activities formalizes action plans to be carried out by and provides technical and methodological on the environment. each country to achieve the Group’s environexpertise to countries in respect of important mental objectives. issues such as waste, EMS (Environmental a Group reference framework This roadmap ensures compliance with interManagement System), energy and raising To facilitate the deployment of the EMS national standards and voluntary telecomemployee awareness with the “green gesand assess its performance, the Group has munications sector initiatives. It also includes tures” scheme; developed a reference framework and proadherence to the commitments made by the • a network of environment correspondents in vides methodological support to the project Group as part of: the countries in which the Group is estabmanagers responsible for its implementation • the UN Global Compact and Caring for lished; in each country. This reference framework Climate; • relays in the various functional and operating consists of: • international groups such as the Global departments. • a phased implementation methodology e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) and the specifically designed to manage this type European Telecommunications Network of project; Operators Association (ETNO). an environmental • Group processes and tools for key areas such as risk and impact assessment or the The Group is also a co-founder of the EE IOCG (Energy Efficiency Inter-Operator Collaboramanagement management of regulatory compliance; • guides and checklists that enable detailed tion Group) initiative, which aims to improve system auditing of the EMS or its key compoenergy efficiency in broadband networks and nents. create equipment that is more economical in In order to reduce environmental risks and its energy consumption. impact, the Group is progressively introducing 14 Group entities (see list on p. 98) accountEnvironment Management Systems (EMS(1)) ing for 92.9% of the Group’s turnover (1) Including in non-European Union countries that are not concerned by these Directives. France Telecom-Orange 81 focus have begun to establish an EMS aligned with the ISO 14001 standard. Objectives are set every year to ensure that the subsidiaries progressively factor in more ISO 14001 certification for Orange France key requirements of the ISO 14001 standard and Orange Business Services (see roadmap p. 102-103). Orange France obtained its first ISO 14001 certification in January 2011 following an audit performed by Afnor in October 2010. This ISO 14001 16.8% of the Group’s operation certificate covers Orange France’s environment management system is ISO 14001-certified as applied to the following processes, disciplines and activities: A key performance indicator, “proportion of • management of office supplies; EMS with ISO 14001 certification”, indicates • deployment of the mobile access network; the relative size of the certified scope com• adaptation of the core network and services infrastructure; pared with the Group total. • sub-contracted support and maintenance (scope: national coordination and Eastern Île-de-France support and maintenance In addition to the entities appearing in the table, unit); Romania and Senegal have set ISO 14001 • operation and maintenance of four priority sites (due to the nature certification objectives for their primary activiof their environmental impact): Orange Village, Lille Flers, Bordeauxties (see roadmap p. 102-103). Château-d’Eau, Rennes, Cesson-Sévigné. Orange Business Services also received an ISO 14001 certificate for Operations France and Orange Business Servits main site at Cesson-Sévigné, which combines network, data centre ices obtained ISO 14001 certification for a first and services activities. selection of priority in December 2010. The Group has decided to widen the scope of this certification in France by 2015. ISO 14001 certified perimeter (end of the year) Subsidiary Scope 18 Orange Poland Mobile activities 16.8% 17 Orange Spain All mobile and real estate activities 16 Orange Slovakia All activities 15 Mobinil (Egypt) All activities 13.9% 14% 14 FT Marine All installations 12.9% Orange France Four key processes and four priority sites (see focus) 13 Orange Business Services Cesson-Sévigné site 12 2007 2008 2009 2010 focus France Telecom recognized for its responsible paper policy In 2010, France Telecom was ranked fifth in the PAP50 study undertaken by the WWF and three other environmental organizations to assess the paper policies of 50 major French companies. This recognition honours the efforts made by the Group for several years now in terms of a voluntary environmental policy to encourage the purchase of recycled or FSCor PEFC-certified paper and raise awareness among all employees of saving and sorting paper via “Green gestures” campaigns. In 2010, a “paper meter” was even introduced to enable all Orange France employees to monitor their consumption. In Spain, 67% of all paper and cardboard used is also FSC-certified. 82 moving towards a greener world key dates relating to the Group’s environmental policy 1993 > Creation of an Environment Committee. > Agreement between the Minister for Posts and Telecommunications and the Minister for the Environment in respect of a concerted policy on burying telephone lines (France). 1996 > Signing of the ETNO Environmental Charter. 1998 > Establishment of the Group’s Environment Office. 1999 > Signing in France of the Mobile Telephony Charter to manage the deployment of mobile telephony networks so as to cause minimal disruption to lifestyle and heritage. > Environmental commitment approved by the Group’s Executive Committee. 2000 > Signing of the United Nations Global Compact. 2001 > Launch of the EMS (environment management system) deployment programme based on the ISO 14001 standard within the operating entities of France Telecom. > First ISO 14001 certifications for FT Marine and Mobinil (Egypt). 2002 > Signing of a framework agreement with Ademe (French national agency for environment and energy). > Establishment of a reporting tool on environmental factors. > Publication of the Group’s first Environment Report. 2006 > First campaign to raise awareness among employees of “green gestures” in France, followed in 2008 by deployment in eight countries (France, Spain, Slovakia, Romania, Switzerland, Jordan, Egypt, Republic of Côte d’Ivoire) and in Orange Business Services. 2009 > Launch of the first Bilan Carbone® (carbon footprint assessment) in France. > Installation of energy meters on large technical sites in France, Spain and Poland. 2010 > Carbon inventories carried out in France and Belgium. > Orange receives a 2010 Global Telecoms Business Award in the “Green Power Innovation” category for its programme of solar base stations. France Telecom-Orange 83 reducing the Group’s carbon footprint the Group’s approach Faced with the issue of climate change, France Telecom-Orange has made a proactive commitment: to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and its energy consumption by 15% against 2006 levels, both by 2020: a real challenge given the current growth in uses and the continuing increase in data traffic, To meet this challenge, the Group is implementing “energy” actions in every entity, focused on three complementary levers: • reducing the energy consumption of networks and buildings; • deploying solutions using sources of renewable energy to achieve its target of 25% solar-generated energy for the new technical base stations in the AMEA zone by 2015; • reducing emissions caused by vehicles and employees’ business trips. The Group is also developing innovative solutions to enable its customers to measure and reduce their own carbon footprint (see p. 94 and 95). lower energy Republic, Mali, Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Niger and Armenia), in addition to the 10 countries optimized ventilation on over 9,700 sites Optimizing air-conditioning is the most effecconsumption by that adopted the plan in 2009 (France, United tive lever for reducing energy consumption by Kingdom, Poland, Spain, Slovakia, Romania, networks. For example, optimized ventilation networks Switzerland, Belgium, Senegal and Guinea). helps to reduce the energy consumption of the The Group hopes to save 170 GWh by 2012 air-conditioning system by up to 80% comThe networks and information systems, includas a result of this project. To date, an estimate pared with a classic system whilst at the same ing data processing centres, account for over covering seven countries (including France, time eliminating refrigerants, which are harmful 66% of the Group’s total energy consumpSpain and Poland, which account for 86% of to the environment. This system received the tion. the savings reported) shows that over 145 GWh Trophy for clean and economic technologies At the beginning of 2009, France Telecomhave already been saved. awarded by Ademe and the magazine IndusOrange committed to a vast energy action tries et Technologies in 2007. plan prioritizing: • optimizing air-conditioning; • optimizing data processing centres; • increasing the use of renewable energy; • improving monitoring of energy consumption. focus France Telecom made its commitment official by outstanding savings in Spain the signing in 2010 of two codes of conduct to Orange Spain saved 53 GWh of energy across its network in 2010 reduce its energy consumption in Data Centres through its energy action plan and particularly the deployment of and for Broadband. optimized ventilation, which accounted for 49% of the savings In 2010, the plan was deployed in 11 new counachieved. Other measures included replacing the oldest network tries (Egypt, Jordan, Central African Repubequipment (11% of savings) and sharing active infrastructure with other lic, Austria, Madagascar, Kenya, Dominican operators (39% of savings). 84 moving towards a greener world more efficient data centres Data centres (computer centres housing IT servers) account for 20% of the total energy focus consumption of the Group’s networks and Orange’s solar station programme recognized information system. In June 2010, Orange received a 2010 Global Telecoms Business Award The “Green data centres” project in progress in the “Green Power Innovation” category for its programme of solar since 2007 helps to reduce the energy consumpbase stations. It also received the Best Mobile Technology for Emerging tion of data centres by four types of action: Markets Award at the 2011 Global Mobile Awards, which took place in • improving the technical environment (choice February 2011 in Barcelona. of more efficient air-conditioning and electricity supplies, optimization of air circulation); • replacing the oldest servers with servers that have up to four times the processing capacity, which will enable us to reduce their number; • rationalizing information systems by limiting the number of applications in use to a minimum and measuring the power consumed for each of them by each user; • consolidating and virtualizing servers, carried out as part of the Ecocenter programme, enables several applications to be concentrated precise monitoring of energy consumption of the Ministry for Ecology and Sustainable on one physical server. In order to manage its energy action plans Development, Ademe and the new thermal effectively, the Group has defined 12 key energy regulations for existing buildings. By 2010, over 15,000 virtualized servers were performance indicators that are checked quarA five-year renovation plan has been launched. deployed in the Group, more than 13,000 of terly throughout the Group. Initially, the plan will concentrate on buildings which were in France. This means that the In 2009, meters were installed on some large identified as offering potential for good energy number of physical servers had been reduced technical sites in France, Spain and Poland to performance with a good return on investby 90% since 2007 and nearly 60 GWh of elecimprove the precision of energy consumption ment. The lessons learned will help to improve tricity had been saved, thereby avoiding almost measurements. actions in future, and assist their deployment 2,500 tons of CO2 emissions. By the end of on a wider scale. 2010, the Ecocenter virtualization programme In 2010, two studies were carried out to model Since 2009, maintenance contracts for comhad been deployed in a number of countries changes in consumption: mercial buildings of over 2,000 m² with more including France, Poland, Spain, Belgium, • a study on changes in energy consumption than 200 people have incorporated energy Romania, Switzerland and Slovakia. in the French mobile network up to 2020; performance objectives operating in conjunc• the development of a simulation tool to tion with a “bonus/malus” system to provide an over 1,500 solar stations installed assess the effects of the energy action incentive for service providers to save energy. For over 30 years, France Telecom-Orange plan on electricity consumption in the light Energy savings – reflected in the energy bill – has been involved in research into the use of the estimated changes in consumption are shared, with one third being allocated to of renewable energies in its business. The up to 2015, and according to different scethe service provider, one third to the Group and first photovoltaic facility was set up in New narios. one third being reinvested in the performance Caledonia in 1975. of the building. Today, the Group is focusing particularly on An assessment of the Group’s carbon footpowering base stations (antenna repeatprint was undertaken using the Bilan Carbone® meters in buildings ers) with solar energy in Africa and southern method (see focus p. 86). In France, five typical pilot sites were equipped European countries. Additional monitoring of goals per customer with meters in 2010 enabling close monitorBy the end of 2010, 1,554 solar stations had will be introduced in 2011. ing of consumption per type of use (heating, been installed, including 922 radio stations electricity, air-conditioning, etc.). Rapid and (BTS) in 14 African and Middle Eastern couneffective energy optimization by these pilot schemes has helped to define energy models tries, together with the Dominican Republic and Armenia. 922 solar radio sites were in improving the that will serve as benchmarks for the Group’s service by end 2010. Annual production of solar energy of all sites is estimated to be energy efficiency commercial or mixed buildings. This approach will be deployed in 2011 in buildings with over 8.6 GWh, corresponding to the equivalent of of buildings 400 people. These tools will also be available to service pro45,000 tons of CO2 emissions and 16.8 million litres of fuel being saved. In 2010, buildings accounted for 29% of the viders to enable them to manage the ambient An indicator will be introduced in 2011 to monitotal energy consumption of France Telecomtemperature at strategic points in the building tor the deployment of the renewable energy Orange. and achieve savings year on year. Best practice programme in Africa-Middle East-Asia zone In France, an action plan has been drawn up identified on the sites equipped with meters networks (now based mainly on solar energy) for energy savings in commercial buildings. will serve as a basis for improvement actions and all the technical base stations. This plan incorporates the recommendations across the Group’s buildings. France Telecom-Orange 85 buildings of high environmental quality For its new buildings, the Group is focusing reducing the impact • more rapid fleet replacement (100% managed under long-term lease contracts) by on “high environmental quality”-type proof transport more recent vehicles, which will therefore grammes. A number of building projects have be both safer and more eco-friendly; been launched in France, Belgium, Egypt and France Telecom-Orange’s fleet of vehicles and • the progressive reduction of the number of Senegal that comply with HQE (French = HEQ) its employees’ business trips account for about vehicles: since 2006, the fleet of vehicles or LEED (American) standards. 6% of the Group’s total energy consumption, has been reduced by over 8% (over 16% The Group is also experimenting with the use and nearly 15% of its total greenhouse gas for the fleet in France). of the HQE® Exploitation guidelines in rented emissions. buildings. Three projects are in progress. This Since 2007, the CO2 emission level is one new certification relates both to the environa more eco-friendly fleet of vehicles of the criteria for selecting vehicles, with mental quality of a building, its operation (mainThe Group has a fleet of over 31,000 company the maximum threshold being progressively tenance of equipment, upkeep of the premises, vehicles worldwide, which produce nearly 10% decreased. The overall objective is to move monitoring consumption) and practices (of of the Group’s CO2 emissions. towards average emissions of 130 g of CO2 occupants, operator, service providers, etc.). There are two levers that can help to reduce per km. In France, the new vehicles brought It helps to ensure that environmental concerns the CO2 emissions of the company’s fleet of into service in 2010 have average emissions are factored in throughout the operational life vehicles: of 126 g of CO2 per km. of the building. The Group’s “clean vehicles” list includes electric and hybrid vehicles, vehicles equipped with a stop-start system and small-engined cars emitting less than 100 g of CO2 per km and delivering a combined consumption of almost focus 3 litres per 100 km. Orders for new hybrid vehicles were placed in 2010 and the first units of a new micro-hybrid model with a stop-start Carbon inventories carried out in France and Belgium system are scheduled for delivery in 2011. In 2010, France Telecom-Orange embarked on a Bilan Carbone® In France, the Group is a member of a bulkscheme according to the method developed by Ademe (Agence de buying organization for electric vehicles establ’Environnement et de la Maitrise de l’Energie – environment and energy lished following the Grenelle de l’Environnement management agency). This method, compatible with the international to encourage growth in this sector. ISO 14064-1 standard and the GHG Protocol, makes it possible to The Group is also experimenting with using take into account both direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions new technologies to optimize travel. In Marresulting from the activities of an organization throughout its lifecycle. seilles, a pilot project for geolocating nacelles The programme launched by France Telecom approaches the issue has proved effective in optimizing fleet manfrom four angles: agement and reducing the number of subse• identifying the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions in the quent re-interventions. activity in the broad sense (in Group operations but also upstream from suppliers and downstream from customers). An initial inventory raising awareness among employees was carried out for France from 2009 data and will serve as Since 2008, the Group’s travel policy has a benchmark to measure the impact of future actions. Another encouraged employees: carbon inventory was carried out at Mobistar, a Belgian subsidiary of • to choose the least polluting modes of the Group. These two actions helped to analyse the activities’ carbon transport; dependency segment by segment, and to prepare for the introduction • to use videoconferencing or teleconferencing of reduction actions; as much as possible to reduce their travel. • carrying out the Bilan Carbone® of a process – more specifically the virtual bill – to assess its carbon footprint and detect operational A number of entities have introduced schemes means of action; to limit the use of individual cars. Since 2008 for • undertaking a carbon and economic analysis of an investment in example, employees at the Orange Village site the mobile network in the long term, to encourage carbon constraints in Arcueil have been able to use OTOmobile to be factored into investment decisions; (optimized transport occupation), a dedicated • studying how to help customers become less dependent on carbon resource to enable occasional or regular carby implementing remote working solutions. pooling. Since 2010, a car-pooling service has This process will continue in 2011 to cover more countries and analyse also been offered to customers through the other investments or processes. Orange mobile portal. 86 moving towards a greener world Company travel plans have been deployed in 15 cities in France. In Belgium, Mobistar has introduced a very comprehensive system with a car-pooling site, cycle parks, showers and cloakrooms for employees who ride to work, and there is a voluntary CO2 offset scheme for travel that cannot be reduced. Also, two training modules on eco-behaviour were incorporated into the Group’s catalogue of training courses in 2010 (one theoretical e-Learning module and one practical course). focus France Telecom-Orange also uses its experOrange and the WWF sign a charter on the eco-renovation of shops tise in remote working to limit travelling by In June 2010, Orange France and the WWF signed a progress charter its employees. In 2010, 20 new telepresence relating to environmental quality in the renovation of shops. Specifically, rooms were installed, bringing their total Orange undertook to incorporate energy efficiency criteria in its number to 33 in 14 countries. renovation projects, to use eco-friendly materials whenever possible Carbon calculators are available for use by and to adopt “green site” principles to restrict environmental pollution. employees to assess the CO2 emissions of varA new stage in the partnership between Orange and the WWF initiative ious modes of transport and savings achieved in 2008, illustrated particularly by the promotion of e-billing and the through remote working solutions. eco-friendly mobile phone displays (see p. 92). key dates relating to the Group’s fight against climate change 2007 > Launch of a project to build solar base stations in Africa. > Launch of the server virtualization programme. > Orange obtained the Trophy for clean and economic technologies awarded by Ademe and the magazine Industries et Technologies for its patented Optimized Ventilation solution. > Mobistar nominated in the Europe Fleet Awards “Best technological innovation” category. 2008 > Signing of the United Nations Caring for Climate programme. > Definition of the energy action plan for networks. > Launch of the European OPERA-Net (Optimizing Energy Consumption of Mobile Radio Access Network) research programme under the leadership of France Telecom-Orange. > Launch of the EE IOCG (Energy Efficiency Inter-Operator Collaboration Group) initiative, of which France Telecom-Orange is a founder member. > Orange Spain receives the “Best awareness-raising campaign” award in the European Energy Trophy+ competition. > Introduction of eco-behaviour courses. 2009 > Launch of the first Bilan Carbone® (carbon inventory) in France. > Installation of energy meters on the large technical sites in France, Spain and Poland. 2010 > Carbon inventories carried out in France and Belgium. > Orange receives a 2010 Global Telecoms Business Award in the “Green Power Innovation” category for its programme of solar base stations. > Signing in Brussels in the presence of the European Commission of two Codes Of Conduct covering the voluntary commitment to reduce its energy consumption at Data Centres and for Broadband. France Telecom-Orange 87 a new lease of life for waste the Group’s approach Optimizing waste management is an environmental priority for France Telecom-Orange. The key issues and objectives are directing the Group’s focus towards two major priorities: • optimizing the management of waste generated internally; • helping to manage waste generated by products and services sold, with particular attention being paid to the collection and recycling of mobile handsets. Behavioural guidelines defined in 2007 structure the introduction in each country of industries suited to the various types of waste according to three main principles: • measuring the quantity of waste generated by our activities by carrying out inventories in each country according to the classification decided at Group level; • organizing the processing of this waste in the appropriate sectors whilst at the same time taking the local context into account; • assuring traceability of this waste in the future by producing maps of the processing channels in each country. increasing collection and recycling focus of mobile phones Orange, Emmaüs and Les Ateliers du Bocage develop mobile recycling in Africa In 2010, nearly 1.6 billion mobile phones were Since 2009, Orange France has been sending mobiles collected from sold worldwide. These devices are replaced its customers and employees to Les Ateliers du Bocage, a member on average every 18 to 24 months in develorganization of Emmaüs International working to help disadvantaged oped countries. The number of old, unused people enter the workplace that specializes in the recycling and mobile handsets continues to grow… Today, recovery of waste. About 80% of the mobiles are recycled and for example, it is estimated that over 60 milreprocessed, 20% are sold as secondhand. In 2010, this partnership lion old mobile handsets are stored in French expanded to Africa, where there was no structured channel as yet. households, i.e. nearly three times the number In March, a pilot mobile phone reprocessing centre managed by of mobile phones sold in one year by all operaLes Ateliers du Bocage opened in Burkina Faso. Mobiles collected tors. 20% to 30% of the handsets currently door-to-door from mobile phone repairers and resellers are dismantled. stored by users are operational and would The elements that can be recovered through existing channels are facilitate access to mobile telephony by people processed locally. The rest is shipped to Europe to be processed in emerging countries. Terminals also contain in a specialized plant. valuable minerals, reserves of which are diminNearly 1.2 tons of old equipment is collected in this way every month. ishing drastically (gold, silver) but which can The project has created five jobs for collectors, sorters and workshop be recovered, and also substances of concern managers. Orange has undertaken to support the development that must be processed to make them safe of this project, named “Projet Afrique”, (Africa project), for five years. (lead, mercury, cadmium, compounds containA second workshop opened in Benin in 2010. Two new workshops ing bromium, etc.). will be established in Madagascar and Mali in 2011. 88 moving towards a greener world Given these issues, there are two possible routes to take: give these telephones a new lease of life or dismantle and recycle them to focus protect the environment. Mobinil supports the first educational centre dealing with the recycling In Europe, in accordance with the demands of electronic waste in Egypt of the European WEEE Directive on waste In 2009, a new type of school – a “recycling school” – was set up electric and electronic equipment, schemes through the collaboration of CID Consulting, Spirit of Youth – a local to take mobile phones and other electronic NGO involved in the collection of waste – and Mobinil. Its aim: to equipment back from customers have been provide disadvantaged young people from Cario’s Zebeleen district in place for a number of years. The equipment with the opportunity to learn about and save money through recycling collected is then passed on to eco-organizaplastic and electronic waste. After only two years in existence, the first tions or specialist partners who recondition results are very promising: 50 jobs have been created, providing a new the equipment to return it to working condisource of revenue for the most needy. tion or recycle the components through the approved channels. Besides its obligations under the WEEE Directive, France Telecom is committed to a proactive policy to increase main waste categories recovered by the Group the rate of collection of mobile phones: regular by type campaigns to raise customer awareness, and other nonhazardous waste 3% financial incentive schemes tested in several paper-carboard 8% general industrial waste 19% of the Group’s European entities (France, batteries 7% Switzerland, Romania, Slovakia, Spain). Waste Electrical and Electronic In emerging countries, the Group is helping Equipment (WEEE) 5,5% to set up structured processing channels for cables 21% WEEE collected telephone equipment that has come to the end from customers 4% of its life. In 2010, the France Telecom Group metal poles 2,5% participated in work undertaken by international wooden poles 30% organizations (the United Nations Industrial Development Organization – UNIDO – and the United Nations Environment Programme – UNEP) to optimize the management of elecevolution of the number evolution of the quantity (tons) of collected cell phones of Customers’ WEEE tronic waste in Africa. 600,000 2,800 2,600 increased vigilance in respect of chemical 500,000 2,400 substances 400,000 2,200 Compliance with environmental regulations 2,000 300,000 is a fundamental requirement of France 1,800 200,000 1,600 Telecom-Orange’s waste management policy. 1,400 The Group is particularly careful to comply 100,000 1,200 with two European directives relating to the 0 1,000 2009 2010 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 regulation and restriction of chemical subrest of the world Switzerland Belgium Poland stances: Slovakia Romania Spain France • the RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive. All products brought to market in Europe must comply with the RoHS Directive. A plan of action has been defined focus to extend Group compliance with RoHS Orange Spain: money-off coupons to encourage customers to return to 2016, including outside the European their old phones Union. In 2010, the Group contributed to In 2010, Orange launched an offer to buy back old mobile phones in the process to revise this regulation that was Spain. The programme, named “Estrana y Recicla”, enabled customers instigated by the European Commission to to bring back their old phones (whether they were working or not) increase its effectiveness. and exchange them for a money-off coupon valued at €4 to €140 per handset, depending on the model. The phones collected were then passed on to MobilePoint, which recycles and reconditions phones. A project that helps to protect the environment and fosters access to the new communication technologies. Orange Spain collected over 100,000 old mobile phones in 2010. France Telecom-Orange 89 focus • The European REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of Chemicals) Regulation. The Group is putting the relevant processes in place to provide infora charter of commitment on the processing of wooden poles at the end mation to its customers on the compliance of their life of its products and services across Europe. In 2010, France Telecom signed a voluntary charter of commitment with A structured process was launched in 2009 France’s Ministry for Ecology on the reuse and elimination of wooden and is continuing among the handset and poles and crosspieces treated with creosote or copper-chrome-arsenic network equipment suppliers concerned (CCA) salts. to enable the Group to inform its customThese chemical substances, traditionally used to prolong the usage life ers whether or not the products it markets of wood, are highly toxic to the environment and harmful to human contain one of the 15 substances defined health, and consequently poles require to be processed by the as being “of concern” in a concentration of appropriate channels at the end of their life. By signing this agreement, over 0.1%. the Group undertakes to maintain its policy of sending all its treated wood to thermal processing plants providing all the necessary guarantees for health and the environment. key dates relating to the Group’s waste management policy 2002 > Introduction of “Foneback”, a system to collect customers’ mobile phones in the United Kingdom, and first pilot operations in France. 2006 > Mapping of waste processing channels in France. 2007 > Definition of guidelines on waste applicable to all Group countries. 2008 > Introduction of a system to collect business WEEE (routers) from Orange Business Services customers. 2009 > Audits of WEEE collection and processing channels in France, the United Kingdom, Spain and Poland showing a good level of compliance with the requirements of the WEEE Directive. > Questionnaire on the implementation of the REACH Directive distributed to all handset and network equipment suppliers concerned. > Launch of buy-back schemes for old mobile phones in France, the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Romania. > Introduction of a new processing channel for old phone sets, cables and batteries in Senegal, with the waste being sent to a processing centre in Europe. 2010 > Participation in work undertaken by the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) to optimize the management of electronic waste. > Establishment of two mobile phone collection and recycling channels in Burkina Faso and Benin in partnership with Emmaüs International and Les Ateliers du Bocage. > Launch of buy-back schemes for mobile phones in a further two countries (Slovakia and Spain). > Signing of a voluntary charter of commitment on the reuse and elimination of wooden poles treated with creosote or copper-chrome-arsenic (CCA) salts. 90 moving towards a greener world reducing the impact of products and services the Group’s approach Besides limiting its direct impact, France Telecom-Orange endeavours to reduce the environmental impact of the products and services offered to its customers throughout their lifecycle. To do this, the Group focuses on two areas: • the continuous improvement of the environmental performance of its products and services through eco-design processes; • supporting its customers in eco-responsible uses through a pioneering environmental labelling programme for its products, the provision of carbon calculators and the organization of awareness-raising campaigns. developing On the basis of these initial successes, Orange • An eco-design training module for Product rolled out this process in 2009 by: Managers, introduced in France in 2010 and eco-design • incorporating eco-design in its product develshortly to be translated and disseminated in processes opment process; • creating a team of eco-design experts and other countries. progressively providing training in eco-design The Group is also participating in work underAs early as 2007, as part of a strategic partfor all those involved in the product innovataken within the GSMA and UIT to design a nership with Sagem, Orange embarked on an tion chain; common universal charger for mobile phones, eco-design process for Liveboxes distributed • launching a research project on the ecothat will prevent the need to change chargers under its own brand. design of services and software applicawith each change of mobile and may lead tions. to the separate distribution of handsets and The lifecycle analyses performed orientated chargers. This solution will make it possible for the work on reducing environmental impact In 2010, the France Telecom Group carried out the entire sector to eliminate up to 51,000 tons towards specific areas: energy consumption, a number of new lifecycle analyses, amongst of electronic waste resulting from the accumuuse of recycled materials, repairability and recythem a videoconferencing service and an lation of different chargers, whilst also improvclability, and packaging. e-Music service. The Group continues to ing the service delivered to the customer. study the lifecycle analyses carried out in the The Livebox 2 launched on the French and information technologies sector and actively Spanish markets at the end of 2009 benefited contributes to standardization in this field. from the results of these lifecycle analyses, which showed the predominance of electricity promoting consumption in the usage phase in the global Specific tools have been created to support the process: eco-responsible environmental assessment. This new version was therefore equipped with a WiFi switch so • The eco-design guide: a manual to popularize and raise awareness of eco-design, distribuses that users could switch the WiFi signal on and uted to Technocentre Project Managers; In addition to eco-designing products and servoff at their convenience, whilst still enjoying the • A lifecycle analysis library that is continually ices, Orange encourages its customers to help other Livebox services. This WiFi button and being enriched, helping to assess the envipreserve the environment in both their personal the stop/go switch can decrease electricity ronmental impact of products and identify and business usage. To do this, the Group has consumption by up to 30%. avenues for improvement from the design produced clear information resources about phase onwards; the environmental performance of the products and services it offers. France Telecom-Orange 91 a pioneering environmental labelling • to raise the customer’s awareness of the • CO2 produced (quantity of greenhouse gases programme environmental impact of the handset they emitted during the main stages of a product’s In France, in 2008, Orange was the first wish to buy and, orientate their choice – if life: manufacture, transport and use); European operator to introduce an assessthey so wish – towards the greenest handset • energy efficiency (energy consumption during ment of, and publicly display, the environmenin the desired category; use of the product and devices enabling it tal performance of the telephone handsets it • to encourage manufacturers to produce to be reduced); distributes. more eco-friendly handsets. • the preservation of natural resources reflects The environmental labelling system developed efforts made to limit the proportion of materiThis innovative initiative, developed in partnerby Orange analyses environmental impact als that are non-renewable or sensitive from ship with an expert lifecycle analysis firm and according to five criteria graded from 1 to 5: an environmental, economic or societal point the WWF, meets a twofold objective: of view; • recyclability (contribution of handset, its packaging and its documentation to limiting production of waste); • eco-responsible design (effort made by a focus supplier to design its product to limit the use of potentially dangerous substances, ensure good traceability of metals and optimize the Orange Romania and the WWF launch eco-labelling for mobiles device’s electricity consumption). After France and Spain, Orange and the WWF launched the eco-labelling system for mobile phones in Romania in December 2010. Almost all of Orange’s suppliers of mobile and A first in the Romanian telecommunications market. In this way, fixed handsets have now signed up to this Orange gives customers wishing to buy a new phone the opportunity initiative, which has been deployed in France, to choose an eco-responsible model. Eco-labelling is available in Spain and Romania and will be extended to all the Orange online shop, in the detailed version. In Orange shops and European countries by the end of 2010. those of their partners, customers will now see labels on mobile phones Most of Orange’s suppliers have now signed that indicate environmental performance by summarizing the marks up to this initiative, which is being progresscored by the phone(s) for the five criteria assessed. sively extended across the Group, with the aim of covering all European countries by the end of 2011. In France, 92% of mobile handsets and 100% of DECT telephones distributed by Orange, together with over 80% of business handsets, have the eco-label. In Spain, all telephones distributed by Orange with the exception of iPhones have eco-labels performance environnementale : x/5 that may be consulted on the website. mon mobile Eco-labelling of mobile phones was launched in Romania in December 2010 (see focus). > limitation du CO2 ........................................ xx kg eq CO2 émis de la fabrication à l’utilisation ••••• Orange is also working with other operators interested in this eco-labelling system to define > efficacité énergétique.............................. > préservation des ressources ••••• a common approach based on key parameters such as the CO2 analysis. naturelles ............................................................. ••••• > recyclabilité ....................................................... > limitation des substances ••••• dangereuses ................................................... ••••• en partenariat avec le exposition aux ondes (DAS) : x W/kg (maximum autorisé : 2 W/kg) 92 moving towards a greener world carbon calculators for business • for the Telepresence solution: ing it for longer – these are all simple ways of Orange Business Services is developing very http://www.orange-business.com/content/ helping to preserve the environment. specific calculation tools to assess the potenco2/Telepresence/fr/Orange_TelePresence_ tial greenhouse gas savings linked to remote vertical/Orange_TelePresence_vertical.html; In France, Orange has set up a dedicated working solutions and to enable companies • for the Business Everywhere solution: information website to encourage its custo incorporate the carbon impact more easily http://www.orange-business.com/content/ tomers to adopt six green habits: www. in their investment decisions. co2/Teleworking/fr/Orange_Teleworking_vertiagirreflexesverts.orange.fr. The Orange Lifecycle analyses are carried out by Orange cal/Orange_Teleworking_vertical.html. environment channel (http://actu.orange.fr/ Labs teams with the assistance of a specialenvironnement/) also broadcasts environist Swiss research company to measure the A tool for the Flexible Computing offering will mental news with practical information so that actual impact of solutions. They have already come online in 2011. viewers can take action on a daily basis. delivered very precise results on the Business Everywhere, Telepresence, Forfait Informaan ongoing programme to raise customer In a number of European countries, specific tique, Flexible Computing and Business VPN awareness schemes are also deployed to encourage solutions. This initiative is to be extended proMost countries regularly organize awarenesscustomers to return their old mobile phones gressively to all “Green IT” solutions. raising campaigns to encourage customers (see p. 88-89). In 2010, on the basis of analyses performed, to adopt eco-citizen behaviour: opting for an two new CO2 savings calculators were made e-bill, switching devices off when not in use, available to Business customers: returning old equipment for recycling or keepkey dates relating to the Group’s eco-design and environmental labelling initiatives 2004 > Development of a method to assess the environmental impact of solutions, enabling the incorporation of environmental performance in products and services during the design phase. 2007 > Signing of a strategic partnership with Sagem to develop eco-design for Liveboxes. 2008 > Launch of the first eco-labelling programme for mobile phones in partnership with the WWF. > Launch of the Livebox 1.2 with a weight reduction of over 35%, consumption in use decreased by 26% and CO2 emissions reduced by 19% across its entire lifecycle. > Production of an eco-design guide for Technocentre Product Managers. > Launch of Orange CO2 saving tool, the first carbon calculator available to customers. 2009 > Launch on the French market of the eco-designed, low consumption Livebox 2 with automatic deactivation of interfaces not in use (Ethernet, WiFi, etc.). > Deployment of eco-labelling on Orange France’s mobile and fixed handsets, handsets in the France Business range and Orange Spain’s mobile handsets. > Lifecycle analyses carried out on DSL, FTTH and 3G networks, as well as three services marketed by Orange Business Services: Telepresence, Business Everywhere and Forfait Informatique. 2010 > Launch of eco-labelling in Romania. > Two new carbon calculators available online to assess potential savings linked to the introduction of Telepresence and Business Everywhere solutions. > New lifecycle analyses of services (videoconferencing, e-Music). France Telecom-Orange 93 contributing to eco-citizen progress the Group’s approach In the face of environmental challenges, information and communication technologies offer unique potential for progress. This is why France Telecom-Orange is continually innovating to develop technological solutions giving everyone the means to live and act as an eco-citizen: • new ways of working in companies (teleworking, collaborative work, virtual processes, etc.); • new mobility (vehicle pooling, geolocation, etc.); • new ways of looking at towns and housing (home automation, digital communities, etc.). virtualization tomers (fixed and mobile) vs 1,193 tons of In 2010, Orange Business Services solutions paper in 2009. Orange Business Services also helped to virtualize over 47 million pages of of exchanges offers its business customers the opportunity business customer bills in France, a saving of to receive some or all of their bill in electronic over 2 kilometres of paper. Virtualization is a well-known lever for reducing format, rather than paper. greenhouse gas emissions. The study entitled “Smart 2020: Enabling the low carbon economy in the information age” estimates that 70 million tons of CO2 could be saved across the world by 2020 by rationalizing printing and turning to electronic communications. France Telecom-Orange provides its customers focus with a variety of electronic solutions: e-Billing, Orange selected for the second time in Verdantix’s “Leaders’ Quadrant” HubEDI, WebEDI or Contact Everyone, Public Orange Business Services has confirmed its progress in the sustainable Video Points, etc. telecommunications market, according to the 2010 report published The environmental and economic savings are by Verdantix, an independent survey company providing commercial many: analyses on climate change, sustainable development and energy • savings on ink and paper; issues. • energy savings; Verdantix compared 17 telecommunications operators with substantial • waste reduction; activity in Europe on the basis of 31 criteria using its patented Green • preservation of forests that play an important Quadrant® methodology. According to the study, Orange remains the role as carbon sinks; overall leader thanks to its range of sustainable development solutions • reduction in greenhouse gas emissions due for its customers, and to having contributed to the dynamism of the to travel avoided. market. Orange had already been recognized as the leading operator in the market in the 2009 report by Verdantix. By the end of 2010 1,813 tons of paper had For more information: http://www.orange-business.com/en/mnc2/news/ been saved thanks to e-billing for private cusmarket-recognition/form-verdantix-green-quadrant.jsp 94 moving towards a greener world optimizing IT focus infrastructure Orange Business Services and Valeo present an innovative car pooling With their growing capacity, information sysconcept tems are consuming more and more energy. To Born out of a partnership between Orange Business Services and optimize the energy efficiency of IT infrastrucValeo, the Valeo NFC Access System concept enables vehicles to tures, the Group has developed real expertise be shared by several drivers easily and in total safety. This solution in the field of virtualization: is based on NFC (Near Field Communication*) contactless technology and on a web and mobile community application that enables the The virtualization of servers consists of making temporary transfer of an ignition key via a mobile phone, and also all the applications that generally require a speallows a vehicle to be opened and started using a phone. A concept cific server work on a single server. These soluthat is perfectly suited to new car-pooling usage by individuals and/ tions help to significantly reduce the number or companies for managing their vehicle fleet. of servers required and to maximize the usage * NFC technology makes it possible to collect and exchange data at a distance of several centimetres by radio frequency. It also enables simple contactless interaction between levels of existing machines. Solutions installed objects. for some customers have enabled them to reduce their number of servers by over 80%, their energy consumption by over 90% and the total cost of ownership by over 50%. The virtualization of workstations consists of • Business Everywhere enables users to technicians through geolocation, with a 10% installing the user environment on a server access their work environment whilst on the drop in fuel consumption as well. rather than on each workstation. This means move via any available network. More than that no data or applications are to be found 1.2 million people already use this solution developing remote monitoring services on the workstation. Data and applications are worldwide; Orange has developed innovative remote operated remotely and do not at any time leave • mobile e-mail solutions to reduce travel by monitoring services based on M2M connecthe secure environment of the data centre. dealing with e-mails directly from a mobile; tivity, making it possible to carry out various Here too, significant environmental gains are • business Together combines the best of web, types of operation remotely: achieved. A virtualized workstation: voice and videoconferencing technologies • lasts longer than an ordinary PC (five years to facilitate collaborative work; • remote meter reading (gas, water, etc.); instead of three); • telepresence solutions that make it possible • remote stock management; • consumes approximately 10 times less curto hold meetings with a natural ambiance. • supply chain automation; rent whilst in use; • remote management and maintenance of • can very easily be shared by several Besides business solutions, the Group also manufacturing equipment; users; has solutions such as the Public Visio Point • remote management of public infrastructure • uses fewer electronic components and is that enable people to contact administrative (lighting). therefore easier to recycle. services without having to move away from their usual environment. All these solutions help to optimize the management of risks and energy, and to reduce optimizing vehicle fleet management logistics and maintenance costs (journeys by meeting the The Fleet Performance solution developed technicians) whilst at the same time limiting challenges of by Orange Business Services enables professionals from the worlds of transport, buildCO2 emissions and making peoples’ lives easier. sustainable mobility ing, public works, support and maintenance services (after-sales, breakdowns, etc.) to In 2010, Orange Business Services used its technical expertise to help Schneider Electric Information and communication technologies optimize the travel of thousands of vehicles develop a new product for varying and regulatplay a key role in limiting travel, making public in real time and improve their preventive maining public lighting destined to replace current transport more attractive, optimizing journeys tenance. Distance covered is reduced, and products and/or equip new networks. This through geolocation solutions and contributing better-maintained engines are less polluting. solution will enable local authorities to reduce to improved user safety. A win-win solution: increased productivity and the amount of electricity consumed for public decreased CO2 emissions. lighting and offers increased safety through a limiting travel managed lighting system that limits the risk Orange Business Services offers companies Fleet Performance has for example enabled of accidents. and business people a number of solutions Eurofeu – a company specializing in training In Spain, pilot schemes have also been underfor remote collaborative work, thereby helpcourses in, and the production and maintetaken with Aguas de Valencia and Union ing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and nance of, security equipment – to rationalize Fenosa. transport costs whilst increasing individual and the rounds of their support and maintenance collective productivity: France Telecom-Orange 95 making public transport more attractive The Dynamic Information for Travellers solucreating the Urban Community of Nice to measure environmental parameters and optimize the use tion developed by Orange Business Services “sustainable town” of resources whilst at the same time making offers new services for travellers: information life easier for local inhabitants. on timetables, traffic, Internet access, games of the future and video… all in public transport. For transFrance Telecom-Orange is also a founder port operators, this real time solution means Projects for “sustainable towns” and “zero CO2 member of the “Green and Connected Citthey can: districts” depend largely on information and ies” cluster, a group of major corporations, • stick more closely to timetables by geolocatcommunication technologies. large regional centres and academic instituing vehicles at any time and reacting in real The concept of the intelligent sustainable tions carrying out research into themes vital to time to any disruptions; town developed by Orange Labs in partnerthe sustainable town, before they are actually • ensure the safety and security of the transship with local authorities is a multi-network put into practice. In 2010, the cluster concenport network with video and audio alerts solution (radio, GPRS, Internet) that enables trated its work on telecentres, eco-centres and being received in real time from cameras and municipalities to access a wide range of infore-activity centres for the new generation. recorders installed both on board vehicles mation contributing to optimal town manageand on the ground; ment: environmental monitoring, management • manage servicing costs as a result of being of public lighting, waste containers, municipal able to resolve problems remotely in real watering, motor traffic, etc. developing the time. This concept has been trialled in the town of applications of the In 2010, the Group launched two new offerings: Cagnes-sur-Mer, in southern France, since 2007. future • Fleet Voyagers, a geolocation solution to The intelligent management of electricity netimprove both the efficiency of transport In October 2010, a new partnership was conworks (“smart grids”), vehicles, buildings and networks and customer satisfaction, and cluded between the Urban Community of Nice individual homes… Orange is already working optimize operating costs; Cote d’Azur and Orange to develop the conon developing applications that will, in the near • Voyagers’ Connection, an onboard concept of the intelligent sustainable town. This future, help to optimize energy management, nectivity solution to provide ongoing conwill enable of a set of solutions derived from programme the recharging of electric vehicles nectivity in transportation in order to meet information and communication technologies in slack periods and facilitate the developthe demands pertaining to this sector. to be deployed on an experimental basis in the ment of multi-modal transport. All of which are solutions that will help to combat climate change. In 2010, the Group participated within GeSI in drawing up a methodology to measure the potential of these new applications to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. For more information: consult the study entifocus tled “Evaluating the Carbon-Reducing Impacts of ICT” on the www.GeSI.org website. Orange partners the SmartImmo project The aim of the SmartImmo project – currently in progress at Orange Labs at Sophia Antipolis in France – is to provide tools that will help to decrease the operating costs and energy consumption of commercial buildings and more globally, to develop the services market for buildings. The project was selected by the Directorate-General for Competitiveness, Industry and Services (DGCIS) during its most recent call for collaborative research and development projects from centres of competitiveness. The project involves a total amount of nearly €6 million and 10 partners with recognized expertise in the fields of construction and ITC. 96 moving towards a greener world focus an innovative waste management solution in Spain In 2010, Orange developed Recicla-T, an innovative solution for managing municipal waste. Introduced in the Cubas de la Sagra district (near Madrid) in collaboration with the company Everis, this solution, based on NFC contactless technology, provides collectors of municipal waste with real time information on the status of their trucks. This solution helps to optimize routes according to the requirements for the various collection points, with economic and environmental savings, whilst at the same time helping citizens to optimize the sorting and recycling of waste. key dates relating to the Group’s innovation policy 1999 > Launch of the Coop’Net tool enabling conferences to be held over the Internet. 2004 > Launch of e-billing. > Launch of Business Everywhere. 2005 > Orange is the first European operator to launch a global offering of Machine-to-Machine (M2M) solutions. 2007 > Launch of the “sustainable town” experiment in Cagnes-sur-Mer. > Communications campaign in France to raise the profile of “Green IT” solutions among customers. 2008 > Launch with GDF of a telemetry system to monitor gas consumption remotely. 2009 > Verdantix rates Orange as the leader in Europe for its environmental policy, products and technological innovations in the field of sustainable development. > In Poland, TP beat off competition from 80 Polish companies to receive the “2009 Green IT Leader” award from the magazine Computer World. 2010 > Launch of Fleet Voyagers and Voyagers’ Connection. > Orange is recognized for the second time by Verdantix as leader of the “Green” sector. France Telecom-Orange 97 2010 review objectives deadline status main achievements in 2010 Environmental management Continue to deploy EMSs in compliance with the ISO 14001 standard across the 14 countries committed to the programme (France/France Deployment of EMS continued in 2010 in the 14 main Operations and Orange Business Services, the organizations of our Group that are involved in the EMS United Kingdom, Poland, Spain, Belgium, Romania, programme: Slovakia, Egypt, Jordan, Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, – 11 countries (79% of entities) managed their main Senegal, Cameroon and Mauritius), which environmental risks and impact; accounted for 90% of the Group’s turnover in 2009. – 13 countries (93% of entities) raised employee awareness – manage the main environmental risks and impact of the environmental impact of their activities by organizing 2010 in 85% of the entities involved; “Green gestures” campaigns; – raise employee awareness of the environmental – 9 countries (64% of entities) carried out managerial reviews impact of their activities: organize “green gestures” to assess the performance of the EMS. campaigns in 85% of the entities involved; Senegal and Romania are seeking to give concrete – assess the implementation and performance of expression to their progress in deploying the EMS by the EMS through managerial reviews in 65% applying for ISO 14001 certification in February and of the entities involved (growth anticipated in March 2011 respectively. Eastern European countries and the Africa-Middle East-Asia zone). In 2010, we obtained new ISO 14001 certification: – in Orange France for four key processes and four priority sites; Increase the level of ISO 14001 certification on sites 2010-2012 – in Orange Business Services for the Cesson-Sévigné site. with significant environmental impact. The organizations that already had ISO 14001 certification all passed their follow-up audits. Climate change Global objective: to reduce the Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions by 20% between 2006 and 2020 Deployment of the Energy Action Plan (EAP) for network equipment and information systems at the end of 2010 in 21 countries, which account for over 95% of the energy Continue actions to improve the energy consumed by technology within the Group. efficiency of buildings, the network and In 2010, the plan was deployed in Egypt, Jordan, Central transport: African Republic, Austria, Slovakia, Senegal, Madagascar, 2010 Deploy the Energy-network action plan in other Kenya, Dominican Republic, Mali, Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, countries (Slovakia, Egypt, Moldova, Senegal, Mali, Niger and Armenia. Niger). Installation of ventilation to replace or supplement air conditioning at the following numbers of technical sites by the end of 2010, more than 9,700 sites equiped in optimized ventilation in 14 countries of the Group. A study is under way (and will continue until 2020) on changes in energy consumption in the French mobile In 2010, define mechanisms to reduce consumption 2009 network. between 2010 and 2012. Development of a simulation tool to assess the effects of the Energy Action Plan on electricity consumption. Install energy meters in five pilot buildings and define Deploy tools to measure the energy consumption 2010 principles to optimize energy consumption on tertiary and of buildings in real time. mixed sites. Carry out a Bilan Carbone® (carbon inventory) Bilan Carbone® carried out on activities in France and of activities in France and a Bilan Carbone® of the 2010 Belgium e-billing the mobile network investment process mobile network investment process objective achieved objective not achieved (project cancelled or deferred) 98 moving towards a greener world objectives deadline status main achievements in 2010 The Group fleet was reduced to 30,000, including the replacement in France of 4,209 vehicles by others emitting Replace 5,000 vehicles, reduce the Group fleet less CO2. to 30,000 vehicles and increase the use of electric 2010 Participation in a bulk-buying organization for electric vehicles. vehicles established by the French authorities and the purchase and testing of 12 hybrid vehicles. Introduce solutions that use renewable energy and increase their share in overall energy consumption. 25% of energy for the new technical base stations in the Africa zone to be solar-generated by 2015 By the end of 2010, over 1,500 solar stations had been (2010). installed (including 922 on radio stations already in service) 2010 Continue to develop solutions using renewable in 14 African and Middle Eastern countries, together energy, depending on local circumstances in the with the Dominican Republic and Armenia. countries. Deploy an additional 500 solar stations in emerging countries. Waste management Participation in the UNIDO/UNEP working group on Continue to develop new waste processing electronic waste in emerging countries. channels in African countries using reliable, 2006-2020 Launch of a programme by OBS and Group Purchasing well-managed processes. to optimize internal tertiary waste management in Egypt. WEEE Directive Carry out internal audits along the lines of the four large country audits performed in 2009 on the Initiatives launched at the end of 2010 to be pursued implementation of, and compliance with, this in 2011: Directive in the other European countries (Belgium, – assessment of the mapping of WEEE processing Romania, Slovakia, Switzerland). channels (household, business) in a targeted group Extend mapping of WEEE inventories and of European subsidiaries (Slovakia, Romania, Spain, processing channels to other countries outside 2010-2011 Poland); Europe. – sharing the first results obtained in Europe with Orange Deploy best practice implemented in our European subsidiaries in Africa; subsidiaries in other Group countries. – raising awareness among business customers of the Launch communication and awareness-raising collection and recycling of their network equipment initiatives for consumer and business customers (particularly routers and PABX). on the possibilities of recycling their electric and electronic equipment. REACH regulations on chemical substances: Extending the scope of suppliers audited for compliance with the REACH regulation to include Drawing up a questionnaire for our main suppliers with the suppliers of IT and network equipment, in support of the FFT. collaboration with Group Purchasing. 2010-2011 Launch of an information programme to fulfil our obligations Defining and deploying procedures in our European in respect of our customers (programme approved in subsidiaries to provide adequate information for our France by the French Ministry for Ecology). customers (particularly businesses) in order to satisfy our obligations in this area. Business waste Sign new contracts with partners for the processing Establishment in Egypt, with OBS and Group Purchasing, of tertiary waste in the countries in which Orange 2010-2011 of processes to set up tertiary waste management Business Services is present. This programme will channels, applicable in other countries in 2011. be initiated in two countries in 2010 and extended to others subsequently. France Telecom-Orange 99 2010 review objectives deadline status main achievements in 2010 Collection and recycling of mobile phones With nearly 600,000 mobiles collected in 2010 across Europe, the rate of collection increased by 58% in 2010 compared with that of 2009. The objective was therefore achieved, primarily through the deployment of buyback initiatives in all Group entities An ambitious far-sighted project was initiated in 2010 in the European entities (France, Spain, Slovakia, Switzerland, Progressively increase the proportion of mobile Romania, Belgium) to increase the rate of collection and handsets collected and recycled by promoting their recycling of mobile handsets. reuse or dismantling in collaboration with reliable Various pilots, particularly in Spain, Romania and France, specialist partners to ensure the traceability of waste demonstrated the viability of the buyback collection model throughout the channel: and have been extended over a wider scope. In France, the 2010-2012 – increase the number of handsets collected in 2010 sale of subscriptions with reconditioned mobiles has helped by 50% (as against 2009); to maximize the benefits of collecting used mobiles and – launch communication plans to provide better extend their useful life. information for customers on the recycling 2010 was also the year in which entities became involved possibilities offered by Orange throughout Europe in a more ambitious eco-citizen collection scheme, which led to action plans that extend beyond merely accepting mobiles back within the framework of the WEEE. In France, the first recycling days saw 40,000 mobiles collected in three days; the benefits of eco-citizen collection in partnership with those involved in the social economy helped to finance the collection and sorting of mobile waste in Africa, at the same time creating jobs. Environmental performance of products and services Use of eco-design when developing products designed Incorporate eco-design into the product in conjunction with partners. development process and set up the requisite 2010 Introduction of an eco-design training course for product training programme. and project managers (30 people trained in 2010). Publication of a new version of the eco-design manual. Signing of the European Code of Conduct relating to broadband equipment. Compliance with reference texts in respect of energy Declaration of intent to sign the voluntary agreement consumption (Code of Conduct and voluntary 2010 relating to complex TV decoders. agreement). Signing in France of the voluntary charter of commitment to sustainable development, the Telecoms sector being represented by the French Telecommunications Federation. Develop a home network architecture and provide Definition of a technical architecture reducing the time taken 2010-2012 handsets with optimal energy efficiency. for TV decoders to exit sleep mode. Define policies and methods for deploying the 2010-2012 Continue to work within the GSMA and ITU. universal charger as soon as it becomes available. objective achieved objective not achieved (project cancelled or deferred) 100 moving towards a greener world objectives deadline status main achievements in 2010 Environmental labelling Deployment of environmental labelling in shops and or online in France, Romania and Spain. The method for calculating the labelling classification has changed and these changes Deploy environmental labelling of handsets in the 2010 have been applied in France. Some suppliers have been eight main European countries. audited on the information they have communicated to France Telecom for the calculation of the environmental labelling classification. Promoting eco-usage Introduction of schemes to take back mobiles so as In Europe, reinforce and extend systems to to increase the number of second-hand phones being encourage customers to retain their mobiles 2010 remarketed (the main vector for extending their lifetime). for longer. Launch of an online sales offering of second-hand smartphones in France. Continue programmes to deploy e-billing in Europe so as to achieve penetration rates of 80% for the In 2010: 3,611,886 e-bills were sent out to mobile 2012 internet, 50% for mobiles and 30% for fixed lines customers. by 2012. Reducing customers’ environmental impact Signing of an agreement of objectives by the French Telecoms Federation and the Ministry for Ecology and Based on lifecycle analyses, promote the Sustainable Development, which will help to develop contribution of ICTs to reducing the environmental 2010-2012 green industries. impact of other sectors of the economy. Contribution to the GeSI study “Evaluating the CarbonReducing Impacts of ICT” published in September 2010. 2,000 tons of paper saved. 1.5 million users of Business Everywhere across the world, an offer which enables teleworking and limits travel and CO2 emissions. Continue the development and promotion of Launch of a new vehicle fleet management offer, “Fleet virtualization offerings (remote collaborative work 2010 Performance”: in 2010, 12,500 vehicles were equipped with and teleworking, vehicle fleet management, etc.). this solution, which helps to organize travel more effectively and reduces fuel consumption by 5% to 10%. Launch of the “Flexible health computing” offer, which makes it possible to share X-rays between health centres. Launch of Fleet Voyagers and Voyagers’ Connection (public Develop offerings to support the economic sectors transport). that are the most important in the fight against 2010 Signing of a partnership with the Urban Community of Nice climate change (energy, transport, buildings, towns, for the application of the “sustainable intelligent city” concept etc.). Launch of the R&D SmartImmo (intelligent building) project. France Telecom-Orange 101 2011 roadmap new objectives deadline Environmental management Continue the deployment of ISO 14000 EMS in the main countries and organizations of the Group (Orange France, Orange Business Services, Spain, Poland, Slovakia, Romania, Egypt, Belgium, Senegal, Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Cameroon, Jordan, Mauritius, FT Marine). 2011 Develop the EMS performance assessment: organize managerial reviews to assess performance (reviews of departments as per ISO 14001) in at least 2/3 of the organizations mentioned above. Note: The United Kingdom left our organization at the end of 2009; it is replaced by FT Marine in our 2011 commitments. Continue the deployment of ISO 14001 certification on sites with significant environmental impact Maintain existing certifications in Spain, Poland, Slovakia and Egypt, and for FT Marine. Extend certification in France (Orange France and Orange Business Services). 2011-2012 Obtain ISO 14001 certification for three other major Orange Business Services websites (one in France, two outside France). Obtain initial ISO 14001 certification in new countries Romania (March 2012) and Senegal (February 2012). Climate change global objective: to reduce the Group’s total greenhouse gas emissions by 20% between 2006 and 2020 Roll out the deployment of the Energy Action Plan in all 25 countries Improve methodologies for measuring and monitoring trends. Develop consumption simulation and modelling tools to suit different scenarios (traffic, customer base, replacement 2011 of equipment, energy price, proportion of renewable energy in the AMEA zone). Launch new initiatives to reduce unit consumption. Apply the results of the building consumption measurement tool to all buildings in France. 2011-2012 Continue to undertake carbon inventories of activities within the Group to reduce its carbon footprint and optimize its strategic choices 2011 Deploy the programme in at least two new countries. Increase internal expertise in carbon inventories by creating and using a training course. Continue action to promote sustainable mobility Continue to improve fleet performance by replacing 6,000 vehicles. Change the fleet management information system to optimize the management and monitoring of consumption and CO2 emissions. 2011 Launch an electric mobility experiment in an operational situation in a core business activity. Establish a sustainable mobility department. Promote eco-driving skills among Group employees. Waste management Develop new processing channels in African countries Deploy new WEEE collection and processing initiatives in the AMEA zone in partnership with local economic and industrial players and specialist international organizations (UNIDO, UNEP, Step) Target countries: Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Senegal, 2011 Egypt. Increase participation in working groups from these organizations dealing with waste processing in emerging countries. European Directive on Waste Electric and Electronic Equipment – WEEE Strengthen initiatives to collect and process commercial WEEE (routers, PABX, LAN equipment) from our Business customers in France, by incorporating approval from one or more eco-organizations focusing on commercial WEEE. Promote the reuse of the equipment collected whenever possible. 2011 Step up joint multi-operator actions in respect of audits for common suppliers outside Europe to ensure an equivalent level of environmental performance. Assess WEEE processing channels (household, business, internal and networks) in our European subsidiaries (particularly Slovakia, Romania, Spain and Poland) in order to ensure a high level of transparency and traceability. Tertiary waste Extend the programme to improve tertiary waste management initiated by OBS in Egypt in 2010 to other emerging countries 2011 by signing contracts with partners. REACH regulations on chemical substances Implement procedures across Europe to provide adequate information for our customers (particularly businesses) 2011 in collaboration with our suppliers, in order to satisfy our obligations in terms of REACH. 102 moving towards a greener world new objectives deadline Collection and recycling of mobile phones Increase the rate of collection and recycling of mobile handsets Achieve a collection rate of 10% in the second half of 2011. Extend commercial buyback offerings in the seven main European countries. Together with our partners, deploy an intelligent collection system for used mobiles and ambitious eco-citizen collection 2011 actions in a number of European countries (France, Spain, Austria, Slovakia, etc.). Deploy collection offerings for the Business market. Develop the second-hand mobile market in AMEA and Europe. Develop collection and recycling programmes in Africa. Paper consumption Global objective: to preserve forests and reduce the quantity of waste linked to the use of paper in offices Increase the use of recycled or FSC-certified paper (or equivalent labels). 2011 Ensure that all sales documentation is printed on recycled, FSCor PEFC-certified paper in the main Group countries. Reduce internal paper consumption by raising employee awareness of paper saving and configuring printers to print on both sides of the paper. Objectives for France: – paper consumed for sales documentation: –8%; – commercial billing consumption: –18%; 2011 – tertiary (internal) paper consumption: –9%. Objectives for Spain: – internal paper consumption: –10%; – 2010 actual vs. 2009: –5%. Environmental performance of products and services Continue the deployment of eco-design programmes. Eco-design products for the home network. Incorporate eco-design in services. 2011-2012 Continue to build up a lifecycle analysis library. Make the marketing sector training course widely available. Define policies and methods for deploying the universal charger as soon as it becomes available. 2011-2012 Environmental labelling Deploy environmental labelling in new European countries: Poland; Slovakia, Switzerland, Belgium and Armenia. Promote environmental labelling in international bodies. Promoting eco-usage Continue programmes to deploy e-billing in Europe so as to achieve penetration rates of 80% for the Internet, 50% for 2011-2012 mobiles and 30% for fixed lines by 2012. Reducing customers’ environmental impact Based on lifecycle analyses and carbon inventories, promote the contribution of ICTs to reducing the environmental impact 2011 of her sectors of the economy. Develop a “green” value proposition for the business and consumer markets. 2011 Develop solutions for teleworking, telecentres, sustainable mobility, intelligent electricity networks, and domestic and 2011 industrial energy efficiency. France Telecom-Orange 103 France Telecom Group 6, place d’Alleray – 75505 Paris Cedex 15 – France Tel.: 33 (0)1 44 44 22 22 www.orange.com www.francetelecom.com 100% post-consumer fibres, process chlorine free France Telecom – Corporate Social Responsibility Division – SA with a capital of 10 595 434 424 euros – RCS Paris 380 129 866 – Design and creation: – Compilation: Moringa – Photo credits: Abacapress : Jurg Christandl, Nicolas Baker – Stéphane Foulon – All rights reserved.
