Responsible Jewellery Council – 2011 Communications on Progress Report Company Name Responsible Jewellery Council Date 15 January 2011 Unit (if applicable) Address First Floor, Dudley House 34-38 Southampton Street Membership 15 January 2009 date London WC2E 7HF Country United Kingdom Number of 6 employees Contact name Mila Bonini Contact Position Communications Manager Sector Corporate Social Responsibility in the gold, diamond and platinum metals jewellery supply chain Contact telephone no. +39 02 48002801 Mobile +39 334 5488723 Brief description of nature of business The Responsible Jewellery Council is an international not-for-profit organisation bringing together over 260 member companies committed to promoting responsible ethical, human rights, social and environmental practices in a transparent and accountable manner throughout the industry from mine to retail. Their commitment aims to reinforce consumer and stakeholder confidence in diamond, gold and platinum metals jewellery products. The Council has developed the RJC System, a certification system – which applies to all Members’ businesses that contribute to the diamond, gold and platinum metals jewellery supply chain. All Commercial Members of the RJC are required to be audited by accredited, third party auditors to verify their conformance with the RJC’s Code of Practices and become certified under the RJC System within two years from joining. The Responsible Jewellery Council and a full list of its Members can be found on the web at www.responsiblejewellery.com Statement of support The RJC was officially registered as Participant to the United Nations Global Compact on January 15th, 2009. The RJC strongly supports the Global Compact initiative and has embedded its ten principles in the Code of Practices of the RJC Certification System. Through the RJC’s engagement with the jewellery supply chain, and its stakeholders, we promote the Global Compact as part of our commitment to improve business practices in the areas of human rights, labour and social responsibility, environment and anti-corruption. We look forward to continued progress on our shared goals as the RJC System continues its implementation in 2011. Signature Position Michael L. Rae Chief Executive Officer Responsible Jewellery Council Responsible Jewellery Council – 2011 Communications on Progress Report Commitments, Systems and Actions 2010 Commitments The primary vehicle for RJC’s support of the Global Compact is the RJC’s standards, with which RJC Members must comply. The following table highlights the influence of the Global Compact principles in the RJC’s Code of Practices. Furthermore, the RJC Code of Practices addresses additional consumer confidence issues such as accurate product disclosure; employee health and safety, working hours and remuneration; and community development. Global Compact Principle RJC Code of Practices – Related Provisions Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the COP 2.1 Human Rights protection of internationally proclaimed human COP 2.4 Freedom of association and collective bargaining rights; and COP 2.5 Discrimination COP 2.8 Working Hours COP 2.9 Remuneration COP 2.11 Community Engagement and Development 2.13 Indigenous Peoples 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human COP 1.3 Kimberley Process rights abuses. COP 2.2 Child labour COP 2.3 Forced labour COP 2.7 Discipline and Grievance Procedures COP 2.12 Use of Security Personnel COP 4.3 Business Partners 2.14 Artisanal and Small-scale Mining Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of COP 2.4 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and COP 2.3 Forced Labour compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and COP 2.2 Child Labour and Young Persons 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of COP 2.5 Discrimination employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary COP 3.1 Environmental Protection approach to environmental challenges; COP 3.2 Hazardous Substances COP 4.4 Impact Assessment 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater COP 3.3 Wastes and Emissions environmental responsibility; and COP 3.5 Biodiversity COP 4.5 Mine Closure Planning 9. encourage the development and diffusion of COP 3.4 Use of Energy and Natural Resources environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all COP 1.1 Bribery and Facilitation Payments its forms, including extortion and bribery. COP 1.2 Money Laundering and Finance of Terrorism COP 1.6 Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative The RJC’s Code of Practices, and related guidance and assessment questions, are available at http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/certification.html Responsible Jewellery Council – 2011 Communications on Progress Report Systems The above standards are applicable to RJC Members right across the diamond and gold jewellery supply chain. The RJC’s certification system requires independent, third party verification of conformance with these standards. In 2012, the RJC Code of Practices will be reviewed and platinum metals be added to the scope of the Member certification system. The RJC is accrediting auditors with appropriate competence and experience to verify Members’ conformance with the above commitments. Auditors will carry out desktop reviews and site visits to Members’ facilities, and submit a certification recommendation to the RJC based on the Members’ level of conformance. Currently there are 6 RJC Accredited auditing firms: http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/auditors.html Actions In 2010, the following actions have been carried out or are underway to implement the above commitments and systems established by the RJC:  RJC Certified Members: In the last quarter of 2010, RJC has announced the first Certified Members after receiving recommendations for certification from RJC Accredited Auditors. In 2011, approximately half of the RJC’s membership will be required to be certified by the year’s end. The Member’s Certification Status will be listed on the RJC website at http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/members/overview.html  Training for RJC Members: webinar training to Members and Auditors on RJC Certification was launched in October 2009. Modules for different parts of the supply chain highlight key risk areas around human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption areas, and provide examples of how to improve practices within Members’ businesses. At November, 2010, 30% of RJC Members have one or more employees who have attended or more training modules. Nearly 60 sessions have been delivered to 360 participants. Auditor training is compulsory, and 18 modules with 199 participants have been delivered since June 2010.  Monitoring and Evaluation: A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) plan has been established and will be rolled out in 2011. The M&E Plan will track key indicators to assess implementation of the RJC Certification System by the RJC as an institution and by its Members. Assessment of data and trends for these indicators will be able to feed into future Global Compact reporting by the RJC. See: http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/monitoring.html  Chain-of-Custody Certification: Having established the Code of Practices and a third party verification system, the RJC is now turning its attention to issues surrounding the chain-ofcustody of product. We believe that chain-of-custody can strengthen the integrity of the jewellery supply chain and some RJC Members have already implemented product tracking systems. In 2010-2011, the RJC is thus consulting with stakeholders on the development of Chain-of-Custody Certification as a voluntary, complementary element to the RJC Member Certification process. More information can be found at: http://www.responsiblejewellery.com/chain-of-custody.html  Growth in Membership: RJC’s membership has doubled during 2010 since 2009 to now total in excess of 260 companies and trade associations. This very encouraging rise in membership numbers shows the growth in commitment to responsible business practices across the jewellery supply chain. Responsible Jewellery Council – 2011 Communications on Progress Report  2010/2013 Workplan: During 2010/11: – RJC will engage with Members and stakeholders to investigate the feasibility of an RJC Chain-of-Custody Certification system. – RJC will develop a Standards Supplement to the Code of Practices that will be applicable to diamond grading, assaying and appraising.. During 2012: – RJC will formally add platinum metals to the scope of the Certification system, as part of the planned system review. From 2013: – RJC will review the possible addition of other jewellery materials to the scope for RJC Certification. This may include coloured gemstones, pearls, and silver. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? The Communication on Progress will be published on the RJC website: www.responsiblejewellery.com Stakeholders will be notified of its publication by the RJC Newsletter. Responsible Jewellery Council – 2011 Communications on Progress Report
