The most precious values K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Introduction Publication Objective By providing clean water resource on a stable basis, Awards & Accomplishments K-water has contributed to developing the welfare of the people. With this report, K-water will convey its sustainable business values which include Apr. 2007 2007 Most Respected Corporate Excellence Award (The Federation of Korean Industries, Seoul economic profitability, environmental wholesomeness and corporate Economic Daily) social responsibility, as well as its efforts to implement them and resulting May. 2007 Global Standard Grand Prize & Excellence CEO Award (The Korea Management Association) performance in a transparent way. May. 2007 Family-friendly Corporate Excellence Prime Ministers Award (Ministry of Gender Equality) Jul. 2007 Certified as a Corporation with Excellent Service Quality (Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Korean Report Publication The “2011 Sustainability Report” is the 7th Report Agency for Technology and Standards) published. The Report is published every year, encompassing K-water’ Oct. 2007 Award for Digital Knowledge Management (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) s sustainable management strategies, activities and performance, and Nov. 2007 ISO/IEC 20000 (Information Quality) Certification (LRQA) future plans. The Report summarizes K-water’s economic performance, Nov. 2007 The President’s Award for Sewage Treatment and Environmental Technology (Ministry of environmental soundness and Social Responsibility. The previous Report was Environment) published in August, 2010. Nov. 2007 LOHAS Management Award (Korea Green Foundation) Dec. 2007 The Best Sustainable Management Award (Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Korea Chamber of Reporting Principles This Report was prepared based on GRI’s Commerce and Industry) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3). Greater details of the GRI Index Apr. 2008 Award for Korea’s Digital Management Innovation (Ministry of Knowledge Economy, Maeil Economic can be found on pages 101~104 of this report. Daily) Oct. 2008 Grand Prize for Social Contribution (The Korea Journalist Forum) Target Readers This Report was prepared for all stake holders such as Oct. 2008 The Best Sustainable Management Award (Ministry of Knowledge and Economy, Korea Chamber of customers, local communities, government, cooperative firms, executives Commerce and Industry) & employees, and non-governmental organizations (NGO) that are directly Oct. 2008 2008 Korea Environment-friendly Award (Ministry of Environment) or indirectly influenced by K-water’s management activities. Oct. 2008 Asia Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise Award (Teleos/UK) Jan. 2009 The Grand Prize for Sustainable and Creative Management [Environmental Management] (Ministry Reporting Period The reporting period is from January 1 to December 31, of Knowledge Economy, UN Global Compact) 2010. Qualitative performance up until June 2011 is partially covered in the Oct. 2009 Low Carbon Green Growth Excellence Company Award (Presidential Committee on Green Growth, Report, while the quantitative performance includes 4 years worth of data Ministry of Environment) from 2007 to 2010. K-water’s fiscal year is from January 1 to December 31. New & Renewable Energy Prime Minister Grand Prize (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Asia Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise Award (Teleos/UK) Scope of Report This Report covers K-water’s sustainable management Dec. 2010 National Grand Award for Green Technology (Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Ministry of status and performance of its head office, 8 regional headquarters, 32 Education, Science and Technology) domestic worksites, and overseas operations (14 projects in 12 countries). Jun. 2011 2011 Grand Award for Green Management in Korea (Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Ministry of Since K-water’s overseas operations are project-based and not worksites, Education, Science and Technology) only their business performances are reflected in the Report. Changes During the reporting period, there were no major changes in terms of size, structure, standard year, or governance structure. However, Membership Activities there were changes in application standards for comparing certain data and calculation methods compared to that of the previous year. Nov. 1971 Korea National Committee on Large Dams Jan. 1976 Korea Electric Association Report Assurance Third party assurance of the data and selected Dec. 1985 Korea Energy Foundation sentences of the Report was carried-out by KMAR to enhance the Mar. 1997 Korea Electric Engineers Association credibility of the Report. The assurance opinion is included on pages May. 2001 Korea Power Exchange 102~103. Sep. 2001 Korea New & Renewable Energy Association Jan. 2002 Korea Water and Wastewater Works Association Additional Information This Report can also be viewed on K-water’s Mar. 2004 Korean Association of Environment Impact Assessment homepage (www.kwater.or.kr). If additional information on K-water’s Sep. 2004 Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development sustainable management activities is required, please contact K-water's Oct. 2005 Korea Engineering and Consulting Association Performance Management Team (Tel: +82-42-629-2364, Fax: +82-42-629Jul. 2006 Business Ethics and Sustainable management for Top Performance (BEST) Forum 2399). Feb. 2007 UN Global Compact Feb. 2007 U-City Forum The Applicable Level of GRI G3 Guidelines This is to disclose Mar. 2007 International Water Association (IWA) that K-water’s Sustainable Management Report fully satisfies the Mar. 2007 American Waterworks Association (AWWA) requirements of ‘A+’ standards outlined in the GRI REPORT Guideline. An independent 3rd party assurance agency, KMAR has verified that this report is compliant with ‘A+’, GRI G3 Guidelines. The most precious values WATER, NATURE & PEOPLE K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 2 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report CONTENS Strategy Forecast & Outlook Sustainable Management Vision and Strategy ◎ 10 12 Business Strategy and Structure ◎ 16 ◎: Importance Level: Very High Creative Innovation Management ○ 18 ○: Importance Level: High Sustainable R&D Investments ○ 20 Approach Corporate Governance 24 Ethical / Transparent Management ○ 25 Customer Happy Management ○ 26 Mutual Growth with Stakeholders ○ 28 Communication with Stakeholders ○ 30 Risk Management ○ 32 Challenges Green Economy Low Carbon New Growth Green Business ◎ 36 ICT-based integrated Water Management ◎ 37 Successful Operations of Local Waterworks ◎ 38 Integrated operations of Waterworks Facilities 40 Water Friendly Green City & High Tech Green Complex 41 Global K-water ◎ 42 Operation efficiency of industrial water and construction of tailored 44 water supply facilites K-water Technology Developement 45 Green Environment Green Management System 48 Green Network 50 Countering Climate Change ◎ 52 Environmentally-friendly Green Development of Water Resources 54 Protection of Bio-diversity ◎ 56 Management of Water Quality ◎ 58 Source Water Quality Improvement 60 Green Society Respecting Human Rights & Diversity 62 Fostering Global Human Resources 64 Great Work Place 66 Social Contribution Activities ○ 68 Activities of K-water Volunteers 70 Performances Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 74 Financial Performance 87 Positive & Negative Information 96 GRI Report Index 97 K-water KPI 101 Third Party’s Assurance Report 102 ISO 26000 104 Code of Ethics Preamble, Environment-friendly Management 106 Principles, Customer Charter Preamble, Mission Statement for Innovative Vision UN Global Compact 108 Declaration Glossary 109 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 3 CEO Message Dear customers! K-water has been doing its utmost to create a happier world with water by enhancing customer values and fulfilling our social responsibilities. Since the introduction of sustainable management in 2005, K-water has tried to realize its corporate mission, ‘Water for the Happier World’, to contribute to society on account of your continual support and encouragement. From the perspective of sustainable development, K-water is striving to advance in a balanced way in terms of economic profitability, environmental wholesomeness and social responsibility. An aspect of today’s global business environment is international cooperation for green growth even though the competition is intense. At the G20 Seoul Summit held during the global financial crisis, an agreement was made on international cooperation for the sake of green growth, while competitions to acquire green technologies and green industries are getting fiercer and fiercer day by day. Introduction In such a competitive business environment, K-water has achieved a 6.9% increase in revenue growth for 2010. The company attained considerable achievements in almost every business sector including new projects such as the supply of tap water and dam water, construction of regional waterworks and industrial water supply. We also performed an important role in major national projects such as Gyeong-in Ara Waterway and Four River Restoration. In addition, the company plans to build five new eco-friendly dams to secure water resources to cope with impending climate change. We also engaged full scale in green city projects in Songsan and Gumi, and laid groundwork for green projects such as Siwha tidal power generation. In the overseas markets, K-water has been trying to provide clean and clear water to residents around the globe who suffer from a lack of water supply based on its experience in economic development and water management technology. Currently, the company is engaging in projects worth KRW 808.5 billion in 12 countries. In 2010, K-water increased investment in the environment by 55% compared to the previous year to accelerate the eco-friendly green development drive. For the first time in Korea, the company acquired certification for a low carbon tap water product. Also, to remove green algae in dam water to manage the water quality more effectively, we developed a new dedicated ship which received the National Green Technology Award from the Minister of Science and Technology. Furthermore, to enhance communication with stakeholders including local communities, K-water has engaged in diverse activities. We have built ecofriendly agricultural complexes around dams and held a job-sharing campaign to improved communications with local communities. The company has enhanced collaborative relationships with its partners including the building of partnership councils and supporting partners to build an environment management system. We have also expanded global corporate social responsibility activities such as the development of a drinking water supply in other countries. The company has been recognized for such economic, environmental, and social performances and has been selected as the highest ranking organization in the government management performance evaluation achieving a Grade A for three consecutive years. We have also been the awarded Korea Management Quality Awards and won the Asian MAKE Award (Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises) for three consecutive years. First, we will solidify the groundwork for management. For sustainable growth, we will create new business opportunities and save costs based on managerial innovation to improve our financial structure. We will also try to enhance our corporate competencies to the global level through the upbringing of prestigious talent. Second, we will do our best to complete government-sponsored projects such as Gyeong-in Ara Waterway and Four River Restoration Project. Through impeccable quality management in every sector based on creative ideas, we will build masterpieces which will be passed on to our posterity. Third, we will continue to upgrade our water management. In the water resource management sector, we will concentrate on building competency to secure water vessels with sufficient capacity and to cope with climate change. In the waterworks management sector, we will try to enhance the efficiency of projects based on the economy of scale to resolve an imbalance between regional water supplies, linking of local waterworks in smallto medium-sized regions, and the integration of waterworks networks and drainage systems. We will also concentrate on the creation of low carbon green city amalgamating land and water to materialize the value of water, not only for its utility value but also for its environmental value for urban environments. Finally, we will try to be a public corporation dependable and trustworthy to our customers. We will protect the people from water-related disasters and provide top-rate services to the people by supplying clean water affluently, protect socially disadvantaged people based on continual corporate social responsibility activities, and consolidate partnerships with small-to medium-sized enterprises. Internally, we will implement ethical management and enhance in-house communications to settle a fair and equitable corporate culture in a timely manner. In this way, we will sharpen our competitive edges even further based on trust in and out of the company. Through our core values, “Purity, Passion and Creativity,” K-water will move forward towards a new and promising future. We hope for your continual encouragements on our efforts and challenges. Thank you. August 2011 President of K-water Kim Kuen Ho K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 5 Introduction Mankind is experiencing a “water bankruptcy” situation now. If water is managed in the coming future the way it has been in the past, the economic structure will collapse. Water shortage issues are broad and the systematic issue is that a solution has to be made accordingly. Secretary General Ban Ki-mun of UN, Davos Forum 2009 6 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Corporate Overview * • Corporate Name K-water, Korea Water Resources Corporation • Date Established November 16, 1967 • Capital KRW 10,523.7 Billion • Total Liabilities KRW 7,960.7 Billion • Total Assets KRW 18,484.4 Billion • Gangwon Water Supply Regional • Sales KRW 2,144.7 Billion Headquarters • Major Operations Construction & Management of Multipurpose Dams, Construction & • Seoul Metropolitan Water Supply Regional Headquarters Management of Multi-regional Waterworks, Operation & Management of Local • Sihwa Regional Supply Waterworks, and Development of Industrial Complexes Regional Headquarters • Products & Services Flood control, Water Supply & Power Generation, Water Supply, and Industrial • Chungcheong Water Supply Regional Headquarters Water Development & Supply to Industrial Complexes • Geyonbuk Water Supply • Worksites Head Office, 8 Regional Headquarters, 32 Worksites, International Operations (14 • Daejeon Head Office Regional Headquarters Projects in 12 Countries) • Employees & Executives 4,149 • Jeonbuk Water Supply Regional Headquarters • Gyeonnam Water • Investor Composition Korean Government 90.9%, Local Governments 0.1%, Korea Finance Corporation 9.0% Supply Regional • Corporate Shareholder Composition Chilgok Enviro Ltd. 49.0%, Kyungin Canal Ltd. 19.4%, KDS Hydro Pte. Ltd 58.8%, Headquarters Korea Construction Management Corporation Ltd. 18.9%. Green JangRyang Ltd. 5.0% • Jeonnam Water Supply Regional • Head Office Location 560 Sintanjin-ro, Daedeok-gu, Daejeon Headquarters *As of December 31, 2010 ㅣ Head Office & 8 Regional Headquarters ㅣ K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 7 Strategy Water is wisdom From water, we learn the wisdom of modesty, always flowing towards a lower point. We learn that the true nature will not oscillate, even though the shape of the vessel is changing. We learn the strategy and passion to continuously look for new ways to go ahead and never stop. We learn the generosity that water purifies everything that enters into it. At K-water, we draw knowledge for the future from the wise water. 10_ Forecast & Outlook / 12_Sustainable Management Vision and Strategy / 16_Business Strategy and Structure 18_Creative Innovation Management / 20_Sustainable R&D Investments Strategy Strategy Forecast & Outlook K-water is committed to realizing safe water management under climate change as a government owned corporation specialized in integrated management of water resources by heightening the national water security as well as duly undertaking the anchor role of water industry fostering. ●Paradigm Shift in Water Resources Management connection to water management, and supporting the SME and venture Due to the influence of climate change, water resources management technologies for global marketing have been newly granted. Furthermore, has become more complex and uncertain. The conventional water by linking the cities with water management, there is a demand for K-water management method will no longer guarantee the safety of water to undertake the leading role in making more attractive waterfront cities for use, flood defense and ecological environment under climate change. living, playing and working. In fact, Australia has slipped from fifth to ninth place in a ranking of 59 countries’ competitiveness due to severe floods in January 2011. The water ●Upcoming water Shortage management of present day has become the agenda directly related to During the 20th century, global water withdrawals have increased faster national competitiveness as well as national security. Protecting national than the population growth rate. While the population increased by 3.7 living, industrial activities and ecological environment safely from floods, times, the water withdrawals have increased by 6.7 times. Unlike other droughts and pollutions is becoming an important duty for each country. resources, water resources can be used again without the concern of Many countries around the world have come forward in water management depletion. However, there is a limit in gross volume to use during a certain innovation to effectively undertaking such tasks. In an era of progressive and period of time. The total water resources that human can use sustainably fundamental changes in water management, the paradigm shift has been has limitations. The total water resource that human can use on earth have undertaken. The International community has presented integrated water reached its limit. resources management(IWRM) as the new water management method to fit to the changed paradigm. ㅣ 2030 Water Shortage Outlookㅣ 1 billion m3 // 143 territories/regions ㅣBasic Framework of Implementing IWRMㅣ CAGR 6,900 900 -40% 2% 1,500 2,800 Municipal & 4,500 4,200 Decentralized Domestic 100 Climate, Geology, Native Appropriate governance Strong 600 700 Groundwater Vegetation, Topography human and low-cost organizational Industry 800 technologies capacity Agriculture 4,500 Relevant supply quantity is much Surface water Human water lower that the absolute renewable 3,500 Timing and needs met 3,100 water availability in nature abundance of Science-based fresh water of IWRM for domestic, decision agricultural and making given quality industrial sectors Existing 2030 Basins with Basins with Existing accessible, Effective Basin-scale withdrawals withdrawals deficits surplus reliable, Appropriate Aquatic stakeholder management sustainable supply flows to coastal ecosystem and involvement Strong policy, activities zones biodiversity legal, and needs met regulatory ※ Source : 2030 Water Resources Group, 2009 frameworks According to “Charting Our Water Future” report prepared by the World ※ Source : Global Water Partnership Bank and McKinsey Consulting in 2009, the global supply of reliable water Countries around the world have equipped themselves with basic resources has declined due to increased demand since the late 2000s. frameworks to implement integrated water resources management Futhermore, in 2030, only 60% of global water demand will be stably through the improvement of laws and systems. The paradigm shift in supplied. Each country around the world depends indirectly on water water management has become a great challenge to public enterprises resources of overseas markets through trading of agricultural products, managing water resources. Under the situation where complexity and livestock products, and industrial goods. Virtual water, the water resources uncertainty have become serious due to climate change, there is a need moving through countries by international trades, has exceeded 40% of for water management based on short-term, mid-term and long-term global water withdrawal volume as of 2000. Annual water use per capita forecasting with high accuracy in consideration of integrated point of in Korea has yet to reach the world average. Among the OECD countries, view and overall situation in the region. In addition, there is a demand of water use in Korea is rather significantly small. However, it depends on undertaking the anchor role of low carbon green growth in addition to overseas for 62% of annual water resource use volume and has been its intrinsic water management activities. The tasks of heightening the assessed as being particularly vulnerable to the global water shortage energy efficiency in water supply, extending new and renewable energy in situation. 10 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ㅣAnnual water use per capitalㅣ comprehensive overseas advancement strategy on water resource, river, In-take water volume of water resource Total volume of water use and water fields since 2010. (including virtual water) By reflecting on the characteristics of the water industry as a comprehensive World average Korea World average Korea applied industry in connection to broad fields, there is a movement to 570㎥ 537㎥ 1,243㎥ 1,179㎥ secure the advantage in the global competition with multi-national water ※ Source: Water Footprint, 2004 enterprises, such as Veolia and Suez of France by integrating related fields through structuring national level Water Partnerships, building up water ●Trend of global water industry industry clusters and the likes. The global water industry is a unit industry that has a scale of 4,828 bil ㅣWorld and Korea Market share rateㅣ USD as of 2010, making it the sixth largest industry, following petroleum, Unit: Trillion won automobile, power, IT and mobile communication. By 2030, the water infra Industry classification ■Domestic market size (World market share rate, %) ■ World market size will be the largest in terms of investment demand from entire infra and it Shipbuilding 283 85 (30.1%) Strategy is in the situation to increase investment on an ongoing basis, unlike other Auto manufacturing 1,114 61 (5.5%) infra structures such as power, road, railway, airport, port and others. Mobile phone 140 23 (16.1%) ㅣThe global water market, 2010ㅣ Memory 70 31 (44.1%) Industrial water 5.7% Semi-conductor 328 37 (11.3%) Bottled water 12.2% WATER industry 588 12 (2.1%) Point of use equipment 3.1% $ 482,852m Source: 1] www.isuppli.com, 2] Reuters, KOTRA, Jan. 12, 2006 Total water market 3] Korea Electronics Association, As of sales amount, April 2007 (2010] Irrigation equipment 2.1% 4] Hyundai Motors, KIA Motors(Automoble Industry), Korean Statistical Information Service, 2006 Utilities 76.9% ●Development of water industry of government and role of K-water ㅣMarket forecast breakdown, 2010ㅣ The government has been undertaking policies to develop the water Industrial water 4.0% industry as the new green engine of the country since 2006. The R&D investment in new technologies in the water industry has been executed Bottled water 7.2% and has implemented the 4-river restoration business, a major integrated water management project for responding to the climate changes. The Point of use equipment 1.9% foundation for Korea to take advantage in the global integrated water $ 10,137m Total water market management market has been secured. In particular, with the report of (2010] Irrigation equipment 0.2% the water industry growth by the Presidential Committee on Green Growth Utilities 86.8% in Oct. 2010 as the turning point, the efforts of government-wide levels have ※ Source: The global water market 2011, 2010 been focused on expanding the water industry to advance to overseas. K-water plans to do its best in maintaining and strengthening the According to the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan, the national safety and competitiveness through stable water supply, disaster water industry is expected to have a high growth rate of 7.7% annually up prevention, maintenance and restoration of ecology and environment, and to 2025. In particular, the manufacturing and construction field will have others under the ever-complicated and uncertain water management a 10.4% growth rate, far ahead of operation and management field for condition caused by climate changes. Furthermore, with a water 5.4%, which will be 56.1% of entire water industry by 2025. Water industry management institution equipped with global scale technologies, it plans technologies will also break away from its conventional phase to go through to duly undertake the anchor role for advancing the water industry by the fusion and convergence processes with IT, BT, NT and others to quickly utilizing its strength as a national public enterprise that encompasses advance to Green-tech. water resource and water service fields. On the basis of accumulated As the complexity and uncertainty grow larger for water management due technologies and knowhow, K-water is to contribute to the sustainable to the climate change, the global water industry demands an integrated growth and advancement of our country’s water industry through the solution in connection with water, sewer services, water resource, and river advancement into overseas markets along with private construction management technologies. For example, the Netherlands has actively companies, development of SME and venture technology companies, and expanded into the overseas market by dividing the water industry into water expansion of low carbon green business. and sewer technology and Delta technology in 2005, it has annual water industry export of 11 trillion won with the Delta technology field related to water resource, river management, water-friendly development and others for over 7 trillion won in 2009. Japan also has been working on K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 11 Strategy Sustainable Management Vision By 2019, K-water will have been in existence for half a century, establishing itself as a Global Best. and Strategy ●Revised & complemented Vision and Strategy K-water has re-established its mid-term and long-term management strategy system for accomplishing its vision for its founding purpose and revised its mid-term and long-term management strategy plan to present the solidification and bigger picture for a new green strategy. The vision and the strategic direction (3Water+) coincides with K-water’s current management status and has a wide spread consensus, thus the vision and strategic direction will remain as part of K-water’s management strategy. At the same time, the strategic structure, including 10 Implementation Strategies and 30 Strategic Tasks, was revised and complemented. Through a new mid-term and long-term management strategy, K-water will be solidifying its sustainable growth vision with the strategic response to the key issues on management, such as, completion of green new deal business, revision of global water industry structure, increase of financial risk and others. ●Vision The vision has been set as the ‘world best comprehensive Establishing aim Stabilization of water Improvement of water Improvement of national Promotion of public supply quality living standards welfare water service company’ that duly undertakes its establishMission Water for a Happier World ment purpose and fulfilling its role as a public enterprise World best comprehensive water service company as well as equipping itself with global competitiveness. Vision ●New management of K-water, G2G wave Core Values Management Policies To become a Great corporation through Green growth, the FutureSiteInPurity Passion Creativity strengthcompany aims to be the Global Best in five sectors: oriented centered ened Guard : A world-class company with a Zero-Accident safety management record Enterprise Guard Renovation Environment Ability Technology Renovation : A company leading in innovation while Strategy Goals Accident rate 6σ stage of the 30% reduction of Co2 Over 50% of Over 12 high-tech below 0.1% renovated level emitted quality professional technologies ability accustomed to change Environment : An eco-friendly company creating green value Expansion of Public Services Achieving Sustainable Growth Securing Global Competitiveness Strategy direction Ability : A company bringing up world-class talent · Counter Climate Change · Achieve Integrated Water Resource · Securing of financial soundness Technology : A company leading the market of the future Implementation · Strengthening of social responsibility Management · Create a Waterworks Total Solution · Invest in R&D & Fostering Human Resources Strategy (10) · Deepen Customer Management · Establish Green Space of Low Carbon · Advancement of corporate culture · Strengthening of overseas business ●3 Strategic Directions competency The 3 major sustainable management strategic directions Strategic Task (30) 9 12 9 enables K-water to achieve a strategic focus and act as KPI (30) 8 12 10 a directional beacon for aligning organizational activities, Implementation task (90) 26 37 27 allowing K-water to effectively achieve its vision. This will Action plan(208) 57 69 82 require expanding public services, achieving continued Performance Index (108) 36 35 37 growth and securing global competitiveness. Public Service (Green Water) : K-water will mean to emphasize a corporation that is loved and trusted by citizens by strengthening water management functions and creating environmental & customer value. It will also have to provide safety from water-related disasters and guarantee a prosperous life through water. Sustainable Growth (Blue water) : Improve Efforts to maintain a sustainable growth platform by creating a new business model based on core competencies by creatively utilizing the business environment such as changing the water management paradigm, fast-growing water industry, and the continuing advent of new green growth policies. Global Competitiveness (White water) : K-water will try to secure global competitiveness by upgrading the organizational structure, improving personnel and labor / management relations to more advanced levels, maintaining financial soundness by expanding sales and achieving cost innovations, and developing core human resources and technologies. 12 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Sustainable Management Implementation Structure The purpose of the sustainable management initiatives that K-water has implemented is to provide clean water as a public-service, and to ensure that no person or area is alienated. All citizens will receive the benefits of water by improving economic profitability and environmental soundness, and by sincerely fulfilling the corporation’s social responsibilities. By carrying-out environmental management and social contribution activities based on economic efficiencies, K-water will create new corporate values and ultimately, it will be recognized as a ‘Respected Corporation.’ As a result of K-water’s sustainable management efforts, it was ranked 1st for its combined score from 40 major public-services on the ‘Sustainable Management Index’ announced by Kyunghyang Daily. The Index evaluates the economic, environment and social efforts made by corporations. │K-water's Mid-to-Long-term Core Goals for Sustainable Management│ 2010 2015 2019 Response to climate · Water supply capability: 12.2 billion ton · Water supply capability: 13.3 billion ton · Water supply capability: 13.8 billion ton Strategy change · Flood control capability: 2.5 billion ton · Flood control capability: 3.4billion ton · Flood control capability: 3.8 billion ton Expansion of · Institute Clean Level: 9.0 point · Institute Clean Level: 9.5 point · Institute Clean Level: 9.5 point Public Services Social responsibility · Environmental Performance Index: 137 · Environmental Performance Index: 154 · Environmental Performance Index: 160 · Social Contribution Activity Index: 84 · Social Contribution Activity Index: 90 · Social Contribution Activity Index: 90 Green Water Customer-oriented · Effort of high quality supply: 42.4% · Effort of high quality supply: 100% · Effort of high quality supply: 100% management · Customer Satisfaction: A · Customer Satisfaction: A · Customer Satisfaction: A · Dam water supply: 5.05 billion ton · Dam water supply: 5.55 billion ton · Dam water supply: 6.01 billion ton · Tap water supply: 3.33 billion ton · Tap water supply: 3.85 billion ton · Tap water supply: 4.51 billion ton Base Business · Metropolitan Water Operational Level: 67.7% · Metropolitan Water Operational Level:71.6% · Metropolitan Water Operational Level: 75% · Land sales amount: 169.8 billion won · Land sales amount: 1,145.8 billion won · Land sales amount: 1,755.6 billion won Achieving · New and renewable energy: 91.5GWh · New and renewable energy: 1,025GWh · New and renewable energy: 1,063GWh Sustainable Growth Growth dynamic · Waterworks Customers: 1.770 million · Waterworks Customers: 719 million · Waterworks Customers: 1,724 million Blue Water business · Overseas water supply population: 310,000 · Overseas water supply population: 898 million · Overseas water supply population: 2,370 million · Overseas sales revenue: 4.4 billion won · Overseas sales revenue 331.5billion won · Overseas sales revenue 886.1 billion won Financial soundness · Operating profit rate: 10.7% · Operating profit rate: 13.6% · Operating profit rate: 17.7% · Sales increase rate: 6.9% · Sales increase rate: 14.3% · Sales increase rate: 12.9% Invest in R&D & · Core technology securing: 87% · Core technology securing: 80% · Core technology securing: 100% Securing Global Fostering Human · Index of professional human resources: 31.2 · Index of professional human resources: 34 · Index of professional human resources: 35 Competitiveness Resources · Leadership index: 6.59 · Leadership index: 7.8 · Leadership index: 8.5 Corporate culture · Trust Index: 64 · Trust Index: 73 · Trust Index: 80 White Water · Innovative mileage: 9 · Innovative mileage: 14 · Innovative mileage: 15 ※ Trust Index : Average 87 Points for U.S. Fortune 100 Advanced Corporates │Development Stage of K-water Sustainable Management│ · Declaration of the Sustainable Management Vision & Strategy Step1 Adoption Stage · Establishment of the Sustainable Management Mid-to-Long-term Plans · Publication of Sustainable Management Reports (’04~’05) · Establishment of an Environmental Management Structure & Expansion of Programs · Foundation of the “Water Love Sharing” Social Volunteer Group · Adopt 6 Sigma as a Management Innovation Tool Step2 Development Stage · Establishment of a Customer-oriented CRM Master Plan · Introduction of the Environmental Performance Patent & Tap Water LCA (’06~’07) · Extension of Social Contribution Activities towards Local Societies & the Elderly · Strengthening of the Ethical Management & Management Transparency · More Specialization & Systematization of Social Contribution Activities Step3 Stabilization Stage · Implementation & Management of the Mid-to-Long-term Master Plan · Enhance Corporate Brand Value through Sincere Social Responsibility (’08~’15) · Achieve an Integrated Global Water Service Corporation that is Respected K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 13 Strategy ●Sustainable Management Implementation CEO Organization Board of Directors Auditor General K-water operates 4 divisions at the head office, with 8 local headquarters and 32 nation-wide management Senior Executive Vice President offices (construction offices) to effectively implement Advisory Oragnization Managemenet Services sustainable management company-wide. Under the Department · K-water Management Adivisory council direction of the senior executive vice president, the · Customer Participation Committee Supervises Sustainable · Water Environment, Health Advisory Management Services Department is in charge of committee Management the overall sustainable management, providing stake · Quality of Rap Water Council · Dam construction Local councils holders with transparent information through the Sustainable Report which is published annually. At the GyeongAdminiWater Water 4River same time, K-water operates advisory committees and strative Resources Supply Green Business Oversea Business in Ara Waterway Restoration District Business Services Business Business Business councils to collect diverse opinions and suggestions Division Division Division Division Division Business Division Division Division regarding the economy, environment and society. ●Sustainable Creative Management K-water will complement its mid-to-long-term strategic management plans by using preventative measures Leaping into environment-friendly global to minimize the effects of water related disasters and Vision safely secure water resources to establish new growth low carbon green enterprise engines that reflect new management environment policies. Through these efforts, K-water will further strengthen its public services to help in national Establishment of Strengthening of Expansion of bases development and enhance public welfare. Through Strategy global green enterprise global low carbon for enterprise green selected and focused strategies, K-water will focus on management system competitiveness management developing the 3 major growth engines that include the advancement of local Water & Waste Water services, overseas expansion, and the growth of low carbon · GMS structuring and · Realization of low carbon · Strengthening of certification green business premises green management green businesses. Improvements will also be made in internalization program · Accomplishing EPE index Management of the efficiency of existing facilities, while participating in of 140 greenhouse gas · Strengthening of · Publication of sustainable reduction result internal review for related new business opportunities in order to achieve ISO appropriateness management report Tap water carbon report verification sustainable growth. The economic performance and accomplish highest cover registration (A+) Enhancement of energy · Purchase of low carbon derived from these endeavors will be shared with all Tasks · Support structuring of in business premises green product stakeholders. For more details, please refer to the the SME environment Expansion of US 5-Star · DEVELOPMENT of management system water purification plant environment-friendly “Business Implementation Strategy and Structure” on water resource · Undertaking to designate · Expansion of new pages 16 & 17. green enterprise recycled energy · Reduction of waste · Review for ISO development material and recycling 9001/14001 renewal · Opening of greenhouse gas discharge ●Sustainable Environmental Management information Since 2002 K-water has declared internally and externally its environmental management objectives and as such, has continuously carried-out management policies based on environmental-friendliness. K-water Measurement EPE 2010 2011 2013 2019 Index Index 137 140 150 160 has also converted its management structure so as to create harmony between economical performance and the environment. The Environmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) system was setup to systematically manage the environmental effects from business activities and the environmental management performance. At the same time, the strategic implementation of Balanced Score Cards (BSC) is managed by establishing the EPE index to achieve continuous performances and improvements. K-water's environment management surpasses existing legal environmental performance management levels. Its environment management is continuously being upgraded to create new environmental values through risk prevention and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). K-water is promoting environmentally-friendly communications through the publication of the Sustainable management report. Through the Report, 14 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report communications with stake holders have been enhanced, while greater │K-water's Social Responsibility Management Direction│ transparency has been achieved in terms of access to information provided. K-water is taking the lead in environmental management by strengthening Transparent, Ethical Management Customer-oriented Management its global environmental management position through the above activities. A “Master Plan to Counter Climate Change” was established in December K-water is focusing its efforts K-water is creating a great 2009 to actively participate in international and domestic green house gas to carry-out transparent & impression by providing reduction policies. As part of its efforts, K-water has strengthened its carbon credible management activities customers with clean water & the & processes. Efforts are being highest water supply services. management system by establishing its internal carbon reduction targets, made to make sure that ethical preventing floods and drought, by optimizing the climate change adjustment management takes root as part of the corporate culture in the daily system, and preserving the ecology of water bodies and bio-diversity. work and life of all employees & Greater emphasis has also been placed on carrying-out its responsibilities executives. in the environment sector by strengthening reservoir water quality and river Strategy management, creating Environmentally-friendly spaces at the areas adjacent Human Rights Management & Win-Win Partnership Safety/Health to dams, and securing environmental soundness for the Green New Deal initiative. Taking into consideration all K-water is seeking to achieve In particular, with the enactment of the 「Frame Act of Low Carbon Green the employees’ human rights mutual benefits through and safety/health, K-water is coexistent cooperation such as Growth」 in 2010, the energy management, greenhouse gas management committed to protecting the rights technology transfers through the and social responsibility has been expanded and converted from the existing of minorities such as those with formation of partnerships with disabilities and female employees. cooperative firms. environment management system to the green management system, and accordingly, K-water has been undertaking the green management system certification as newly introduced in 2011. In addition, K-water is committed to strengthen its global green competitiveness through realizing the low carbon business premises with the certification for the carbon indication system in all Human Resource Management Local Community Contributions business premises, designation for green enterprises and others. To enhance employees’ & K-water contributes to executives’ competencies local societies and national and value of life, taking into development through active ●Sustainable Open Management consideration their work social contribution activities by There continues to be greater demand for management transparency of capabilities, K-water supports operating diverse cooperative career development opportunities programs for local societies and public enterprises and environment-oriented management, while the need from the time the employee first the public. for regular communications with customers is growing in importance. enters the corporation until after retirement. K-water's objective is to create a socially sustainable open management by establishing a win-win partnership with each stakeholder to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities. As part of K-water’s 9 major management strategies, the social sustainable management strategy strives to enhance the value of the 6 major internal & external stakeholder groups. │BSC Evaluation Table of Social Responsibility Management│ Provide Provide the Results Aim Optimal Work Best Customer Environment Services Division Remarks 2008 2009 2010 2015 nd Cus Customer Highest Ministry of ls a s tom fficia loyee er Satisfaction 92.6 93.7 97.1 Ranking (Over Strategy and O mp e (PCSI) 90) Finance Institute Clean Anti-corruption Level(Audit Government Operate 9.2 8.99 9.05 Over 9.5 & Civil Rights Efficient Policy & Inspection NGO Consultative Commission Implementation Dept.) Group Social Contribution 81 83 84 90 K-water Index ComLoca ativ e mu l per nity Coo Firm Core Personnel Index 24% 29% 31.2% 34% K-water Social Provide the (Personnel Contribution Best Customer Activities Services Division) * Social Contribution Index: Participation Level x 0.3 + Hours of Activity x 0.4 + Fund Contribution Amount x 0.3 * Core Personnel Index: (PhD x1.5 + Masters Degree x 1 + Technician x 1.5 + 6 Sigma Belt x 1)/Total Personnel K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 15 Strategy Business Strategy K-water will establish a foundation for sustainable growth by creating the new growth engine with an arranged business portfolio by taking into consideration and Structure the business environment and strategy goals by each business strategy unit which includes water resources, waterworks, green growth and oversea business. ●Adjustment of business portfolio for sustainable growth business. The green business strives for 「building up the low carbon green Recently, the 4-river restoration and Ara Waterway have been facilitated to space that leads green growth」 to undertake waterside space amenities, discover new business territories, such as, water-friendly value and green solar energy development, CDM business and others. The overseas business logistics with the extension of business scale and types, resulting in realizing strives for ‘overseas business capability strengthening for leading the global the optimal resource distribution by classifying entire businesses to key water market」 to undertake the comprehensive development for river and businesses, growth engine businesses, and new water type businesses for package-type business expansion (construction, technology export and the purpose of securing the foundation for sustainable growth by creating a operation management) and others. new growth engine on the basis of a core capability base through a business │Corporate-wide Business Structure│ portfolio adjustment. With the main businesses that generate stable profit as the key businesses, and the future focused businesses with a bright Water resource business Tap water business market prospect and equipped with internal capability as the growth engine Practicing integrated water resource Practicing total service for tap water businesses, the R&D-oriented investment businesses have been classified as management in response to the that leads the water industry climate change • Multi-regional waterworks the new water type businesses to strengthen the selection and concentration. • Water resource development management • Local water and sewer services • Facilitation of water-friendly value • Tailored water service │Creating the Business Portfolio│ • Water resource information and technology Infrastructure Growth Engine New water type Business Business business Integrated service company in overall water circulation Green business Overseas businesses Stable Earnings Sources New growth base Developing future market Building-up the green space of low Strengthening of overseas business · Water Resource · Water Resource information · Facilitation of water-friendly Development & Management and technology value carbon that leads the green growth capability for leading global water · Multi-regional Waterworks · Local Waterworks · Tailored use of water • Building-up green city and industrial market · Green City, Industrial · Establishment of Water· Green logistics complex • ODA Complex friendly Space · New & Renewable Energy · Oversea Business • Building-up the water-friendly space • Technology service • New and renewable energy • Investment • Green logistics ●Business Vision & Strategies K-water established its business vision and has implemented strategies by segmenting its overall business into the water resources business, water ●Water Resource Business supply business and green growth sectors, for the purpose of analyzing A new national water management goal has been presented to respond business conditions, value chains and business portfolios. The water to the increasing damages from droughts and floods caused by climate resources business is focused on “Achieving an Integrated Water Resource changes. In order to respond to climate changes, K-water has undertaken Management System to Counter Climate Change.” This business sector’s sufficient steps to secure water resources through 4-river restoration activities include, securing sufficient water resources, operating & managing business, environment-friendly green dam construction and improvement dams scientifically by utilizing IT-based technology, strengthening the of existing dam utilities. The 4-river restoration business will be completed management of water quality and quantity, and expanding participation in by 2012, securing 1.3 billion ㎥/year of water and increasing 920 million ㎥ of river related businesses. The Water Supply business sector strives to “Provide flood adjusting volume. In addition, with the dimension capability increasing a Total waterworks Solution to Lead the Growth in the Water Industry.” It business and IT-based u-Dam safety structuring, the improvement of is contemplating entering into new water related business areas such as safety for water resource facilities has been undertaken. In order to secure establishing a stable water supply system, expanding the out-contracting the stability of dams in times of extreme flooding, the 23-dam dimension of local waterworks businesses, and participating in drainage/industrial capability improvement projects will be completed by 2017, and it plans to water businesses. The Green Growth business sector’s aim is to “Create secure long-term and mid-term stability and structure scientific dimension a New Business Model that Merges Water with Greenness.” Some of the response system in response to droughts and floods. As well, K-water activities include achieving low carbon green distribution, fostering specialized is undertaking disaster prevention and management advancement by complexes which utilize valuable water, advancing into foreign water markets structuring the disaster prevention and management system with advanced overseas, and the development of new & renewable energy development. IT technologies for dam rainfall forecasting and weather forecasting system The projects have been classified based on business priorities as follows: structuring and others. K-water will structure the ICT-based integrated infrastructure business, growth engine business and next generation water management system through the integrated management of the 16 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report basin unit and water distribution – cost payment system through connecting in consideration of futuristic urban development that facilitates the water dam – river – weir and connection of quantity and water quality. In addition, environment such as, Sihwa MTV around Sihwa Lake and Songsan Green K-water has promoted water-side space amenities by water-friendly City, IMPROVEMENT of national income, change in leisure patterns, value facilitation commercialization, expansion of facilitating environment high ageing population and others. In addition, on the basis of 40 years improving water and securing river area ecology and environment health. of experience in major hydraulic power operation and management, technology in new and renewable energy development of K-water, it ●Water Supply Business undertakes to supply new and renewable energy of 1,000 GWh along In order to realize the total water service that leads the water industry, with the greenhouse gas reduction business by 1,000GWh. Through the K-water is committed to accomplishing sales revenue of 2.8 trillion won and Gyeongin Ara Waterway business that will be opened in October 2011, the 17 .24 million population for domestic water supply by 2019 through clean low carbon green logistics will be realized along with the brand waterway and safe water supply, water and sewer integrated-type business structure where culture, leisure and tourism will be represented in the 8 sceneries of as well as high added-value tailored water supply. For this purpose, K-water Suhyang. Strategy will supply high quality tap-water by securing a water flux of 19,107,000㎥/day, a 75% operation rate for multi-regional waterworks, enhancement of 8 aged ●Oversea Business water purification plants, and the improvement of 300㎞ of worn out pipes Following the global water industry structure revision, K-water has by 2019. As well, K-water will respond to the water-sewer integrated water made business adjustment considering the new business territory and industry development policy of the government and expand the water-sewer management condition to undertake the overseas business capability integrated business for strengthening the international competitiveness strengthening to strengthen the realization of sustainable growth. K-water to realize the total water service by undertaking consigned business for 19 has a plan to facilitate emerging countries and advance country-oriented regions and 96 local governments by 2019. With the expansion of industrial investment businesses from the under-developed country-oriented public water and renewable water market participation through securing future development and expand the business territory to the comprehensive core technologies, K-water will take over the future water market. For such development of river and package-type business including water, sewer purposes, it plans to prepare the tailored water supply base by conforming to and hydro-power generation businesses. On the basis of accumulated the customers needs by undertaking the investment business for 8 cases of businesses experience and local networks through ODA and technology industrial water business and 5 units of renewable service facilities by 2019 to service business, K-water discovers and promotes highly profitable lead the tailored water market by jointly undertaking with private enterprises investment business (BOT, M&A and others) and is expected to serve 23.7 as well as the development of the domestic water industry. million people for an overseas service population and 886.1 billion won of sales revenue. For this purpose, it plans to expand the participating market, ●Green Business diversification of business types, and strengthens the risk management Green Growth has become a new paradigm in economic and social around the hub country. │2019 Future Platform│ development. K-water has undertaken steps to build up low carbon green K-water is committed to resspaces that lead to green growth. Water-friendly zones are fully undertaken ponding to the low carbon Company that in the 4-river restoration and Ara Waterway sites and supplies 5.5% of green growth policies through generates value of water domestic new and renewable energy development by 2019, and generate water that has unlimited (Blue Water) the marine logistics through the Ara Waterway infra, and fully advance value and undertake the new Comprehensive into the watering-friendly value facilitating business, such as, tourism, growth driven businesses service Competent Company with company leisure and others, try to accomplish sales of 1.9 trillion won in 2019. The to realize the sustainable worldwide company for the worlds best evaluated in respect market plan is to undertake the systematic development of water-friendly space development. (Green Water) water (White Water) │K-water business objective│ Dam water supply volume (million ㎥) Multi-regional waterworks supply volume (million ㎥) Sales revenue for new city – complex development (KRW 100 million won) 2010 2019 2010 2019 2010 2019 5,045 6,007 3,326 4,512 1,698 17,556 Sales revenue for overseas business (KRW 100 million won) Local waterworks supply population (1,000 people) Sales revenue for recycled energy and others (KRW 100 million won) 2010 2019 2010 2019 2010 2019 44 8,861 1,769 17,244 393 974 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 17 Strategy Creative Innovation K-water promotes creative innovation practices to achieve its vision despite the fast and ever-changing business environment. Management ●Implementation Direction of K-water’s Creative ㅣ3 major core values ㅣ Global Innovations K-water Culture Although K-water achieved the highest innovation evaluation innovation level for public-services at level 6 in 2007, it continues to actively III Development of global Stage organization capability promote creative innovations to secure global competitiveness -6-sigma confirmation and settlement despite the fast and ever-changing global business environment. (’11~) -Focusing on innovation of ‘working method’ Software -Ordinary daily affairs of innovative activities Upgrade K-water is doing whatever's possible to embody an innovativeII Process system/ based and active mentality for each employee by systematically Stage innovation Acceleration in management innovation -6-sigma settlement operating Creative Innovation Communities of Practice (CoP), (’08~’09) -Settlement of independent innovation rule Hardware Upgrade promoting knowledge management to provide concrete support I Structuring management innovation infra to the work being carried-out on-site, and improving practices Stage -Process and organization re-design -6-sigma introduction, JOA program introduction pertaining to the organizational culture based on the 3 core (’06~’07) values, which includes purity, passion and creativity. ●K-water’s Proprietary Creative Innovation Practice K-Sigma Structure (*K-sigma) K-water’s innovative practice structure is organically linked to the BSC, Creative Implementation CoP and knowledge management. As the BSC is a core performance index required to achieve K-water’s strategic objectives, various activities are JOA+ 6-sigma Customization of workout Research CoP needed such as the 6 Sigma, JOA(Converted GE Work-out technique of GE Methodology into K-water’s own.), and Creative Implementation CoP of the Research CoP. These diverse creative innovation · Strategy implementation · Resolve inveterate issues · Creation of Knowledge in departments practices have been re-established as K-sigma, K-water’s · Problem-solving · Voluntary Learning to Techniques through · Short-term improvement Exchange Work-related proprietary CoP implementation brand. Performance results Actual & Statistical activity (less than 3 Knowledge & Current gained through CoP activities under the K-sigma brand consists Methodologies months) Information of knowledge management (KM) which is based on knowledge · Top-Down Method for · Voluntary Improvement Coming-up with Tasks Activities if Required by proposals, and a circulation structure that is shared by Departments On-site employees through organizational cultural activities. ㅣStrategic Structure to Achieving K-water’s Vision & Realizing Value ㅣ What is CoP? Core K-sigma Values CoP (Communities of Practice) is a gathering of employees that generates an outcome by improving the works as a result of discussing the Mission/ Strategic ImplemenStrategic Performance Vision Direction tation ImplemenEvaluation common agenda for certain period and sharing Strategy tation the knowledge to accomplish strategy and realizing the corporate vision. Management BSC Policies 18 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Case Studies of Creative Innovation Activity that users such as customers, corporates, or academia may have on a Implementations real-time basis. The policy to embrace customer proposals is operated as ▶ Implementing Leader-oriented Voluntary Innovation Activities part of knowledge management to utilize the diverse and creative ideas K-water is actively supporting leader-oriented voluntary innovation activities provided through diverse sources, such as general customers, cooperative to incorporate creative innovation practices for all employees. Led by onfirms, and in management operations. Existing scattered work manuals site department heads, including regional executive directors, required are arranged and provided on the basis of 111 core work cases, and these tasks to create customer value are voluntarily selected and implemented. manuals structure and operate the Wiki-method management system to Department heads actively participate in and display support leadership complete by the participation of employees. In addition, it is connected to the in implementing the selected tasks. The tasks are continuously evaluated KMS system to enable the knowledge proposal submittal through blog and in stages to enhance the performance of these tasks. Next, the results network facilitation between individuals and organizations through company of the tasks are presented to each division on an intermediate basis and Blog, and it adds the reply function for users on knowledge proposals to presented to the entire corporation through the Creative Innovation Festival. facilitate knowledge management. Strategy Excellent case samples are selected, shared, and dispersed companywide. Consultants are also sent out to the regional headquarters to provide ●Creating Creative Innovation Performances customized consultant services catering to work and duties on-site. Creative innovative performance Through these consultant services, special lectures are provided to upgrade presentations and the creative their knowledge in advance work methodologies and to enhance work innovation magazine, “O! Culture,” improvement competencies. The training of innovation expert personnel are published and distributed (6 sigma Belt Certified Personnel) is the backbone to continuous creative enabling everyone to share in the innovation activities. performance of creative innovation activities. Case examples of these ▶ Enhancing Creative Innovation Minds activities have also been distributed. Innovation related special lectures such as “Speed Management required Awarded the Asian MAKE Award Through excellent case example for Leader Innovation,” and “Strengthening On-site Oriented Innovation presentations to the Knowledge Activities” are provided to enhance employee creativity. Voluntary Management Society and the Public Innovation Conference, K-water was organizational cultural improvement activities are also held which focus able to spread its excellent innovation activities outside the corporation. on the 3 core values, which are Purity, Passion and Creativity, and which As a result, K-water was the first public-service in Korea to be selected as incorporate the CEO’s management philosophy. the “Most Respected Knowledge Management Corporation” by Teleos, a UK institution, resulting in K-water receiving the globally respected and ▶ Opening Knowledge Network and Volunteer Knowledge-based prestigious “Asian MAKE (Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise)” award for Activities three consecutive years. K-water is distributing expert knowledge through diverse networks with external water professional firms, cooperative firms and outside customers. Through the Waterpedia portal system that was established in 2007, K-water is sharing its water technology internally, and technological information with the industrial, academic and institutional sector. By opening the dam related “Damquitious” system, K-water provides information regarding dam construction designs and technology in its entirety. In this way, K-water is able to solve any concerns or problems 5,411 Cases, 2010 Knowledge Proposals Creative Innovation Festival K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 19 Strategy Sustainable R&D On the basis of strengthening research capabilities and the creation of technology value, we are committed to growing into a “Global Water Management Research Investments Institute that Grows with its Customers.” ●K-water R&D Strategy Securing of high added value and core technology through R&D Focusing on strategies Efficiency of resource/organization Maximization of value creation Brand technology Selection and concentration High added value • Linkage of midto long-term strategic • Strengthening of R&D investment in new • Undertaking for branding through practical management scheduling and Core Tech businesses, such as, responding to climate use and commercialization of technology 1080 changes • Continuous securing of future element • BUSINESS and technology strategy• Distribution of HR and budget resources technology and technology capabilities oriented R&D (Top-down method) linking with 4-river businesses K-water established its Technology Innovation Plan (CoreTech 1080) in ㅣStatus of open R&D ㅣ (Unit: KRW 100 million won, Case) December of 2008, and plans to achieve technological levels reaching over 90% of advanced nations’ levels through investments of KRW 108 30.3 billion by 2017. As such, in order to secure the core technologies by 2010 28 (5 major star brand technologies: ①Water resource climate change 20 adopting technology ②Dam-river connection operation technology ③ 21.6 16 Water integrated examination system technology ④High-level practical 6.7 membrane separation technology ⑤Future-based technology), it 12 concentrated on 56 projects out of the 75 research projects (75%) and invested KRW 8.7 billion out of the R&D budget of KRW 13 billion (67%). 3 In addition, K-water has a series of processes ranging from research, development and commercialization outside to maximize the creation of 2007 2008 2009 2010 high added value and it has continued to carry-out its [Small & Medium Amount Supported Number of promoting projects Enterprise Support Business] and [Water Industry Core Sector R&D Support Business]. ●R&D Performance ㅣStatus of open R&D for '10 ㅣ K-water invests more than 7% of revenue related to waterworks and dam towards R&D, carrying-out 87 projects annually on average. An average Support project Processing development for Korea University high level nano-membrane for of 448 research Treatise(2005~2009) are published annually as a result of for core fields of and others hardness removal and others projects carried out, while intellectual property rights, including patents, water industry 1,070 million won – 7 projects continue to increase. At the end of 2010, the “Algal-bloom removal vessel” Development task for Hyupsung Hisco was developed and we received recognition for the technology as it won the Support project for measurement equipment for Co., Ltd. and SME technology grand prize for national green technology. innovation portable motor efficiency and others for 205 other – 5 projects million won 20 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report I Research Project & Budget I I Published Research Treatise I I Patent Application & Registration Status I (Unit: KRW 100 million won, Case) (Unit: case) (Unit: case) 130 58 43 106 102 496 467 462 88 38 97 61 24 21 89 313 30 85 75 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Research funds Research project Number of issued papers Patent pending Registration Strategy Water Analysis Research Center The Nation's Largest Flowmeter Calibration System In Water & Sewage Research and Education Center Treatment Demonstration Plant ●R&D Infrastructure K-water operates a world-class waterworks and a sewage research & training center which has a technology research & training support institution, an internationally certified control facility in the first domestic water level measurement sector, and a flow control system that has the largest diameter in Korea at 800mm. In addition, it has a specialized institution for facilities safety examination that undertakes on-site surveys and safety examinations on the facilities, such as, repairing facilities, ports, bridges, tunnels and others as well as professional certification institution for quality tests. The Water Quality Analysis Research Center has advanced into one of the top 4 largest water analysis research centers has been operated (environment measurement equipment, soil, drinking water, and water quality test) for public certification institutions as it is designated as a private institution for viruses and animals for the first time in Korea, and it has established a “500 Criteria Pool Water Quality Analysis” through the new establishment of a harmful substance analysis law to implement the precise water quality test. ●R&D external cooperation Through the strengthening of networks with global research institutions, K-water seeks to accelerate the global standard and has undertaken international joint researches and technology exchange projects. (Status of overseas MOUs: UNESCAP and 24 institutions) Russia National Commission at Large Dam (RNCOLD) (Russia) Waterworks Technology Center Japan National Commission at Large Dam (JNCOLD) (Japan) World Water Council(WWC: France) (Germany) Waterworks Technology Center(Japan) China National Commission at Large Dam Public Works Research Institute(Japan) (CNCOLD) (China) CSU(U.S.) Ministry of Electricity & Water (Iran) Japan Weather Association (Japan) International Corporation and science technology USEPA(U.S.) of Water Resource Department(China) National Institute for Agro-Environmental Sciences(Japan) UNESCAP(Thailand) UNDP(U.S.) Water Resource Department of Yanbian Korean Orange County(U.S.) AIT(Thailand) Puncak Research Center(Malaysia) Autonomous Prefecture (China) China Institute of Water Resources and Hydropower Research (China) The first PJT(India) Water Resources Commission, Yangzi, China (China) UNEP(Kenya) The second PJT(India) CSIRO(Australia) K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 21 Approach 24_Corporate Governance / 25_Ethical, Transparent Management 26_Customer Happy Management / 28_Mutual Growth with stakeholders / 30_ Communication with stakeholders / 32_Risk Management Water is the Guardian! To a young tree fatigued from the scorching heat in summer, water is the vital source of life. Clean water containing sky and nature becomes the mirror to look back on itself. The powerful flow of a river becomes the fence to protect from dangers. Profound and blue water that takes care of all and communicates with all and flows through all places to harmonize with all of us into one. K-water builds up a greater understanding and affection through water that protects us from all possible threats. Approach Approach Corporate Governance Utilizing expertise, greater participation by non-permanent directors in management is contributing to improvements in corporate governance. ●Share holder Structure advance, and by immediately providing the required data, it supports them In accordance to the Korea Water Resources Corporation Act, K-water's to make correct decisions and management participation. In addition, investors are limited to the Korea Development Bank (KDB), central for enhancing the management capability of non-permanent directors, government and local governments. The central government has to invest observation is provided for the water resource facilities, construction more than 50% of the total capital. Currently, K-water's shareholders sites, and dam and water purification plant operation status to have a are comprised of the central government (90.9%), KOFC (9.0%) and local comprehensive understanding of on-site management capabilities. By governments (0.1%) in 2010. combining the management understanding of non-permanent directors through the foregoing processes and professional knowledge of non●Composition & Operations of the Board of Directors permanent directors, active external management activities by those nonThe Board of Directors (BoD), the highest decision-making body, deliberates permanent directors on national policy have been undertaken, resulting in and passes resolutions on K-water’s major issues such as business plans, significant management outcome by changing the perception of people on taking into consideration economical, social and environmental factors. national projects and others. The BoD oversees the duties of senior management and provides support to management. The BoD is comprised of 15 directors, 7 permanent and ㅣ Board of Directors (As of the end of August 2011) ㅣ 8 non-permanent directors, and the chairman is served by a senior nonDirectors Name Title permanent director that contributes to reasonable checks and balances Kim, Kuen Ho President to improve the control structure of public enterprise and executives. The general meetings of the board of directors in 2010 were held for a total of Cho, Jung-hyun Executive Audit Member 14 times to deliberate and process 43 agendas, and in addition, through Internal Kim, Wan Kyu Senior Executive Vice President 2 non-permanent director meetings, 6 work bull sessions and 4 special Executives Choi, Won Sik Executive Director of Administrative Services Division committee meetings, it has undertaken an active role in providing a (Permanent) Yum, Kyung Taek Business Executive Director of Water Resource Division management proposal by reviewing overall management affairs in-depth for K-water. Choi, Hong Gyu Business Executive Director of Water Supply Division Park, Gee Hwan Business Executive Director of Green Business ●Activity Evaluation of the Board of Directors Chairman (Professor, Dept. of Construction and Urban Song, Jae Woo With respect to the activities of the K-water board of directors, it is under Technology, Hongik Univ.) the objective evaluation in diverse fields of management proposals, system Kim, Kye Hyun Inha University, Professor of Civil / Environmental /Geoinformatic Engineering Department operations, attendance rates and others under the management evaluation Grand National Party, Daejeon Metropolitan City and internal evaluation each year. In addition, permanent directors are Song, Byeong Dae Party Committee Head Internal paid on a performance-based salary in accordance with the government Executives Professor of the Dept of Management at Catholic Cho, Hyun yeon evaluation result. The evaluation contents are organized with a quantified (NonUniversity outcome and a non-quantified outcome and it evaluates with the inclusion Permanent) Yoo, Byung-ro Professor of the Dept of Environment Engineer at Hanbat University of an outcome and effort. Park, Tae Woo Editorialist of Frontier times ●Management Participation & Expertise Enhancement of Kim, Yeong Gwan Chairman of Asia Exchange Association Non-permanent Directors Park, Yeong Hgwan CEO & Lawer of Viision International Law Firm The board of directors of K-water solidifies the subjects for review, resolutions, and expands the scope of reports to strengthen the function ●Internal Audit & External Supervision Institution for review and resolution on important matters of management in its K-water operates an independent internal Audit & Inspection department activities. In addition, the company information network is broadly open to supervise the appropriateness and impartiality of the work carried-out. to non-permanent directors to provide support for them to acquire the Through the supervision of the public office disciplines and regular audits, management information of permanent Directors level in real time to management transparency is improving. The internal Audit & Inspection expand their participation in management and improve the decisiondepartment’s auditor may be called upon to make statements to the BoD. making capability of non-permanent directors. Furthermore, through The auditor is also prepared to faithfully answer to any audits by the Board the work bull session as small-scale management activities of the board of Audit & Inspection, Parliamentary Inspection, Ministry of Land, Transport of directors, the agenda for the board of directors are strengthened in and Maritime Affairs and the Prime Minister’s Office. 24 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Ethical / Transparent K-water is a corporation that places great importance on individual and corporate ethics. K-water is gaining the trust & credibility of the Management stakeholders through global ethical & transparent management. ●Clean Corporation, Producing Clean Water ●Achieving Stakeholder-oriented Corporate Ethics Internally, we have to realize a fair organizational culture with the practice K-water is initiating diverse activities based on its management principles, of ethical management, and externally, we have to fulfill our corporate ethical management organization and systems to enhance trust between social responsibilities to progress into an even a more reliable company itself and its customers, employees & executives, cooperative firms for people. (President Kun-Ho Kim, January 2011)” and society in general. To eliminate customer rights infringements and K-water is aggressively pursuing ethical management as the basic dissatisfaction, various policies have been revised. In another effort to foundation since it provides a strong competitive platform. In 2009, K-water enhance transparency, K-water allows customers to directly participate in especially focused on re-establishing its core values to help achieve its vision, the implementation of projects. By providing ethical training focused on actual accepting ethical management as its primary management target, and case studies and operating labor support policies related to the welfare and initiating its target of becoming a global ethical management corporation. health of all employees & executives, K-water is pursuing its ethical activities It has taken powerful steps toward corporate enterprise. In addition, it in connection by providing high quality water supply services. has strengthened its organization exclusively for ethics by introducing the A win-win cooperative relationship is maintained with cooperative firms Audit Committee in 2010, and further strengthened its internal regulations, through a coexistent council to achieve mutual growth. In addition, the such as establishing a Code of Ethics in research and made the effort in an monitoring system on all steps of contracts has been established between advanced ethics system by operating the ‘Ethical Committee’ as the highest K-water and the cooperative firms. These measures have been established policy making organization for ethical management and a “Clean Reporting to ensure a continuous healthy and sustainable partnership. K-water is also Center,” a place where employees can voluntary return received gifts on its expanding its worldclass low way to showing the result as the selection as the outstanding institution of carbon green growth projects Approach integrity and public contribution in 2010 by the Anti-corruption & Civil Rights to create social benefits, which Commission of Korea for its efforts for all officers and employees. is an obligation that is required for public corporations. ㅣ 2010 Integrity level of public institutions : High level Instition ㅣ Efforts are also being taken to carry-out global standard 0%, 4 6 Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) by linking projets 2 8 Rate of omission for with strategic domestic and integrated management overseas social contribution notification Awarded the Grand Award for Transparent Accounting as the first one in public-service activities. (June 2010) K-water Integrity level of institution:9.05 Executive’s Clean Ethical Management Practice Pledge (August 2010) Action Learning of Ethical Practice Project (April 2011) Entering into Green Partnership with SME(November 2010) K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 25 Approach Customer Happy Management Realization of an ultra-human service company with trust from customers with its creative CS management. ●Accomplishing the highest level of customer satisfaction for intention to provide proactive and professional services to its customers. public enterprises through the strategic CS management It is facilitated in the CS standardization and service improvement, such system as, front-line employee uniforms, business cards, placards, various CS For positively responding to internal and external environment changes and activities and others. Through these efforts, K-water has acquired the increasing the demand of people for high-quality water service, K-water highest rating for four consecutive years in customer satisfaction for public has systematized its customer satisfaction strategy and branded its enterprise under the management of the Ministry of Strategy and Finance service. First, in order to secure service differentiation and competitiveness, with the highest score in history (97.1 points), 4.2 points higher than the it has set forth the CS vision in ‘K-water Building up Enriched Lives of overall average of public enterprise in 2010, and it was selected as the Customers’ and customer value in ‘Comfort, security one-step advanced outstanding institution for information disclosure, as a sign of recognition trust’ on the basis of enterprise participation and consensus. Following the for the CS management of K-water as the highest in public enterprises. 3 strategic directions in CS management under the ‘High level of the CS system, customer needs management systemization, and service quality ●VOC (voice of customer)-based management improvement strengthening’, it has undertaken 9 strategic tasks such as customerand solution for customer inconvenience oriented process efficiency and other tasks as well as 42 practical tasks, K-water facilitates diversified outcome monitoring and exchanges with and by significantly improving the internal / external service processes, a systematic VOC collection under the all-phase network of diverse K-water has been able to prevent customer dissatisfaction, resulting stakeholders, VOC analysis by the integrated VOC management system in enhanced customer loyalty. Simultaneously, amongst SOC public(customer portal), enterprise VOC sharing for market resources and services, K-water was the first to adopt the ‘Service Identity (SI)’ to be able to customer satisfaction, a customer center in Happy Call, VOC timely effectively provide special customer satisfaction services to customers, and processing rate and others to realize the systematic and systemized to highlight how its services differentiate from other SOC public-services. VOC management as the original resource for customer satisfaction and For the foregoing purpose, K-water has remarkably improved its internal management improvement. For solving the problems due to a lack of and external service process, and by strengthening the advance prevention understanding of people on the 4-river restoration business and conflict of customer complaints to enhance customer loyalty. Furthermore, in thereof, efforts have been made to enhance the understanding of people order to effectively convey customer satisfaction only for K-water and on the 4-river restoration business and improvement of trust through emerge with the differentiation from other competing institutions, such as structuring of local governance, such as 4-River Win-Win Council and local governments, and others, it has had its service identity branded for the others, strengthening opinion for local communities, such as, holding bull first time as the SOC public enterprise. sessions and others, operation of various advisory groups and publicity The service identity, ‘Water-Pro Service,’ reflects K-water’s strong supporters of college students, such as river-side ecology and environment ㅣ Survey result of CS major outcome index and Public Service Satisfaction index ㅣ 97.1 93.7 Major outcome index 2008 2009 2010 93.5 92.6 Highest grade Highest grade Highest grade Customer satisfaction of public-enterprises (92.6 points) (93.7 points) (97.1 points) Customer satisfaction of local water service 75.4 75.8 77.8 92.9 Satisfaction for happy call 74.2 84.0 91.5 92 89.2 89.3 VOC times processing rate 98.8% 99.0% 99.4% ※ Public Service Satisfaction index (hosted by the Ministry of Planning and Finance): Implementing grade system from 2007, highest rating (outstanding) – 90 points or higher ※ Customer satisfaction of local water service (consigned survey from external institution): 77.8 points of customer satisfaction for 2010 exceeded 6.8 points than the customer satisfaction of water service of 71 points for customer satisfaction 2007 2008 2009 2010 ※ VOC timely processing rate: Processing rate within the processing period of civil petition (99.4%: from 2,821 cases of civil petition in 2010, 16 cases have exceeded the time) Score for public Average for public corporation enterprise 26 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report advisory conferences and others for collecting diverse opinions and for preventing water meter ruptures caused by freezing in the winter (63,775 successful business undertaking (55 teams and 199 persons), planned units), free implementation of indoor leakage searches (4,582 cases), report, press report, bull session with reporters and other press publicity expansion of water-friendly tests (19,813 cases) and others. campaign efforts. For the strengthening of the dam, lake and tap-water quality and ●High level of service quality by establishing service enhancement of reliability, K-water has undertaken water quality standard and monitoring improvements and enhanced people’s opinion on reliability by expanding For establishing service standards and improving service quality, the the water quality confirmation system, strengthening the water quality Customer Charter and service performance standard have been fully accident responding capability, implementing more stringent water quality revised and it has the expansion of ‘Water-Pro’, the service identity of standards than the legal standard, expansion of water quality information public corporation with Water-Pro uniforms for all front office employees, disclosure, expansion of water purification plant for US Water Association appearance standard, photo business card, actual name system card, and 5-Star (world highest level) (5 places → 13 places), expansion of Water-Tour ID presentation as an obligatory service. (field trip for dam and water service facilities and others), undertaking tapIn addition, K-water has introduced ‘service quality index (SQI)’ as the water drinking campaign and others. In addition, in order to improve the advanced service evaluation system that is linked to the CS strategy reasonable charge system of dam water and multi-regional water system, implementation to minimize the customer dissatisfaction with the intense it has undertaken for exemption or reduction of charges in the environment management of core service a6 and prevention of defects in entire service improving water with the public-benefit functions (50~100%), support of process and it operates 6 core indices in inspection service satisfaction, water processing costs for original water and sediment water following dissatisfaction VOC occurrence rate, compliance rate to dispose the civil water quality, expansion of discount on additionally used volume of multipetition and others to have the comprehensive quality management system regional waterworks and others. by service monitoring method and data measurement method. For solving customer inconveniences and their needs in advance by It has developed and operates the CS manual for specialization, high facilitating specialized technology and knowhow, it has facilitated the largeservice level and customer satisfaction for K-water Customer Center as diameter fluid-crossing gate for the pipeline for the first time in Korea to well as newly established the ‘K-water Ombudsman System’ to dispose of resolve the inconvenience from the water supply cut-off for 740,000 people. civil complaints, and it has operated the IT-based advance service system Furthermore, it has expanded the before service with strengthening of with the operation of mobile (Smartphone) information service, e-mail and Approach water supply stability by improving the worn-out pipes (24.9㎞) and others, SMS notice and other electronic billing notices, address alimi (information) developing and free supply of frozen water meter rupture prevention pack service introduction and others. 7 Year, Freezing of water price in succession 99.4 Timely procedding rate of 2010 VOC Non-outage/Media Reporting of Frozen Water Service quality index (SQI) process Dispersion of service identity in ‘Water-Pro’ Meter Rupture Prevention Pack Uniform Production of service identity by the employee uniform Customer satisfaction improvement process by standardized service provision/measurement Photo Service SQL Customer Business manual satisfaction card (service (capability process (service improveevaluation) result ment) evaluation) Related category feedback Realname card Obligatory presentation of position and ID of ID person in charge Name improvement CS related name change Other facilitation Placard, PR material and others K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 27 Approach Mutual Growth with K-water is implementing sustainable management strategies that enables mutual growth with stakeholders as coexistent partners through continuous Stakeholders and systematic communication with stakeholders. ●Communication with stakeholders solve any conflicts that have occurred during the implementation processes K-water has established various outsider management participation of projects. An advisory council or committee is comprised of professionals systems to enable stakeholders to directly and indirectly participate from NGOs, academia, media, etc., depending on the requirements needed in management or offer their suggestions. By enabling stakeholders for a specific area. As for local councils, they are mostly comprised of to participate at the decision-making level or during a project's professionals, civil servants and local citizens, and depending on the local implementation process, potential conflicts that could occur during the issue, it enables them to have greater access to management. K-water implementation of a project implementation can be prevented, while works closely with related government institutions such as the Ministry providing transparency and credibility to the stakeholders. In addition, of Land, Transport & Maritime Affairs and the Ministry of Environment on advisory councils or committees have been established to acquire advice on issues such as establishing and implementing policies related to water the overall project. Local councils have also been established to smoothly resources. ㅣ Communication channel for each stakeholder group ㅣ En ter 114 .7 NGO Env hance Wa 2, ir d an nues: n Soc onme le C eve wo Imp ial Re ntalis -R illion ervice En lem spo en nsi m B tS e Tra hance tation bility hes er : Th Hig stom action (97.1 Cre nspar d u s C ati raf de dibi enc lity y & S est G ) B ints Local Customers Po Community Contributing to Local Society Welfare / Safety & Health Contributing to Local Society Fostering Human /esources Social Performance Based -Contributions: 59.7 Billion won Compensation Co Employees & e Su xiste pp n Executives -Pu ort t Co men t Government Me rcha Expa opera age Pro dium se o nsio tion Man vation s Bil duc E f Sm n Inno nes -Sm lion ts:1, nterp all & titive w 1 r Compe ement 3.9 En all on 96. ise anc ax: 3 En terp & M 6 Enh ra te T v r Ma iron ise diu e rp o na m m -Co ion won ge en me tal Bill nt Su pp Cooperative ort Firms 28 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Stakeholder Management Participation executives to collect suggestions regarding major issues of concern, and to K-water listens to suggestions from diverse stakeholders. Various actively reflect these suggestions in management. The VOC system can be communication channels have been established for customers, NGOs, found on K-water’s homepage and anyone can participate. K-water is trying local communities, government, cooperative firms, and employees & to make sure that everyone’s voices are heard. Focus Group NGO/ Customer (Committee, Local Community Advisory Community Discussion Session on Water, TapVOC(Voice of Customer), Customer Participation Council) water Water Quality Council, and Hyo-sharing Committees, and Customer Proposals Center Based on the CEO’s strong determination, K-water collects the opinion of leaders in NGO customers are given priority in all management and local communities to solve the environment activities, and efforts are being made to enhance conflict, form the social reliability and structure the customer values. collaborated local governance for accompanied growth with local community. Government Cooperative Firms Employees & Executives Dispatched from the Ministry of Land, Transport & Labor / Management Council, and the Internal Maritime Affairs, Ministry of Environment, and the Construction Company Coexistent Councils and Intranet Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission of Korea Coexistent Cooperative Homepage Management By maintaining diverse internal communication Approach K-water is working closely with various government Cooperative firms are partners with K-water to channels, walls of authority have been lowered institutions such as the Ministry of Land, Transport & maintain sustainable management. K-water is between constituents, and communication amongst Maritime Affairs and the Ministry of Environment to achieving green growth in its supply networks by employees & executives have been enhanced. successfully implement establishing an environmentally friendly supply This is acting as a catalyst to create a dynamic and government projects and achieve economic network. voluntary organization. recovery. ●●●Focus With the local community: Commendation of the Minister of Public Administration and Security K-water Water Love Volunteers, ‘Jeonbuk Sarangi’, has implemented ’Agriculture Technology Service Activities with Public Institution Coalition‘ through the coalition of public institutions and networks since 2009. K-water, KESCO, and KGS are united to enter into the agreement for social contribution activities and commenced volunteer activities by connecting with the main services of each applicable institution. By providing professional comprehensive service, K-water has been awarded with the commendation of the Minister of Public Administration and Security in December 2010 in recognition of its contribution to local communities and improvement in local resident satisfaction. K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 29 Approach Communication for Through various communication channels with the stakeholders, K-water is continuously communicating with them to discuss major issues, and to actively stakeholders reflect these issues in management policies and initiatives. ●Materiality of Communication with stakeholders Projects initiated by K-water both directly and indirectly affect the various stakeholders. At the same time, the stakeholders significantly influence K-water’s corporate policies. To actively conform to the new environment, corporations need to further their communication with stakeholders. Academic Customers / Local Community / NGO Community Communication with stakeholders is the corporation’s best way to search 2010 Management Advisory Homepage VOC Analysis for means to coexist with stakeholders. It is important in that by preCommittee Analysis & NGO & Customer Participation emptively identifying risk factors and taking counter measures they will Questionnaire Committee / Informal Discussions contribute to the sustainability of corporations. Government Methods ●Communication with Stakeholders' Framework Government Report Analysis, Parliamentary Inspection Addressing the Communication with stakeholders is the beginning and the end in Result Report Concerns (Issue) understanding the stakeholders. K-water has classified the stakeholders that directly affect its business activities into customers & local society, Employees / Executives Cooperative Firms government that affects major policy directions, employees & executives Internal Employee / Executive Verification Institution Interview, that are at the center of innovation and growth, and cooperative firms. Questionnaire such as KFQ / Feedback from Communication of these diverse interested parties and K-water is the most Previous Reports fundamental way for all parties to advance through growth. ㅣK-water's Materiality Evaluation Processㅣ Stakeholder Understanding Investigation Reflection in the Sustainability Definition Demands/ of Expert Management Report / Channel Materiality Institutions Strategy Publications Research Determination VOC(Homepage) Understanding the Needs / Sustainable Management Classification Performance Analysis Focus Groups Examination by Outside Professionals Related Department Feed-Back (Committees, Advisory Councils) Materiality Matrix Reporting Frame Construction Media Research (Customer Satisfaction Level) Strategic Implementation / Management Reporting Promotion Prioritizing Report Publication Questionnaire (Employees / Executives, NGOs) Sustainable Issues of Concern Identifying Major Report to the Management Report to POOL Issues Management Performance Stakeholders 30 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Implementing K-water’s Materiality Test1) received by K-water’s management strategy departments and then steps In the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guideline that provides the global were implemented. The performance results of implementing these issues guideline of the sustainable management report it recommends to place are disclosed to the stakeholders through the sustainability report. top priority to report the desirable information of interested parties. In other words, it requires you to find out, analyze and respond to the interests and ●K-water’s sustainable management requirements of interested parties, and include the contents thereof in the To identify materiality issues for K-water’s sustainable management, the report. following diagram outlines the major interests of stakeholders. These K-water has established and maintains diverse communication channels issues were received by K-water’s management strategy departments and which have enabled the company to collect stakeholder suggestions then steps were implemented. The performance results of implementing and opinions. To enable stakeholders to directly and indirectly participate these issues are disclosed to the stakeholders through the sustainability in management or provide suggestions, K-water has established and report. operates diverse communication channels which include the VOC, where K-water continues to place significant effort in communicating with stakeholders can input their suggestions, customer participation committees stakeholders such as customers, local communities, academia, NGOs, & informal customer meetings, sustainable management advisory councils, government, employees & executives, and cooperative firms. K-water will government personnel dispatches, and surveys. Stakeholders’ demands continue to establish a growth platform by identifying stakeholder demands that have been collected through the various communication channels are quickly and by enhancing both K-water’s and stakeholders’ values through first categorized before prioritizing them through the materiality matrix. cooperation. Once prioritized, the materiality is evaluated. The matrix evaluation is initiated through a two stage process. The first stage is evaluating internal and external interests. The second stage evaluation takes into consideration the impacts on businesses and management competencies. To identify 1) Materiality Test This is the method to select the priority issues by finding out important information for materiality issues for K-water’s sustainable management, the following interested parties and formulates the high interest and high risk for interested parties. Material issues diagram outlines the major interests of stakeholders. These issues were purport to structure the contents of a sustainability management report on the basis of the selected issues. ㅣMain Issues of Sustainable Management ㅣ Approach • Development of environmentally-friendly water resources • Responding to climate change and development of recycled energy • Undertaking the K-water projects in overseas business, regional water efficiency business, metro water system, etc • Dam water quality • Dam operation / Water charges • Human resource development • Ethical management Deciding on Major Issues through • Improvement of management strategy, the 2nd Stage financial and management system Matrix • Social contribution • PR with business introduction and the External Concerns Business Influence like Internal Concerns Management Capacity ※ Evaluation of 1st phase interest level: K-water has implemented a questionnaire Very High Materiality: Detailed Implementation Contents & Performance Reporting for civil organizations, officers and employees for confirming the key issues through High Materiality: Simply Record communication with various inside and outside interested parties. Low Materiality: Don’t Report K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 31 Approach Risk Management Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) forecasts potential risks (financial, nonfinancial) as a result of management on a company-wide basis, and is doing everything possible to achieve its management objectives and enhance corporate values by managing it efficiently. ●Risk Management Structure ㅣ Risk Segmentation ㅣ K-water’s enterprise risk management can be segmented into preand 5 Affect Level post-risk management, while risks are managed in 4 areas which include Company-wide management, conflicts, disasters and PR. Risk management is a process 4 Management of preventive measures to make sure risks don’t develop into real risks. Risk The measures include managing counter-measures and continuously 3 monitoring department risk indices. On the other hand, risk management Department is a post-management process of case risks that developed into real risks. 2 Management In the case of risk situations, recovery steps are to be taken, which includes Risk deciding on the level of warning and setting up an emergency action 1 headquarters based on the Counter-measure manual by risk type. 2 3 4 5 Potential of Occurrence Risks are evaluated and segmented into a company-wide management (core, importance) risk or department management risk based on the frequency and impact level to K-water’s management activities. The focus ●Risk Management Structure is on the pre-management of risks. K-water has established risk expansion prevention procedures by incorporating public-service risk management principles into its risk ㅣ Risk Concept Outline ㅣ management. As a result, 27 counter-measure working manuals for risk were published and cover the 4 risk areas (management, conflicts, disasters, PR) making it possible for employees to easily utilize the manuals on-site. Headed by the Senior Executive Vice President, the VP takes on the role of Danger the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), and heads the Risk Management Committee As Risk is which oversees the overall risk management of K-water. Establishing a concept that includes risk risk management strategies are the Business Planning & Coordinating Risk & crisis, crisis is when risks Department’s responsibility, while separate departments are designated become a reality. to manage specific risk situations depending on the type of risk in order to Risk effectively initiate counter measures. ㅣ K-water’s Crisis Management System ㅣ Crisis Disaster OccuCrisis Level response rrence (Indication Countering the After Decision (Regional ㅣ Risk Management of a Company-wide Basis ㅣ procedure Identification) Headquarters) Crisis Management (Wire Reporting System) (Counter Measures Based on Crisis Level) On-site DepartFinancial risk Department Head mental (Concern, Notice) (Caution, Serious) Measures Concern / Regional Executive On-site Notice Director Regional (Omit the Headquarters Example of construction water exclusive Risk/Crisis Accomplishing resource) department Conflict Publicity management ERM management Integrated management management goal Enhancement of corporate value CompanyPresident/ Senior Risk Management Executive Director Committee wide / Department Public Relations Executive Vice Counter Head Manager Director President/ Related (Asking: Department MeasureExecutive Head) Convocation: General ments department Disaster Caution/ Emergency action management Serious headquarters Emergency Auditor Measure Division (Composition: Department Head) 32 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Simultaneous accomplishment of zero flood damage Thorough advance preparation Scientific flood control and securing the largest reserve volume in history ●With the operation of a high-tech water management Thanks to such a thorough advance preparation and effort, there was no system, we were able to accomplish both zero flood flood damage in rivers where dams are located in 2010, and the water damage and securing the largest water reserve volume reserve volume at the end of the flood period has secured the largest ever ever in history at 9.8 billion㎥. It is 2.0 billion㎥ more than previous years and the additional With the full-scale implementation of the project to revitalize 4 major rivers reserve water will be able to stably supply water during the dry season and in 2010, there is a great increase in elements for flood control in dredging maximize the water use by facilitating in water quality improvement and rivers, reservoir construction and others, and it was a year with significant others. challenges in water management compared to any other time with dry monsoon season followed by 7 consecutively intense rainfalls after August. ●Structuring crisis response system in preparation for major K-water is in charge of the operation for some 30 nationwide multinational disasters, such as, earthquakes and others purpose dams and water dams, and in response to the changes in water The importance of responsive manual realization has been growing management conditions, K-water has made the full improvement of to respond to natural disasters that will influence the entire country water management system in climate and flood analysis and others, and it and minimize secondary damages beyond the scope of local disaster provides the one-step faster forecasting information to residents in lower response. For this purpose, training to defect the supplementary points and Approach dam basins and work sites on the basis of the foregoing to be prepared for minimizing the disaster response damage through actual on-site response floods. training is implemented each year. In particular, the recognition that Korea In addition, the agency has established an organic flood response system is no longer a safe area from the earthquake damage has expanded so that through a total of 6 joint drills involving relevant institutions, work sites on the effort has been made to structure the responsive system to minimize rivers and others. In order to make a prompt response to sudden flood the inconvenience on actual living for citizens, such as the collapse of dam situations, such as, flash flood and others, it has maintained a 24-hour structures, stoppage in water purification facilities and others . With such full-time water monitoring system all year long. During the flood period, it efforts, K-water has been selected as the most outstanding institution in the has implemented an advance reserve discharge flow in consideration for 『2011 Central Administrative and Public Institution Disaster Management rainfall forecasting and others to minimize the water discharge scale of the Evaluation』 as managed by the National Emergency Management Agency dams to contribute in minimizing the flood damages in the basin areas. in 2011. Inquired by PDA Inform Earthquake occurrence Informing system Informed by PC SMS Earthquake detection (seismometer) Notice of earthquake analysis result Recovery from earthquake damage (SMS, e-mail and others) K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 33 Challenges 36_Low Carbon New Growth Green Business / 37_Integrated Water Management of ICT-based / 38-Successful Operations of Local Waterworks / 40_Integrated Management of Waterworks Facilities / 41_Water Friendly Green City & High Tech Green Complex / 42_Global K-water / 44_Efficient Industrial Water Operation and Customized Water Supply Facility Construction / 45_K-water Technology Development 34 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Water is a great skill. Towards the world with the light of green hope the 21st century is the era of water. Water is the key force for growth and industry and the key to sustain the future of mankind. The global best level of water related technology, the power house of green water free from climate changes, dream of generating national wealth through advancement into a global water market. K-water is found right in the middle of the dream. Challenges GREEN Economy K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 35 Challenges Low Carbon New Growth As Korea's Green Hub, K-water is leading the low carbon green growth by developing new & renewable energy to counter climate Green Business change, constructing the Gyeong-in Ara Waterway Project 4-River Restoration Project. ●Operating & Developing New Renewable Energy K-water has aggressively taken measures to overcome climate change, a global crisis, by utilizing the government’s low carbon green growth plan as a new platform for growth to actively develop new renewable energy. As of 2010, K-water operates a 1,019㎿ hydropower plant which supplies 63% of the entire domestic hydropower plant capacity (1,625㎿). By the end of 2010, K-water will initiate the largest tidal-powered electric plant in the world(254 ㎿). K-water is also in the process of constructing small-scale hydropower plants with a total capacity of 53㎿, including the Ankye Dam, Hoengseong Sihwa Tidal Power Plant Dam and the 4-River 16 Weirs. In 2010, a total of 42 places used hydropower, solar energy, wind power and others to supply 1,938GWh of clean ●Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Projects & the energy, and because of this, there was savings effect of approximately 1.04 Selling of Carbon Credit Points million tons of CO2. K-water is aggressively countering climate change by reducing the effects of green K-water also concluded the 2nd Renewable Portfolio Agreement with house gases by developing new renewable energy as part of the CDM project. As the government to invest KRW 371.7 billion won for 3 years between 2009 the first government-invested corporation to implement a CDM project and in May and 2011 in new renewable 320㎿ energy facilities, which include small of 2005, K-water registered a total of 6 projects including small-scale Hydropower scale hydropower, wind power and solar power facilities. In 2010 alone, CDM businesses of Seongduk and Boohang, the most by one company in Korea, K-water invested approximately KRW 150.6 billion won in new renewable in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) as energy (small-scale hydropower, wind power and solar power facilities) of December 2010. Recently, K-water initiated a CDM project to register smallwith a total capacity of 4,740㎾. In particular, by developing a temperature scale Hydropower CDM businesses of Angye and Hoengseong and waterworks differential cooling and heating system that facilitated the water in the facilities’ energy efficiency improvement projects in the UNFCCC. Seoul Metropolitan region to Jamsil Lotte World 2 which is currently in For the first time in Korea for unilateral CDM business in September 2008, construction, the new and renewable energy field is actively discovered K-water has sold the CDM business discharge rights (6,782 CERs) to ABNby facilitating water. Efforts are being taken to aggressively reduce AMRO Bank of the Netherlands on reduction of greenhouse gas for the small green house gases by improving the efficiency of dams' and waterworks' hydropower I business in 2007 to realize profits, and in 2009 ~ 2010, it sold facilities which include improvements in waterworks pump efficiencies, carbon discharge rights (2009: 8,608 CERs and 2010: 8,080 CERs) to Korea and increasing power generation facilities by modernizing worn out Carbon Financing Co., Ltd. consecutively to accumulate the knowledge and hydropower plants. experience in relation to the transaction of discharge rights in Korea. 1,329 MW, Operating & Developing New Renewable Energy. 23,470 CERs, Accumulating sales of carbon discharge right. I New Renewable Energy Development & Operations Status (April 2011) I I CDM Registration Status (April 2011) I Category Operations & Development Status Remarks Project UN Annual CO2 Reduction Name Target Project Registration Generation Amount LargeDate Quantity (㎿h/y) (㎥/y) Scale 10 Dams, Including Soyang River Dam Facility Capacity Sihwa Tidal Sihwa Tidal Power Jun. 2006 507,629 315,440 Hydrowhich is Operational 1,000.6MW Power power Small-Scale Andong Dam, Jang Heung HydroHydropower 1 Dame, Seongnam 1 Oct. 2006 15,473 9,689 power 23 Small-Scale Hydropower Plants SmallIncluded Andong Small-Scale Small-Scale Daechung, Jooam, Dalbang, Feb. 2007 13,944 8,664 Hydropower 2 Seongnam 2 Scale Hydropower are in Operation / Facility Capacity Hydro21 Small-Scale Hydropower Plant 71.0MW Sihwa Wind Sihwa Wind Powe Nov. 2007 6,293 4,013 Power power linked 4 Major River or Hoengseong Dam are in Construction Small-Scale Gosan, Pangyo Nov. 2009 5,557 2,987 Hydropower 3 Small-Scale Boohang, Seonduk Oct. 2010 4,963 2,759 Hydropower 4 Total 553,859 343,552 ※ CO2 Conversion Factor: Sihwa Tidal Power 0.6214ton/㎿h, Small-Scale Hydropower 0.6262ton/㎿h, Wind Power 0.6376ton/㎿h 36 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ICT-based integrated By realizing high-tech ICT-based scientific integrated water management, K-water is building up strong green water powerhouse free from the water management climate changes. ●Structuring intelligence-type water management system I Reserve water rate at the end of the flood season I For efficient management of water resources in prevention of water related disasters, stable (Unit: %) water supply and others, a scientific water management system is considered as critical. Water has a circulation system starting from rain to flow and eventually evaporates. According to such a 78 water circulation system, it requires a management system for climate, water control and sluice data and a water management system that may connect them for facilitation, which is the key 57 for successful water management. K-water is focusing on realizing a scientific integrated water 54 management by facilitating and connecting 7 ICT-based water management systems in a weather forecasting system (K-PPM), real time sluice information system (HDAPS), flood analysis system (COSFIM) and others. K-water has committed its best effort not to waste any drop of water by continuously improving the system to secure the analysis and forecasting capability in changes 2008 2009 2010 of river topography for 4-river restoration project and by installing new facilities. With such an outcome for scientific water management, K-water has realized non-damage flood management ※ Value of additionally secured 2 billion ㎥ : Economic effect (300 billion won) · Water supply: 140 billion won · Water quality improvement: 160 billion won on the lower basin area of the dams in 2010 as well as securing the most reservoir volume in the history of dam operation (2 billion㎥ compared to previous year) to generate approximately 300 billion won of economic value. ●Preparation of basin unit integrated water management system Following the recent climate change and others, the frequency and the size of floods and droughts are increasing, and for the resolution policy thereof, the integrated water management of a global basin unit has been presented as a new alternative. The integrated water management of the basin has been managed under the integrated point of view into the water volume, water quality and river environment ecology as an attempt to solve the issues within the basin and K-water has undertaken without the preparation for integration and management for the basin unit for water quality and water quality by linking dams, dikes and rivers after the 4-river restoration project. In 2010, it has newly established the Water Resources Operation Center for the 4-river restoration of Han-gang, Nakdong-gang, Geum-gang and Youngsan-gang to have the advance-type water management organization base to structure and operate the local governance in the basin unit as well as a sluice and basin survey, facilities and environment management. Challenges GREEN Economy I Water (dam) management technology system I Weather forecasting Real-time sluice inforDam integrated Permanent water Real-time water manageDam group flood analysis Advancement integrated system (K-PPM) mation system (HDAPS) information system (DIIS) emergency system (SEE) ment system (IWRMS) system (COSFIM) operation system (GIOS) • Forecasting of rainfall • Subject of facilities for • Dam operation data • GIS-based 77 facilities • Providing sluice analysis • Dam on upper and lower • Remote integrated probability in 57 regions, flood forecasting in some statistics/DB for point water disaster and forecasting data, such river and dam flood operation of 35 hydro including dam, bean and 450 places nationwide • Automated linkage monitoring(※Flood, as, air flux and others volume trial power generators others of Water utilization/ earthquake and others) • Providing water-level nationwide • Providing super-com • Acquisition and provision Regulation System • Real-time video, multiple • Water quality analysis and and flux forecasting • Power generation facilities based 3ⅹ3km rainfall of data, such as, rainfall, (voice, light fluorescent provision of upper and information operation, monitoring and forecasting water-level, flux and light, SMS) alarm lower river for dam data management others • Topography data-based • Real-time information • Determining optimal dam figure interpretation for JTWC, JMA, ECMWF • 1-minute real-time water supply volume for monitoring of sluice data each term K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 37 Challenges Successful Operations of Utilizing the best management techniques & technological capabilities, K-water is contributing to enhancing the competitiveness of the domestic Local waterworks waterworks industry by improving customer satisfaction and water quality through advanced local waterworks. ●Local Waterworks Efficiency Enhancement Project I Expansion of Local Waterworks Service Population (Accumulated) I The operation of domestic waterworks is divided into the multi-regional (Unit: 10,000people) waterworks (K-water) and local waterworks (164 local governments). The lack of confidence in water (rust water, leakage, lack of services) by 56 2007 the public mostly stems from services provided by the local waterworks. Most of the local waterworks are small in size, lack the manpower and technology, and are financially weak, making it difficult to invest in 2008 125 facility improvements. This causes a vicious cycle of low quality and poor service. 2009 153 Utilizing the experience and expertise gained from operating multi-regional waterworks, K-water is taking measures to enhance the efficiency of the domestic local waterworks business through consignment management 177 2010 of the local waterworks. By integrating the operations of multi-regional and local waterworks, water resource utilization can be maximized, while redundant and excessive investments can be prevented. and enable scientific pipe network management. This will increase water ●Project Implementation Status revenue and reduce costs, helping maximize management efficiencies. The opening of the Nonsan Water Supply Service Center was in April of 2004, as of May 2011 K-water has taken charge over all operations including ●Local Waterworks Operational Performance water supply and management of 18 local waterworks from self governing Looking into the major outcome on the regional waterworks business for 15 bodies. Some local waterworks are still in the process of transferring local governments (Nonsan, Jeongeup, Sacheon, Yecheon, Seosan, Goryeong, control over to K-water. The local governments that have transferred or Geumsan, Dongducheon, Geoje, Yangju, Naju, Danyang, Hampyeong, Paju that are in the process of transferring operations to K-water are Nonsan, and Gwangju) in operation for one year or longer from 2010, K-water has Jeongup, Yecheon, Seosan, Chonan (industrial), Goryong, Geumsan, implemented for reasonable facilities and operation improvement through Dongducheon, Keojae, Yangju, Naju, Danyang, Paju, Hampyong, Gwangju, scientific examination for reducing the leakage and relieving water quality Gosung and Tongyong. In the next 20 to 30 years, K-water will invest a issues. And the company undertakes the systematic and strategic water loss total of 825.1 billion won in the 18 local waterworks, including the Nonsan by using a mid-term and long-term plan by replacing approximately 31,000 waterworks which is currently under operations. The investment will help cases of water leakage recovery work, 694km of worn-out water pipelines replace worn out pipes, establish IT-based integrated operating systems, and approximately 100,000 units of water meters to have the significant I Status of Consignment Management on Local Waterworks I I Improved Revenue Water Rate I I Enhanced Customer Satisfaction I (Unit: %) (Unit: point) 77.8 79.4 75.4 75.8 71 75.0 65 69 68 76.3 65.4 64 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 72.6 2004 Jeongup City Seosan City Geumsan Gun Geojae City Paju City Nonsan City Sacheon City Cheonan Dong-duchun Yangju City Hampyong Gun 65.5 Yechon City (Industrial) City Gwangju City Geoyong Gun Tongyong City Geseong Gun Before 2008 2009 2010 Before 2007 2008 2009 2010 trust trust K-water NCSI[National Customer Satisfaction Index](Waterworks) 38 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report increase of average water loss rate from and 65.5% to 79.4% by combining 12 in drinking apartment (2 complexes and 1,400 households) of the Nonsan existing regional waterworks and 3.1% new units in 2010 comparing in 2009 to and Jeongeup areas as pilot introduction in 2010. save the production cost applicable for 2.4 billion won for each year. In addition, K-water provides differentiated services, such as, leakage ●Future Plans recovery exclusive team, 24-hour call center operation, free internal leakage K-water will enhance local waterworks efficiencies through the continuous search, tap-water quality confirmation system introduction and others and it expansion of its local waterworks projects, while improving competitiveness does its best to maintain the quality improvement to improve the customer of the domestic waterworks industry in preparation for the opening of satisfaction level for applicable residents from 75.8 points in 2009 to 77.8 the water market. K-water will also provide general water management points in 2010 for expanding water service and qualitative improvement. services through the integrated operations management of local In particular, for relieving “vague instability on tap-water” which is the waterworks, and waterworks & sewage treatment integrated management greatest reason not drinking the tap-water”, diverse customer recognition linked to the sewage treatment project that K-water is currently carryingimprovement activities are undertaken, including, “tap-water drinking out. Through the accumulated technology in the domestic waterworks & apartment”, “operation of tap-water quality confirmation system” and sewage treatment sector, K-water will establish a platform to expand into others, and in particular, it has accomplished a 70% tap-water drinking rate the overseas market. ●●●BEST PRACTICE Water distribution rate through the distribution rate management core technology (water-NET) development and the Realization of optimal operation management K-water has developed a water distribution rate examination and operation management system (water-NET) for optimal operation management ranging from planning to operation management phases by preparing for regional waterworks integration of the governments, distribution rate management advancement policy and opening of the water market. Through the scientific examination of water distribution rate by facilitating waterNET, it attracts the reasonable facilities improvement investment and maximizes the leakage volume reduction to seek for improving water business management as well as contributing to operation management in technology competitiveness in response to the market opening for the water industry through the advancement of distribution rate operation management technology. Examination support Dr.Pipe Examination and operation support system Operation support Net.Operation • Block appropriateness evaluation • Leakage and water pressure examination Hydraulic examiwater-NET Flux/hydro• Flow water rate analysis pressure • Leakage managevolume calculation and monitoring • Supply capability and flux nation ment • Water pressure management for examination Water information each block Real time monitoring control management Water • GIS • TM: flux, water pressure, water level Water • Real time water quality monitoring • Residual chloride forecasting quality • Customer management and bill and water quality quality • Water quality safety evaluation examimanagement • TM/TC: valve and pump manage• Water quality problem zone management Challenges GREEN Economy nation • Contract institution management and ment facilities management • Long-term and short-term Facility Energy demand forecasting • Pipe condition evaluation • Residual life forecasting examination Information system manage• Pump and drainage operation ment • Real-time energy monitoring • Comprehensive evaluation for water volume, water quality, and facilities DecisionGIS and SCADA Risk • Priority sequence and optimal engineering making facilities D/B DB manage• Minimization of water cut-off area • Mid-term and long-term support Integrated Data Warehouse ment improvement plan Examination support system Dr. Pipe Operation support system Net. Operation Hydraulic examination Water quality examination Facility examination Decision making support Water volume and water Water quality Energy management Risk management pressure management management Stable water supply Improvement of water Reasonable and economic Establishment of Energy savings Prompt accident response quality vulnerable zone improvement for worn out comprehensive and Leakage reduction and flux Water quality problem pipes scientific improvement rate improvement zone forecasting and management K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 39 Challenges Integrated Operations of K-water is establishing the world’s best waterworks integrated system to enable the efficient usage of water resources, to alleviate imbalances in Waterworks Facilities the regional water supplies, and to secure a stable supply of water through usage integration. ●Status of the Integrated Operations of Waterworks Facilities Once completed, K-water is expected to be the world's first to achieve a Automatic operations of an entire waterworks facility processes, including multi-regional integration operational system on a national level. the water intake plant, pumping plant and water purification plant, K-water has been made possible by establishing the waterworks integrated ●Future Plans operations system. By operating an entire waterworks facility from the K-water is currently in the process of linking and integrating the operations regional integrated operations center, and by remotely monitoring and of the multi-regional waterworks with the continuously expanding local controlling the water production and supply process 24 hours a day, waterworks. Once the establishment of the waterworks integration facilities are not only efficiently operated and managed, but it also enables operational system by sectors is complete, K-water will have established K-water to secure a leading role in water management technology. upgraded plans for changes to the water operations environment and will In addition, by integrating the operations of 4 sectors from 2011, K-water reflect them in future plans. Through the realization of a highly advanced was able to achieve personnel reduction and technological competitiveness waterworks integrated operational system, K-water will do its best to improvements. As a result, K-water was able to realize KRW 39.5 billion constantly provide a stable and clean water supply to the public. won tangible / intangible savings and made the operational foundation of metropolitans-locals linkage and strengthening waterworks facility Customer Value Enhancement through the Establishment of the Integrated maintenance by promoting the local operational center. At the same time, Operations of Waterworks Services Utilizing IT Technology with the establishment of the world’s largest operations center, integrating Integrated Operations by Sector (Multi-regional + Provincial Waterworks) 23 metropolitan waterworks, K-water has created a base from where it can leap forward and be recognized as one of the top general water service A facility Intake Station, Pumping Station, Purification Plant corporations in the world. Multi-regional& B facility Intake Station, Pumping provincial Station, Purification Plant Integrated waterworks Operations Sewage Included Center C facility Intake Station, Pumping Station, Purification Plant Industrial Water D facility Intake Station, Pumping Station, Purification Plant Multi-regional Waterworks Local Waterworks • Expedient Realization of an Integrated Water Supply • Integrated Operations between Multi-regional& System by Sector provincial, Professional Personnel • Improvement of Operational Platform & Upgrade of • Balance between Business Expansion & Financial Water Treatment Stability Sewage Industrial Water & Desalination Projects • Waterworks & Sewage Treatment Integrated • Expansion into the Highly Valued Water Supply Business Development Market • Joint Business Implementation with Private • Expansion into the Medium to Large Scale Corporations Desalination Project Business World’s Largest Metropolitan Integrated Operations Center ●IT Based Hi-tech Waterworks Facility Integrated Operations ~2009 2010 System K-water divided its operations into 7 sectors centered-around the regional Established in the Jeonbuk Area (2005) Established in the Chungcheong Area, Gangwon Area headquarters across the country to optimize water resources. To enable Metropolitan Area (2006) Metropolitan the integrated operations of the waterworks facilities in each sector, Established in the Jeonnam Area (2007) Areas K-water is establishing an IT & automation technology-based waterworks Completed the Establishment area of Gangwon, Gyeongbuk, Gyeongnam, Areas (2010) integrated operations system. In addition to the current establishment of Chungcheong Area Gyeongbuk Opened intergrated operation in all areas (2011) Area integrated operations for 4 sectors that includes the Seoul Metropolitan, 7Areas, Jeonbuk Chungcheong, Jeonbuk and Jeonnam and South Cholla sectors, once the Area Gyeongnam operational integration of the remaining 3 sectors, Gangwon, Gyeongbuk Area Jeonnam and Gyeongnam was successfully completed in 2010, K-water will have Completed all areas of K-water Area integrated the operations of the entire multi-regional waterworks by sector. waterworks integrated establishment 40 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Water Friendly Green City & K-water creates futuristic integrated cities and high tech national industrial complexes leading the national green growth initiative. High Tech Green Complex ●High Tech Green Technology Mecca, Sihwa MTV measures in the size of 1 trillion 400 billion won. And the foregoing is To utilize the polder that was formed as a result of the construction of connected to corporate investment and industrial facilitation to cause the the Sihwa embankment in an environmentally-friendly manner, the employee effect of 173,000 employees, production of 14 trillion 900 billion development of the Sihwa MTV (Multi-Techno Valley) located in the polder won, income of 600 billion won, added value for 6 trillion 700 billion won for a area, North of Sihwa Lake, and Songsan Green City located in the polder total of 22 trillion 200 billion won of economic dispersion effect. area South of the Sihwa Lake are being pursued. The Sihwa MTV, which is K-water expects to revise the area into a pleasant integrated living space from slated to be completed by 2016 will be a total break from existing industrial the representative industrial region of the capital area, and furthermore, it will complexes which are comprised of plants focused on manufacturing. undertake the critical role to facilitate the Northeast Asian economy. Rather, the Sihwa MTV will be a futuristic high tech integrated industrial complex (9.26㎢) with diverse functions. The complex will have high tech ●Catalyst to National Economic Growth, Gumi /Yeosu knowledge functions that include a futuristic technology intensive industry, National Industrial Complex knowledge-based industrial functions such as the venture capital industry, In line with the government’s policy towards fostering the infrastructure commercial work functions such as financial and business, support industry, starting in 1974, K-water initiated the construction of national functions such as research & welfare, and ecological environment & industrial complexes in the Yeosu, Changwon, Onsan and Gumi areas. The environmental education functions. The Sihwa MTV development project national industrial complexes Changwon and Onsan have been completed, will create approximately 70,000 jobs and will have an effect of creating while the complexes in Gumi and Yeosu are in the construction process. The approximately KRW 9 trillion from production. This is expected to play a Gumi industrial complex that was initiated in 1977 currently has 2 complexes, substantial role. #2 and #3, which were completed in 1995. The 2 complexes cover an area of 7.4㎢. The #4 Gumi industrial complex is targeted to be completed by ●Environmentally-friendly future city, Songsan Green City 2010 with an area of 6.8 ㎢. To comply with the government’s low carbon Songsan Green City is planned to establish the business undertaking green growth policy, the complex will be developed into an environmentallydirection through the operation of private-government council in friendly complex by adopting new & renewable energy facilities, high efficient 「Sihwa District Sustainable Development Council」 and urban planning energy utilization facilities, and a bicycle network. The complex has truly management professional (MP) group undertaken with the goal by using grown into Korea’s largest national industrial complex with major domestic the efficient use of the southern reclaimed area of Sihwa Lake. And, it is and overseas global corporations such as Samsung, LG and Exxon-Mobile, undertaken with the project costs of 9 trillion 405 billion won at the site of and approximately 1,800 other companies will be located in the complex. 55.82㎢ (16.88 million pyeong) to build the integrated city with the size of As Korea’s largest general petrochemical complex, the construction of the 150,000 people (60,000 households) harmonizing in a natural environment Yeosu national industrial complex was completed with an area of 11.3 ㎢ Challenges GREEN Economy and tourism, leisure and residence with the goal of completion by 2022. between 1974 and 2000. The Yeosu complex expansion project that was And, by structuring the ecology network in the entire city, it realizes the initiated in 1992 is expected to be completed by 2012 with an area of 7.81㎢. environmentally-friendly future city where nature and humans co-exist. Currently, petrochemical companies such as GS Caltex and LG Chemicals The entire business district is specialized in 5 blocks for marine tourism and have operations at the complex. By developing the complex in conjunction a leisure complex, city centered, automobile theme park, dinosaur fossil site, with the greater Gwangyang Bay area, K-water is contributing to balancing and ecology residence complex with the metro transportation improvement regional development and to securing national competitiveness. Satellite birdBird-eye view of eye view of Gumi National Gumi National Industrial Industrial Complex Complex K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 41 Challenges Global K-water Utilizing its accumulated advanced technology and experience gained from domestic water management, K-water will do our best to share in the benefits of water by providing clean water to people in areas which face difficulties due to water problems. ●Flow of the Global Water Market generation businesses, and it has diversified its business structure through As of 2009, the private service population in the global water market size investment business advancement in Patrind hydro-power generation project was 800 million KRW. As the global water market is expected to significantly in Pakistan, regional waterworks project for Shayang Xian, Jiangsu Province, increase to meet the needs of 1.16 billion people by 2015, the aspect of the China, and others. In addition, K-water has made in-depth analysis of water business scale is expected to increase to 1,000 trillion won. Therefore, the market for water market size for each country, market entry type, status competition surrounding the water market is intensifying. of market share for multi-national companies and others, and through the In the early 2000s, water companies in France and the UK took 70% or analysis of major evaluation categories on 146 countries worldwide, it has more for the market, but recently, the overseas advancement of European targeted specific countries (10 water market countries and 6 power market countries in Germany, Spain, Italy and others has increased and many countries), and specialized entry strategy has been established to fit into the countries, including, China, have the water industry competitiveness characteristics of the target countries in comprehensive consideration of local strengthening policies to engage in fierce competition for the water industry conditions, business type and others. market around the world. Utilizing its 40 years of technological capabilities in the water resource area, its credit level, and its internal/external I Water market-intense countriesI I Power market-intense countries I networks, K-water is entering the global water market and contributing to 10 countries 6 countries the wealth of the nation. Selection Standards Selection Standards 146 countries ●Project Implementation Strategy •Private participation availability Private participation availability• In order to respond to the drastically changing market situation, K-water •Water market size (CAGR 5.5% Development potential• or more) (10,000 MW or more in potential has established mid-term and long-term “overseas water market volume) •Economic level (GDP 1,000 USD advancement strategy and road map” to undertake active advancement or more per person) Power charge level• (top 50% in charge average in technology service and investment business. This strategy presents the •Credit rating (Over level 4 of OECD) compared to GDP) direction and practical plan through diverse aspects ranging from strategic •Water and sewer charge level (top 75% in charge compared to GDP) Growth possibility • (qualitative evaluation) base selection to risk management with the goal for a service population •Growth possibility of 50 million domestic people (26 million people overseas) and power (qualitative evaluation) generation facilities of 2,000MW by 2020 in order to realize its mission to be a top 3 global water corporation. Selection Results Selection Results China, Thailand, India, Australia, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, the Philippines, Laos, Nepal, and Russia UAE, Ireland, Bulgaria, Mexico and Egypt Vision World’s Best Water Service Corporation Service population of 50 million, Securing power generation Goal facilities of 2,000MW ●Securing of professional human resources and structuring Securing of performance-based organization system Selection of strategic professional Global network The Overseas Business Division was launched in December 2010 and the human bases and resources and strengthening Risk organic network system for each business function has been structured Strategy diversification structuring and brand management of business performanceimage strengthening through a project-oriented flexible organization operation for maximizing undertaking based enhancement method organization the efficiency in human resource facilitation following the operation of a system regional-based exclusive team and full scale overseas business expansion. And, K-water has structured the basis for an appropriate assignment of ●Selection of strategic bases and diversification of business required human resources for an overseas business specialized human undertaking method resource pool system. K-water has undertaken efforts to advance into the overseas market for some 10 years through undertaking a feasibility survey, implementation design, ●Global network strengthening and brand image work supervision and others and it has contributed in the diversification of the enhancement business field as well as business capability strengthening in its completion of K-water also contributed to economic development and international 13 water resource businesses, 12 waterworks businesses and 5 hydro-power cooperation through water resource development in the Asian region, 42 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report which has limitless potential. An employee was dispatched to Thailand, strengthening and the systemization with the focus on comprehensive a water resource expert was dispatched to the Asia Development Bank risk management in a management resolution organization with (ADB) in the Philippines, and an employee was dispatched to Dubai as a regular reports and others, and has established a successful business resident employee to secure a bridgehead in the Middle East, which is plan by undertaking a business selection structure and risk recognition growing into the largest global water market. Diverse efforts and activities strengthening system through an international outside professional are progressed by establishing networks with regional local governments, advisory company. For securing the financial soundness following fullinitiating strategic PR activities, and searching for new projects. In particular, scale business investment, it seeks for an efficient procurement fund, K-water held the “K-water Road Show” in the Philippines and Thailand for including, domestic and an overseas project financing major financial structuring the foundation for discovering the overseas new businesses institutions, participating of financial investors and others, and it subscribes to enhance the brand value of K-water and secured the business bases. to overseas investment insurance to assure the risks in default of terms, In addition, by taking and leading the drastically growing overseas water war, force majeure and others as well as seeking to disperse the risks market, K-water has structured the strategic partnership with Samsung through the joint advancement in overseas projects through the consortium Corporation and other domestic private companies and entered into organization with private companies. MOUs with overseas government institutions, such as, Prem Foundation of Thailand, National Water Corporation of Saudi Arabia and others for ●World’s Best Comprehensive Water Service Corporation strengthening the cooperation as well as expanding the strategic alliance As Korea’s representative water service corporation, K-water is following with overseas government institutions and local businesses. the government’s policy to promote the overseas expansion of public enterprises. K-water is utilizing its overseas project execution capabilities ●Business risk management strengthening and technological expertise accumulated by executing 30 projects in Any overseas business involves unique national risks, such as, policy of the 18 countries. With this, K-water will expand opportunities for private advanced country, exchange rate and others in addition to the risk in the enterprises to enter into the overseas market as a result of public business itself. With respect to the response thereof, K-water publishes enterprises expanding overseas, and will also take the lead in creating the information report for market trend and investment condition tailored national wealth. By realizing its corporate mission of “Water for a Happier for diverse entry type for each strategic country to respond thereof. World,” K-water will do its best to advance in its goal of being the world’s Furthermore, it secures professional business information through best comprehensive water service corporation. international investment advisory companies and domestic and overseas strategic partners and through the strengthening of an information In-progress Projects Completed Projects collection system for overseas resident employees and international 14 Projects in 12 Countries 30 Projects in 18 Countries (KRW 808.5 Billion)1) (KRW 35.7 Billion) education completed government employees in a way of complete analysis for investment environment in advance in politics, laws, systematic part and Asia (China, Philippines, Indonesia, India, Asia (China, Philippines, Vietnam, Nepal, Pakistan, Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos, Uzbekistan Cambodia, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Mongolia, others on major strategic countries. ) Middle East (Afghanistan, Iraq) Africa(Equatorial Sri Lanka, Laos) Middle East (Afghanistan, For each project, it organizes and operates a Risk Management Committee, Guinea) Iraq) Africa (Kenya, Rwanda, Congo, Equatorial Guinea) Americas (Peru, Haiti) consisting of professionals in respective fields, such as, law, finance, technology, and others, and undertakes the risk management system 1) Total project cost standard: Total cost spent to ODA and techinical service project, Invested business[ Investment and Project Financing of K-water and joint paritipated companies] Challenges GREEN Economy ●●●BEST PRACTICE Water supply service in Siyang Xian, Jiangsu Province, China Through the regional waterworks business in Siyang Xian, Jiangsu Province, China, entered into the implementation contract in 2010, K-water has been supplying water for approximately 980,000 residents in Siyang Xian, Jiangsu Province, China, from 2011. This project is the project to supply clean and rich tap-water to local residents through facilities that operate efficiently and the new water purification plant construction by acquiring 2 existing water purification plants and waterworks business right from the local government jointly with the state owned local company of China and Kolon of Korea. Through this project, K-water fully facilitates the regional waterworks operation technology accumulated since 2003 to contribute to the local economic development and welfare promotion of local residents as well as create to the national wealth through a leading private sector to advance into the overseas water industry and preparing the basis for advancing to the world’s largest private water market China. K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 43 Challenges Operation efficiency of industrial K-water contributes to the improvement of corporate competitiveness and environmentally-friendly green water and construction of growth with the continuous operation efficiency effort and tailored water supply facilities environmentally-friendly tailored water supply facilities construction. ●Efficiency in operation and management of Dangjin Hyundai ●Design and Construction of Daesan tailored industrial water Steel water supply system integrated supply facility Since the commencement of the consignment operation on industrial K-water has completed (May 2011) the design for the integrated facilities water facilities (192,000㎥/day, Reverse Osmosis) of Dangjin Hyundai for supplying tailored industrial water for 5 companies in Daesan – Imhae Steel Plant in 2009, K-water is doing its best for the early stabilization Industrial Region (Hyundai Oil Bank, Samsung Total, Honam Petroleum, LG of the facilities and the operation a management efficiency. With the Chemical and KCC) and scheduled to commence the water supply from June commencement of starting the largest RO(Reverse Osmosis) supply 2012 through the construction work which will last approximately 1 year. This facilities in Korea, the efficient operation system fitting for early operation facility has the sufficient application case to satisfy the needs of a customer status analysis based on the facilities characteristics have been structured with its excellent salt removal rate and MF pre-process processing with and operated. In particular, K-water has developed an efficient RO outstanding processing capabilities and applies them with a high efficiency CIPC(Clean In Place) method, an important process that requires energy saving type reverse osmosis (RO) with high production. substantial time and expenses at the membrane facilities and is currently This facility has applied RPS (Rolled Pipe System) SBR waste water in the process of an patent application. In addition, K-water is committed processing engineering method registered as a new environment to placing diversified efforts for stable and efficient facilities operation technology and it is scheduled to be equipped with environmentallymanagement as publishing the 「operation manual」 (Mar. 2011) for friendly facilities for green growth for facilitating in-flow water pressure, an systematic operational management. application of a pump attached with an energy recovery device, installation of a solar energy generation standard, and an outdoor and indoor LED. I Patent application for RO CIP I I Bird-eye view on facilities I Save 5 hours of cleaning time Save 50% of waste water Save 40% of power use * SBR : Sequencing Batch Reactor I Publication of operation manual I I Water treatment processing I PreProcessing (MF) Main Processing (RO) Inflow Water Supply Water 130,000m3/day 119,000m3/day sedimentation[5 companies included proceeded water of Asan water Concentrated purification plant Water Waste Water Backwash Water treatment (SBR) Outflow Water Outflow Water 11,000m3/day * MF : Micro Filtration Sludge Treatment ** RO : Reverse Osmosis 44 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report K-water technology K-water leads the domestic technology of water facilities design, work and operational management fields as well as water management and dam safety development management fields, such as, multi-purpose dam water utilization and regulation. K-water has placed a lot of effort for the early securing of core technology through ‘selection and concentration’ to accomplish the business strategy and respond to internal and external environmental changes, such as 『Low Carbon Green Growth』 national development strategy and others. In the water resource field, K-water has undertaken core technology development with a focus on global climate change issues through strategic responses such as the 4-river revitalization project, integrated water resource management and others. Furthermore, for the water service field, the water industry is recognized as a new growth engine to undertake strategic R&D for developing the step-by-step technology branding and high level processing industry as the national new growth engine to accelerate the market control. Accordingly, K-water has undertaken the star brand technologies in developing core technology tasks and core technology branding that reflect environmental change and management issues both at home and abroad with its comprehensive plan for enterprise technology innovation in ‘Core Tech 1080’. ●Water resource field ① Integrated water resource management: Development of IWRMS and flood forecasting system Integrated water resource From the national R&D project launched, K-water has been structuring the multi-purpose dam reservoir groups in management consideration of the water volume and water quality through the ‘Basin Water Management Operation Technology • Leading the national technology in the integrated water resource management Development’ as a part of an integrated water resource management technology development and the ‘IRWMS (Integrated (water quantity) field, including water utilization, regulation and others Real-time Basin Water Management System)’ to support the basin unit connection operation of the river. The IRWMS has • Technology development in IWRM, flood forecasting system and others a basin manager to consider the water volume and water quality status in real time for rivers and reservoirs as the vast water resource management analysis tool to support the decision making for optimal water distribution and supply in time and space in a way of undertaking basin-unit of scientific and reasonable integrated water resource management to prepare the foundation of a stable water supply and facilitate guidelines to adjust the water resource dispute and water demand control publicity. The IRWMS is under the pilot operation with the Geum-gang water system as the subject, and it is planned to expand the system with the water systems for Han-gang, Nakdong-gang and Seomjin-gang by 2011, and it has successfully undertaken for ‘Chitarum River Basin Water Quality Management System Project’ (ADB) of Indonesia. Dam safety ② Dam safety management: Development of dam real-time earthquake sensing system and dam safety management system • Leading domestic technology in dam safety For the crisis management of dam facilities at the time of an earthquake, K-water has completed the installation of seismic fields [system, stability evaluation and others] devices for all 32 dams in 2008 it developed the DEMS (Dam Earthquake Monitoring System) in 2006 to integrate and operate • Dam real-time earthquake monitoring system and dam safety management system all seismic devices, and in addition, for the safe management of dams, it structured the DIIS (Dam Integrated Information development System) to facilitate in maintenance and management works for the facilities. The DEMS is an optimized system structured Challenges GREEN Economy by collecting the seismic meter of each dam to exclusive cable for real time earthquake sensing and prompt earthquake notice for wavelength data collection and monitoring, maximum acceleration analysis and expression. When an earthquake occurs (0.01g or more), the personnel in charge of dams nationwide are forwarded with the earthquake warning SMS to set the action plan by checking the damages to the dam after the earthquake and undertaking emergency inspections. ③ Water environment system: Development of the Algal-bloom removal vessel Under the need of high efficiency, low cost and environmentally-friendly Korea-type green alga reduction technology, K-water has Water environment system developed the Algal-bloom removal vessel to effectively manage the shallow multiple green alga concerned areas and prevent the • Securing the base technology in river ecology dispersion into the reservoir lower water basin in advance. The Algal-bloom removal vessel is comprised with absorption, water health in consideration of q0 volume and water quality at the same time collection, filtering and recovery equipment to separate and facilitate the green alga in an environmentally-friendly method, and it has • Development and commercialization of the Algal-bloom removal vessel an ultra light weight to have the access from shallow area (1m) to deep areas, and it completely removes the green alga in the vessel • Structuring pollutant source information that it is easily operated by finding the green alga areas around. In addition, all systems are automated, easy to increase its processing management system capacity, and have a higher economic savings effect in the aspect of costs for operation, maintenance and management aspects than the previous technology. The final product will be directly used in bio-mass energy, functional natural substance production and others to be actively contributed to the policies of pre-circulatory type resource facilitation. 4 cases of relevant technologies have pending applications for patents, followed by applying for the national environment technology certification, and in addition, it has won the Award of the Minister of Science and Technology in December 2010 for the 「Second National Greentech Award」. K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 45 Challenges ●Water field ① Water purification field: Development of water purification plant examination program (Dr. Water) Water purification field For over 20 years, K-water has accomplished the development and high level maneuvering of water processing examination technology on the basis of its performance in over 2,000 on-site examination supports and its examination • Securing technology for designing, supervision, maintenance and management technology, and as a result, it has developed an integrated technology examination program for water purification plant, the and technology for existing processing improvement integrated body of high added value core technology (Dr. Water). Dr. Water began as one of the G7 tasks of the Ministry of • Development and commercialization of water purification plant examination program [Dr. Environment in the 「development of water purification plant examination technology」 and was continuously undertaken at Water] the K-water Research Center to have successful development of a self-examination module in 2008. Dr. Water is a knowledge based type integrated technology examination evaluation system for a water purification plant that may examine 14 processes and 67 categories through the standard processing (base capability evaluation, discharge water processing facilities evaluation, sterilization and other corrosion index evaluation and high level processing ozone and active carbon absorption processing evaluation) examination technique, and it is expected to undertake a major role in leading the domestic water facility technology examination and the strengthening of competitiveness in water businesses for K-water. Through sustainable R&D and on-site application, it will take its position as the only specialized tool for water facilities technology examination in Korea. Currently, the trademark branding and product sales are undertaken and it will be facilitated in examination work projects for regional waterworks. Conduit line field ② Conduit line field: Distribution rate examination program (Dr. Pipe) • Secure basic t2 for examination for observatory repairing interpretation and worn By participating in water processing advancement project of the Ministry of Environment, ‘Water Distribution rate in Optimal out level • Development of observatory examination Design and Water Quality Management Technology Development (Dec. 2004 ~ May 2011)’, K-water has developed the program [Dr/ Pipe] water distribution rate capability examination package (Dr. Pipe) to undertake on-site examinations. Dr. Pipe is a computer program for water distribution rate capability evaluation and examination for the first of its kind in Korea that it is comprised to undertake an accurate decision making on the basis of the individual evaluation of the Hydraulion field, water quality field and facilities field. On the basis of CAD and GIS, the distribution rate drawing required for an easy distribution rate interpretation for everyone is prepared, and the flow of underground water distribution rate can be forecasted through the water volume and water quality forecasting simulation model, and in addition, it has developed the estimation technique for aged conduit pipe evaluation and residual life to support the scientific facilities improvement in decision making. ③ Sewage field: Sewage treatment facilities examination program (Dr. Wastewater) Since 2004, the K-water Research Institute has developed ‘Self-examination type sewage treatment facilities operation and Sewage field management system: Dr. Wastewater’ comprised with the ‘deductive examination technique’ and ‘core element technology’ • Securing unique technology in entire field that it has independently developed. • Domestic technology leading MBR processing technology: New technology and brandizing In 2008, joint research was undertaken for the development of the commercialization of a Web-version for Dr. Wastewater, • Development of sewage treatment facilities examination program [Dr. Wastewater] and with the beginning of empirical facilities application for Oigwan Sewage Treatment Facilities in 2009, the system has been in facilitation in various sewage treatment businesses for some time now. The Ministry of Environment has undertaken the water quality TMS (Tele-Monitoring System) structuring project for reasonable calculation of waste water discharge imposition, real-time monitoring of pollutant substance and others, and the 「Enforcement Regulations of the Water Quality Environment Conservation Act」 was revised to obligate the attachment of the water quality auto-measurement equipment for each sequential year. Following such strengthening of the water quality standard, it would require stable water quality and economic operation and management technology that K-water has developed its own self-examined water treatment plant operation and management system. Dr. Wastewater facilitates the TMS measurement figure as the data for processing the examination and problem solution for the first time in Korea and it enables the real time inflow water for characteristics analysis and discharged water quality forecasting. In other words, this is the first self-examination type processing operation and management system of Korea that undertakes the real time status monitoring for each processing at the complicated water treatment plant, analysis and forecasting of discharged water quality, real time problem solution and independent examination of water treatment plant. Considering the emergence of importance in water treatment for the 4-river restoration development and linkage with the stringent water quality management system of the government in TMS, Dr. Wastewater is expected to undertake a great role. 46 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Water is namely the life The rivers and creeks which flow like a mesh everywhere on the earth, the blue star has become the blood vessel which delivers the life. The lakes which accept everything by embracing become the energy center for reserving power. The water flowing on the earth becomes the origin of life in such a way and becomes the nutrition to a healthier life. K-water is together with the water of life which delivers life and grows the for future. Challenges 48_Green Management System / 50_Green Network / 52_Countering Climate Change 54_Environment-friendly Green Development of Water Resources 56_Protection of Bio-diversity / 58_Management of Water Quality 60_Source Water Quality Improvement GREEN Environment Sustainability report K-water 2010 47 Challenges Green Management System By operating diverse green management programs and continuously improving environmental performance through internalization, potential management risks are minimized, while creating new green values. ●Environmental Management System Since K-water first received the Environmental Management System (ISO14001) certification in October of 2002, K-water's Environmental Management System has continuously been evaluated for its effectiveness through annual post management 137 audits and renewal audits every 3 years. ISO9001 & ISO14001 standards are reflected in K-water’s corporate regulations. Points, According to the environmental management work process outlined in the corporation's regulations, each department EPE Improvement Index is carrying-out duties related to Environmental Impact Evaluations, Establishing Environmental Targets Establishment, Environmental Audits and Environmental Performance Evaluations (EPE). In 2009, K-water was the first company in Korea to receive the ISO/CD26000 (Corporate Social Responsibility International Standard) level diagnostic evaluation. As a result of the evaluation, out of the 200 items in 7 categories, K-water was in compliance with 187 items achieving a compliance rate of 94%. This elevated K-water’s status as a corporate leader in social responsibility. Pursuant to the ‘Frame Act of Low Carbon Green Growth’, enacted in 2010, K-water has undertaken a green management system certification by connecting the revision of internal regulations in existing quality and environment management regulations for revision and existing environment management system in undertaking green performance evaluation and others for the initiative introduction of a green management system as it was introduced in July 2011. Through this effort, K-water uses the synergy effect with the existing environment management system with the conversion into the companywide low carbon management in doing its best for strengthening the capability as a global company through securing the global low carbon competitiveness. Plan • Environment guideline/Implementation act Check • Internal Audit/Post certificate evaluation • Establishment of target for environment • Environmental Performance Evaluations management. (FPF) • Environment management implementation plan • Government management evaluation/ internal evaluation 66.4 • Environment friendly design Co nsi • Entire course evaluation/Environment ste labelling Billion won, nt i mp rov 2010 Environmental em Investment Amount en t Action • Management Examination Do • Do Environmental Target and Implementation Plans • Global Reporting Initiative • Environment friendly water resource • Correction/improvement of inappropriateness development/control • Communication among the stakeholders • Green purchasing, environment accounting ●Internal Audit I Training of ISO Certification Auditors I In accordance to ISO14001 and corporate regulations, K-water holds an environmental audit every year for each business site to evaluate and improve the environmental management Foster ISO Certification Auditors(2007~) 74 People • Need to Forster Professional Personnel to Internalize Green Management system. After an internal audit on the entire management process for all departments • Fostering Program & Diversified Utilization Plan through the ISO dynamic cycle (P-D-C-A), an external certified institution carries out an Consignment overall audit on K-water’s environmental management system. To internalize environmental Select Candidates Training by a Certified Participation by through Internal Job Institution, Test External Company management and strengthen internal management quality assurance competencies Offerings Application, Obtain in Audits Qualification through a strategic audit of the overall environmental management system, between 2007 and 2011, 74 internationally certified ISO certification auditors were trained. Through this, Management Cooperative Firm Quality Innovation Diverse Support K-water was able to strengthen its internal assurance capabilities regarding ISO standards. On-site Utilization for The Establishment Departmental Internalization of Consulting In 2010, through an internal and external audit, 209items were respectively found to be Internal Training Support for Evaluation, the Green inappropriate. Measures were immediately taken and reflected in K-water’s management to Innovation Management Activities System prevent any further occurrences. Environmental Audit ISO Internal Audit for all Sites 48 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Environmental Performance Evaluations (EPE) I EPE Index I [Unit: Point] In 2003, K-water implemented the Environmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) program based on ISO14031, to carry-out regular measurements and a diagnosis on its environmental performance as part of its environmental management activities, and 37% 137 for systematic management through continuous improvements. K-water introduced 132 126 and implemented the Environmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) program based 100 on ISO14031 after 2003, to carry-out regular measurements and a diagnosis on its environmental performance as part of its environmental management activities, and for systematic management through continuous improvements. EPE electronic system is established and EPE is implemented its system from 2006. In ㅤㅤ 2006 2008 2009 2010 January of 2007, K-water was the first company domestically to acquire a patent for its EPE Electronic System. I Total Cost / Environmental Cost Ratio I EPE Index was adopted to understand relative improved level compared to that of [Unit: KRW 100 Million won, %] the base year of environmental performance(2006), is managed as the core index of 1,300 1,351 corporation for medium and long-term strategic plan. The EPE Index score in 2010 1,210 1,207 was 137 points, an improvement of 37% more than its base year in environmental performance. 11 12 10 10 ●Environmental Expense Calculation K-water adopted environmental accounting to enhance environmental investment efficiencies ㅤㅤ 2007 2008 2009 2010 and performance. By establishing eco-cost concepts & standards that are appropriate to K-water in 2000, environmental costs and investments are calculated annually. An electronic Environmental cost Environmental cost ratio management accounting system is used to more systematically utilize environmental accounting results, enabling new environmental investment and capital budgets to be used I Total Investment / Environmental Investment Ratio I in decision-making. The environmental cost of 2010 was 135.1 billion won, an increase of 12% [Unit: KRW 100 Million won, %] compared to the previous year, but due to the increase of the entire cost, it has accomplished 653 664 10% of business costs, and the environment investment was 66.4 billion won, an increase of 55% compared to the previous year, but due to the increase of total investment expenses, 415 428 10 it was around 5% level of total investment that the intense investment has been made for 6 5 5 environment pollution prevention and disposition costs. ㅤㅤ 2007 2008 2009 2010 Environmental cost Environmental cost ratio Challenges GREEN Environment ●●●BEST PRACTICE Winner of the 2011 Grand Award for Green Management of Korea [Green Management Specialization Award] In June 2011, K-water won the ‘2011 Grand Award for Green Management of Korea [Green Management Specialization Award], the highest prized government award in national environment management field granted to the company that contributes to outstanding environment management as a way of enhancing the national competitiveness through the dispersion and expansion of environment management. K-water introduced the environment management for the first time as a public enterprise in 2002 to operate diverse green management in EPE system, CL and others to lead the green management in the public sector. It was selected as the winning company by receiving a high evaluation in contributing to the national economic advancement with its environmentally-friendly water resource development, such as, Gyeongin Ara Waterway business, 4-river restoration b1 and others. K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 49 Challenges Green Network We strengthen the green growth infrastructure in the entire supply network of K-water and carry out the environmentally-friendly supply network to accomplish joint growth with the stakeholder. By managing its environmentally-friendly supply network for the entire are to be improved. As established in 2006 for each business, in 2010 supply network process from purchasing to wastes, which includes construction businesses with the Consultative Group expanded to 33, which expanding green purchasing, supporting small & medium businesses’ include dams and waterworks construction. K-water is creating a sound green management, carrying-out coexistent cooperation with construction sub-contracting culture to achieve mutual growth with small & medium companies, and supporting environment-friendly farming, K-water is institutions in the construction sector. seeking to achieve mutual growth with cooperative firms and local citizens. I Environment-friendly Network Management by Stakeholders I I K-water Green Purchasing amount I (Unit: KRW 100 Million) • Green Product Purchasing Purchasing 116 • Supporting Small & Medium Purchasing / / ManufacBusinesses’ Environmental Manufacturing turing 93 Construction Management • Construction Company Coexistent 64 ConstrucCouncil, 40 tion • Supplier Registration Policies (SEMS) Waste Supply • Waterworks Technology Support Supply (TSS) • Environmentally-friendly Farming 2007 2008 2009 2010 Consump• Floricultural Scenery Complex Consumption tion Creation • Market Expansion Support • Recycling Wastes 11.6 Water Purification Plant / Sewage Waste Treatment Plant Sludge, Construction Wastes, Flood Waste, Etc. Billion won, 2010 Green Product Purchasing Amount ●Green Purchasing To strengthen its environmental management practices from production ●Supporting Environment-friendly Farming in Areas to consumption, K-water adopted green purchasing policies in 2002. Adjacent to Dams Purchasing was strengthened by efficiently managing green purchasing. The objective of the Eco-friendly Farming in Areas Adjacent to Dams is Green purchasing operating policies & the system are being improved to induce farmers in dam flood control areas to cultivate land using ecothrough a joint system operations with the Korea Environmental Industry friendly farming methods such as organic farming and non-agricultural & Technology Institute. Going a step further, by applying and managing chemical farming to create a dynamic economy and to preserve the water environmentally-friendly products as part of the EPE System, K-water’ quality of reservoirs. s 2010 green purchasing performance increased to KRW 11.6 billion, an Compared to that of 2010, 1,396,000㎥ of land was converted to eco-friendly increase in growth of 25% when compared to that of the previous year. farmland. K-water provided environmentally-friendly farming equipment, Environmentally-friendly products include those with the Environment Mark natural composts and agricultural training to support farmers. Additional or Energy Recycling Mark, and Environmental Labeling & Energy Efficiency support was provided which included residual agricultural chemical Management Products. This is 64% of the compulsory purchase target testing on soil and cultivated products, and heavy metal inspection. for environmentally-friendly products which the Ministry of Environment K-water also assisted in farmers acquiring environmentally-friendly farm established. product certifications for no or little use of agricultural chemicals. K-water also played a role in helping local farmers achieve KRW 738.5 billion in ●Coexistent Cooperation with Construction Companies sales between 2005 and 2010 by arranging sales to large outlets such as To establish and expand coexistent cooperative partnerships with women’s association in apartments and large food processing plants, and the construction sector, a Coexistent Consultative Group consisting through participation in various farm product sales events. By converting of construction organizations, principal business recipients and to environmentally-friendly farming, the water quality of dams, which is subcontractors Through the communication channel in “Construction the supply source for water, has been preserved, while the local farming Company Coexistent Council”, the problems between contractor and income has increased. This contributed to the national and local citizens' subcontractor are adjusted and the troubled matters and work process appreciation of the dams. 50 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ㅣ Environmentally-friendly Farming Implementation Status & Plan ㅣ (Unit: thousand㎡) Category Conversion 2007 1,864 2008 1,170 2009 1,468 2010 1,396 ~2012 2,528 Total 8,426 1,396 Thousand m2 Area Transferred Area to Environmentally-friendly Farming in Areas Adjacent to Dams in 2010 ㅣ Environmentally-friendly Farm Product Sales Amountㅣ (Unit: KRW Million) Category Sales Amount ~2006 514 2007 709 2008 1,805 2009 2,371 2010 1,986 Total 7,385 1,986 Million won Sales Amount by Supporting the Sale Channel of Environmentally-friendly Farm Product in 2010 ●Voluntary Support of Cooperative Firms Establishment of with the diverse business performances in a structuring law complying an Environmental Management System process, securing the crisis management responding capability, structuring Now corporate social responsibility is not just limited to the company alone. environment management infra, environmentally-friendly products and Responsibility has been extended to the entire life-cycle of production. service enhancement, structuring VOC management, structuring of clean Cooperative firms voluntarily participate in environmental management production, consumption system and others, and it is expected to lead and the establishment of the clean production system establishment helps diverse environment management benefits in improving the corporate strengthen small & medium businesses’ environmental management productivity, sales increase through customer satisfaction enhancement, capabilities. At the end, it can also strengthen K-water’s competitiveness. cost savings through environment cost reduction and others. K-water provided diverse environmental management programs to K-water plans to complete its social contribution with cooperative companies cooperative firms (small & medium enterprises) that lack the personnel, through structuring the environmentally-friendly supply network with information and infrastructure to help them develop into environmentally cooperative companies as well as structuring its overall environment -friendly corporations. The programs include environmental management capability in industry. K-water plans to expand the environment management training to help establish ISO14001, environment management technology program on structuring the environment management system for ISO14001, support service, certification auditing, and certification expense & postCarbon Labeling Certificate System, introduction of green purchasing, management expense support. Through this, K-water was able to establish and publication of sustainable management report. And it further plans to a coexistent green partnership, enabling it to receive environmentallystrengthen even more for corporate environment soundness by undertaking friendly products and services. Each of the cooperative companies the corporate social contribution together with cooperative companies structures the tailored environment management system for each through securing the green growth foundation on an entire supply network company through the environment management support business along and the completion of environmentally-friendly network. Challenges GREEN Environment | K-water environmentally-friendly supply network master plan | | Small & Medium Businesses’ Green Management Support business Implementing System | ●Cooperative Firms Targets / Support Expansion: 00 Companies Establish ●Carrying-out Internal EMS Consulting ●Expend Professionals for internal examination Green Network ※ Complete Environmentally-friendly Supply Network ISO Audit / Training / MOU Certification Expenses ●small & medium businesses Targets / Support Expansion: 12 Companies Auditors' EnvironmentallyTraining friendly Products / ●Strengthen Internal EMS Consulting Services Strengthen Capabilities ●Green Purchasing / LCA Trial Initiation Green Network ●Foster & Train Professionals for internal examination of small & ISO Certification Cooperative Firm medium businesses Institution (Small & Medium ISO ●Waterworks Material Supply Registration Certification Enterprise) Companies: 6 Companies Enter ●EMS Consulting Consigned to Professional Institution Certification Expenses Green Network ●ISO14001 Establishment & Training ●Foster & Train ISO Certification Auditors Cooperation & Support Structure K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 51 Challenges Countering By aggressively participating in global green house gas reduction efforts to counter climate change, K-water is pushing forward with sustainable development, leading the Climate Change government’s low carbon green growth efforts. ●Strengthening of technology for climate change responding ●Systematic Effort to reduce green house gases to water management To create a low carbon green Following the prospect of acceleration of global warming by the intermanagement platform to cogovernment bodies on climate change, IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on unter climate change, K-water Climate Change), and other international organizations, response to climate acquired verification from a change has emerged as the priority agenda of the international community. global verification institution, For joining the effort to respond to world-wide climate changes and realize Det Norsek Veritas, located green growth, the government has completed a comprehensive plan for in Norway (DNV). This was responding to climate change (Sep. 2008) and K-water has established the accomplished by researching strategy master plan (Dec. 2009) to respond to the climate change crisis and and analyzing green house convert it as an opportunity to generate a new growth engine. In addition, gas types and emission quanit has established the mid-term to long-term master plan (May 2010) for tity that is produced during a climate change responding to water management technology development business’s entire life-cycle. to improve the green technology capability of K-water in consideration of Reduction technology and tailored responsive climate change strategy of K-water and securing the GHG Inventory Certification potential emissions quantity core technology in the water management, as well as the global trend. was also researched and anaK-water has structured the promotion strategy for setting the R&D portfolio lyzed. K-water also prepared and managed a statistical table. In addition, for generating a new green engine and securing the core technology in the in order to prepare the Energy Management System which is obligated water management field in the way of establishing the Korean-style water to be introduced, K-water has acquired KS 4000 pilot certification for the management technology by responding to climate change by 2020 as led by water intake plant of Paldang Regional Office in December 2010 and it K-water in leading the national low carbon green growth policies. has undertaken for certification from 2012 for the ISO 50001 as finished in dimension so that it plans to expand the certification into 2,000 TOE or more of energy consumption in 2013 and structuring the certification on the entire │K-water climate change R&D Implementation Plan│ business premises after 2014. In addition, in order to realize the green IT, 889 PCs were replaced with Vision Support of K-water green growth and realization of low carbon low power PCs, and the existing computers have been virtualized to have society through climate change adaptation the reduction of 412 tons/year of CO2 by introducing the cloud computer to • Adapting to climate change appropriate to advanced countries and securing 80% or more of technology level by 2015 integrate the servers. Objective • Leading water management technology to respond to Korea-type K-water has introduced the Carbon Labeling system for the first time for climate change led by K-water by 2020 the domestic water business and public enterprise to realize the low carbon green business premises, and in addition, it has implemented all events of K-water with carbon neutral ways that all major events with certain size or R&D Water management technology strategy for responding to climate change larger are required to undertake in green events through carbon neutral certification. Projection Adaptation Mitigation In addition, within the scope of improving energy efficiency and carbon • Climate change measurement • Water utilizing field application technology • New and renewable energy development technology efficiency together with the reduction of direct greenhouse gas discharge • Climate change scenario analysis and prospect • Watercompletion (water regulation) field application • Energy efficiency technology development volume, K-water manages the carbon cleanliness (total greenhouse technology • Water resource impact assessment and future • Water quality and aqua• Climate change related water resource policy gas discharge volume/energy use volume) and carbon efficiency (total prospect ecology field application technology development greenhouse gas discharge volume/sales revenue) through the carbon • Water resource environment change analysis • Water disaster prevention and measurement intensity index management. responding system structuring The carbon cleanliness of 2010 based on the inventory system has shown Impact assessment Application field Moderation field to be 2.15, an improvement over the previous year, and it has maintained fields a lower level than the domestic average. This means that, when 1 TOE is consumed, it generates 2.15 CO2 tons of greenhouse gas. The carbon 52 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report cleanliness is an index to tell how much carbon is discharged when energy ●High level green technology development, such as, intense is consumed. As the cleanliness is lower, it means less discharge of carbon development of star brand and others and a reduction of global warming. The carbone efficiency in 2010 was With the drastic growth in the global water industry market, the new 24.64, a decrease from the previous year and it means to use 24.64 CO2 tons technology paradigm has emerged for expanding business opportunities of greenhouse gas for accomplishing sales of 100 million won. The total and a response to climate change. And, it has considered the management discharge volume of greenhous gas in 2010 was an increase of 5% from environment in 80 technology tasks in “Core Tech 1080”, the comprehensive the previous year for 527,639 CO2 tons, and it is atrributable to an increase plan for technology innovation which was selected in 2008 for the intense of power used volume following the increase of water supply volume advancement of technologies with a great dispersion effect and selected compared to the previous year. 27 technologies in 5 fields as the priority subject tasks to develop them Direct greenhouse gas discharge volume from the use of gasoline, gas as the K-water star brand technologies. In 2010, K-water has selected and others is 5,639 CO2 tons, and the indirect greenhouse gas discharge 5 core technologies as the management innovation tasks, and plans to volume from the use of electricity and others is 522,000 CO2 tons. The secure 12 star brand technologies by 2017 to secure company-wide for main discharge volume of greenhouse gas from K-water would be 90~100% of technology compared to the advanced countries. From the the indirect energy source for the operation of water facilities. K-water star brand technology tasks, any technology with great economic and has full-time measurement of greenhouse gas discharge volume in industrial dispersion effect goes through the verification process to expand double following the energy use by facilitating the EPE system and and undertake as a research business group in joint research and priority recently structured inventory system, and operates the energy savings structuring will be made systematically with a budget and others on program for each field to contribute to the corporate competitiveness research business group tasks. In addition, through the company-wide improvement in reducing greenhouse gas, improving atmospheric Carbon Labeling Certificate System and low carbon certification, an efficient environment, reduction of tap-water production costs and others. For the management of greenhouse gas discharge volume would be made by conversion into a high efficiency energy consumption system, the energy structuring a low carbon tap-water production system to prepare for the efficiency is evaluated from the survey and design phases of various connection plan of a newly introduced green performance examination facilities and the power source management on existing facilities has (GPE), environment performance examination (EPE) system and inventory been strengthened. In particular, it has thoroughly managed the power system to place a company-wide effort for a climate change response by unit for reducing greenhouse gas in the water business field, the main undertaking an appropriate and effective carbon reduction program for carbon discharge volume of K-water. K-water, such as a voluntary greenhouse gas reduction goal, its operation and others through a detailed reduction volume calculation for each business field. │National and International Carbon Cleanliness│ │2010 Selected Star Brand│ [Unit: Ton Co2/TOE] 2.47 I Dam-Weir operation technology development 2.22 Ⅱ IT-based smart distribution rate management system development 1.98 Demand forecasting-based transportation energy savings technology Challenges GREEN Environment Ⅲ development High efficiency membrane filtering for water intake plant processing Ⅳ domestication technology development Ⅴ CNT ROM technology America Belgium Korea │K-water Carbon Cleanliness│ [Unit: Ton Co2/TOE] 2.19 2.19 2.15 2008 2009 2010 ※ CO2 generation volume is re-estimated in accordance with the inventory system and government conversion coefficient change K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 53 Challenges Environmentally-friendly We take a lead in national green growth by means of environmentallyfriendly green development of the water resources in harmony with Green Development of human and nature through the compliance with the environmentallyWater Resources friendly design guideline, a preview on the environment and environmental influence evaluation. For water resource development businesses, K-water is inducing environmentally-friendly development through a step-by-step environmental assessment to secure environmental soundness and sustainability. ㅣ Water Resource Development harmonizing with environment ㅣ Water Resource Development Plan Environmental Water Resource Sustainable Assessment Development Plan Development (Air, Water, Soi, Ecology, Livehood, Economy, Soenery, Etc.) Environmental Assessment • Strategic Environmental Evaluation : Decide the Environmental Adequacy from the Policy Draft Stage Secure Environmental • Pre-environmental Review : BUSINESS Plan’s Appropriateness & Location Adequacy Review Soundness • Environmental Impact Evaluation : Establish Development BUSINESS Reduction Methods ●●●BEST PRACTICE Establishment of an arch typed eco-bridge in Gunwi Dam The disconnection of wild animals from their natural habitats was protected by establishing an arch type eco-bridge which connects the left and right internally as the first in dam construction project for the stable living of the wild animals. The eco-bridge was installed in dimension of 30m of width and 46m of length. It was newly born as a multi eco space by the greening of the background on the dam body for the dam structure to harmonize with the surroundings of nature. 54 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Regional economy facilitation By facilitating an environmentally-friendly forestation on the rear side of the dam appropriate to the local characteristics, road construction, integrated migration complex, water culture center, environmentally-friendly ecology park and others, dam and reservoir areas are branding to make a effort for the local economy facilitation and advance-type tourism resources for a valued generation. Forestation on the rear side of the dam Road construction Water-side integrated migration complex Environmentally-friendly ecology park ●Building up a clean and clear living environment In order to protect the living environment from arsenic acid dust, the noise and vibration and turbid water occurring from the works involving business undertaking, K-water installs environmental impact reducing facilities, such as, the installation of a sound-proof and dust proof net, operation of a water spraying vehicle, installation of turbidity prevention net and others to pay full attention to the protection of river water quality and regional environmental protection. Construction Site Air Quality Management Dustproof Cover Installation Operated Water Spraying Vehicle Installation of turbidity and pollution preventing blocks ●Building up healthy natural ecologic system The environment conservation and ecology restoration plan for each business undertaking step has been established through an environment and ecology survey to use the trees and vegetations damaged from business undertaking due to landscaping, such as, ecology park and others, and the eco-bridge and fish ways are built to prevent the ecology axis cut-off. Furthermore, it builds up a healthy ecology space in building up the substitute habitat for protected animals, such as, the otter, red-crowned crane and others. Challenges GREEN Environment Planting of vegetation and trees Ecologic route for mobilization Fish way Substitute habitat ●Securing Clean Water Resources By installing basic environmental facilities upstream of the dam to treat domestic sewage and livestock waste water, and to cultivate a wetlands in the inflow areas of the reservoirs, it can treat the source of non-pollution as well as the source of pollution at the same time. In addition, through the “Taking Care of Forest Business” in the watershed, sources of water supplies are being expanded and self-purification functions are being enhanced to ensure K-water supplies clean water. Basic Environmental Facilities Water Purification Wetland Taking Care of Forest Business Erosion control dam K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 55 Challenges Protection of K-water is doing its best to minimize the changes in the ecological environment and maintain a healthy ecosystem where nature and man coexist through environmentallyBio-diversity friendly Green Development. K-water endeavors to maintain the eco system by spreading the project of protecting various environments reservation and ecology restoration. We strictly control the design, construction and management to reserve the living environment of various animals through such projects as the restoration of the damaged eco system and improving conditions while minimizing the influence on the natural environment from the implementation of the project. • Create Safe Breeding Grounds for Animals & Plants to Restore Improve • Improve the Scenery of Water Level Fluctuation Zones, Improve Ecological Balance Protection of Transition Zones for Water & Land Organisms • Build Biotopes, Eco-bridge, Artificial wetlands, Ecological Parks, Waterside Bio-diversity • Forest Belt Around the Lake, Top Soil Erosion Prevention Etc. Sceneries Construction, Artificially Floating Island • For the protection of Major Habitats of Animals & Plants, the Prevention of Improve Water Vitalize • Connect Environment Restoration Water Pollution & the Establishment of Environment & I Bio-habitat Environment Healthy Local BUSINESSs to Local Citizens’ Profit Improvement Measures are essential Generation Business Opportunities • Water Purification Vegetation Screen Maintain Preservation Facility I Economies • Clean Waterside Tourist Complexes, Local Plantation, Ground Still Bed Installation, Constancy Product Exhibition Sites Pollution Inflow Treatment Facility Installation Develop Establish • Enhance Ecological Restoration Awareness through Ecological Measures to • Preserve Precious Natural Treasures such as Animals & Plants Environmental Training in Water Friendly Areas &Cultural Preserve Species that are in Danger of Extinction (Designated by the Ministry of • Construction of Bird Viewing Stands, Waterside Promenades, Wild Environment) Preservation which are Danger Animals & Plant Visit Courses • Foster Substitute Habitats & Artificial wetland, Supply Feeds & Programs of Extinction Continue Monitoring ●Protection of Bio-habitat Environments To protect the habitat environments of insects, amphibian animals, reptiles, birds, and Korea's natural treasure, the otter, K-water has been building piles of rocks, piles of timber, ecological ponds, artificial wetlands that also acts as water purifiers, and natural rivers. Fishways and egg laying sites have also been installed to protect fishes' habitats. In addition, movement passageways (eco-corridors) for wildlife have been created using roads that have been relocated. Through the forestation of the rear side of dams, in accord with the surrounding forest vegetation, from an integrated perspective, severing or fragmenting the ecosystem can be avoided. By connecting the surrounding nature ecologically, the natural environment can be maintained as natural habitats. ㅣBio-diversity Habitat Environment Preservation Facilityㅣ Substitute habitat and ecology ponds Otter artificial habitation Ecologic wetland Nature-type rivers Fish ways Floating fish hatchery Ecological route for mobilization Forestation of Rear Side of Dam 56 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Ecological Restoration for Protective Species and reptiles, insect, benthic invertebrate and plankton) noise, and vibration K-water established and is implementing its plans to restore ecology and establishes and performs the reduction plan. K-water monitored by minimizing the impact to the surrounding environment due to water the habitat environment in precision for the crane (Natural monument resource development businesses, and by building substitute habitats in No.202) and performed the reservation plan through the establishment areas adjacent to dams to preserve ecology. of the alternative habitat, establishment of adlay field, feeding event with the local residents, related organizations, environment associations and ●Monitoring the environment change in the project area specialists. More units of cranes have appeared in the area than before K-water identifies the changes in the environment by monitoring the water the implementation of the project owing to the consistent performance of quality, air quality, animal and plant status (Birds, mammals, amphibians reservation activities. I Results of the Research on Species in Danger of Extinction Around Major Dams I I Status of Red-crowned Cranes Coming Around Business Site I Investing Category Rare and endangered species year [Unit: Number] Siniperca Scherzeri (golden freshwater mandarin fish) & 3 other Fish Species, Paeonia Obovata Maxim 345 Soyang Dam (Obovata) & 2 other Plant Species, Short-tailed Viper Snake & 3 other amphibia & mammals, leopard cat & 7 2002 mammal Anax Nigrofasciatus Nigrofasciatus & 2 other Insect Species, Pseudobagrus Brevicorpus & 1 other Fish 254 Namkang Dam 2002 Species, Otter, Common Kestrel & 1 other Bird Species Crassirhizoma & 4 other Plant Species, Shorttailed Viper Snake & 1 other amphibian & reptilia, Siberian Flying Choongju Dam 2004 Squirrel & 2 other mammals Jooam Dam Reeve’s Turtle & 5 other amphibian & reptilia,Yellow-throated Marten & 3 other mammals 2004 145 Andong Dam Korean Rat Snake, Siberian Flying Squirrel & 4 other mammals, Common Kestrel & 2 other Bird Species 2003 109 Imha Dam Reeve’s Turtle, Leopard Cat & 3 other mammals, Mandarin Duck & 4 other Bird Species 2003 Boryung Dam Otter & 1 other mammal, Chinese Sparrow Hawk & 4 other Bird Species 2006 Otter, Cobitis Koreensis Pumilus, Korean Rat Snake, Narrow-mouth Frog & 1 other amphibia, Common Booan Dam 2006 Buzzard & 4 other Bird Species 2003~4 2007~8 2008~9 2009~10 Daechong Dam Mandarin Duck & 10 other Bird Species,Otter & 1 other mammal 2005 Hapchun Dam Sparrow Hawk(Accipiter Nisus), Mandarin Duck, Leopard Cat & 2 other mammals 2005 Numbers Otter, Mandarin Duck & 5 other Bird Species, Pseudopungtungia Nigra & 4 other Fish Species, Goodyera Yongdam Dam 2011 Schlechtndaliana & 3 other Plant Species, Korean Rat Snake & 1 other amphibian & reptilian Acheilognathus Somjinensis, Fareastern Brook Lamprey, Microphysogobio Koreensis (3 Fish Species); Otter, Seomjin Dam 2010 Leopard Cat (2 Mammals); Lilium Distichum (Kochang Lily) (Total 10 Plant Species Unmun Dam Otter, Leopard Cat, Mandarin Duck, Northern Goshawk, Golden Eagle, Pied harrier, Cinnib Jestrek 2010 Hoengseong Otter, Leopard Cat, Eurasian Buzzard, Striated Bittern, Long-Billed Ring Plover, Osprey, Hen Harrier 2011 Dam Miryang Dam Milk vetch root & 4 other plants, Otter & 3 other mammal, Cinereous vulture & 5 other birds 2009 * The changes of the eco environment have been surveyed (period of 10 years) globally and consistently since the establishment of the dam and it was utilized for the basic data for the development and management of the water resources. Challenges GREEN Environment ●●●BEST PRACTICE Area for controlling the flood in Gunnam which was reborn together with nature The cranes returned by establishing the crane theme park, alternative habitat (Watery rice paddy, eco wet land) and feeding site for the cranes (Cultivating land such as the adlay field) in the area of controlling the flood in Gunnam where the wintering site of crane is, the natural monument No. 202. The water channel type fish ways are installed on the dam body to connect with the river eco system. The area of controlling the flood in Gunnam was reborn as a treasury of the natural eco system by protecting the eco system in the lower stream of the river by removing heavy metals and explosives which are from the shooting range by means of establishing the sediment pond and wet land at the lower stream near the shooting range. K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 57 Challenges Management of The public's trust towards K-water is increasing due to the clean and high quality water being provided to them through advanced water quality management by adopting Water Quality upgraded purification facilities and lowering the carbon level at business sites. High Quality Water Production · Supply & Credibility Enhancement Improvement of Water Reliability High Quality Water Production · Supply Realization of green Water Treatment Plant • Undertaking diverse customer perception improvement activities (tap-water drinking apartments, Tap-water • U.S.’s 5-Star Standard Water Purification Plant Verification Program and others) • All processing of tap-water production with the low Operational Management carbon and environment-friendly improvement • Tap-water quality improvement in supply process with the • Manage by applying more strict water quality goals than rust water index improvement • Working on Carbon Labeling Certificate System for all legal standards water purification plants by 2012 • Water quality management with strengthened test • Introduce and expand Advanced water treatment categories (250 categories) than national standard water process quality test categories (84 categories) • Improve Local Waterworks Water Management System • Disclosure of real time water quality information from the tap-water production to supply process ●Production and supply of the world’s highest level of high concentrated management. The 14 items were strictly evaluated using quality water K-water’s own standards, which are stricter than legal standards. This is By adopting upgraded purification treatment technologies such as the to achieve higher quality water. In cases of turbidity, the QPI standard is Ozone and Granular Activated Carbon process, difficulties of eliminating targeted and managed at 0.1NTU, 5 times the legal standard of 0.5NTU. As tastes & smells can now be eliminated, while disinfecting by-products and a result, on June 2009, the Cheongju water purification plant became the minute quantities of pollutants can be treated, enabling K-water to enhance first plant to receive 5-Star certification, the highest ranking certification, the quality of water. The upgrade technologies were adopted at 5 water outside the North American region from AWWA (American Waterworks purification plants (Bansong, Goryong, Banwol, Goyang) in 2010, 15 more Association) The AWWA carried out a sponsored purification operational water purification plants are expected to adopt the new technologies. management capability certification policy evaluation. In 2010, 11 water To utilize IT & Web technologies, K-water has set up a 2nd generation purification plants achieved 5-Star standard, K-water will provide the world’ water quality rating system (K-water QPI) to evaluate the water quality of s best quality water to gain greater trust from customers by expanding the multi-regional water purification plants nation-wide on a real-time basis. number of 5-Star standard water purification plants in the next. Through the “K-water QPI,” 14 items, including turbidity, were selected for I Results of Improving Water Quality I I Goal of 5-Star Standard I [Unit: %, Number] Turbidity Water Quality Standard Under 0.5NTU • Operating Water Quality Standards 5 Times 57.1 K-water’s Own Standards 0.1NTU Stronger • Achieve Standards 10 45.7 2010 Operating Achievements 0.048NTU Times Stronger 37.1 Residual Chlorine Water Quality Standard Under 4.0mg/L • Operating Water Quality 20 K-water’s Own Standard Standards 4 Times 16 Under 1.0mg/L Stronger • Achieve 98.9% Target 13 2010 Operating Achievements Under 1.0mg/L Accomplishment of 98.9% Haloacetic Acids (HAAs) Water Quality Standards Under 0.1mg/L • Operating Water Quality Standards 1.7 Times K-water’s Own Standard Under 0.06mg/L Stronger 2011 2012 2013 • Achieve Standards 2010 Operating Achievements 0.023mg/L 4 Times Stronger 5-Star Standard Rate 5-Star Standard Water Purification Plant 58 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Improve the water reliability with an improvement in water index improvement businesses in a way of supplying high quality tapwater to customers with the minimal rust water in the supply process. customer sense-type service and quality K-water is committed to its efforts to improve the reliability on water for I Goal of the rust water index * I [Unit: %, case] people in systematic ways by learning the cause of not trusting tap-water and formulating improvement plans. 60.0 60.0 57.1 Reasons for why citizens don’t drink tap-water 21 21 20 • Vague insecurity (42%), press report (6%), rust (11%), odor (22%), Bad water taste (12%), and others (7%) 2011 2012 2013 Plan to enhance reliability *Below -1.5 Goal of the rust water index Rust water standard water purification plant • Quality confirmation system, Tap water-drinking apartment, Customer Monitor ※Langelier Index • Providing prompt water quality information • Improvement of Langelier Index for rusty water control This is the representative index to display the corrosion of water pipes, and for LI≥-1.5, it indirectly displays that there almost no rust water occurred. In order to ease the “vague instability on tap-water” as the biggest reason for not drinking tap-water, K-water has undertaken diverse improvement activities of customers’ perception in “introducing tap-water drinking ●Acquiring the “certification for tap-water low carbon apartment”, “tap-water quality certification system operation” and product” for the first time as a water company others, and it has accomplished tap-water drinking rate of 70% at the two apartments committed to drink tap-water in Nonsan and Jeongeup (2 complex units, 1,400 households) in 2010. In addition, the water quality test categories have been expanded to 250 categories, much more strengthened than 84 national standard water quality test categories for sustained management. Furthermore, K-water discloses comprehensive water quality information on tap-water production to the supply process in 229g real time on Internet. With such an effort, K-water has acquired the highest score (96 points) ever in history with respect to the ‘tap-water reliability’ part’ to evaluate the customer satisfaction in public enterprises as hosted by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance in 2010 I Drinking rate of tap-water I I Analysis items of tap-water I Challenges GREEN Environment (Unit: %) (Unit: Item) Carbon Labeling Certificate 70 250 218 The Carbon Labeling Certificate System is a system that marks the 57 156 45 discharge volume of carbon dioxide generated from all processes of 101 84 production, transportation, distribution, use, disposition and others. K-water has acquired “(phase 1) carbon discharge volume certification (188g/m3/ measurement)” on the water of the Cheongju water purification plant in 2009 and it acquired the “(phase 2) low carbon product (successful reduction Drinkable APT K-water Natinal Average* K-Water Japan WHO U.S. Korea of 5% of CO2) certification” in 2010. In addition, K-water has acquired “(phase * Source: 2011's Ministry of Environment 1) carbon discharge volume certification” for 7 additional plants in 2010, and it plans to expand the ‘carbon discharge volume certification’ for all multiIn addition, in order to produce tap-water without any rust water, K-water regional water treatment plant of K-water by 2012 in a way of improving has set the water quality goal for the rust water index as the first of its case all processing for water production in low carbon environmentally-friendly in Korea with the outcome management. In 2010, 17 nationwide water ways. purification plants have accomplished the goal in the rust water index. In the future, K-water plans to continuously increase the water purification plants with the accomplishment of a rust water index goal by expanding the rust K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 59 Challenges Source Water Quality Clean tap water comes from clean source water. We supply high quality source water through the scientific management of reservoirs and the watershed. Improvement | Implementation System for Water Quality Management of Reservoirs & implemented by K-water, are being taken to reduce pollution sources in the their Watershed | watershed area. K-water established an integrated management platform Business High Quality source Water Supply by Enhancing Water Quality for the management of domestic sewage and livestock waste water, which Targert Management of Reservoirs and their Watershed are the main sources of the dam’s water pollution. K-water is constructing 8 waste water treatment facilities and operates 102 facilities. Strategic Enhanced Management of Pollution Scientific Water Quality Control of Measures Source in the Watershed Reservoirs ●Technological Advancement in Water Quality Management Detailed • Enhanced Pre-management of Pollution Source in Watershed • Technological Advancernent for Reservoir Water Quality Improvement and Control of Dam Reservoirs Implemen• Expansion of Paticipation for • A Development & Inroduction of For the water quality management of the dam reservoirs, it is necessary to tation Plans Watershed Water Quality Improvement new Technology / such as new Algee Control Techniques scientifically forecast the future quality of water. However, since the dam reservoirs are huge, and there are diverse factors affecting each reservoir ●Strengthen Management of Pollution Source in Watershed water quality including weather factors, it is very difficult to identify the Typhoons and concentrated heavy rains induce large quantities of soil and exact causes & influences to water quality, making it imperative to use flood debris to flow into reservoirs, causing long term high turbid water water quality forecast modeling techniques. For more rational decision phenomena and water pollution. To overcome the insufficiency of water making and for the application of water quality improvement technologies, quality control after the pollutants enter into reservoirs, joint efforts with 3 dimensional water quality forecasting technologies are to be used, which organization concerned such as pre-inspection and preventive measures is more advanced and accurate rather than 2 dimensional models. The for the pollutant sources are being taken. As a fundamental measure, an 3 dimensional forecast technologies were applied to a total of 5 dams, 1 integrated turbid water prevention plan for the drainage sections of the 5 trial dam in 2009 and 4 dams in 2010. K-water has a plan to apply the 3 major river watersheds was established. And for the better management dimensional Hydrodynamic Water Quality Model to all the dam reservoirs. of pollutant emissions source, “Dam’s Pollution Source Information Management System” was established based on IT & GIS technology. ●Efficient Algae Control Technology Adoption During the summer, the eutrophication of reservoirs and rivers result in ●Expanding Participation to Improve the Water Quality in the water pollution and purification treatment obstacles. Various water quality Watershed improvement facilities have been adapted to control algae bloom such as Efforts to participate in the business for water quality improvement in the curtain weir (inflow current prevention layer), water circulation systems watershed area, such as the ecological wetland development business (aeration facilities) and selective intake equipment. To enhance operational which is being implemented by K-water, are being taken to reduce efficiency, diverse research is being implemented such as efficiency analysis pollution sources in the watershed area. K-water established an integrated & the establishment of operational guidelines for each technique. In management platform for the management of domestic Efforts to particular, K-water has established the guidelines for design, operation and participate in the business for water quality improvement in the watershed management for scientific and efficient installation and operation for the first area, such as the ecological wetland development business which is being time in Korea and the design program has been applied for patent in 2010. ●●●FOCUS Forecasting and preventive water quality management through ‘3-D repair and water quality model operation system’ The dam reservoir which is one of the major water resources is exposed to direct influence from pollutants and turbid water in the upper stream, changing the water quality. K-water forecasts such water quality change scientifically and has developed the 3-dimensional operation system for water quality management of dam reservoir and structured to link to the IT environment of K-water simultaneously. Through this system, it is facilitated in the turbid water movement and the forecasting of the discharge in the lower basin of the dam reservoir following the 4-river restoration occurrence forecasting and the inflow of dirt water into the dam. 60 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Water is mercy We think about the ‘neighborhood’ rather ‘me’ and ‘everybody’ rather ‘neighborhood’. We pursue the ‘world in happiness for everybody together with nature’ than ‘the world of human satisfaction’. K-water will be involved in such beautiful travel to change the world for the society of working together and sharing the dream. Challenges 62_Respecting Human Rights & Diversity / 64_Fostering Global Human Resources 66_Great Work Place / 68_Social Contribution Activities Challenges 70_Activities of K-water Volunteers GREEN Society K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 61 Challenges Respecting Human K-water is taking the lead in protecting human rights & interests by protecting social minorities and respecting diversity. Rights & Diversity ●Efforts to Protect Human Rights and enforcement ordinance article 27-2 of the same act, a sexual harassment K-water is protecting the rights of minorities within the corporation, while prevention training program is held once a year and the results of the maintaining a policy of solving problems faced by employees & executives. training program are reported to the Ministry of Gender Equality. To prevent Diverse policies such as programs to expand employment opportunities, any decreases in labor productivity at the worksites, a member from each maintain gender equality and protect workers during pregnancies are being department is required to complete a cyber training course once a year to initiated to protect the rights of minorities such as the disabled, female disseminate the contents of the training program to his/her department. employees and contract workers. A Gender Equality Department has been established within the labor union, and efforts are being taken to provide the ●Handling Employee Problems same benefits to contract workers as regular employees. Human rights Employee problems are solved by operating a problem counseling training courses are mainly carried-out to protect the rights of minorities. window at all times within the HR-Bank (An Integrated Human Resource The training courses mainly consist of company-wide sexual harassment Management System). The utilization rate of the problem counseling prevention training and personal information protection training courses. window and face-to-face counseling to solve problems faced by employees, Human rights training courses will be expanded to cover other areas. By with 56 cases being solved in 2010. Unsolved cases are continuously guaranteeing the right to form collective agreements and initiate collective evaluated and considered at a later date. bargaining, there is no potential for rights to be infringed upon at any of │Status of Employee Problems Solved│ K-water’s work-sites. Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total Number of Problem ●Achieving Gender Equality Cases 45 39 98 78 Since K-water announced Gender Equality regulations in 2004, Cases Solved 35 28 67 56 discrimination factors in employment and promotion of female employees % of Cases Solved 77.8% 71.8% 68.4% 71.8% have been eliminated. At the same time, counseling for female employees faced with problems has been greatly promoted, and gender equality programs have been implemented by actively managing and supporting ●Further steps to Protect Personal Information the female workforce through strengthened maternity protection. The basic K-water established infrastructures and regularly holds information salary is the same for male and female employees in similar positions and security enhancement training courses to protect personal information. for those that have entered the corporation in the same year. Promotions In regards to information provided by K-water, the collection of personal and compensations have also been equally provided to male and female information is minimized. By utilizing i-Pin (Internet Personal Identification employees. Number) rather than the personal registration number on the company's As of December 2010, there were 423 female employees, comprising homepage, discretion is maintained in protecting personal information. 10.2% of the total work force at K-water. The number of female managers Personal information is systematically managed by establishing personal is increasingly growing in numbers. At the end of 2010, there were a total information protection standards. of 27 female employees in managerial positions: 2 directors (level 2) and To improve the awareness about the importance of personal information and 25 managers (level 3). In 2010, 18% of the new recruits were females. In the seriousness of the potential damages it can cause, and to emphasize the accordance with article 17 of the Framework Act on Women’s Development discretion required when providing information, cases of actual information leakages and personal information infringement prevention training courses I New Employees Hired I (Unit : People) I Sexual Harassment Preventive Training I are held regularly for new employees, external trainees, information (Unit : %, People) 36 96.0 96.0 security personnel and relevant personnel at cooperative firms. In addition, 163 80.9 88.0 29 K-water has operated the personal information disclose checking solution 18 3,903 and personal information disconnection system, and in particular, it has 111 17 3,638 86 3,671 84 3,272 encrypted 240,000 cases of personnel information available in the regional waterworks information system to pay full attention to the protection of personal information of customers. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Female Male Education rate Persons of education 10.2 %, Total female rate in officials 62 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Encrypting privite informaton of local waterworks customers Water-INFOS AP Server Approch private Inqury private Check user ID information Check Open private User log-in information information over availiable rights Hidden Key Descrabling Key use Inquiry private Inquiry private information Save Permit to open private information information history EncryptingDescrabling process Encrypted priate History inquried Water-INFOS OS Server information private information ●Expanding Employment Opportunities for the Disabled ●Maternity Protection Program A policy to provide additional points to the disabled has been adopted A breast feeding area and female employee rest areas have been when hiring employees. In regards to testing, depending on the level of the secured within the head office, and a corporate child care center has been disability, an additional 3~5% points are added to applicants who have a established to assist female employees during maternity. The child care disability. For those employees registered as having a disability, 3 days of center has been expanded, while existing facilities have been remodeled paid leave and gifts of encouragement are provided around disability day. to help alleviate the burden of raising their children, and to create harmony Various convenience facilities have been installed for the disabled, which between work and family life. Diverse maternity protection programs are include parking zones, elevators, rest rooms, stairways and roadways. As being carried-out such as the child care temporary leave and selective the disabled employment rate was 2.9% (144 employees) in 2010, it has child care work time reduction policy. Breast pump support has also been increased over the last 5 years. expanded for female breast feeding employees. I Annual Disabled Employment Status I [Unite,: %. People] • Operating a Child Care Center within the Company: Water Love 2.9 Children’s House 2.3 • Every Week Wednesday, Family Day <Childcare Day> 2.2 2.1 • Adopting a Joint Spouse Leave of Absence Policy 144 Challenges GREEN Society Conditions for Leave of Absence: If the Spouse is Working Overseas 104 for Over a Year, Training, or Joint Leave of Absence 90 90 Leave of Absence Period: Once for Two Years • Improved Childcare Leave of Absence Policy For employees with Children Younger than 3 Years Old • Childbirth Encouragement Support Payment of Childbirth Encouragement Support, Work Circulation Exceptions for Pregnant Employees 2007 2008 2009 2010 Installation of a Breast Feeding Facility, Pregnant Women Only Parking Zone Employment rate Number of employees Increase Miscarriage / Stillbirth Leave: Provide Sufficient Time to Physically / Mentally Recover K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 63 Challenges Fostering Global To become the world’s best integrated water service corporation, K-water is fostering global human resources by concentrating on its corporate-wide Human Resources competencies. ●Global Human Resource Roadmap As K-water’s core partner in achieving its visions and strategies, employees' functions are aligned based on competencies and performances. To achieve this, K-water is securing global competitiveness for its personnel resources. • Re-establishment of mid-term and long-term organizational management policy and human resource operation plan Step1 Performance-oriented organization and personnel • Strengthening of support for national policy business through flexible organization revision and personnel operation • Capability and performance-oriented personnel operation (~'99) operation • Structuring of K-water-type capability model • Settlement of human resource advancement system (CRP) • Mid-term and long-term management strategy and appropriate strengthening of organization and human resource strategy Step2 Advancement of performanceoriented organization and • Setting organization and human resource operation policies for post management of national policy businesses • Work and performance-based fair organization and human resource operation ('10~'11) personnel • Selection of outstanding human resources and establishment of advancement system • Advancement and facilitation of specialized human resources • Striving for global standard and work-oriented operation strengthening Step3 Securing of global • Organization and personnel affairs for strengthening the global capability and new growth engine businesses • Continuing advancement of operation system ('12~) competitiveness • Settling the outstanding human resource advancement system • Realizing respected GWP company ●Competency-based HR Management & Information System K-water established a competency-based human resource management system that has helped to develop a competency model (Common, Leader, Duty). A competency-based training system is being utilized to enhance current competency levels by identifying required competencies to generate performance. This type of human resource management cuts off any error from the on-set by systemizing and operating 100% of all functions in personnel affairs with the integrated management of human resource data through the HR-Bank (An Integrated Human Resource Management System). Management Structure (Policy) Information System Competency-based HRM HR-Bank ❹ • Establish a Competency (Common, Leader, Duty) • Competency, Position-based HR Management 63.8 Model Integrated System • Establishing Competency-based Management Information • Integrated HR Data Management, 100% Completion Structure with the Various HR Functions for System of HR Function Systemization, Termination of Errors at Hours, Employment, Appointments, Evaluations, the Source Compensation, and Promotions 2010 Education hour per person HRD HRM Competency-based HRD (Human Resource Development) ❺ • Training Structure by Competency, Position, Level CRP System ❻ • One-Stop HR Fostering System that ranges from Competency Diagnosis to Training Performance 9,880 People, 2010 Education and training people Evaluation • Career Development Plan (CDP) Establishment Individual Competency Diagnosis → Selection of Implementation by Linking Functions with 4 Stages (Early, Mid, Required Courses → Studying → Performance High, Expert) 440 Courses Evaluation → Feedback 64 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Capability & Performance-based Compensation & HR ●Fostering Core K-water Professional Personnel Management To secure global competitiveness by fostering professional personnel, in The monthly salary of new employees is set at 205% of the minimum addition to the 2008 ‘K-water Technical Expertise Course,’ the ‘K-water wage in accordance to the government’s public enterprise advancement Management Professional Course’ was opened in 2011. This is to foster policy, and all employees and executives are evaluated on performance professional personnel by sector and to implement K-water’s maintenance regularly. In the case of executives, compensation is based on performance strategy. Based on K-water’s management strategies and the technology in accordance to the management contract signed with the President. As roadmap, 7 professional training sectors were selected, including ‘Tariff the executives are paid annual salaries, level 1 executive’s compensation Planning & Demand Management.’ Through over 360 hours of concentrated is based on the department’s evaluation, while level 2 executives are training, K-water is currently fostering 70 personnel that are securing compensated on individual MBO (Management by Objectives) evaluations. professional knowledge equivalent to a masters’ degree. As for level 3 or below for general employees, performance compensation is based on the department’s evaluation. In addition, to provide greater ●Fostering Strategic Leaders competency development opportunities through diverse work careers, a By adopting a unique systematic leader fostering course, the ‘Creative policy enabling employees to exchange functions, especially with employees Innovation Leader Forum’ in 2010, K-water initiated a 15 week strategic in the administration and technology areas. leadership enhancement program targeting towards 80 talented personnel in all work functions. With an objective of enhancing implementation ●Employee & Executive Career Development capabilities through communications and consensus building capabilities, Since 2003, K-water established and operates a CRP (Competency this course provides diverse learning activities (workshops, seminars, Reinforcement Plan) system to help employees & executives in their knowledge training) such as leader competency assessment and coaching. career development. The CRP system helps in providing a balanced The course also allows for the sharing of ideas through discussions with career development plan by appropriately reflecting the organizational management, and acts as a Think Tank through discussions. and individual needs. Starting in 2010, selective learning for employees & executives is being strengthened, while various programs to enhance training effectiveness are being implemented, which includes ‘Module based Courses,’ and the ‘Opening of All Training Courses to Employees & Executives.’ Discovery of needs/capability examination Education plan/implementation Performance management Organizational Management Confirmation of Capability Human resource advancement tool needs strategy capability gap development Outcome measurement and CRP system and K-water capability model Personal needs Management goal Required capability Work application feedback Capability Challenges GREEN Society examination Retirement Problem solution know how & outplacement service Leader Experience integration Development of outstanding K-water human resources (grade 1-2) Joint capability [Daily education] duty specialist Leader capability Specialist-specific duty In-depth experience capability (6 years of work K-water MAB Innovation education experience – grade 3) Cooperative work-based Creative innovation leader Organizational culture Core capability forum Degree course of professional work solution Customer satisfaction Management status A/L course course Promoted examination Experience search Core value internalization Duty capability Self-leading learning (CoP) course (within 5 years of Advanced(APP), Medium(CPP), Open lecture Generalist Beginning(PPP), Basic Work Cyber Course Reading experience) Communication Diverse work experience New employee Sense of mission and pride of K-water employees [Mentoring, OJT] K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 65 Challenges Great Work Place K-water has strengthened the diverse welfare program operation and collaborated labor and management relationship for improving the quality of life and harmony with work thereof. ●Promoting Employee & Executive Welfare training to expand his/her knowledge in a field that is relevant to the overall Due to the characteristics of the waterworks and water resource business, corporation. K-water’s regional headquarters and management offices are scattered all across the country. To solve housing problems for employees that have ●Welfare Safety been transferred to different areas due to work, employees are provided K-water is creating a Great Work Place (GWP: Great Work Place ) for with support in terms of living quarters and rental homes. Parts of a home healthy people. The results of the health examination in 2010, showed that purchase loan are provided for to assist in purchasing a private home to 66.0% of employees were classified as healthy (class A, B ), while 34% ensure stable housing and living conditions. K-water received the Family were classified as those having comments on their health (Class C2, D2). Friendly Corporation Certification on November 17, 2009 by operating In comparison to the previous year, class CAPABILITY group increased family friendly welfare policies and programs such as recreational by 1.7%p. However, among those examined, the prevalence rate, which facility accessibility to all family members, cultural & arts experiencing refers to the ratio of those diagnosed with a disease increased from 5.9% opportunities, writing classrooms & English camps for employees’ children. in 2009 to 6.4% in 2010. In regards to this, to prevent adult diseases from And it has undertaken active activities as a member of family friendly forum occurring in healthy patients and to manage the health of employees on as supervised by the Ministry of Gender Equality & Family the health black list and employees with diseases, a non-smoking program and an obesity clinic were initiated, receiving great reviews from employees. ●Voluntary Learning Structure In 2011, an integrated health management system was established for K-water is helping employees continuously upgrade their capabilities continuous and systematic health management and it operates the obesity by providing diverse training programs. A representative program is the management program and physical therapy class by visiting work places Competency Reinforcement Plan (CRP) which helps individual employees where the on-site operation and health management are insufficient for no to enhance expertise in their specialized work functions on their own. The smoking and obesity classes in a way of realizing better work place. CRP is a ‘T-shaped’ personnel development concept. A ‘Tshaped’ employee refers to an employee that is not only specialized in one’s traditional sector, ●Structuring advanced labor and management culture but is also well-versed in terms of knowledge and insight in adjoining Founded in 1987, the labor union is subject for subscription by employees of areas around the employee. It is a program that enables employees to grade 3 or lower rank and all employees become a member upon getting acquire in depth knowledge in one area through expert training for a certain the employment in the company as the Union Shop system. As of March period of time when first entering the corporation. Once the employee 2011, 81.2% of our entire employees or 3,433 employees are members. By reaches a managerial position, the employee is allowed to participate in expanding the information sharing between labor and management with ㅣ Health Promotion and Integrated Operational Program ㅣ Category Contents Results • Provide Real Time Health Management Information & Professional • Health Management System • Individual Health Management 100% Data Based Consultation • General Health Inspection (Physical) • Financial Support for Health Check-ups • 2010 Early Cancer Diagnosis: 16 Cases Policy • Hazardous Site Health Management • Work environment m4 • Laboratory Work Environment Evaluation Policy (11 sites included Water Analysis • Implementing special health examination • Special Health Check-ups initiated for 79 Laboratory Employees Center) • Successful Personnel: 16 (67%) • Implementation Period: July~ August 2010 • Non-smoking Program ⇨ 3 Months After-management • Participation Personnel: 24 (113 Successful in Smoking Abstinence for 4 Years) • Implementation Period: July~ September 2010 • Diabetes Clinic • Successful Personnel : 6 (Average -7% Body Fat Reduction) • Participation Personnel: 51 • Support for pre-material care examination • Minimizing work absence from giving birth • Before service in health • Provision of facilities for female employee’s resting room and baby-feeding room • Encouraging breast-feeding (support with baby feeder) 66 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report the facilitation of system improvement, management session, companyagreement on expanding the salary system for all grades in 2009, the most wide cooperative system, it has formed the company-wide communication. advanced salary model has been settled as SOC-type public enterprises The joint undertaking team for the labor and management as the unique as of 2011 to work as a motivation for voluntary efforts of employees labor and management cooperative system has organized and operated the through competency and performance-oriented compensation system for practical team for system improvement, such as, personnel organization, improving work efficiency. K-water abides by the basic labor law article 7, organizational culture, welfare system, integrated water facilities operation (Prohibition of forced labor), and tries to guarantee and improve the legal and others for solving the current management issues since 2006, resulting working conditions of laborers. in preparing the improvement plan and undertakeing step-by-step cases. In 2010, it entered into the social contribution declaration ceremony for labor and management in order to facilitate the social contribution of the company and established the new paradigm of labor union activities in ‘finding missing children by facilitating bottled water’, ‘entering into a 81.2 %, Labor Participation Rate (March 2011) purchase contract for gift certificates in traditional market’ and others. In particular, after completing the successful labor and management 0 Case, 2010 Cases of Labor Disputes │Strengthen Cooperative Labor / Management Relations│ Communication strengthening Online channel All-time sharing system Off-line channel Mobile office Session for labor and management issues Social network Direct Labor union workshop labor and management homepage communication labor and management practical council In-company intranet and others strengthening Various labor and management committees and others Formation of labor Systematic Diverse media and management management sympathy Official channel Unofficial channel Initiative Labor and management council operation Hope day labor and management bull session Direct communication of representatives of labor and management joint TF labor and management Collective bargaining and others Visit to the site from time to time K-water sports event Building-up trust Leisure activities and others Challenges GREEN Society ●●●FOCUS Accomplishment of missions in national policy businesses through win-win labor and management K-water has undertaken social contribution activities jointly for labor and management, including ‘finding missing children by facilitating bottled water’, ‘entering into purchase contract for gift certificates in traditional markets’ and others by way of realizing the advance labor and management culture through structuring the new paradigm in the labor union. Also, it has successfully undertaken major national policy projects in the 4-river restoration b1, processing goal accomplishment and others with the combined efforts of labor and management through ‘celebration to hope for successful national policy projects’ and ‘declaration of labor and management unity on national policy project’. As a labor union for a public enterprise, the labor and management have become a unity for cooperation through the conversion of a new paradigm in social contribution activities and others as it was reported as an outstanding case in 13 press media, including Yonhap News. K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 67 Challenges Social Contribution K-water will lead the way in making the world happier with the expansion of fair society realization, sharing and service culture. Activities ●Implementing Social Contribution Activities Strategically beautifying business. In addition, it has implemented water tours and held K-water established its 3 major values, 5 major core areas and strategic water culture events in a way of broadly informing the value of water and direction uniquely to K-water’s social contribution activities to fulfill making it a clean and clear environment. its mission of creating a “Happier World with Water.” K-water is also Making a clean river Making a beautiful dam Sponsoring Water culture implementing its social contribution activities strategically based on choice Clearing of river and ecology Making environmentally Hosting and support of and concentration strategies to achieve sustainable corporate development protection -friendly dams water culture event and fulfill its social responsibilities. Utilizing its business characteristics to its Building up the clean Operation of Water Culture Implementing Water-Tour underground water environment Center fullest, K-water selected its social contribution activity programs. Through Supporting environment council Building up the environmentHosting water-love open content the participation in solving environmental problems by expanding its activity friendly resting space scope to include water, rivers and the environment, K-water is contributing to the development of the nation and local communities. • Making a clean river : The maintenance project has been made for the lower streams of the rivers with 22 dams. The diverse efforts have been unfolded to make ㅣSocial Contribution Implementation Strategy ㅣ a clean river such as the unleashing 1159 thousand native fries, and supplying of Mission We are Creating a Happier World with Water 76,663k㎥ of water for the environment. • Creating a beautiful dam: The rest relaxation areas are provided to the residents Vision Creating a Happy Society through Participation & Communication by establishing environmentally-friendly spaces at 23 dams and operating the water culture halls in 13 multi-purpose dams. The dam arranging project has been expanded 3 Major to 19 dam water areas by entering into an agreement with the Korea Forest Service Values Participation CommuniChange cation until 2010. The rape flowers were seeded utilizing the flood controlling area in 8 dams of 232,197 ㎡ in 2010 and it provided environmentally-friendly areas for the people. 5 Major Local Creative • Water culture sponsor : The high grade culture performances were provided for Environment Volunteers Global Sharing Areas Community Sharing Enhancing the residents near the dams and the clean water music concert and sponsoring local Participate Contribution to in Solving Expertise through Change by Global Volunteer Environmental Developing Local Volunteer's Sharing Services culture events have been performed for the activation of the local economy. Boat racing Society Activities Problems has been fostered and supported from 2003. The interest on the value of the water of Strategic Volunteer Direction Services & Global the laymen has been improved by experiencing the water-tour for 20,087 people in 498 Efforts to Actual Volunteering in Emergency Relief Albeit Small, Preserve an Contributions Areas of Need Environment that to Achieving Efforts Utilizing Participating in through Water associations and holding the water-love public competition exhibition in 2010. the Knowledge Changing the is Clean and Good Change in Local & Support by & Experience World to Live in Communities Volunteering of Employees & Globally Executives ●Contribution to the advancement of local communities K-water has operated Filial Duty Welfare Centers for the elderly of 65 years ㅣStrategy implementing task ㅣ or older for the welfare improvement of dam areas and has implemented medical service activities, building environmentally-friendly agriculture Local Creative complexes and job-sharing business for promoting health and income for Area Environment Community Volunteers Sharing Global Sharing • Making clean • Service Sharing • Public • Sharing of • Development the local residents. river Filial Piety institution clean water of overseas united service drinking water • Making • Love-Sharing activities • Clean water beautiful dam Medical scholarship • Resident Love-Sharing Building up the Service Sharing Job-sharing • Water culture Volunteer • Seasonal business support Medical Volunteer environment-friendly Details Services services activities Filial Piety Business sponsoring • Sending PC of Services agriculture complex business • environmentally• Service for each love friendly farming branch Operation of Filial Providing medical Building up the Priority hiring for complex Duty Welfare Center service for residents environment-friendly housing repair building-up Home nursing in dam areas agriculture complex around human resource business assistant service dam areas and expanding and others for the • Job-sharing the sales route for farm residents in dam products areas ●Participation in finding solutions to improve the • Service Sharing Filial Piety: Filial Duty Welfare Center were established to improve environment the welfare of the elderly around dam areas and are operated in 8 places, with K-water has built clean rivers with ally river maintenance, ecology Hapcheon Dam in 2006 and Juam Dam and Daecheong Dam in 2010, and those protection and others, built up environment-friendly resting spaces around areas have social workers, physical therapists, therapy assistants and others to dams, and operated Water Culture Centers and others through the dam provide physical therapy, free meal service, bathing and others as well as support for 68 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report the elderly, home nursing assistant support, and Filial Duty in mobile welfare, and it the dam area and the urban area, K-water has provided native speaker language has implemented cleaning, laundry, health assistance and others for the neglected teachers to benefit 4,424 students in 97 schools and 21 dams in 2010, and with its people around the dam areas. English camp support, 594 students in 100 schools under 6 divisions participated • Love-Sharing Medical Volunteer Services: K-water has entered into an agreement in the camp. In addition, it has paid scholarships and meal service payments of 3.2 with the Korea Open Doctors Society, a medical service specialty organization, since billion won to 6,865 students around the dam areas, and it has placed efforts on the 2009 and implemented ‘K-water Love-Sharing Medical Volunteer Services’ to place improvement of the learning capability of students around the dam area by supporting efforts to promote health for residents in dam areas where medical services are learning materials and supplies, books and operation of learning room after school limited and citizens are vulnerable. After implementing on 2-dam areas in 2009 as a for remote distance schools. pilot basis, it has expanded and been implemented for 3,500 residents in 10 different • PCsharing with love: From 2006, K-water has maintained aged PCs through its dam areas, including, Namgang Dam and others, in 2010. Sharing PC of Love business to provide them to low income class families and social • Environment-friendly Agricultural Complexes: With the designation of the water welfare facility organizations and it donated 713 PCs in 2010. protection zone, K-water has constructed environmentally-friendly agricultural complexes in the upper parts dams where there is a limitation in crop cultivation ●K-water Volunteers to protect the water quality while contributing to the increase of income for local Established in July of 2004, K-water Volunteers Group has 4,128 volunteers, residents and the facilitation of regional economy. In 2010, with the environmentallyor 99% of the total employees as of the end of 2010, participating in 99 friendly farming technology education and certification procedure instruction, K-water volunteer clubs. A total of 54,000 hours were spent on volunteer activities has made efforts to increase the income for local residents through the improvement (13 hours per employee). Through the “Love System” a social volunteer of farming product competitiveness by farming product branding with packing management system, K-water is providing systematic support to the support and local festivals, farming product sales premises and others for building up employees & executives of the Water Love Volunteers Group. With such the environmentally-friendly agricultural complex for 1,396,000㎡ and expanding the efforts, K-water was awarded with the Commendation of the Minister of sales of environmentally-friendly farming products. Public Administration and Security in recognition of its contribution to the • Job-sharing Business: K-water has implemented the job-sharing business that local community for its voluntary service activities in 2010. provides jobs and the source of income to secure stable living for youth and senior classes in dam areas by hiring 223 local residents as home nursing assistants in 2010 ●Solving water problems in the global village through global by way of helping out the single elderly and the disabled residents as well as hiring 225 sharing initiatives rehab workers to implement housing repairs and others for improving the residential With the theme of its activities in ‘Making a happier world with water environment in dam areas. together with K-water’, K-water has undertaken drinking water development in Tajikistan in 2006, Building ‘Ger (tent house)’ for the ●Change through creative sharing poverty stricken in Mongolia and ‘happy well-making’ in Cambodia in 2007, K-water has implemented the Clean Water Sharing business to make a installing 8 drinking facilities in 4 villages in HoaBin Province in Vietnam world without water shortage by providing a clean and safe water system, in 2008, the installation of 4 drinking tube wells in remote distanced and it also has implemented the Clean Water Scholarship Business for schools in the State of Pampangga and Quezon City, the Philippines and students around dam areas. In addition, for narrowing the information gap the installation of 9 water facilities in 5 villages in the Bolikhamxay Sigh of the lower income class, it has donated PC of love. and Luang prabang region of Laos in 2009. In 2010, K-water has actively Clean water purification plant participated in global water problem solutions as a global water specialty Clean water sharing Sending PC of love scholarship business company by continuously implementing the drinking water development Challenges GREEN Society Water of hope: Support of water for elementary schools Native English teacher and English camp Support of PC for business for global people who are suffering from water, including the rehabilitation for low income Water of love: Desalination Support of scholarship, meal service, families and social welfare major village water development and poverty family livestock provision, facilities organizations and bottle water support and study room after school repairing of building structures and others with installment of 50-ton water tanks in two villages of Vangvieng County, Vientiene State of Laos as well as • Clean water sharing: K-water has made efforts to make a world without water the installation of a pipe route for 9km and others. shortage and between the world with water by undertaking the operation and support * Detailed contents on social contribution activities of K-water can be confirmed from the K-water homepage (http://www.kwater.or.kr). in operation and management with circular inspection and regular water quality tests for water supply facilities for 71 elementary schools and secondary schools that use underground water and the support of 40 desalination facilities for 9 cities and I Invested amount for contributing to I Volunteer work hours per one society I (Unit: KRW 100 million won) person I (Unit:hr) counties that are suffering from chronic water shortage in 2010 as a way of supporting 597 16.7 for clean and safe water service in remote areas and island areas. • Clean water scholarship business: In order to minimize the education gap of 570 12.6 13.0 543 54,000 Hours, 2010 Volunteer Activity Hours 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 69 Challenges Activities of Happy society participating and communicating together with K-water K-water Volunteers K-Water Volunteers have undertaken service activities to contribute to improving local communities and the lives of citizens throughout Korea. It delivers a little love and happiness to local communities with its diverse activities, including, helping needy neighborhoods, environment protection activities, disaster relief activities, contributions to local communities and others. 70 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 1. Filial duty welfare center is full of laughter and affection 8. 1-company 1-river environment cleaning campaign for clean river 7 2. Love for songpyeon made with a daughter-in-law from overseas 9. Precious helping hands for busy farming village 6 1 2 8 3. K-water home nursing assistant acts as a limb for the elderly 10. Emergency water support to the drought and disaster areas 4. Love sharing medical service to fix inconvenient areas 11. Serious English class with native speakers 9 5. Clean water music concert to blow away the hot summer days with 12. Global love sharing (water pipeline installation activities) 3 12 refreshing music 10 13. Global love sharing (completion ceremony for water facilities) 5 6.Coal of love delivered with devotion 14. Global love sharing (joint water installation for elementary schools) 4 11 13 14 7. Meal service assistant at a rehab center offers a great tasting lunch Challenges GREEN Society K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 71 Performances 도비라 74_ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) / 87_ Financial Performance / 96_ Positive & Negative Information / 97_ GRI Report Index / 101_ K-water KPI 102_ KMAR Verification Report / 104_ ISO 26000 / 106_ Code of Ethics Preamble, Environment-friendly Management Principles, Customer Charter Preamble, Mission Statement for Innovative Vision / 108_ UN Global Compact / 109_ Declaration Glossary Performances To be an endless fountain of hope A country enjoying the benefits from water. A country with a growing national competitiveness and intelligence to water. A country reborn again with good health and smartness. Consequently, a happier world by means of water. K-water draws such happiness in blue clarity. Performances Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Economy ●Direct Economic Effects K-water and securing the core technology in water management, as well Economic Value Creation & Distribution as the global trend. K-water has structured the promotion strategy for The comprehensive water resource industry, which includes dams, 4-river setting the R&D portfolio for generating a new green engine and securing restoration, Gyeongi Ara Waterway business and others for water resource the core technology in the water management field by way of establishing business and waterworks business, are businesses directly related the Korean-style water management technology in responce to climate to the national economy that facilitate the limited resources efficiently change by 2020 as led by K-water in leading the national low carbon green for generating economic values. The sales revenue in 2010 increased growth policies. compared to the previous year as the distributed economic value increased ※Refer to 52~53p for details. as well. 78% or more of sales revenue generated in 2010 has been invested in business expenses, capital expenses and others for production activities. ●Retirement Grants In preparation for the possible retirement of employees, in accordance | Economic Value Creation & Distribution | with the Labor Standard Act, retirement provisions have been allocated. (Unit : KRW Millions won) Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 Taking into consideration the average wage of employees during their Created economic value (1) 1,833,397 2,066,036 2,032,624 2,167,345 employment period and 3 months before retirement, K-water guarantees a) Net sales 1,812,905 2,044,533 2,005,384 2,144,750 that the employee will be able to receive the retirement grant on the date b) Interest income, rent, and profits from sale of assets 20,492 21,503 27,240 22,595 of retirement. K-water is considering converting the current retirement Distributed grant system to a retirement pension policy. This will be carried-out after an 1,403,972 1,619,246 1,511,841 1,678,756 economic value (2) agreement is reached with the labor union. a) Operating expenses: production costs, and 911,769 1,127,327 1,160,601 1,077,896 asset purchasing expenses ●Government Subsidy Benefits b) Wage and welfare: wage, 291,699 303,943 285,818 341,990 Since K-water is carrying out national projects, parts of the project costs are benefits c) Capital cost: interest paid, supported by the government in the form of government subsidy benefits. 61,119 67,155 63,971 160,662 dividends For the past 4 years, K-water received government subsidy benefits for d) Taxes: corporate tax, local tax paid 83,929 65,033 26,176 37,708 various projects including Water Purification Facility Upgrade Projects, e) Investment in local which follow the Ministry of Environment’s model project, revenue water community: contributions, 55,456 55,788 61,051 60,500 enhancement projects, and public rental apartment complex infrastructure various allotted charges Surplus economic value (1-2) 429,425 446,790 520,783 488,589 construction projects. As for the construction project for the Innovation City, K-water received KRW 11,140 million in subsidy benefits from the government for 4 years. ●Countering Climate Change Strengthening of water management technologies to improve climate | Recipients of Government Subsidies | (Unit : KRW Millions Won) change responses Following the prospect of an acceleration of global warming by the interCategory 2007 2008 2009 2010 government bodies on climate change, IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel Total 1,463 6,995 3,150 4,309 on Climate Change), and other international organizations, response to Support for the Construction 6,995 3,150 1,000 climate change has emerged as the priority agenda of the international of the Innovation City community. In joining the efforts to respond to the world-wide climate Danyang Local 486 Waterworks changes and realizing green growth, the government has completed the Sacheon Local 470 comprehensive plan for responding to climate change (Sep. 2008) K-water Waterworks Tongyoung Local has established the strategy master plan (Dec. 2009) to respond to the Waterworks 1,384 climate change crisis and convert it as an opportunity to generate a new Goseong Local 969 Waterworks growth engine. In addition, it has established a mid-term to long-term Jeongeup Local master plan (May 2010) on how to respond to climate change by developing Waterworks 1,463 management technologies to improve the green technology capability of K-water in consideration of tailored responsive climate change strategy of 74 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Market Status resident satisfaction through the tailored support business for each Legal Minimum Wage Vs. New Employee Wage Ratio household by providing native English speaker education for elementary The monthly wage for entry level employees with a university degree (level 5) school students, job-sharing businesses for youths and adults, operation of is 205% of the legal minimum wage. Filial Duty Welfare Center for promoting the senior welfare for reducing the gap between urban and rural areas. Local Purchasing Policy Items Contents Purchasing is carried-out through the electronic purchasing system. However, Income Enhancing • Agricultural, Stock Raising, Fishing Projects such as to promote local purchasing by field offices, a maximum value amount was set, Projects Farm Roads, Composts, Farming Facilities Local making it possible to contract construction or purchase merchandise locally. Support • Living Environment Improvement Projects such as Projects to Create Medical Equipment, Town Centers, and Town Access Foundations for Livelihood Roads Local Hiring for Domestic & Overseas Project Sites Local citizen Liveilhood • Medical Expense / Expert Healting Support, Electricity Support Projects Expenses / Linving Expense Support & Job Sharing Projects In general, K-water ensures equal employment opportunities for all new Resident Support • Child Raising Support such as Education through employees, eliminating limitations on academic background, regionalism, Child Raising Support Native English speakers, Scholarships, & School Meal Projects and age. However, for local waterworks meter reading personnel and water Expense Support project operators, K-water hires locally. Since initiating local waterworks Dam Reservoir Usage Fee • Providing a 50% Subsidy for Local Governments using Subsidy Dam Reservoirs consignments in 2004, as of the end of 2010, K-water hired 223 personnel Other • Projects Reflecting the Dam's Characteristics such Support locally. In addition, by hiring a total of 497 young interns from 2009 to PR & Ancilary Projects as Constructing Filal Piety Sharing Welfare Centers & Supporting Environment-friendly Farming 2010 we relieved the youth unemployment problems, contributing to the development of the local communities. Supporting Environmentally-friendly Agriculture in Areas Adjacent to Dams ●Indirect Economic Effects Fertilizers, pesticides, and soil improvement works utilized for farming Investments in SOC Facilities activities in areas adjacent to dams are non-point source pollutants resulting K-water has contributed to the national economic advancement by investing in water pollution including eutrophication, and turbid water in reservoirs. a total of 5 trillion 564.4 billion won on SOC projects including 417.9 billion won Fertilizers and pesticides used for farming in areas adjacent to dams, and on the facilities for water resource development in major policy businesses, soil brought from other areas tend to directly seep into the reservoirs during including, z1 and Gyeongin Ara Waterway business along with new dam floods, causing eutrophication and turbid water, which are representative construction in Hantan-gang Dam, Youngju Dam and others, as well as non-point source pollutants causing water pollution. The 8,426,000㎢ of the business to expand the water control capability of existing dams, 151.2 land that has been designated as farm land in the flood control land areas billion won on new and renewable energy facilities in Sihwa Tidal Power adjacent to dams are being encouraged to be converted into environmentGeneration, Sihwa Bangameori Wind Power Generation and others, 287.9 friendly farm land. Through this conversion, pollution sources are minimized, billion won on waterworks construction in waterworks facilities construction, helping preserve dam water quality. In return, K-water is helping farmers water supply system adjusting businesses and others, and 946.3 billion won acquire environmentally-friendly certifications for their agricultural products, in new city construction and industrial complex development and others. while helping enhance their income by securing sales channels. Farmers in areas adjacent to dams that are carrying out environmentally-friendly Dam Environment Improvements and the Opening of the Water farming are cultivating potatoes, corn and other crops using organic Cultural Center methods and non-agricultural chemical methods. K-water is helping these The construction of a new dam takes into consideration environmental farmers by providing environment-friendly farm equipment and natural factors from the beginning. However, since existing dam facilities tend to compost depositaries. In addition, to enable the agricultural products be worn-out and obsolete, they are not able to provide much support to the produced in these areas to acquire environmentally-friendly certification, local economy. Considering this, K-water is establishing overall plans to through a technology support agreement with Agricultural Technology improve the environment of existing dams, while substantially renovating Centers of local governments, K-water is providing environmentallythe surrounding facilities. Some of these efforts include setting up friendly agricultural technology. To secure objectiveness in the credibility of observation decks, elevators and promenades. Water Cultural Centers are agricultural products produced in these areas, K-water is providing support also either being newly constructed or renovated to create a resting area in inspecting agricultural products for residual agricultural chemicals and and cultural space for visitors. heavy metals, and in acquiring environmentally-friendly agricultural product (no or low agricultural chemicals) certifications. By 2012, the model for Supporting Environment-friendly Agriculture in Areas Adjacent to Dams environmentally-friendly agricultural complexes will be expanded to cover K-water has implemented its support businesses continuously since all areas designated as farm land. 1990 for income increase and welfare promotion of residents in dam | Eco-friendly Farming Implementation Status & Plans | areas. In 2010, it has structured a total of 58.1 billion won for the resident (Unit: thousand m2) support business for local support business, resident welfare, and learning Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 ~2012 Total Performances capability improvement for improving the local environment an agriculture, Conversion 1,864 1,170 1,468 1,396 2,528 8,426 livestock and fishery industry building up business. In particular, it enhances Area (㎡) K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 75 Performances Environment ●Materials Feasibility studies on the waterworks facility energy efficiency enhancement For detailed information on the quantity of source water used to produce CDM projects were carried-out in 2010. In 2010, K-water plans to receive water and materials such as purification chemicals that are used to purify verification of its model projects from a feasibility verification organization, water, refer to page 59, Water Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Material Income and in 2011, a registration from the UNFCCC will be requested (United & Expenditures. For details on purification and sewage sludge produced Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change). during the production process and the recycling of construction wastes, please refer to page 78. I Total Energy Reduction by Department I (Unit : TJ) 1,361 ●Energy Saving Energy Saving and Energy Consumption Amounts Total energy consumed in 2010 totaled 10,142TJ, an increase of 5% 907 801 795 compared to that of the previous year, while the energy was mostly used during the waterworks processes such as the intake and supply of water, and the operation of pumps in pumping plants. Direct energy consumed through diesel and gas was 70TJ, while indirect energy consumed through electricity stood at 10,072TJ. I Direct Energy Consumption I I Indirect Energy Consumption I 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Unit: TJ) (Unit: TJ) 72 70 9,652 10,072 66 9,318 9,499 | Energy Savings Implementation Plan & Performance | 50 • Energy Expense Reduction through Equipment Improvements (Lighting Equipment) General • Operational Efficiency through Lighting & Air Equipment Improvements Management • Energy Reduction through Rational Utilization of Electrical Appliances Sector • Energy Consumption Total Amount Policy Management & Energy Reduction Target Management • Develop & Operate an Electricity Charge Calculation Program 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Water Supply • Revise Optimal Electricity Rate Contracts for each Project Site Sector • Apply & Improve High Efficient Equipment such as Improving Capacity of Transformers Energy Reduction Quantity • Equipment Improvement to Maintain a Load Power Factor over 95% Energy savings contribute to reducing green house gases and water • Target Establishment & Management of Dam Power Consumption Rate & production costs. To convert to a high efficient energy consumption Dam Sector Savings Rate structure, equipment should be inspected and energy efficiency • Expanding the Applications of New & renewable energies assessments should be carried-out during the design stage, while power unit costs should be managed carefully for existing facilities since power unit costs take up the largest portion in the waterworks expenses. | Energy Savings Implementation Performance | Energy Efficiency Enhancement in Dams & Waterworks Facilities • Improve Waterworks Power Unit Cost (2009: 0.3176㎾h/㎥ → 2010: 0.3183㎾h/㎥) • Power Generation Sector Energy Reduction → 3,614㎾h/㎥ To reduce green house gas emissions and counter the energy crisis due to recent oil price hikes, improvements are being made to enhance energy efficiencies by deciding on optimal pump specifications, and optimizing ● Water Usage internal coating & pump operational scheduling. Power consumption and Water Sources Affected by Water Intake green house gas emissions are being reduced through the increase of local K-water initiated the Gyungnam, Busan Area Multi-regional Waterworks waterworks revenue water. By enhancing the performance of multipurpose Project to supply clean water to the Gyungnam, Busan Nakdong River dam hydropower plants, K-water is contributing to increasing the supply main stream area where water conditions are vulnerable. Initially K-water of clean energy domestically and effectively countering climate change. had plans to supply water by developing the Namkang Dam water intake 76 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report level and river bank filtration water. However, due to concerns over ●Green House Gas Emissions increasing the intake level, plans to secure a water source through utilizing Total Green House Gas Emissions surplus Namkang Dam water and river bank filtration water was revised Total green house gas emissions reached 527,639ton CO2, a 4.3% increase and a feasibility test was contracted-out. The Daap intake facility located over the previous year. This was mainly due to the increase in power in Gwangyang City, Jeonnam, supplies natural and industrial water to consumption stemming from an increase in water supply. In 2010, direct the Gwangyang Port area by intaking water from the Seomjin River. To green house gas emissions from the usage of diesel fuel and gas increased minimize the effect on the environment and damage from sea winds, to 5,639ton CO2, while indirect green house gas emissions from the use sufficient water from the rivers was secured and an environmental impact of electricity increased to 522.000ton CO2 over the previous year from survey initiated. Recently, as the Seomjin River’s river mouth is converting the previous year. In addition, indirect green house gas emissions from into a sea, changes are occurring in the ecological environment such as transportation of employees & executives to and from work, and business ocean organisms inhabiting the river mouth. Surveys were carried-out as trips were 2,637ton CO2 in 2010.1) to the cause of the phenomena. Multiple factors, in addition to the Seomjin 1) Applying the inventory system data that has completed with the third-party verification by applying River water intake were the cause. Causes include a drop in the river bed the discharge coefficient following the instruction on greenhouse gas, energy goal management and due to rock extraction, an increase in the tide level due to the landfill of operation as notified in March 2011. Kwangyang Bay, and Dam construction upstream. Through local citizens’ I Direct Carbon Dioxide Emissions I I Indirect Carbon Dioxide Emissions I suggestions, K-water will initiate impact surveys on the damages caused to (Unit : Ton, CO2eq) (Unit : Ton, CO2eq) the fishing industry due to the intake from Seomjin River and construction of Jooan Dam. Continuous monitoring of the changes in environment will 522,000 499,819 also be carried-out. 6,001 482,703 491,924 5,641 5,639 Reusing & Recycling Water 4,567 Recycled waste water (gray water) is used in rest rooms and gardens at the head office. For customers using recycled waste water, a rate reduction (30% off of water rates) policy is applied to increase the use of recycled waste water and to establish a circulation-type society. In 2010, customers using recycled waste water increased by 28% compared to the previous year, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 resulting in a rate decrease of KRW 5.7billion won. ※ Greenhouse gas re-calculation for each year following instruction on greenhouse gas, energy goal management and operation as notified in 2011 (source: K-water inventory system) I Customer Recycled Waste Water I Recycled Waste Water Rate Green House Gas Reduction Project & Performance Production Quantity I (Unit: Thousand ㎥) Reduction Amount I (Unit: Million won) Refer to page 36 of the main text for details regarding K-water’s CDM 7,620 projects & performance. 133,604 5,990 5,744 Quantity of Ozone Layer Destroying Substance & Air Pollution 104,548 81,784 5,105 Substance Emissions 69,869 There are no processes in the production of water that emits ozone layer destroying substances such as Freon gas. There could be potential leakages from cooling facilities that contain Freon gas. To prevent this from happening, regular safety inspections are carried-out on all cooling 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 facilities. At the same time, there are no production processes that directly emit air pollution substances at any of K-water’s project sites. However, Please refer to page 101 for K-water’s recycled waste water usage there could be air pollution substances emitted while using oil to operate achievements. the project sites and facilities. To minimize this, by reflecting this into each ※ The reduction amount rate following the recycled waste water usage is reduced from 100% in 2009 to 60% in 2010. department's environmental target, the departments implement diverse Protection of Bio-diversity activities to reduce the consumption of kerosene. Diverse activities are being implemented to protect bio-diversity which includes designing, constructing & operating environmentally-friendly ㅣ 2010 Air Pollution Discharge Status ㅣ (Unit : kg) water resource facilities, creating bio-diversity preservation facilities & Particulate SOx CO HC NOx Matter space, and preserving organism's habitat environment & natural cultural 22 95 3,513 986 8,258 treasures. Detailed information related to bio-diversity identification, continuous environmental monitoring of management plans & project Performances areas, and identification of species in danger of extinction, can be found on pages 56~57. K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 77 Performances ●Total Waste Water Discharge Quantity & Water Quality To be at the forefront of improving discharged water quality, K-water has As the amount of discharged water from water purification plants and adopted and operates a self-developed Sewage Treatment Program. its quality directly affect the water quality of rivers and the ecological environment, K-water applies management standards that are stricter than Simple Sewage Treatment Facilities legal standards. To minimize the impact on the ecological environment in The average water quality of discharged water is BOD 6.8mg/L, SS 6.9mg/L, the water discharge areas and preserve water quality in rivers, the quality which is within the legal standards of BOD 20㎎/L, SS 20㎎/L 34%, 34%. of discharged water is continuously monitored by a water quality remote inspection system. By selecting discharged water quality as the waterworks ●Discharging & Recycling Waste Products project environmental target, and as a core index of the environmental Sludge from Waterworks & Sewage Treatment Systems performance evaluation, K-water started reflecting the target and index in In 2010, the amount of sludge produced from purifying 1㎥ of water was departmental evaluations starting in 2004. approximately 61.9g. The total amount of sludge produced at water purification plants in one year was 104,976tons, and 100% of the sludge was I BOD I (Unit:mg/L) recycled and used as cement material(56.4%), earth filling material(28.2%) 20 10 22 and planting soil(14.9%). Sludge produced at sewage treatment plants operated by K-water was 4 5 6 7 36,347tons. From the total amount of sludge produced, the percentage of 2 2 2 1 2 3 3 2 sludge recycled increased by 5% to 36% of total sludge, or 13,217tons. The sludge was mostly used for planting soil, fertilizer, earthworm breeding. The Water Purification Plant Sewage Treatment Simple Sewage Treatment reason for the increase in sludge recycling in 2009 was mainly due to using Standard 2007 2008 2009 2010 the sludge produced from the Hwaensong District as land fill. K-water will gradually increase the recycling rate of sludge by converting sludge into a resource and to prevent ocean disposals. I COD I (단위: mg/L) 40 40 I Water Purification Plant Sludge I Sewage Sludge Recycling Rate I Recycling Rate I (Unit: %) (Unit: %) 7 6 8 5 4 5 4 5 100 100 100 100 36.0 31.0 Water Purification Plant Simple Sewage Treatment 24.5 Standard 2007 2008 2009 2010 14.0 I SS I (단위: mg/L) 20 21 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 10 5 5 6 7 8 Sludge from Waterworks & Sewage Treatment Systems 4 3 2 3 4 2 2 By promoting the environmentally-friendly treatment and recycling of Water Purification Plant Sewage Treatment Simple Sewage Treatment construction waste generated as a result of K-water’s water resources business, K-water is contributing to the green preservation of the Standard 2007 2008 2009 2010 country, resource reductions and public welfare enhancement. The total construction waste generated in 2010 was 371,194tons and from this 95.8% or 355,604 tons was used as road pavement material, material for creating Water Purification Plant green tracts of land through mounding and soil covering, recycled rock, and In 2010, the average quality of discharged water from water purification wood chips. plants was BOD 1.8㎎/L, COD 3.8㎎/L, SS 3.1㎎/L, which was lower than Going forward, K-water will minimize construction waste generation and the discharge tax levy standard of BOD 20㎎/L, COD 40㎎/L, SS 20㎎/L 9%, create a resource recycling green society by “initiating designs for an 10%, 15%. environment that can coexist with nature” from the construction business planning stage, and “realizing a productive construction site through the Sewage Treatment Plants recycling of construction waste” during the construction stage. As of the end of 2010, the average water quality of discharged water from the 18 sewage treatment plants BOD 1.9mg/L, COD 3.8mg/L, SS 3.1mg/L, which was similar to the public sewage treatment facility discharge water quality standards of BOD 10㎎/L, COD 40㎎/L, SS 10㎎/L 19%, 13%, 21%. 78 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report | 2010 Effects from Hazardous Material Spillage, Waste Material Treatment, ●Products & Services Sewage Water | Environmental Impact Reduction Activities & Performance K-water is continuously achieving environmental performance through Waste Waste Combined Waste Waste waste Classification Total concrete ascon tree and synthetic materials a dynamic circulation process of P (Planning), D (Deed), C (Checking), plant resin and others and A(Amendment) that reflects the conditions of ISO14001. In 2010, 30 Created environmental targets in 10 categories were established. 99.1% of the quantity (tons) 371,194 225,726 97,469 12,345 1,169 34,485 Recycled targets were achieved. quantity (tons) 355,446 224,508 97,469 9,780 194 23,495 Recyling Identifying from Establish Implement Improvement & ratio(%) 95.8 99.5 100.0 79.2 16.6 68.1 an Environmental Environmental Environmental Review Measures Perspective Torget & Detailed Achievements Environmental Implementation Target & Detailed (Internal) Management Impact Assessment Plan Plans Review ●Effects from Hazardous Material Spillage, Waste Material Treatment, Sewage Water Feedback & Estabish Directions for Following Year Hazardous Material Discharge Management Hazardous materials such as waste oil and chemical substances discharged from the project sites can have a serious effect on the | 2010 Environmental Management Performance | surrounding environment, bio-diversity and health of local citizens. All 2 cases of Design for Environment (DfE) hazardous substances from K-water’s project sites are strictly treated 27 cases of Environmental Impact Assessments by Projects according to related regulations. As of now, there have been no cases Environmentally9 Cases of Environmentally-friendly Development of accidents due to any leakages of hazardous substances. However, to friendly Development 2 Cases of Environmentally-friendly Management of Facilities prepare for hazardous substance leakage accidents, K-water is enhancing & 79.6% Achieved in Management of Revenue Water at Local Waterworks its ability to take measures to counter potential accidents by establishing an Management 8 cases of Carbon Labeling Certificate System (Cheongju, Milyang, Cheonan, Seokseong, Buan, Suji, Wabu, and Deokjeong) accident manual and holding regular training activities. KRW 66.4 billion (5%) Environmental Investment Improvement in the Quality of Dam Water (Average COD 2.8㎎/L) Waste Material Discharge Management Improvement in the Dam watershed Area Sewage Treatment Rate (55%⇒57%) Supplying As a result of the London Dumping Convention (1996) banning the Clean Water Quality Improvement Level 42.8% dumping of waste materials into the ocean, there was an amendment of Water Settled Water Below 1NTU 99.4% Alleviate Distrust towards Tap Water (Supplied 8,990,000 bottled waters, enforcement regulations in the Maritime Pollution Prevention Law (Ministry Disclosed Water Quality Real-time 187 facilities) of Maritime Affairs & Fisheries Regulations No. 330 on February 21, 2006). Production & Production of Hydropower Energy (1,935GWh) As a result, disposing sludge from purification plants into oceans has been Consumption 2,138MWh for solar energy, wind power and others of banned as of 2007. Since 2006, all sludge generated from purification plants Environmentally1 case of CDM UN registration has been recycled, and no sludge is exported. friendly Green Purchasing (KRW 11.6 billion won) Products Reduction in the Cost of Chemicals for Purification of Water (KRW 6.18 won/㎥ Chemical Unit Cost) I System for coping with the Electricity Consumption at Project Sites (reduction of 22,726MWh) Accident Occurrence & Reporting Resource harmful substance emission Reduction in Oil Consumption Savings & (Diesel 82,092L, Kerosene 5,099L, LNG 211,000 ㎥) accidents I Recycling Reduction in Usage of Backwash Water at Water Purification Plant Emergency Measures (1.37% of Clean Water Production) Reduction in food waste (discharge of food leftovers generated from head office 324㎏/day) Inform Head Office & Related Organizations Improvement of Discharged Water Quality from Water Purification Plant (BOD 1.8mg/L, COD 3.8mg/L, SS 3.1mg/L) Reduction of Control of Discharged Water Quality From Waste Water Treatment Facility Pollutant (Less than BOD 10mg/L and SS 10mg/L) Overall Accident Management Counter Plan Window & On-site Support Discharge Reduction in Discharge of Sludge From Water Purification Plants (Discharge of Sludge: 0.06㎏/㎥) Environment, Training for Water Quality Accidents (104 cases) Report Water Supply Cut-off & Initiate Industrial Disaster Ratio : 0.25% Recovery Measures Safety, Cooperation & Joint Response Health Fines Paid for Violating Environmental Regulations 0 Case (Ministry of Environment, Local Managemen Governments) Environmental Volunteer Activities 106 Times Cause Analysis & Initiate Recovery Measures Strengthening Council (Sihwa, Daechungho) Activities, & Participation & Support of Various, Cooperation with Events 39 Cases Civil Society Support Water Resource Facility Tours (Water Tour 20,087 Visitors) Restore Water Quality Promoting Taking Care of Forests (area 75,658ha, 5dams) Other Transparent Disclosure of Environmental Management Performance, Publishing thE Sustainability Report & GRI Reporting Registration (A+) Report to Related Organizations Environmental Management Development of Water Resources in Underdeveloped Countries Performances (4 Overseas Projects/ KRW 13.67 billion) Activities Resume Water Supply & Initiate Normal 95 published theses and 100 cases of research technology development/ Operations intellectual property rights K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 79 Performances ●Legal Compliance, Transportation, Environmental I Employees & Executives Statis (Personnel) I (Unit: People) Accounting Legal Compliance 4,149 4,031 No fines or cases of non-monetary sanctions were levied due to 4,025 environmental regulation violations. 3,964 Environmental Effects from Transporting Employees & Executives The analysis on how the environment is influenced by transportation such as business trip of employees and executives showed emissions of 4,219kg of air contaminant such as SOx. The uses of the commutation bus and public transportation is recommended to minimize the influence on the environment. 2007 2008 2009 2010 *Personnel I Air Pollution Materials Discharged during the Transporting of Employees & Executives I (Unit: ㎏) Particulate Dust SOx CO HC NOx 202 1,432 506 56 2,022 ※ Ministry of Environment Announcement 2009-30, The Discharge Index of the partly revised policy toward the method of calculating the total automobile pollution substance discharge amount was applied. Expenditure for environmental protection and total investment Number of Employees 20s 8.0% 30s 33.0% Refer to p49 for more details on environmental accounting such as the & Executives by Age environmental investment and environmental cost. Group 40s 36.6% Over 50s 22.4% (Personnel) Ratio(%) Labor ●Employment condition The number of Officers and employees working for K-water total Type of Employment 4,149 (based on regular positions as of December 31, 2010) including 7 (Regular, Non-regular Regular 90.3% Non-regular 9.7% executives. The integration of similar function departments was performed Composition Ratio) Ratio(%) to strengthen the global competitiveness and the manpower operation was made in efficiency through the organization rank simplification. New manpower of 199 persons were recruited publicly to implement large scale national projects actively, such as the 4-river project in 2010. Executives 0.17% I Personnel Status by Region I (Unit: People, %) 2010 Employees Specialized Positions 11.09% 1,259 & Executives Professional Positions 2.89% 1,111 (30.4) (Personnel) (26.8) General Positions 85.85% Ratio(%) 880 (21.2) 403 266 (9.7) 204 (6.4) (4.9) 25 1 (0.6) (0.0) Seoul Gyeonggi Gangwon Chungcheong Gyeongsang Jeolla Jeju Others 80 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Employee Turnover Rate ●Labor-Management Relations Public enterprise management efficiency is proceeding from 2009 to 2012. The In accordance to article 35 of the Labor Union & Labor Related Conciliation turnover rate of employees for 2010 was 2.2% (93 employees) which shows Law, the right to collective bargaining and to negotiate collective agreement a reduction from the turnover rate for 2009 which was 3.8% (153 employees) is guaranteed to all employees. The current labor union membership rate when public enterprise management efficiency was put into practice. is 81.2%. Based on article 21 of the Collective Agreement (Responsibility to Notify), any changes made to labor conditions or articles of incorporation I Employee Turnover Rate I (Unit: %, People) should be notified to each other without delay. 3.80 ●Workplace Safety & Health The Labor-Management Joint Project Safety & Health Committee was 153 2.20 2.19 replaced by a Joint Labor-Management Council, and is comprised of 8 1.94 members each from labor and management. 93 The Council meets quarterly to discuss management issues. Through 88 77 the Council, sufficient explanations on management issues are provided, and through mutual understanding, labor management disputes are reduced, while achieving mutual benefits for both labor and management by enhancing productivity and welfare standards for employees. To ensure 2007 2008 2009 2010 workplace health & safety for project sites with over 100 employees, a joint ※ Non-voluntary departures Employee Turnover Retired Personnel labor-management Industrial Safety & Health Committee was created to included (Retirement by age) Rate (%) (People) discuss industrial safety & health issues within the workplace. I Status of departure in 2010 I I Safety and health matters that came from the Labor-Management Meeting (Unit: People) Class Total General position Special position Expert position agendas I Total 93 54 2 33 • Improvement of maternal instinct protection • Improvement in child nurturing system support system Male 87 50 2 31 Femal 6 4 2 • Special examination on the employees in • Improvement in operation of medical facility in harmful environment headquarter The diversified industry safety and health education and site safety control Employee Welfare Policies have been strengthened to prevent accidents. The system for performing In addition to the legally guaranteed 4 major social insurance welfare the preventive action for accidents during sports events and the injured policies for full-time employees, diverse welfare policies are being provided employees returning to work has been operated. to increase productivity by helping stabilize living conditions, enhancing The prevalence ratio was reduced more than the previous year owing to the quality of life and providing incentives. remarkable accomplishment through effective performance on the strict health checking, non-smoking program and obesity clinic from 2009 for Category Contents early discovery of diseases and for the systematic control of the care taker. * Home Purchase Loans Housing * Company-owned Housing such as Dormitories I Injuries, Occupational Disease, Days Lost, Work-related Disaster Rate & * Tuition Support for Middleand High School Students Prevalence Rate I Education * Financial Aid for College Tuition Occupational Days Lost Year Injuries Injury Rate Days Lost * Head Office Child Day Care Center Disease Rate * Health Examination & Health Management Programs (Nonsmoking & obesity clinics) 2010 13people 0.28% 0 people 724days 15.2% Health * Head Office Medical Infirmary & On-site Safety / Health Management Personnel Designation Policy * In-house Dentist and Oriental Medicine Clinic * Providing Breastfeeding Rooms and Female Employee Resting Maternity Area Protection * Interim Workforce for Maternal & Child Care Leave Employees * Disaster Compensation Policy for Work-related Disasters Disaster Compensation * Support for Difficult-to-cure Diseases such as Cancer & Group Insurance Policy * Physical Training Center Performances Others * Club Activity Support * Funeral Articles Support K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 81 Performances I Industrial Disaster Rate I ●Education & Training (Unit: %) 0.32 I Annual Average Training Hours per Employee I 0.30 (Unit: hr) 0.25 65 63.8 61 60.5 0.17 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 I Prevalence Rate I (Unit: %) 6.5 6.4 5.9 I Annual Average Training Hours per Person for Each Level I (Unit: hr) 3.1 110 61 54 46 48 2007 2008 2009 2010 26 23 11 Disease Prevention & Risk Management Program for Employees & Local Citizens Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Level 5 Level 6 Level 7 Level 8 K-water operates an employee counselling support policy for employees and their families, and a ‘Filial Piety Sharing Welfare Center’ to enhance the welfare of senior citizens Evergreen Program for Retirees • Ombudsman window To effectively prepare employees who are planning for retirement, an With the Ombudsman window operation in HR-BANK (human resource ‘Evergreen Program’ is being implemented. K-water is trying to provide capital management integration system), problems of employees have a 2nd opportunity to the retirees by providing training courses related to been aggressively resolved and the detailed matters are referred to on p62 change management & personal finances, real estate, and start-ups. (human rights and respect for diversity). Target for Performance Evaluation • Filial Duty Welfare Center All employees & executives receive performance evaluations on a regular In order to relieve senior welfare issues in dam areas where the ratio of basis. For the case of officers (Vice President), management contracts are elder citizens is relatively higher than other areas, K-water has established entered with the President to determine the personnel and performance Hamcheon Dam Filial Duty Welfare Center in 2006 and there are a total level in accordance with the internal management performance evaluation, of 8 centers in operation as of now. By implementing various programs, such as, Division evaluation, department evaluation, team evaluation and such as, dispatching home volunteer service member, weekly care, leisure others for the head of departmental and lower ranks. The evaluation welfare business and others, local elderly welfare issues are solved, and categories consist of a department core index and company-wide common efforts have been made to improve the satisfaction for local residents each index in accordance with the 4 major points of view (customer, finance, year through the consignment of outstanding institutions of senior welfare process and learning growth) of BSC (Balanced Score Card). for the surrounding areas. 82 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Diverse & Equal Opportunities the companies with a low accident rate. In addition, when entering into Employee & Executive Composition the private contract for protecting the socially vulnerable classes (general As of 2010, the ratio of male and female employees stood at 89.8% and project: 100 million won, specialized project: 50 million won, electric 10.2%. Although the ratio of female employees is relatively low, starting in communication project and others: Less than 40 million won), products 2004, K-water established its quota system for females. As a result, female from women’s enterprises and social enterprises are purchased with employees stood at 423 in December 2010. There were a total of 24 female priority and leads the protection of equipment and material suppliers employees in managerial positions: 2 directors (level 2) & 25 managers and construction workers through substantive performance of payment (level 3). confirmation system for subcontract payment. And, for protecting the human rights of temporary workers in construction, K-water reflects the social insurance premiums (health insurance and national pension) on the cost of work and settles them at the time of project completion in a way of heightening the payment rate of worker’s compensation insurance premium for contract parties. Employee Composition Female 10.2% Male 89.8% Ratio(%) Human Rights Training Currently, human rights training courses are concentrated on protecting the rights of minority employees such as the corporate-wide sexual harassment prevention training and personal information protection training. However, K-water plans to expand the contents of human rights training. For more details, please refer to page 62 of this report. Base Salary Comparison If the positions and employment dates are the same, similar base salaries ●Prohibiting Anti-discrimination are paid to male and female employees. In K-water’s Ethical Principles, it is clearly stated that individual personalities are to be respected, and that there should not be any discriminatory treatment. Through this, K-water is abiding by the ILO policies (No. 111, “Convention on Discriminatory Treatment of Employment & Work”). To protect the rights of minority employees such as the disabled, female, and Human Rights & contract employees, various measures are being implemented, which include the expansion of employment opportunities for minorities, the ●Investment & Procurement Practices reduction of working hours for child caring, and securing interim workers In the preamble of K-water’s Ethical Principals, in addition to clearly stating in case of child caring or maternity leave. A Gender Equality Department the principles of respect for human rights, a clause is included that states was created in the labor union to protect the rights of female workers. For that individual diversity and dignity are respected. It is stipulated so that all further details, please refer to page 63 of this report. management activities are carried-out based on the principles of human respect. ●Freedom to Form Organizations & Collective Bargaining Based on the 3 Labor Standard principles of the 10 principles of the Global Human Rights Review on Investment Agreements Compact, the right to form organizations in collective agreements and Since the overseas projects that K-water is involved with are small collective bargaining is guaranteed. There are no grounds for infringing on investment projects that are mostly Official Development Assistance (ODA) these rights at any of the project sites. projects and engineering (Survey & Design, Construction Inspection) technology export projects, the projects do not include a clause related ●Eradicating Child Labor to human rights protection. However, K-water will consider including the K-water prohibits the use of child labor at all project sites. There have been human rights protection clause in future direct investment projects and its no cases of using child labor in any of K-water’s project sites. To prevent decision-making process. child labor, based on K-water’s youth employment regulation, anyone under the age of 15, or students in middle-school under the age of 18 are Human rights review for contract companies prohibited from employment. All new employees are required to provide When transacting with companies, such as, public corporations, service documents proving their age. Through these efforts, K-water is faithfully contract companies and others, the contract review standard is set to abiding by the 5th Labor Standard principle from the 10 Global Compact exclude unfit companies, and by comprehensively reviewing the financial principles. soundness, corporate credit rating, quality, supply performance and others to substitute for human rights review. In particular, the accident rate is Performances included in the pre-qualification for bidding participation (PQ) for major projects to strengthen the human rights and labor part review, preferring K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 83 Performances ●Eradicating Forced Labor administration planning, which is the first stage in each development K-water is abiding by Korea’s Labor Laws and ILO policies (No. 105, project, to environmental, economic and social effects, the environmental “Convention on Eliminating Forced Labor”) to prohibit forced labor. K-water feasibility of a plan must be secured so that it contributes to an is faithfully abiding by the 4th Labor Standard principle from the 10 Global environmentally rational dam candidate location and selection process Compact principles. achieved through strategic environment assessments conducted since 2007. ●Security Practices To protect individual rights and to prevent labor productivity from declining Pre-environmental Review System at project sites, a cyber training course is held for 1 member from each As a policy to prevent any environmental impacts through the establishment department. That person has the responsibility to disseminate the of environmentally desirable administrative plans and development plans knowledge gained from the cyber training program to his/her department. by reviewing the environmental effects and appropriateness of the selected In addition, to protect against personal information being disclosed, K-water development site based on administrative plans, which is the higher has replaced personal registration numbers with i-Pin (Internet Personal ranking stage of development projects, and development plans, the preIdentification Number). K-water is continuously searching for ways to environmental review helps in selecting an environmentally-friendly site enhance security measures. For more details, please refer to page 62 of when establishing basic plans for the construction of dams. When deciding this report. on national projects such as the Youngju Multipurpose Dam and Bohyunsan Multipurpose Dam basic construction plans in 2010, a pre-environmental ●Rights of Local Residents review was initiated. The review helped in the process of decision-making As an SOC investment related public corporation that constructs dams, by taking into consideration economical and technological factors, including waterworks, and industrial complexes, there are inadvertent disputes with environmental factors. local residents in the process of implementing projects. Most are lawsuits related to property compensations. Out of the 13 lawsuit cases in 2009, 1 Environmental Impacts Assessment case has been solved, while 12 others are still in legal proceedings. Despite As a policy to minimize any environmental impacts by projecting & the proceedings, K-water is trying to protect the local citizens that have to evaluating the effects on the environment from the actual designing stage leave their base of life, while expediently solving these cases. As part of a of a development project, and by identifying methods to reduce the effects support package to provide support to local citizens that have had their base on the environment, K-water is trying to protect the local environment by of life submerged after construction, K-water is providing diverse benefits to searching for appropriate reduction methods through an environmental the local citizens through the various support projects to areas adjacent to impact assessment when establishing actual plans for dam construction. In dams. 2010, an environmental impact assessment was carried-out on large scale national projects such as the Youngju Multipurpose Dam and the Gyeongin Ara Waterway Business. As a result, environmental impact reduction measures were established through the creation of ecological wetlands, fish ways and canals for desalinization. Society Post Environmental Audit ●Influence on Local Communities Through the environmental impact assessment, an environmental audit is Initiating Environmental Assessments for Each Project Stage & carried-out from the start of construction to the 5th year of construction at Conducting Local Environmental Management the construction sites to make sure that agreements are strictly adhered to By taking into consideration the environmental & social effects in each and any potential environmental impacts from construction and operations stage of a project, K-water is carrying-out sustainable water resource are prevented. Measures were established to minimize the environmental development. From the administrative planning stage of a K-water water impacts by initiating post environmental audits on 16 projects including resource project, suggestions & opinions from local citizens are collected. the Gunwi Multipurpose Dam, 4-River Restoration Business, Sihwa River At the same time, a local council is established through the participation Hydropower Plant, etc in 2010. of local citizens and project related parties to alleviate various problems that might affect the local community. In addition, by participating in Environment Restoration & Cultural Treasure Preservation overseas water resource development projects, K-water is contributing Efforts are being taken to restore local environments by creating to the sustainable development of those countries where the projects are environmentally-friendly facilities such as eco-corridors, fish ways and being carried-out, by initiating environmental evaluations to implement substitute habitats to prevent changes in the environment from water sustainable development from the planning stage included Pakistan and resource development projects, and to secure ecological soundness. As Cambodia. can be seen through the Jangheung Dam Seonsamun Cultural Park and the Daegok Dam Cultural Exhibition Hall construction, K-water is placing its Strategic Environment Assessment efforts on preserving local cultural assets that can be potentially submerged As a strategic decision-making support measure taking into consideration or damaged. 84 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report ●Preventing Corruption facilitates the CAATs (Computer Assisted Audit Techniques) to feedback Efforts to discover corruption-stimulating factors and the method for after monitoring on daily units for 43 types of management system data to their removal strengthen the advance prevention functions on corruption. Furthermore, By discovering and improving the potentially vulnerable field for corruption K-water operates ‘integrity call’ and ‘integrity envelop’ for aggressive and self-regulated system improvement task, K-water has enhanced the gathering of customer opinion on fair, transparent and corruption work transparency and strengthened its internal control for anti-corruption. experience cases related to major civil works of the public corporation In 2010, from its 52 self-regulated system improvement tasks, K-water has to strengthen communication with customers by preparing customer implemented 30 tasks, such as the introduction of a total business expense complaints and its improvement plan thereof. review system for preventing budget waste, enhancement of transparency in bidding by structuring the illegal bidding prevention system, and others. Selection as an outstanding institution for integrity in the public sector K-water was recognized for its outstanding tasks for system improvement based on comprehensive integrity measurements by the Anti-Corruption and Human Rights Commission. With the company-wide integrity improvement efforts and with the improvement of enforceable integrity ethics regulations and instruction, strengthening of participatory integrity education (people completing the education for 19,260 persons, an increase of 21% compared to the previous Prior to undertaking business year), expansion of integrity examination for upper rank, improvement of • Structuring partnership with interested parties vulnerable fields through the discovery of risks for corruption, strengthening Customer requirements and communication for local council and others of full-time monitoring activities and others, K-water was found without Exchange expansion and communication with civic and environmental organizations any case of receiving money, goods, entertainment or convenience as • Evaluation of the appropriateness of location through strategic a result of survey for integrity of the Anti-Corruption and Human Rights environmental examination and advance environmental feasibility • Establishment of a plan to minimize the environment impacts of Commission and it was selected as an outstanding institution for integrity businesses through environmental impact assessments as it accomplished comprehensive an integrity score of 9.05, taking the fifth rank (8thlastyear) from 21 public enterprises. During the undertaking of business Selected as an outstanding institution for 5 consecutive years in Feedback • Participating in entire processes of business with the customer participating systemization corruption prevention policy evaluation Dam construction regional council, capability participating committee With the aggressive participation of all officers and employees in antiand others • Ecological environmental impact monitoring in the business corruption and integrity activities and its drive for powerful transparent implementation process through post environmental impact survey management by its CEO, K-water received on ‘outstanding’ grade from the anti-corruption action implementation of the Anti-Corruption and Human Rights Commission in 2010 with the subject of 193 nationwide public After undertaken business enterprises (39 central administrative institutions, 32 metropolitan local • Implement the survey for post-environmental impact survey and governments, 20 local governments, and 102 public related organizations) ecological environmental impact survey • Operation of improvement program in relationship with local residents for five consecutive years. There are only 5 institutions, including K-water • Support of dam area and provision of cultural space that received special recognition as an outstanding institution for 5 • Operation of cultural heritage conservation and damaged environmental restoration program consecutive years out of a total of 193 institutions. ●Participation in Public Policy K-water works very closely with related government organizations such Operation of a corruption impact assessment system for various as the Ministry of Land, Transport & Maritime Affairs and Ministry of internal regulations Environment when establishing water resource related policies and The corruption factors innate in internal regulations of the public enacting / revising related laws. Since it is prohibited for legal entities to corporation is reasonably analyzed and evaluated to strengthen its provide political donations or making donations of any kind under its name appropriateness and transparency of the internal regulations by operating is prohibited by K-water. the 2-phase corruption impact assessment system. In 2010, K-water has flawlessly undertook common company regulation improvement tasks for ●Anti-competitive Behavior & Abiding Laws public institutions and self-regulated corruption impact assessment system In accordance with anti-trust policies and fair-trade laws, K-water observes for the Anti-Corruption and Human Rights Commission to prevent 50 cases fair trade. K-water receives regular audits from the Fair Trade Commission of corruption stimulating factors within the internal regulations, including to search for any unlawful competitive behaviors or antitrust activities. There the risk management regulations and others. have been no items that have been pointed out over the past 4 years, and K-water has in no way been levied fines or non-monetary sanctions due to Performances Strengthening of integrity monitoring for advance prevention of corruption violations of laws or regulations. K-water has structured and operated an intelligence-type audit system that K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 85 Performances Product Responsibility Through the Customer Charter, based on a management philosophy that implementation targets that have been detailed by work sectors through believes the customer’s value is K-water’s value, K-water is practicing a the revision and implementation of the Customer Charter. K-water is customer-oriented management system to get a step closer to customers. striving to provide answers to concerned customers in a timely manner by operating a dissatisfaction receipt window that is open and accessible at all times on K-water’s homepage (Customer’s Voice, Bulletin Board). ●Observing Customer Health & Safety The dissatisfaction items received are utilized as a precious resource to By expanding the waterworks Life-cycle Assessment (LCA) and the identify management improvement projects. There have been no fines paid acquisition of the carbon labeling certification to all K-water’s project sites, as a result of violations of laws and regulations related to products and safety and the quality of water has improved. Since 2003, targeted towards services. However, due to large scale national projects, such as the 4-River all multi-regional purification plants, K-water has been operating a water Restoration Business, civil complaints have gone up in 2009 as compared to quality rating system internally on 14 items, including turbidity, residual the previous year. chlorine, taste, smell and disinfection by-products. The evaluation standard that K-water applies is stricter than legal standards. In accordance to I Number of Civil Complaint Cases I the internal ‘Service Implementation Standards,’ the frequency of cases (Unit : Case) of nonconformity in regards to water quality standards is managed by K-water. There have been no cases of violations in 2010. 2183 1639 1896 ●Product & Service Labeling 1363 1551 To satisfy the diverse needs of customers, customers have been segmented 1248 1270 1477 into groups, and customized services are provided to customers. A monitoring and feedback system has been established to analyze customer satisfaction. There have been no product and service labeling related regulations that have been violated. For detailed information such as customer satisfaction level assessments, please refer to Customer Satisfaction Management on page 26. ●Marketing Communications Efforts are taken to provide accurate information to customers so as not to effect their judgment. Related regulations and corporate-wide work By e-mail In writing principles are observed, including marketing communications such as advertisements, promotions and sponsorships. For all advertisements, such as property sales advertisements, an internal selection standard is applied in selecting the advertisement medium to ensure impartiality. K-water observes the review regulations and laws of the Korea Advertising Review Board. There have been no cases of any violations related to marketing. ●Protecting Customer’s Personal Information & Observing Supply-related Regulations Customers’ personal information is protected by establishing customer & data base security policies such as Access Restrictions, Authorization Controls and Post Audits. In relation to protecting customer personal information, there have been no cases of complaints by any customers. To expediently process civil complaints, K-water applied stricter internal standards, resulting in K-water achieving a timely processing rate of 99.4%. Customer complaints are being minimized by observing service 86 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Financial Following the sales increase in new businesses, including water, dam water supply, and an increase in power generation, local waterworks, and others, sales revenue totalled 2 trillion Performance 144.7 billion won, an increase of 6.9% compared to the previous year. Notwithstanding the freeze of charges for 6 consecutive years, sales revenue expanded, resulting in a net income of 142.1 billion won, which is a 74.2% increase when compared to the previous year, and in 2011, revenue is expected to increase in growth and profitability with the strengthening of climate change competitiveness through expanding investments in the field of green technology, facilitation of new growth engines, including, customer management, new and renewable energy and others. ㅣ Revenues ㅣ ㅣ Cost of Sales ㅣ ㅣ Net Profits ㅣ (Unit : KRW 100Million) (Unit : KRW 100Million) (Unit : KRW 100Million) 21,447 18,191 1,421 1,388 20,445 17,825 20,054 17,608 816 ㅣ Assets ㅣ ㅣ Debt Ratio ㅣ ㅣ Capital ㅣ (Unit : KRW 100Million) (Unit : KRW 100Million) (Unit : KRW 100Million) 184,844 75,6 66,728 132,770 29,1 64,936 119,817 19,6 63,054 ㅣ Ratio of Owner’s Equity ㅣ (Unit : %) ㅣ Current Ratio ㅣ (Unit : %) 129,9 International Credit Rating 83,6 77,4 106,2 56,9 105,8 • Moody's : A1 • S&P : A Performances K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 87 Performances Statement of financial position (As of December 31, 2010 and 2009) (Unit: won) The 37th Term (Current) The 36th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount [Assets] Ⅰ. Current Assets 1,304,694,783,207 499,946,334,872 (1) Quick Assets 619,401,268,489 441,643,655,711 1. Cash and Cash Equivalent 159,055,091,328 104,204,900,310 2. Account payables 317,936,229,420 295,465,094,512 Bad debt reserve (471,251,242) (556,174,518) 3. Other receivables 52,679,517,298 22,300,486,992 Bad debt reserve (16,006,687,831) (15,722,317,150) 4. Accrued income 6,128,019,536 4,053,497,543 5. Advance payment 31,358,015,192 27,198,864,710 6. Prepaid expenses 3,030,162,561 4,666,885,572 7. Derivative financial product assets 65,573,576,397 8. Other quick assets 118,595,830 32,417,740 (2) Inventory 685,293,514,718 58,302,679,161 1. Incomplete work 677,979,918,103 50,118,463,480 2. Raw materials 2,428,098,686 3,069,395,630 3. Supplies 4,885,497,929 5,114,820,051 Ⅱ. Fixed Assets 17,179,729,750,867 12,777,123,673,603 (1) Investments 1,824,141,596,365 1,712,145,492,740 1. Long-term financial product 6,421,606,474 13,408,095,366 2. Long-term incomplete work 1,658,136,462,252 1,488,929,822,248 3. Sellable securities 4,323,800,000 4,323,800,000 4. Equity approach applying investment securities 21,354,693,427 8,482,469,995 5. Long-term loans 19,208,078,023 17,319,333,193 6. Derivative financial product assets 112,091,189,408 176,091,152,449 7. Other investment assets 2,605,766,781 3,590,819,489 (2) Tangible asset 7,011,520,991,554 2,903,245,796,444 1. Land 40,926,218,587 39,867,529,860 2. Building 332,804,614,879 319,312,224,487 Cumulative depreciation (91,641,355,132) (80,916,889,566) National subsidy (959,242,333) (996,744,333) 3. Structure 130,344,260,889 128,065,612,723 Cumulative depreciation (42,391,563,309) (38,003,472,624) 4. Machine and equipment 487,457,694,475 468,968,346,486 Cumulative depreciation (270,729,386,649) (248,040,830,640) 5. Ships 9,826,211,746 9,049,013,703 Cumulative depreciation (5,336,002,933) (4,949,297,259) 6. Vehicle and transportation equipment 11,222,164,164 11,317,653,274 Cumulative depreciation (8,894,260,606) (8,333,856,573) 7. Construction in progress 6,405,086,943,395 2,291,714,007,769 National subsidy (13,756,815,784) (14,011,571,224) 8. Other tangible asset 93,891,496,531 88,229,645,262 Cumulative depreciation (66,329,986,366) (58,025,574,901) 88 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report (Unit: won) The 37th Term (Current) The 36th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount (3) Intangible assets 7,793,993,400,172 7,687,891,005,417 1. Industrial property rights 195,488,317 188,371,050 2. Computer SW 18,911,424,835 20,287,448,913 3. Right to use power generation dam 2,934,361,553,586 2,900,886,331,641 4. Water facilities management right 4,683,325,690,554 4,649,714,511,216 National subsidy (7,836,938,629) (8,359,401,203) Work contribution (8,290,525,625) (3,072,955,625) 5. Profit donation asset 179,361,554,311 129,614,578,751 National subsidy (9,524,401,563) (5,528,210,803) 6. Aggregate complex management right 3,489,554,386 4,160,331,477 (4) Other long-term assets 550,073,762,776 473,841,379,002 1. Long-term sales receivables 427,478,079,365 375,703,045,887 Present value discount amount (14,728,491,324) (12,428,817,096) 2. Security deposit 119,183,826,525 110,567,150,211 3. Differed income tax assets 18,140,348,210 Total Assets 18,484,424,534,074 13,277,070,008,475 Liabilities Ⅰ. Current Liabilities 1,004,155,262,029 472,551,979,072 1. Account payables 8,479,470,824 7,142,627,109 2. Other account payables 145,871,302,010 119,074,311,706 3. Advance from payables 320,415,975,260 262,175,166,665 4. Withholding 24,030,165,508 22,273,998,415 5. Accrued expenses 49,658,171,696 16,593,215,300 6. Accrued income tax 22,191,171,740 3,940,070,848 7. Accrued dividends 91,313,980 80,391,310 8. Current long-term liabilities 407,321,317,840 33,453,517,770 9. Unearned income 44,129,561 44,763,056 10. Short-term deferred income tax liabilities 2,135,183,370 1,401,684,608 11. Other current liabilities 23,917,060,240 6,372,232,285 Ⅱ. Long-term Liabilities 6,956,559,124,362 2,523,087,153,385 1. Debentures 6,316,144,290,000 1,943,867,480,000 Debenture discount issuance amount (4,772,243,453) (6,310,776,895) 2. Long-term borrowing 336,684,225,000 382,762,542,840 3. Retirement wage reserve 205,476,962,876 166,200,268,438 4. Derivative financial product liabilities 101,424,815,498 21,662,956,560 5. Deferred income tax liabilities 807,528,412 6. Appropriate liabilities 1,601,074,441 14,097,154,030 Total Liabilities 7,960,714,386,391 2,995,639,132,457 Capital Ⅰ. Capital Equity 6,672,837,445,091 6,493,585,024,681 1. Government equity capital equity 6,064,421,078,410 5,885,168,658,000 2. Other equity capital equity 608,416,366,681 608,416,366,681 Performances K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 89 Performances Statement of financial position (As of December 31, 2010 and 2009) (Unit: won) The 37th Term (Current) The 36th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount Ⅱ. Capital Surplus 1,451,379,166,208 1,451,379,166,208 1. Re-evaluation reserve 1,449,018,997,581 1,449,018,997,581 2. Other capital surplus 2,360,168,627 2,360,168,627 Ⅲ. Capital Adjustment (587,668,327) (569,529,790) 1. Stock discount issuance amount (587,668,327) (569,529,790) Ⅳ. Other comprehensive income accumulation (29,220,320,470) 36,951,457,052 1. Gain on evaluation of derivative financial product 17,557,852,743 42,267,443,002 2. Loss on evaluation of derivative financial product (46,160,759,045) (5,315,985,950) 3. Negative equity approach capital change (617,414,168) Ⅴ. Retained Income 2,429,301,525,181 2,300,084,757,867 1. Legal reserve 2,261,664,842,334 2,169,351,194,265 2. SOC investment reserve 25,532,838,240 49,157,806,492 3. Pre-disposition retained income 142,103,844,607 81,575,757,110 Total Capital 10,523,710,147,683 10,281,430,876,018 Total Liabilities and Capital 18,484,424,534,074 13,277,070,008,475 90 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Statements of income (Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009) (Unit: won) The 37th Term (Current) The 36th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount Ⅰ. Sales Revenue 2,144,749,560,970 2,005,383,610,176 1. Sales Revenue on Product 169,819,736,847 222,713,737,330 2. Income from construction business 495,721,755,095 497,095,639,307 3. Income from management business 1,396,974,258,944 1,206,486,281,025 4. Income from incidental business 82,233,810,084 79,087,952,514 Ⅱ. Cost of Sales 1,819,063,629,843 1,782,472,891,447 1. Cost of Sales of Products 153,457,337,596 194,003,715,011 2. Construction business expenses 495,721,755,095 497,194,706,803 3. Management business expenses 1,086,932,769,531 1,003,721,709,306 4. Incidental business expenses 82,951,767,621 87,552,760,327 Ⅲ. Gross Profit 325,685,931,127 222,910,718,729 Ⅳ. Selling and Administrative Expenses 96,246,650,045 93,370,754,014 1. Wages 27,403,160,705 25,036,787,621 2. Retirement wage 6,038,505,598 3,402,823,706 3. Welfare benefit 7,453,793,316 6,028,102,870 4. Business trip and communication 1,630,422,257 1,673,700,026 5. Communication 1,797,500,168 2,100,881,083 6. Power and water 819,195,516 749,655,383 7. Fuel maintenance 389,576,949 373,557,562 8. Taxes and dues 1,429,200,477 578,112,910 9. Expandable goods 478,695,775 640,769,247 10. Uniforms 49,019,605 47,900,858 11. Books and printing 550,233,092 585,052,844 12. Lease payments 694,751,824 790,091,666 13. Depreciation 2,754,936,833 2,715,806,860 14. Depreciation on intangible asset assets 877,664,844 856,743,377 15. Repairing and maintenance 5,595,244,118 5,882,638,287 16. Vehicles 504,334,907 498,215,925 17. Insurance premium 839,755,308 718,560,465 18. Paid fees 5,001,728,682 4,816,592,230 19. Work expenses 151,431,713 145,330,141 20. Advertisement 6,897,415,521 7,243,882,125 21. Education and training 4,145,171,839 3,660,554,571 22. Survey and analysis 88,904,561 79,481,470 23. Rewards 385,091,983 466,802,227 24. Registry and litigation 113,471,543 225,168,180 25. Cooperative expenses 139,990,000 192,151,000 26. Research 15,624,242,377 14,172,770,938 27. Ordinary development expenses 702,513,299 1,295,327,051 28. General maintenance expenses 284,370,681 69,384,671 29. Selling and advertisement 147,097,158 166,108,690 30. Sales promotion 393,974,471 397,093,570 31. Selling commission 20,000,000 177,254,053 32. In-company welfare fund 1,838,000,000 6,500,000,000 Performances 33. General maintenance expenses 1,007,254,925 1,083,452,407 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 91 Performances Statements of income (Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009) (Unit: won) The 37th Term (Current) The 36th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount Ⅴ. Operating Income 229,439,281,082 129,539,964,715 Ⅵ. Non-operating Income 169,151,346,211 135,054,214,009 1. Interest income 13,023,891,004 8,862,973,911 2. Dividend income 106,920,000 89,100,000 3. Equity approach evaluation income 1,214,185,051 200,381,206 4. Lease payment 1,077,378,728 754,029,609 5. Gain on disposition of marketable securities 16,178,939 6. Gain on foreign currency conversion 58,843,430,000 105,058,340,000 7. Gain on disposition of tangible assets 4,561,925,443 5,139,437,741 8. Gain on derivative product evaluation 64,699,240,000 9. Contract breach compensation 3,824,958,810 12,394,138,556 10. Transfer in of bad debt reserve 84,923,276 11. National subsidy 580,720,657 12. Transfer in of appropriate liabilities 14,095,105,630 13. Miscellaneous income 7,603,209,330 1,975,092,329 Ⅶ. Non-operating Expenses 222,566,325,646 172,677,246,449 1. Interest expenses 90,386,695,398 33,164,415,331 2. Other bad debt depreciation 13,294,615,103 3. Loss on foreign exchange difference 64,699,240,000 4. Contribution 999,571,430 1,450,625,334 5. Loss on equity approach evaluation 39,967,786 269,390,539 6. Loss on disposition of investment assets 3,275,521 668,743,469 7. Loss on disposition of equity approach investment assets 63,834,477 8. Loss on disposition of tangible asset 623,858,715 485,975,258 9. Loss on reduced amount of marketable securities 1,567,966,894 10. Loss on derivative evaluation 58,843,430,000 105,058,340,000 11. Transfer amount of appropriate liabilities 1,599,026,041 14,097,154,030 12. Miscellaneous loss 3,739,459,384 4,187,987,385 Ⅷ. Net Income before Deducting Income Tax Expenses 176,024,301,647 91,916,932,275 Ⅸ. Income Tax Expenses 33,920,457,040 10,341,175,165 Ⅹ. Current Net Income 142,103,844,607 81,575,757,110 92 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Statements of appropriations of retained earnings (Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009) (Unit: won) The 37th Term (Current) The 36th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount Ⅰ. Retained income before Disposition 142,103,844,607 81,575,757,110 1. Current net income 142,103,844,607 81,575,757,110 Ⅱ. Transfer In of Voluntary Reserve 16,863,622,571 23,624,968,252 1. SOC Investment Reserve 16,863,622,571 23,624,968,252 Total 158,967,467,178 105,200,725,362 Ⅲ. Retained Earnings Disposition Amount 158,967,467,178 105,200,725,362 1. Profit reserve 31,793,493,436 21,040,145,072 2. Other legal reserve 106,305,902,516 71,273,502,997 1) Business expansion reserve 106,305,902,516 71,273,502,997 3. Depreciation for stock discount issuance difference 262,349,196 244,067,263 4. Dividend 20,605,722,030 12,643,010,030 1) Government dividend (Dividend rate: 0.3088%) 18,726,932,290 11,458,423,370 2) Other dividend (Dividend rate: 0.3088%) 1,878,789,740 1,184,586,660 Ⅳ. Retained income carried over to next term Performances K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 93 Performances Statements of cash flows (Years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009) (Unit: won) The 37th Term (Current) The 36th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount Ⅰ. Cash Flow from Operating Activities (48,495,373,918) 237,241,346,636 1. Current net income 142,103,844,607 81,575,757,110 2. Addition of expenses and others without cash outflow 709,552,090,296 653,013,015,957 A. Loss on foreign currency conversion 64,699,240,000 B. Loss on equity approach evaluation 39,967,786 269,390,539 C. Loss on derivative product 528,925,298,662 494,200,690,573 D. Loss on disposition of equity approach investment stocks 623,858,715 485,975,258 E.Transfer amount of appropriate liabilities 1,567,966,894 F. Gain on foreign currency conversion 58,843,430,000 105,058,340,000 G. Loss on disposition of investment assets 3,275,521 668,743,469 H. Loss on disposition of equity approach investment stocks 63,834,477 I. Depreciation of debenture discount issuance difference 2,562,048,537 1,866,327,833 G. Retirement wage 50,339,296,740 23,002,394,481 K. Donations 476,242 L. Bad debt depreciation 284,370,681 69,384,671 M. Transfer amount of appropriate liabilities 1,599,026,041 14,097,154,030 N. Other bad debt depreciation 13,294,615,103 3. Reduction of income and others without cash inflow (143,498,809,400) (110,624,070,426) A. Gain on equity approach evaluation 1,214,185,051 200,381,206 B. Gain on disposition of tangible assets 4,561,925,443 5,139,437,741 C. Transfer in of bad debt reserve 84,923,276 D. Loss on derivative evaluation 58,843,430,000 105,058,340,000 E. Gain on derivative product evaluation 64,699,240,000 F. Transfer in of appropriate liabilities 14,095,105,630 G. Miscellaneous gain 225,911,479 4. Change of assets and liabilities from operating activities (756,652,499,421) (386,723,356,005) A. Decrease (Increase) of trade receivables (net amount) (71,946,494,158) (116,069,414,732) B. Decrease (Increase) of inventories and long-term incomplete works (796,197,475,561) (348,997,918,087) C. Decrease(Increase) Other receivables (30,029,175,669) 2,701,771,532 D. Decrease (Increase) of accrued income (2,074,521,993) (782,212,853) E. Decrease (Increase) of prepaid expenses 1,636,723,011 (945,026,627) F. Decrease (Increase) of advance payments (4,159,150,482) 64,961,821,217 G. Decrease (Increase) of deposits (86,178,090) 11,068,600 H. Decrease (Increase) of inventories and long-term incomplete works 349,344,018 I. Increase (Decrease) of trade payables 1,336,843,715 919,087,284 J. Increase (Decrease) of other accounts payables 26,796,990,304 38,116,993,750 K. Increase (Decrease) of advance from customers 58,240,808,595 4,823,968,598 L. Increase (Decrease) of withholdings 1,756,167,093 2,427,010,406 M. Increase (Decrease) of accrued expenses 33,064,956,396 7,810,255,441 N. Increase (Decrease) of accrued income taxes 18,251,100,892 (16,309,733,194) O. Increase (Decrease) of deferred income tax long-term (assets) (74,029,650) (11,815,419,540) P. Increase (Decrease) of unearned income (633,495) (19,939,501) Q. Increase (Decrease) of withheld security deposit 17,544,827,955 (630,059) R.Payment of retirement allowance (11,062,602,302) (13,555,038,240) 94 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report (Unit: won) The 37th Term (Current) The 36th Term (Previous) Category Amount Amount Ⅱ. Cash Flow from Investment Activities (4,664,378,499,842) (1,213,509,777,707) 1. Cash Inflow from investment activities 92,152,304,268 113,682,117,335 A. Disposition of marketable securities (short-term financial 53,000,000,000 product) B. Reduction of specific cash and deposit 23,907,908,745 14,665,364,224 C. Disposition of investment stocks 702,074,880 D. Recovery of employee long-term lending 1,736,263,858 2,117,886,464 E. Decrease Deposit 58,584,807,565 34,030,374,196 F. Disposition of tangible asset and intangible assets 7,221,249,220 9,868,492,451 2. Cash outflow from investment activities (4,756,530,804,110) (1,327,191,895,042) A. Acquisition of marketable securities (short-term financial 45,000,000,000 product) B. Increase of specific cash and deposits 16,921,419,853 17,179,007,006 C. Increase Long-term Loans 3,625,008,688 5,687,208,199 D. Acquire sellable securities 105,300,000 E. Acquisition of investment stocks 13,081,329,692 3,380,523,147 F. Increase Deposit 67,204,759,400 42,904,772,600 G. Acquisition of tangible asset and intangible asset assets 4,655,698,286,477 1,212,935,084,090 Ⅲ. Cash Flow from Financial Activities 4,767,724,064,778 1,050,050,572,542 1. Cash inflow from financial activities 4,813,809,669,908 1,103,640,599,422 A. Issuance of debenture 4,724,800,875,708 1,089,907,145,212 B. Increase of long-term borrowing on won currency 700,000,000 C. Cash investment from government and local 88,308,794,200 13,733,454,210 government 2. Cash outflow from financial activities (46,085,605,130) (53,590,026,880) A. Repayment of long-term borrowing on won currency 33,453,517,770 B. Repyament of Long-term Loans 29,335,677,770 C. Payment of dividend 12,632,087,360 24,254,349,110 Ⅳ. Increase (Decrease) of Cash 54,850,191,018 73,782,141,471 Ⅴ. Beginning Cash 104,204,900,310 30,422,758,839 Ⅵ. Ending Cash 159,055,091,328 104,204,900,310 Performances K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 95 Performances Positive & Negative Information K-water is maintaining a balance in disclosure by providing both good and bad news to enable readers of this sustainability report to objectively assess K-water’s overall sustainable management performance. Good News 2010 January Surpassed 1.77 million population for local waterworks service February March April Established mid-term and long-term strategic Won the transparent accounting award for the management plan first time as a public enterprise Responding to climate changes and striving for green growth through high level green management Early completion of Gunnam Flood Control May Established a conservation action plan which Site (Shortening of 14 months) includes the development of substitute Improvement of integrity habitats with the principle of conserving Improving the evaluation score of comprehensive Certified for construction business safety and the original shape of damaged endangered integrity for public institution by the Anti-Corruption health management system (KOSHA) species from the 4-river restoration business and Human Rights Commission Result of effort to June eliminate corruption Certified a low carbon tap water product for the first time in Korea (Ministry of Environment) July Received the national green technology award by the Minister of Education, Science and Technology August Won a national quality award (human resource development award) Awarded the Presidential Commendation (first as a public Won the best knowledge management enterprise) enterprise award in the Asian region for the September third consecutive year Registered the most CDM businesses in Korea (United Nations) (6 cases) Improvement of customer satisfaction for local waterworks Accomplish 116% of 4-river restoration October processing goals Shortening of work period with change in engineering method and others (3 months) November Not So December Good News 96 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report GRI Report Index Global Report Index Contents of Index K-water Adaptation Index Page Compact Rate Strategy and Analysis 4-5, 1.1 Vision and Strategy Message, Strategy and Vision ● 12-13 Major effects, Threatening factors and Opportunity factorsMajor effects, Threatening Continuance possibility factors, Ethics, Crisis 10-11, 1.2 factors and Opportunity factors management ● 32-33 Structure Profile 2.1 Structure Name Company Name 7 ● 2.2 7, Major brands, products and services Major brands, products and services 16-17 ● Structure of major business departments, operating company, subsidiary Structure of major business departments, financing 2.3 companies, collaborating companies, Structure of major business departments, companies, etc. 7, 14 ● financing companies, etc. 2.4 Location of head office Location of head office 7 ● Number of countries reported structure is operating in, Names of countries that Number of businesses, number of overseas business 2.5 have detailed relations with the problem of continuance possibility handled in the companies 7 ● report 2.6 Characteristics and legal form of owned structure Financial provider structure, shares structure 24 ● 2.7 Subject market Subject market and customer categories 28-29 ● 2.8 Subject market and customer categories Number of executives, sales, total assets, total debts 7 ● 2.9 Important changes in size, structure or owned structure during reported period No important changes 2 ● 2.10 Awards during reported period Breakdown of overseas awards and certificates 2 ● Parameters 3.1 Report period 2010, Part of 2011 2 ● 3.2 Date of most recent report August, 2010 2 ● 3.3 Report cycle Annual 2 ● 3.4 Inquiries on report and related areas Report inquiries 2 ● 3.5 Report contents definition process Subject readers and stakeholders 2 ● Korean businesses and overseas business 3.6 Report border accomplishments 2 ● 3.7 Detailed restrictions of report range or report border Accomplishments of overseas business 2 ● Reporting standard of things that may have a large effect on comparing 3.8 possibilities according to period or structure, such as collaborating Same term as 4 financing companies 105 ● companies, subsidiary companies,rented facilities or outside duties Data measurement methods including presumptions and methods that 3.9 support accomplishment index and other predictions adapted in information Financial, environmental, social data measurements 105 ● collection process, and calculation standard Effects of re-stating information presented in last report and explanation of 3.10 reason for re-statements No change 2 ● Big change in report range, border and measurement method compared to Change in Korean place of business and overseas 3.11 last report projects 2 ● 3.12 Index that shows the position of standard notices in the report GRI Content Index 97-100 ● 3.13 Policies and current activities to find an outside verifier Third Party Verification Report 102-103 ● Dominating structure, responsibility, participation Authority, structure and responsibility of Board of 4.1 Dominating structure of organization Directors 24 ● 4.2 Chairman Board of Directors and executive Mayor as Chairman of Board of Directors 24 ● In case the Board of Directors is unified, the Board of Directors states the 4.3 numberof independent people who are not executives Permanent and temporary directors 24 ● A mechanism where stockholders and employees give advice to or present a Operation of Youth Board of Directors consisting of 4.4 direction for the Board of Directors Employees 24 ● Relationship between compensation of directors, high administrators and Evaluation and relation of Board of Directors 4.5 24 ● Performances executives, and accomplishments of the organization Operation Results 4.6 Process to prevent conflict of understanding within the Board of Directors Strengthening of Fast and Sufficient Pre-Deliberation 24 ● K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 97 Performances GRI Report Index Global Report Index Contents of Index K-water Adaptation Index Page Compact Rate Process to decide qualifications of Board of Director members and standard of Permanent director and Outside director Appointment 4.7 expertise to support financial/environmental/social strategies Procedure 24 ● Mission/core values statement, action outline and rules made internally in relation to Ethical Outline, Environmental Management Course, 4.8 financial/environmental/social accomplishments and activities Innovation vision Mission 106-107 ● Process of the Board of Directors understanding financial/environmental/ 4.9 social activities and directing management. Board of Directors Operation Procedure 24 ● Government analysis of operation results, Accomplishment 4.10 Board of Directors financial/environmental/social accomplishments evaluation proc yearly salary graded 24 ● 4.11 Explanation of prevention rules and selection of approach method and selection Prevention Rules and Approach Methods 24-33 ● Membership or support of outside initiatives such as financial/environmental/ 4.12 social fields and rules Declaration to Abide by Global Compact 108 ● Members domestic and foreign committee and policy 4.13 Status of Korean and overseas committees and policy facilities membership facilities activities 2 ● 4.14 List of participating stakeholder groups Stakeholders group 28-31 ● 4.15 Participating stakeholders identification and selection standard Stakeholders identification and selection 28-31 ● 4.16 Status of Stakeholders Participation method Method of Stakeholders Participation 28-31 ● 4.17 Points of Interest presented by stakeholders and counteraction methods Stakeholders’ Points of Interest and Counteractive Methods 28-31 ● Financial accomplishments index Public announcement for management approach method 16-17 ● EC1 Direct creation and division of economic value Creation and division of economic value 74 ● Threat to business activities due to financial effect of change in climate, and threats and EC2 opportunities Counteraction to change in climate and CDM project 74 ● EC3 Pension support range Retirement fund management, retirement program 74 ● EC4 Government support fund accomplishments National Treasury support fund 74 ● EC5 Salary of new employees compared to legal minimum wage at major business places Salary of new employees compared to legal minimum wage 75 ● EC6 Location purchase policy, actions and ratio at major business places Local purchase policy 75 ● Employment of local personnel priority at domestic major business field offices and EC7 local high executives ratio Employment of local personnel at domestic field offices 75 ● Service support and infrastructure investments that prioritize public benefit, and its Investment in social indirect fund facilities, Improvement of EC8 effects existing dam environments 75 ● EC9 Awareness and explanation of indirect financial wave effects Economic activation support for dam surrounding areas 75 ● Environmental accomplishments index Public announcement for management approach method 14 ● EN1 Weight or volume standard materials used Material balance by tap water CO2 Labelling 76 ● EN2 Ratio of reusable materials used Rate of reusing sludge and construction waste 7 78 ● EN3 Direct energy use according to 1st stage energy sources Diesel, kerosene, LPG, NG usage amount 78 ● EN4 Indirect energy use according to 1st stage energy sources Amount of electricity used from outside purchase 78 ● EN5 Amount of energy reduced due to saving and efficiency Amount of reduction from using energy saving program 8 76 ● Efforts to supply energy efficient or reusable energy based products and services, and EN6 amount of energy reduced by this business Purchase of energy saving products, energy reduction 9 76 ● Efforts to reduce energy use, turning off the PC during lunch EN7 Indirect energy reduction business and accomplishments hour, 5-day car cycle, other energy saving efforts 8 76 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Total water withdrawal by water plants 78 ● EN9 Water sources that were largely affected by water taken Sources worried to change the ecology from water taken 8 76 ● EN10 Total amount and ratio of reusable and reused water Amount of water material used 8 78 ● Location and size of land owned, rented and managed around protection areas and Environment-friendly water resource facilities, Diverse EN11 areas where the biological value is high biological conservation facility and space 8 77 ● 98 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Global Report Index Contents of Index K-water Adaptation Index Page Compact Rate Effects of activities, products and services in protection areas and areas where the EN12 biological value is high on biological variety value Monitoring environmental change in business areas 8 77 ● Organism habitat environment and conservation for EN13 Protected or restored habitat environment cultural heritage 8 77 ● Biological variety management strategy of protected or revived land, current actions EN14 and future plans Biological variety management strategy 8 77 ● Number of national endangered species on IUCN Red List living in business affected Awareness of endangered species according to major EN15 areas, and endangered rate dams 8 77 ● Amount of greenhouse gases discharged according to EN16 Total discharge of direct and indirect greenhouse gases direct or indirect energy consumption 77 ● EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gases discharge amount Amount of greenhouse gases discharged due to office 9 77 ● EN18 Greenhouse gases reduction business and accomplishments CDM projects 77 ● EN19 Amount of ozone destructing substances discharge No discharge of ozone destructing substances 77 ● Amount of discharge to the atmosphere of NOx, Sox and other major contaminating Amount of discharge to the atmosphere through energy EN20 substances consumption 77 ● Quantity and quality of water discharged from purification EN21 Waste water discharge amount and water quality according to final place of discharge plants and water 78 ● EN22 sewage treatment sites Amount of waterworks sludge and construction wastes 78 ● EN23 Waste discharge amount according to form and treatment method Amount of construction waste and sludge 79 ● EN24 Number of important dangerous substance leak cases and amount of leakage No leakage accidents 79 ● Water areas affected by waste water discharge of organization and name of land, size, Conservation of ecological environment and water quality EN25 protection situation and biological diversity of discharged water 8 79 ● Water contamination prevention activities and EN26 Reduction of products and services on environment activities and accomplishments environmental management accomplishments 8 79 ● EN27 Products sold and ratio of reusable packaging No relation because of product characteristics 7 N/A EN28 Number of fines and non-financial restraints from environmental law violations Abiding by environmental laws and preventing accidents 8 80 ● Important environmental effect of moving products and basic materials and executives Environmental effects depending on movement of EN29 travels executives 80 ● EN30 Environmental protection expenditure and investment total Environmental protection expenditure and investment total 80 ● Labor accomplishments index Public announcement for management approach method 15 ● Form of employment, employment contracts and personnel status according to Form of employment, employment contracts and LA1 location personnel status according to location 80 ● LA2 Number and ratio of people that left the company Number and ratio of people that left the company 81 ● LA3 Privileges of full-time employees that are not given to part-timers Privileges of full-time employees 81 ● LA4 Ratio of employees that are subjects of group negotiations Ratio of employees that are subjects of group negotiations 3 81 ● LA5 Minimum period for reporting important change in business Reporting period according to group agreement 81 ● LA6 Employee ratio represented by labor union joint Health and Safety Committee Changed to joint labor-management conference 3 81 ● LA7 Number of injuries, work diseases, days lost, and work related disasters Rate of industrial disasters and diseases 81-82 ● Education, training, counseling, prevention and threat management programs to Operating the problem consulting center for officers and LA8 support seriously diseased employees, their families and local residents employees and the filial duty welfare center for inhabitants 82 ● Welfare and Safety conditions, formal subject of negotiations with joint LA9 labormanagement conference Joint labor-management conference agenda 3 81 ● Average training hours per year according to employee LA10 Average education hours per day according to form of employee grade 82 ● Duties education and lifelong education programs for continuous employment and LA11 retiring employees support Evergreen program for retirees 82 ● Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA12 reviews Employees receiving performance and reviews 6 82 ● LA13 Structure of Board of Directors and employees Status of executives structure 6 83 ● Performances Ratio of basic salary of newly recruited men and women personnel according to Ratio of basic salary of newly recruited men and women LA14 employee range personnel 6 83 ● K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 99 Performances GRI Report Index Global Report Index Contents of Index K-water Adaptation Index Page Compact Rate Human rights accomplishments index Number and ratio of major investing agreements that include human rights protection Contracts and agreements including human rights HR1 clauses or that passed human rights evaluation evaluation 2 83 ● Method of evaluating human rights of supplying companies, HR2 Human rights evaluation ratio of major supply companies and contract companies etc. 2 83 ● Human rights related education (Sexual harassment HR3 Employee training on duties related human rights policies and processes prevention education) 2 83 ● Management and counseling through executives’difficulties HR4 Total discrimination cases and related handling handling system 1 83 ● Duty fields evaluated to have a chance of serious violation of association or group Rights and benefits protection for women and the disabled, HR5 negotiations freedom, and management to guarantee such rights etc 1 83 ● HR6 Business fields with a high chance of child labor and management to stop child labor Restraint against employing youths (Employment rule) 5 83 ● HR7 Business fields with a high chance of forced labor and management to stop such labor Forced labor prohibition rule (Korean labor standard law) 4 84 ● Ratio of security personnel that have certified the human rights policy and process Education accomplishments of human rights related HR8 education security personnel 1 84 ● HR9 Number of local residents rights violation and related management Civil treatment of local residents 2 84 ● Social accomplishments index Characteristics, range and effect of program that evaluates local social effects from Environmental evaluation according to stages, aftereffects SO1 beginning, during and finishing stages of duties evaluation 84 ● Inspection of high positions or departments with high chance SO2 Number and ratio of business units analyzed to have corruption risk of corruption through department purity evaluation 10 85 ● SO3 Ratio of employees who received anti-corruption policy and process related education Rate of ethical management training certification 10 85 ● SO4 Management of corruption cases Handling of corruption cases 10 85 ● Participation in public policies, such as carrying out SO5 Position on public policies, establishment of public policies and participation in lobbying government policies 85 ● SO6 Total amount donated to parties, politicians or related facilities according to nation Support in the name of the corporation is legally prohibited 85 N/A Number of unfair competition activities and monopoly actions that were dealt with SO7 legally, and the results Regular Free Trade Commission inspections 10 85 ● SO8 Number of cases of fine and non-financial restraint due to violation of law or regulations Number of violation cases and fines 85 ● Product responsibility accomplishments index Introducing 5-Star water purification plant & CO2 labelling, Stage of deliberation of life cycle that evaluates health and safety effects of product and PR1 service, ratio of major products and services that actually carry out the evaluation and advanced water purification plant, the evaluating system 58-59 ● of water purification level Number of violation of customer health and safety effects related restraints and Efforts to abide by laws related to health and safety of PR2 voluntary rule violation cases in product and service life cycle customers 86 ● Necessary product and service information type for process, ratio of products and PR3 services with such information Efforts to provide information on tap water quality, etc 86 ● PR4 Number of product or service information labeling related restraint voluntary violation Efforts to provide information on tap water quality, etc 86 ● Customer satisfaction related activities including customer satisfaction evaluation PR5 survey results, etc Customer satisfaction research results 86 ● Marketing communications such as advertisement, promotion, sponsorship restraints, PR6 standard and voluntary rule abiding program Abiding by marketing related restraints 86 ● Number of marketing communications such as advertisement, promotion, sponsorship PR7 restraints, standard and voluntary rule violation cases Efforts to abide by promotion related laws 86 ● Number of complaints on violation of customer personal information protection and PR8 customer data loss Number of Internet civil cases and breakdown 86 ● PR9 Total fine from violation of laws and regulations on product and service supply Efforts to abide by service supply laws 86 ● 100 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report K-water KPI (Key Performance Indicator) 1) Starting in 2010, recent 4 year interests have been re-calculated to include financial expenses that have been capitalized. GRI Indicators Unit 2007 2008 2009 2010 EC01 Total Sales KRW Millions in 1,812,905 2,044,533 2,005,384 2,144,750 2.8 Dam water supply Million㎥ 4,757 4,847 4,867 5,045 2.8 Service water supply Million㎥ 3,064 3,094 3,147 3,326 2.8 Unit price for dam water supply KRW/㎥ 47.93 47.93 47.93 47.93 2.8 Unit price for service water supply KRW/㎥ 292.5 292.5 292.5 292.5 Accounted for Water Rate (Multi-Regional 2.8 Waterworks) % 99.7 99.8 99.8 99.8 Economy EC01 Interest Paid to Fund-Providers KRW Millions in 51,717 57,844 78,288 215,091 EC01 Dividends Distributed to Investors1) KRW Millions in 26,104 24,285 12,643 20,606 EC01 Operating Income to Sales % 11.95 9.06 6.46 10.7 EC01 Tax Amount Paid KRW Millions in 68,929 52,533 23,581 31,728 2.8 Number of Dam Water Customers Sites 95 119 131 144 2.8 Number of Service Water Customers Sites 1,707 1,714 1,743 1,777 PR05 Customer Satisfaction Index Points 93.5 92.6 93.7 97.1 LA01 Total number of employees People 4,249 4,029 4,031 4,149 HR04 Total number of female employees People 376 385 393 423 Labor hours (Statutory labor hours) Hours/week 46.75(40) 46.75(40) 46(40) 40(40) LA01 Number of New Employees People 133 88 83 187 LA02 Employee Turnover People 77 88 153 93 LA10 Number of Trainees People 13,906 11,666 12,011 9,880 Society HR05 Labor-Management Agenda and Consensus Cases 13 10 22 18 LA07 Industrial Accidents Cases 14 13 14 13 LA07 Industrial Accident Rate % 0.32 0.32 0.35 0.25 LA07 Patients People 127 274 247 0 LA07 Prevalence Rate % 3.1 6.6 5.9 6.4 EC09 Aid to Local Communities around Dams KRW Billions in 520 532 556 581 EC09 Investment in Social Contribution Activitie KRW Billions in 540 543 596 597 EN16 Total Carbon Dioxide Emissions tCO2e 488,305 495,240 505,712 535,650 EN03 Total Energy Consumption TJ 9,349 9,486 9,687 10,142 EN03 Power Consumption for Water Purification KWh/㎥ 0.3150 0.3182 0.3176 0.3183 EN08 Total amount of water obtained 1,000㎥ 3,073,425 3,111,885 3,153,449 3,378,502 EN06 Power Generated from Multi-purpose Dams GWh 2,159 1,615 1.453 1,935 EN22 Sludge from Water Treatment Plants tonnes 97,458 84,679 90,717 104,976 EN22 Total Recycled Sludge % 100 100 100 100 EN10 Quantity of Recycled Water (Head Office Consumption) ㎥ 8,079 8,065 8,056 7,840 EN14 Young fish stock One thousand fish 1,548 1,298 1,035 1,059 EN21 BOD of Water Discharged from Water Treatment Plants mg/L 2.8 2.3 2 1.8 EN21 COD of Water Discharged from Water Treatment Plants mg/L 5.3 4.4 4.3 3.8 EN21 SS of Water Discharged from Water Treatment Plants mg/L 4.8 3.9 3.8 3.1 EnvironEN21 Water sewage treatment BOD mg/L 1.9 2.1 2.2 1.9 ment EN21 Water sewage treatment COD mg/L 6.9 5.9 7.2 3.8 EN21 Water sewage treatment SS mg/L 2.7 2.9 3.5 3.1 Replacement of Worn-out Pipes (Length) km 12.5 15.5 19.5 24.9 Replacement of Worn-out Pipes (Cost) KRW Millions in 10,912 29,786 44,490 368 Water Quality Control Cost per Ton (Unit Requirement of Chemicals) KRW/㎥ 5.2 4.9 6.2 6.3 EN30 Investment in Environmental Facilities KRW 100 Million in 653 415 428 664 EN30 Environmental Investment to Total Investment % 10 6 5 5 EN30 Environmental cost KRW 100 Million in 1,210 1,380 1,207 1,351 EN30 Environmental Cost to Project Cost % 11 12 10 10 Post Management Assessment to Maintain 4.15 ISO9001/14001 Certification Cases 1 1 1 1 Performances 4.11 Environmental Impact Assessment Cases 1 2 4 4 4.11 Preliminary Environmental Feasibility Review Cases 6 3 7 9 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 101 Performances Third Party’s Assurance Report Dear Readers of K-water’s 2011 Sustainability Report • Foreword The Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) had been engaged by K-water to verify the contents of its 2011 Sustainability Report (the Report). K-water is responsible for the collection and presentation of information within the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out assurance activities on specific information in the verification scope stipulated below. • Our independence With the exception of providing third party verification services, KMAR is not involved in any other K-water business operations that are aimed at making profits in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. • Verification scope K-water described its efforts and achievements of its sustainability activities in the Report. The verification process was designed to provide readers with the following information; Verification of the economic section: Review whether financial performance data has been extracted appropriately from K-water’s 2010 Financial Statements Audit Reports and Annual Reports as defined in the Report’s performances and conclusion sectors Verification of environmental and social section: Review whether environmental and social information included in the Report is presented appropriately. “Appropriately Presented” means that the actual data and the original information are appropriately reflected in the contents of the Report with consistency and reliability. For the economic sector, we based our evidence gathering procedures on reasonable assurance. It is a higher level of assurance than the limited verification in terms of the characteristics and the extent of performed tasks. • Verification standards KMAR performed the review based on our own verification. We also used AA1000AS(2008) and the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Boardissued “International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” as additional guidelines. • Verification process In order to form our conclusion, KMAR undertook the steps outlined below to assess K-water’s internal processes for reviewing the sustainability reporting practices. Reviewed systems and processes used in producing data Assessed internal documents and materials Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances • Conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, related department visits and interviews, we held several discussions with K-water on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm whether our recommendations for improvement and revisions have been reflected. 102 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report In the results of verification, the verification team didn’t find any inappropriate contents related to the compliance with the principle in the Report. Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. • K-water is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The verification team didn’t find any critical stakeholder group left out during this procedure. Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. • K-water is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels by its own materiality evaluation process, and the verification team didn’t find any critical issue left out in this process. Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. • The verification team didn’t find any evidence that K-water’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues was inappropriately recorded in the Report. The verification result of the reliability of sustainability performance information is as follows: • Economic performance We compared the Report with K-water’s 2010 Financial Statements and found that the financial data presented in the Report has been appropriately derived from 2010 Financial Statements. • Environmental and social performance We observed that the information contained in the environmental and social sections has been appropriately presented. We did not discover any significant errors. • Recommendation for improvement We hope K-water’s publication of the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. • We recommend to improve performance report practice to help an easier understanding of stakeholders who are expected to be interested in the applicable performance. July 21, 2011 Korea Management Association. Registrations & Assessments Inc. CEO Ki Ho Park Performances K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 103 Performances ISO 26000 ISO 26000 is a guide of international standard methods used to integrate social responsibility throughout entire organizations for issues based on 7 main themes of social responsibility according to the basic principle of social responsibility by recognizing it and the identifying & participating of stake holders. K-water’s detailed report of issues which is based on the 7 main themes of social responsibility is as follows. Main theme Issue Page Governance Decision making process and structure 4, 5, 10-13 Duty of using care 83 Endangered situation of human rights 83, 84 Avoidance of conspiracy 83 Difficulty treatment 62, 83 Human rights Discrimination and fragile group 83, 84 Civil and political rights 83 Economic, social and cultural rights 84 Basic principle and rights in the workplace 83 Employment and employment relation 80, 81 Labor condition and social protection 81 Labor practice Social conversation 81 Health and safety in the workplace 81, 82 Human resource development and education in the workplace 82 Contamination protection 77-79 Use of the sustainable resources 76, 78 Environment Relaxation of climate change and adaptation 77 Natural environment protection and restoration 77 Collapse protection 85 85 Responsible participation into the politics 85 Fair operation practice Fair competition 85 Activation of social responsibility within the value chain 83 Property rights respected 84, 85 Fair marketing, real and fair information and fair practice 86 Securing the health and safety of the consumers 58, 59, 86 Sustainable consumption 59 Consumer issue Service, support, complaint and conflict resolution of consumers 86 Consumer information protection and privacy 86 Approach to the essential service 86 Education of consumer citizens and understanding 86 Community participation 68-71, 75 Education and culture 69-71 Employment creation and technique development 62, 69, 75 Community participation and development Technology development and approach 75 Creation of wealth and income 74 Health 69 Social investment 69 104 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Publishing the Sustainability Report Efforts were taken to reflect the voices of our internal and external from audited financial statements and statements of accounts. Information stakeholders when publishing this Report, and to ensure credibility, related to society and other sectors were directly received from related assurance on the contents of this report was provided by a third party. departments. K-water has tried to provide greater clarity by providing 3~4 year performance indicator data, and ratios and absolute data at the same The main objective of this Sustainability Report is to provide stakeholders time. with credible transparent corporate information and to gain the respect of the stakeholders. Matters of concern of the internal employees were • Efforts to Enhance Sustainability accumulated through a survey, while those of the stakeholders were gained It has been 6 years since K-water first published its Sustainability Report. through advisors. The issues of concern were evaluated for their materiality Over the course of 6 years, K-water has painstakingly tried to identify the and through the analysis of the evaluations, major issues of concern were expectations and concerns of the stakeholders, but there’s still room for established. K-water has tried to provide full disclosure of the performance greater improvements. In the next Sustainability Report, K-water will listen indicators outlined by the G3 guideline, which is the international standard. more carefully to the suggestions of the stakeholders to create a more advanced Sustainability Report. • Scope of the Performance Indicator Report The scope of this Report covers 32 domestic project sites, including • G3 Guideline Application Standard the main office, and 6 overseas project sites, providing sustainable K-water has tried to satisfy the requirements of ‘A’ standards outlined in the management statuses and performances. Since the accounting periods GRI GR3 Guideline for the “2010 Sustainability Report.” An independent 3rd are the same for K-water and its investors, it does not affect the comparison party assurance agency, Korean Foundation for Quality (KFQ), has verified in terms of the period or structure. Depending on the share ownership, the that this report is compliant with ‘A+,’ GRI G3 Guidelines. actual value method or the cost method is applied. • Performance Data Reporting Standard K-water has made every effort to follow the reporting principles stated in the G3 guidelines when preparing this Report. Each of the economic, environmental and social performance data was derived based on the indicator covenants attached to the G3 guidelines. Environmental related data was mainly quoted from data derived from the Environmental Performance Evaluation electronic system, while financial data was derived ㅣ GRI G3 Application Level Table ㅣ Report Application Lever C C+ B B+ A A+ Disclosure items: 1.1, 2.1-2.10, Disclosure items: All items of G3 Profile Disclosure items: Similar to Output 3.1-3.8, 3.10-3.12, 4.1-4.4, 4.14level “C” and 1.2, 3.9, 3.13, 4.5disclosure Standard ‘B’ request items 4.15 4.13, 4.16-4.17 Outside assurance of report Outside assurance of report Outside assurance of report Standard G3 Management approach Output Disclosure in management Disclosure in management Disclosures Not required disclosure approach for each indicator approach for each indicator Must only report 20 or more G3 Performance Based on importance principles, the At least 10 performance indicators performance indicators (More than indicator & reason for all G3 core performance Output have to be reported (At least one or one indicator must be included additional industry indicators & industrial guideline more economic, environmental and Performances related to the economy, environment, indicators indicators should be explained for social indicators should be included) human rights, labor, society and either reporting or not reporting product responsibility) K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 105 Performances Code of Ethics Preamble, Environmentally-friendly Management Principles, Customer Charter Preamble, Mission Statement for Innovative Vision Code of Ethics Environmentally-friendly Preamble Management Principles Korea Water Resources Corporation is an organization for Korean K-water is keenly aware of the need for the utmost effort for people to develop, maintain and preserve Korea’s water resources sustainable development in harmony with nature for more pleasant to make sure they are sustainable environmentally, economically and better-to-live-in environment. In this vein, therefore, K-water, as and socially, and to provide them with the best products and a corporation specializing in water, the origin of life, announces the services in order to contribute to improved quality of life and national following environmentally-friendly management principles in order development. With this pride and confidence, we commit ourselves to be reborn as an environmentally-friendly corporation loved and to the following code of ethics to be reborn as a world-renowned trusted by people. corporation specializing in water in this era of water in the 21st century. To accomplish our mission with a creative and open-to-challenge To take the lead in preserving clean water and air and healthy natural mind and do our given work with honest and fair attitudes and to make environment. efforts for transparent management. To predict the effects of water resources development and To commit ourselves to environmentally-friendly management with management on the environment and consistently pursue the a keen awareness that the environment is an invaluable asset to preservation of the eco-system, prevention of pollution and hand down to the next generation and a foundation for a healthy and environmental improvemental in order to make sure that our activities pleasant life. To provide customers with the best products and services are in harmony with environmental preservation. to ensure customer satisfaction and value-oriented management to live up to customer-first principles. To establish sound consumption culture of cutting down on supplies and energy and recycling them and always be alert against To respect local traditions and cultures, contribute to community environmental destruction out of carelessness. development and enrich the lives of community members with due obligation as a community member. To accommodate people’s opinions as much as possible in making environmental related plans and promote trust and transparency of To observe moral and legal values, respect market orders of free our business by opening related information and materials. competition, and pursue fair competition. To bear the primary obligation of preventing environmental pollution in To respect individual persons without any discrimination and respect advance, make efforts to settle problems in case pollutions take place, differences and creativity. and bear in mind that words put into practice are the fundamentals of corporate ethics. To develop a partner relationship between union and management based upon trust and harmony with a strong sense of unity to pursue To constantly offer employees environmental training and focus mutual prosperity. on research and development for environmental preservation and improvement to ensure that out activities for the environment suit * For detailed information on ethical principles and the employee codes of ethics. code of conduct, please refer to our homepage (www.kwater.or.kr), Ethical Management. All the employees of K-water hereby declare that we do our utmost to guarantee that future generations will live in a pleasant environment by putting the principles into practice. 106 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Customer Charter Mission Statement for Preamble Innovative Vision K-water is a public enterprise that enhances the quality of life for the To provide people with clean and safe water, protect their lives and public and contributes to national development by providing the best property from disasters caused by water, to be reborn as the best product and service, and by sustainably developing, managing and water service organization through change and innovation, K-water preserving our water resources environmentally, economically and declares the following: socially. With this pride and confidence, we are entering the “21st Century Era of Water.” To fully establish ourselves as a global water company, we commit to the following: To establish credibility from our customers, we will stably provide high To make customer satisfaction top priority in management and rectify quality water and land. existing practices, systems and values to be customer-driven. To guarantee our customers' safety and property rights, we will To do our work with honest and fair attitudes without deviating from provide necessary information and services even before our conscience, common sense and law to be a trustworthy public customers' request it. To continuously improve customer service, corporation, and to actively participate in socially beneficial activities to we will regularly collect opinions from our customers by carefully engage in the community. listening to our customers' advice and suggestions. To secure a world-level competitive edge to achieve our vision with To maximize customer benefits, we will strive to achieve management confidence and passion defying changes and establish a sustainable efficiencies and carry-out duties without discrimination towards all and stable foundation for growth. customers. To raise awareness of the importance of the environment for a healthy To be able to achieve these objectives, we will establish the highest life and sustainable growth of the future generations and to make performance standards. We also promise to abide by these standards. efforts to preserve the environment. K-water will concentrate on devoting itself to growing into a business that works well, has a competitive edge and is loved by people by putting the above mentioned statements into practice. Performances K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 107 Performances UN Global Compact The principles of Global Compact are based on the following international agreements. • Universal Declaration of Human Rights • International Labor Organization’s (ILO) “Declaration of the basic principles and rights of Labor” • Rio Declaration on the Environment and Development • United Nations Convention against Corruption The Global Compact urges corporations to uphold, select and legalize the 4 major provisions, which include human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Principle 1 : We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Human Principle 2 : We confirm that we do not complicit human rights abuses. Rights Principle 3 : We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 : We uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Labor Principle 5 : We uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 : We uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 : We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 : We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. EnvironPrinciple 9 : We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly ment technologies. AntiPrinciple 10 : We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. corruption K-water is upholding and practicing the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact President of K-water Kim Kuen Ho 108 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Declaration Glossary • Green Dirt Dirt used to spray over dirt to make a foundation for grass to grow. • CS(Customer Satisfaction) Customer satisfaction to the product and service • Membrane filtering processing This is the technology that is widely used for industrial • CSR(Corporate Social Responsibility) Social responsibility of the Cororation. ultra-pure manufacturing or water purifier for homes and this advanced water purification technique produces clean water by filtering into polymer membrane for water containing • EPE(Environmental Performance Evaluation) Customer expectations and requirements pollutant substances. to the products and services provided by the company. • Non-point Pollution Source A pollution source having an irregular discharge route, unlike point • ISO14001 International environmental management system standards as prescribed by pollutants sources, such as human populations or livestock having regular points of discharge. the ISO (International Organization for Standardization). This source pollution is calculated by the pollution load arising from land use in watersheds (including paddies, fields and forest), and usually discharged to water system by rain. • ISO 26000(International standard for the social responsibility) It was issued by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in November 2010. An international • Disinfection by-product Cancer-causing substance such as THM or HAA that is produced master guideline of standardized social responsibility which covers the many conventional when disinfection products used in the purification process reacts to organic compounds in guidelines for the 7 core subjects and management integration such as the participation the water. and development of every organization into the governance, human rights, labor practice, environment, fair operation practice, consumer issue and communication. • New and Recyclable Energy Three kinds of new energy including hydrogen, fuel cells, and liquefied coal gas and eight kinds of recyclable energy including solar heat, solar light, • JOA(Join, Open, Advance) Unique innovative technique of K-water for problem solving. bio energy, wind power, hydro-electric power, terrestrial heat, marine energy and energy The work-out method of GE was modified and developed in adjustment to the environment from waste. of K-water. • Sludge Sediments produced from sewage treatment or water purification process. • K-sigma(K-water/Knowledge Sigma) 6 sigma emphasizing the cost reduction and process improvement and unique innovative method of K-water in combination of removing • Prevalence This is the ratio that displays the number of patients surveyed in particular the unnecessary affairs and encouraging the R&D activities. time at a particular region on to the number of the population in the area. • MTV(Multi-Techno Valley) 21st century type cutting edge complex such as the • Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) Technique for evaluating environmental impact of a electronics/electricity, R/D which are established on the northern reclaimed land of Sihwa. product or service by quantitatively measuring the substances and energy consumed and discharged in an entire process of the product or service. • NTU(Nephelometric Turbidity Unit) Unit for measuring the turbidity. The turbity of the water measured using the intensity of the light scattered by projecting on the specimen. • Environmental Impact Assessment Estimations analyses and assessments of the impact of Social Overhead Capital (SOC) facilities, such as roads, ports, railroads, airports • QPI(Quality Performance Index) K-water unique automatic evaluation method on the tap and industrial complexes, as well as reclamation projects, on the environment. water quality control performance index, tap water quality and level of effort to control the water quality utilizing the IT and web technology. • Activated Carbon A form of carbon that has been processed to make it extremely porous and thus to have a very large surface area available for adsorption or chemical reactions. It • RPA(Renewable Portfolio Agreement) The investment agreement entered between the is applied to one of the advanced water treatments for odor removal. government-Development company for the development and distribution of new recyclable energy. • Deep Sea Water Deep sea water is the sea water from 200m or deeper where the solar light does not reach and the facilitation and importance have been increased in diverse • SS(Suspended Solid, Floating material) The particles of diameter over 0.1㎛ which float fields, such as, fishery, food, beverage, makeup product, medicine and others. in the water. It makes the turbidity of the water. • BSC(Balanced Scorecard) Performance management system consisting of comprehen• SQI(Service Quality Index, Service quality index) Objective measuring index for the core sive indexes that enables to measure mission and strategy of an organization. quality of service to prevent the combination of service process and to improve the quality. • CDM(Clean Development Mechanism) One of the Kyoto Mechanisms under which • TOE(Ton of Oil Equivalent) The amount of energy use such as use of electrical energy, gas developing countries can participate in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. and oils, converted to crude oil (tones). • COD(Chemical Oxygen Demand) Amount of oxygen consumed by oxidizing pollutants • UNFCCC(United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change) A convention contained in water by an oxidizing agent. Higher levels of COD indicate higher water pollution organized to regulate artificial emissions of greenhouse gases for prevention of global amounts. warming. Its full name is the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change). • CRM(Customer Relation Management) A strategy to obtain new customers, keep • VOC (Voice of Customers) An expected or requested matter of customers on products relations with existing customers, and to maximize customer’s lifetime value by supplying and services provided by the company. products and services in customers’ needs. Performances • GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) Organization founded with the support of the UNEP in 1997 to develop the guidelines for “Sustainable Management Reports.” K-water 2011 Sustainability Report 109 Performances The staff who participated in development and issuance of this report. We wish to express our deep appreciation for the efforts made by everyone who contributed valuable information which was need for the publication of this report. Management Services Dept. Director Hyong Joon Koun, Team Manager Sun Young Kim Jin Seok Kim, Hye Min Kim, Jeong Gyu Park, Won Hae Son, Dong Jin Shin, Hyeong Jong Lee, Hwa Sook Lee Business Planning & Coordinating Dept. Dong Ryong Kim, Sang Ryeol Kim, Jeong Min Do, Sin Je Lee, Hak Jae Jeong Audit Dept. Yeon Sik Kim, Yong Jae Lee Administrative Services Dept. Yoon Ha Kim, Cheol Han Kim, Hyun Jeong Kim, Sang Hoon Nam, Min Seok Son, Cha Rang Yang, Yong Gook Lee, Jong Sik Lee, Ye Jin Jeong Public Relations Dept. Joon Gwang Kim, Seong Woo Si, Soo Jin Uhm, Bit Na Lee, Seung Woo Lee Accounting & Finance Dept. Seong Woon Lee, Chang Min Lee, Yong Soo Jeong, Hee Seok Jeong Construction Technical Knowledge Management Dept. Gyu Ik Kim, Ssang Gu Lee Information Resources Services Dept. Seong Cheol Kim, Se Hoon Kim Water Supply Business Dept. Jong Ho Kim, Il Kyeong Choi Water Supply Operations & Maintenance Dept. Seong Rok Do, Jae Seong Lee, Seong Yong Jeong, Hyeok Jin, Yeong Hwan Choi Water Resources Business Dept. Byeong Soo Kim, Jin Yeong Kim, Jin O Lee, Seong Tae Hwang Dam & Watershed Dept. Seong Joo Kim, Sang Min Han Land Development Dept. Seon Ho Kim, Deock Hyun Nam Green Energy & Resources Dept. Deock Je Kim, Min Soo Park, Jeong Hee Yoo Overseas Business Dept. Hee Joon Gang, Jong Yeong Kim K-water Institute Ho Joon Kim, Seong Mi Ryu, Eun Chae Cho 110 K-water 2011 Sustainability Report Readers’ Voice We are grateful to all our stakeholders that have an interest in K-water’s sustainable management and have read the ‘2011 sustainable management Report.’ Each opinion and suggestion provided by you will be preciously utilized in further developing K-water’s sustainable management. We value and accept your suggestions and we will try to reflect the suggestions in the next report. K-water Management Services Dept. Performance Management Team / Fax : 042) 629 2399 E-mail : sustainability@kwater.or.kr Paste here! From Name Telephone E-mail Address Paste here! Paste here! To 560 Sintanjin-ro, Daedeok-gu, Daejeon, Korea K-water Management Services Dept. 3 0 6 7 1 1 About K-water’s Sustainability Report 2011⋯. 1. Which of the following would best describes you? ① Customer ② Investor/Shareholder ③ Government/Civil Servants ④ Local Residents ⑤ Citizens, Social Group, NGOs ⑥ Business partner ⑦ Scholar ⑧ Journalist ⑨ K-water employee ⑩ Others ( ) 2. What brought your attention to K-water‘s Sustainability Report? ① K-water’s homepage ② Internet Search engine ③ Newspaper/Magazines ④ Recommendation by K-water staff ⑤ Others ( ) 3. Which section was the most interesting? ① Strategy ② Approach ③ Challenges(Green Economy) ④ Challenges(Green Environment) ⑤ Challenges(Green Society) ⑥ Performances 4. Which section do you think needs improvement? ① Strategy ② Approach ③ Challenges(Green Economy) ④ Challenges(Green Environment) ⑤ Challenges(Green Society) ⑥ Performances 5. Please feel free to give us your comments about the overall structure and contents of this report or our activities. We are waiting for your valuable opinions. Your opinion will be of great help and will be used to continue sustainable management activities. We will review your opinions and we will reflect them in our next report. This report can be downloaded in PDF file format from the K-water homepage (www.kwater.or.kr). Anyone who would like more detailed information on sustainable management activities and outcomes introduced in this report, please contact the following person in charge of this report. We deeply appreciate you for your profound interest on the sustainable management activities of K-water. Imformation K-water Management Services Dept. 560 Sintanjin-Ro, Daedeok-Gu, Daejeon 306-711 Republic of Korea TEL : 82-42-629-2364 FAX : 82-42-629-2399 E-mail : sustainability@kwater.or.kr Web-site : www.kwater.or.kr Produced by K-water Management Services Dept. Designed by Hanaroadcom
