SUSTAINABILITY 20 REPORT 09 02 03 SUSTainability Report 2009 INDEX 5 69 9 61 15 23 33 ty s 77 li ES on 2 ca nt an . Mi TR ti me Mi d ss T CEN ni le M io St at st ajo n, SS GEMEN G mu KPIs OPPIN e on r Va INE om TAIL es Sustlu TAIL ec MANA ’s CEO e US el ai s B RE SH RE 7. 1. na 3. 4. 5. 6. T 8. bi Creation and Distribution of Economic Value 18 35 Stakeholders Sonae’s Main Environmental and Social Impacts 18 37 Encouraging Responsible Consumption Investment in the Community 20 41 Product Safety 42 Ethical Relationships with Suppliers 45 Environmental Performance 50 Community Governance Model 24 54 Commitments Risk Management 26 Employees 27 Main Stakeholders and means of engaging them 29 The Future: Main Strategic Guidelines 30 64 Key Figures 65 External Recognition 65 Case Studies 71 Key Figures 72 External Recognition 73 Case Studies SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 CEO’s Statement 06 07 SUSTainability Report 2009 CEO’s Statement We are convinced that we are following a clear and ambitious strategy of sustained growth. Our intention with this document is to offer a straightforward and objective vision of our strong corporate commitment to Sustainability. As the biggest private employer in Portugal and an organisation which interacts every day with millions of stakeholders, we are aware that we can and must influence society to adopt more responsible attitudes. We thus highlight in the Retail area various initiatives relating to healthy eating, ethical relationships with suppliers, fostering Portuguese agriculture through the Producers’ Club and making more environmentally friendly products available to consumers, as well as a number of actions taken to rationalise resource consumption and of involvement with local communities. We understand very well the challenges and opportunities in our path and we are well prepared to face the future. As I have already pointed out, we believe that the approach that we have taken to Sustainability over the years will make us even stronger, and enable us to reach yet higher levels of economic, environmental and social performance. Paulo Azevedo CEO Sonae ver the more than 50 years of Sonae’s business activity, special attention has always been given to environmental, social and economic issues. The company’s growth has also been the result of a business culture which has always believed in innovation, anticipation of consumer needs, desire to surprise and an inclination to question management models and the status quo. In 2009, we certainly continued along this path, increasing turnover, investing in our human capital and in society, while continuing efforts to reduce our main environmental impacts. These results have been achieved against an economic background, which has been challenging to say the least, and which has strengthened our conviction that it is only through a strategic vision that encompasses economic, social and environmental factors that success can be attained. The year 2009 was also one in which we reorganised our business. Various organisational changes were implemented, designed to accelerate growth, provide greater focus on the Retail business and give increasing autonomy to our core partnerships in the Telecommunications and Shopping Centres sectors. The format used this year in our report takes into account the internal organisation recently completed, placing greater focus on the Retail business than in previous years’ reports and producing separate and detailed reports for the other areas. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2 Mission, Values and Major Sustainability Milestones 10 11 SUSTainability Report 2009 Mission, Values and Ambition Ambition continues to be the main driving force behind the success of Sonae: a quality which transformed a small wood laminate business into one of the largest companies based in Portugal an increasing international Major Sustainability presence and leader in almost all the business sectors in which it operates. Innovation Milestones For Sonae, innovation is much more than simply creating new products and services. Innovation is the essence and at the heart of the businesses. Sonae believes that learning happens by trial and error and by making mistakes, but is aware of the importance of finding a balance in accordance with normal risk management standards. Social Responsibility Sonae embeds within its values and culture the sustainability principle as a basis for playing an active role in contributing towards improving the local communities among which it operates, demonstrating concern for the environment and society, as well as a high level of respect for employees, customers, shareholders and suppliers. Frugality and Efficiency Sonae excels in terms of efficiency, thrives in highly competitive conditions and in the development of projects with far reaching impacts. Sonae seeks to optimise its resources, carefully selecting where and when to use them in order to maximise its return. Cooperation and Independence Sonae takes a position of independence and autonomy in relation to local and central government but is always willing and open to cooperate with governments with a view to improving the regulatory, legislative and social framework. Sustainability at Sonae – Major Milestones Since Sonae was founded, sustainability principles have always been followed. Over the years, Sonae has performed positively, not only in terms of profitability but also socially, through support to the community, protecting the environment and improving its Corporate Governance performance by introducing transparency and internal rules designed to ensure ethical and responsible behaviour throughout the organization. The main initiatives taken by Sonae concerning Sustainability Mission Year Initiative To create long-term economic and social value, bringing the benefits of progress and innovation to an ever 1995 Launch of the Horizon Project, designed to strengthen environmental increasing number of people. management, and considered to be a factor of differentiation and competitive advantage; joined the World Business Council for Sustainable Values and Principles Development. Sonae’s corporate values and principles are like the links in a chain, which connect the businesses, ensuring 1996 Set up of the Environmental Forum, to discuss best practices, share a collective strength and common future. They are the principles by which the company benchmarks its activity experiences and information about the environment. and relationships with all of its stakeholders. Sonae’s corporate values and principles, shared by its managers 1999 Launch of the Eco2 XXI Programme, with the goal of implementing actions and staff, are considered to be the key underlying factors which underpin the distinctive competencies of the to increase environmental efficiency. company. 2000 The Board of Directors approves Sonae’s Environmental Policy and The key features of Sonae’s corporate culture are enshrined in the environmental management system. following 7 values: 2001 Active involvement in the set up of the Portuguese branch of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, of which Sonae is a founder member; publication of Sonae’s first environmental report. Ethics and Trust A key commitment of Sonae is to create economic value founded on ethical principles and on those 2004 Sonae signs up to the United Nations Global Compact. of sustainable development, based on a long term view and on relationships of trust with all of its stakeholders. 2005 Sonae signs the World Safety Declaration; set up of the Sustainability Forum, which replaced the Environmental Forum. People at the centre of the company’s success 2007 Publication of Sonae’s first Sustainability Report. Human resources are a factor of differentiation in the markets in which Sonae operates. The company believes that the critical factors to attract outstanding human resources are: the continuous development of capabilities 2008 Sonae signs the HIV/AIDS Code of Practice and the United Nations and skills; and a taste and inclination for change. Human Rights Declaration. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12 13 SUSTainability Report 2009 2009 Highlights • Sonae signs a letter in support of the United Nations Convention against Corruption; • Adoption of a Sustainable Fishing Policy, the first retail group in Portugal to do so; • Continente elected for the eighth year running “Brand of Trust” and for the second year running “Environmental Brand of Confidence” in the “super/hypermarkets” category of the survey “European Brands of Confidence”, carried out by the Reader’s Digest; • Worten elected Brand of Confidence in the category “Non food distribution stores” in the survey “European Brands of Confidence” carried out by the Reader’s Digest; • Broadening of the healthier food product offer; • Launch of the “Hiper Saudável” Project with the first nutrition consultations in Continente Hypermarkets; • Environmental certification won for the first non food retail store Worten at Colombo – and for the first hypermarket in Madeira Modelo in Machico; • Sonae joins the Carbon Disclosure Project, reporting information about its carbon footprint; • “Mission Smile” wins the “Social Responsibility Master” prize awarded by the magazine “Distribuição Hoje”; • Sonae Sierra’s Personae Project is considered the Best Risk Training Programme in Europe in the European Risk Management Awards 2009; • Sonae Sierra wins the “Market transformation” category, one of the prizes of the Sustainable Energy Europe Awards; • Sonae Sierra is considered to be the Best Retail Developer of the Year on the Iberian Peninsula by the Euromoney Real Estate Awards; • Optimus, Sonaecom’s mobile operator, wins a prize in the Service Innovation category of the prestigious Global Telecoms Business Innovation Awards; • The “Optimus Concept Store” at the Casa da Música in Porto is awarded 1st prize in the “Digital Signage Best Practice Awards 2009”. • Sonae was awarded with the Red Dot: Communication Design 2009, on the “Corporate Identity” category, for the image “Sonae 50” developed for the company 50 years celebrations. Key Figures in 2009 €5,665 Millions 39,372 €614 Millions Turnover Employees CAPEX + 5,8% + 5,2% 30.7% Change 2008 2009 Change 2008 2009 Change 2008 2009 1,516 thousand millions €9,6 Millions €74 Millions Training Hours Community Support Net Profits 12% 11,3% of Earnings + 89.7% Change 2008 2009 before Tax Change 2008 2009 39 hours/employee 946 GJ/M€ 832 3,596,781 Energy consumption Retail stores (*) Weekly retail customers per unit of turnover 832,000 m2 + 9% -0.04% of sales area (*) Change 2008 2009 Change 2008 2009 (*) Data not comparable with those published in previous reports due to changes in the organisational structure of Sonae. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 BUSINESS 16 17 SUSTainability Report 2009 BUSINESS SONAE MC, food retail market leader in Portugal, revolutionised the commercial landscape in Portugal with the opening EMPLOYEES 2009 SONAE SIERRA is the international specialist in shopping centres that is passionate about bringing innovation of the first hypermarket in the country 25 years ago; ,628,000 m2 of sales area (+7% compared to 2008); 378 stores split 3% < 1% and excitement to the shopping centre industry. Operates in Portugal, Spain, Italy, Germany, Greece, Romania and Brazil, also providing third party services in Serbia, among the following brands: Área Saúde 3% Cyprus, Morocco and Colombia; owner of 51 (para-chemists and opticians), Bom Bocado 5% shopping centres with GLA total of more (catering), Book.it (bookshop/stationery), than 2,000 thousand m2; in total, including Continente (hypermarkets) e Modelo (hyper the management of centres owned by third and supermarkets). 39,372 parties , it owns a GLA of 2,200 thousand m2, with 8,924 tenants and more than 436 +1,935 68% million visits in 2009. SONAE SR holds reference positions in 21% 21% vs its market segments in Portugal and has 2008 an increasingly important international SONAECOM offers through Optimus brand business; 304,000 m2 of sales area (+23% a complete range of mobile, fixed and compared to 2008); 454 stores split among multimedia communications services, the following brands: Loop (footwear), aimed at residential and business customers Modalfa (clothing), Sport Zone (sports in Portugal. 20% market share of the mobile clothing and equipment), Vobis (technological segment with around 3.4 million customers. equipment), Worten (whitegoods and Telecommunications revenue assurance consumer and entertainment electronics), 68% Women / 32% Men leader with WeDo Technologies. Owner Worten Mobile (mobile telecommunications) of the Público newspaper, a benchmark in and Zippy (infant and children’s’ clothing). 69% Full Time / 31% Term contracts Portugal. 96% in Portugal / 4% Abroad SONAE Investment Management supports corporate strategy implementation. Its SONAE RP is a recent business unit, set portfolio currently includes companies up with the goal of actively and effectively SONAE MC SONAE SIERRA operating in retail DIY (MaxMat), travel managing the portfolio of retail real estate SONAE SR SONAE RP agencies (GeoStar) and insurance broking assets in order to improve the profitability (MDS), sectors in which the company SONAECOM INVESTMENT of the portfolio and support the growth MANAGEMENT believes that Mergers and Acquisitions will objectives of the company. play an important role in value creation. n 2009, and despite macro-economic difficulties and strong deflationary pressures, Sonae increased turnover, created new jobs, invested in the community, reduced its net bank debt and increased direct taxes The company’s turnover in 2009 was close to 5.7 thousand million euros, an increase of 6% over 2008. The good performance of retail in paid to the State. Portugal was accompanied by major expansion in Spain by the Sport Zone, Worten and Zippy brands, with the opening of a total of 22 new stores, more than doubling the sales area in the country. The strategy of international expansion, the main driving force behind the internal In 2009, Sonae completed the implementation of its new organic structure, in order to position itself restructuring, is thus beginning to bear fruit, in spite of an international economic situation, which continues to be unfavourable. as a company focused on the retail sector with 2 core partnerships: Sonae Sierra and Sonaecom. Sonae 100% 100% 100% 50% 53% 100% Contribution to Turnover by Business Area SONAE MC SONAE SR SONAE RP SONAE SIERRA SONAECOM Investment Food Retail Specialised Retail Real Estate Shopping Centres Telco Management Sonae MC Retail Hipers and supers Sport, Electronics Retail Assets Development, Telecommunications, Units with M&A Sonae SR and Textiles ownership and Media and Software activities: insurance, management and and Information travel and DIY Sonae RP the provision of Systems (SSI) services to third TOTAL Core businesses * parties Portugal, Spain, Italy, Sonaecom Telco & Media: Portugal Greece, Germany, SSI: Australia, Brazil, Romania and Brazil, and Sonae Sierra Portugal Portugal and Spain Portugal Spain, USA, Ireland, Portugal third party services to Poland, UK, Mexico, Serbia, Cyprus, Morocco TOTAL Malaysia and Egypt Core partnerships and Colombia Investment Management CORE RELATED CORE ACTIVE BUSINESS BUSINESS PARTNERSHIPS MANAGEMENT 2008 2009 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18 19 SUSTainability Report 2009 3.1 Creation and Distribution of Economic Value Sonae’s main environmental and social impacts SONAE MC SONAE RP SONAECOM investment In 2009 e SONAE SR e SONAE SIERRA Telecommunications management Retail Real Estate Various . Energy and GHGE . Energy and GHGE . Energy and GHGE . Energy and GHGE Turnover GVA Job Salary Debt Investment Direct taxes . Transport . Waste . Waste . Transport Sonae’s Gross Creation Increases: Reduction in the paid to the State . Waste . Water Consumption . Electromagnetic fields . Waste Value Added greater Community Environmental . Water Consumption . Biodiversity and Habitats . Water consumption . Water Consumption is equal to 1.6% percentage . Impacts from the Supply of the GVA increases Chain of the Portuguese for lower . Direct and Indirect Job . Direct and Indirect Job . Direct and Indirect Job . Direct and Indirect Job €5,665 M economy 1,935 paid staff Creation Creation Creation Creation +6% + 5% 3% 9.6 M€ +80% . Investing in Employees and . Investing in Employees and . Investing in Employees and . Investing in Employees and their Satisfaction their Satisfaction their Satisfaction their Satisfaction . Health and Safety . Health and Safety . Health and Safety (employees . Health and Safety (employees, customers and (employees, tenants, suppliers and customers) . Community Involvement Social visitors) and visitors) . Digital Inclusion . Food Safety . Value Chain – Satisfaction . Information Society . Supply Chain and Cooperation with . Community Involvement . Community Involvement Suppliers, tenats and visitors . Involvement with the 5,937 Community and Visitors 259 (4%) Economic Value Generated Key Environmental and Social Indicators at Sonae 1 5,693 5,678 (96%) 3% 1% 228 Economic Value Retained (4%) CO2 Emissions per unit of turnover Energy Consumption per Unit of Turnover 12% 946 GJ/Million euros 73 tonCO2e/Million euros 5,465 (96%) -0.04% Change 2008-2009 +0.09% Change 2008-2009 84% Water Consumption per unit of turnover Waste Recovery 402 m3/Million euros Recovery rate of 68% -1.6% Change 2008-2009 +4pp compared to 2008 Economic Value Distributed 2008 2009 Operational Costs Personnel Costs Waste Generation per unit of turnover Investment in R&D 19 ton/Million euros € 74,5 Million euros Investors State -3.2% Change 2008-2009 1.2% of Turnover Note: Gross Value Added is equal to: Turnover + Other Operational Income + Revaluation of Real Estate Assets Training per employee Absentee rate 1.515.951 training hours 0.35% 39 hours per employee -0.12 p.p compared to 2008 -12% Change 2008-2009 3.2 Sonae’s Main Environmental and Social Impacts Work Accidents Investment in the Community per unit of turnover The environmental and social impacts of SONAE depend on the activities of each of its business areas. 1,213 work accidents 1,702 € invested/Million euros Despite differences that exist, energy consumption and associated Green House Gas Emissions (GHGE), -28% Change 2008-2009 -17% Change 2008-2009 waste generation, water consumption and biodiversity are the main impacts that are common across Sonae’s businesses. Socially, the main areas of involvement and action are direct and indirect job creation, 1 The figures shown are those resulting from consolidating the numbers for each business. The methodologies and emission factors used are those which are appropriate to each business’ activities and can be and strong investment in employee training and in the community. examined in more detail in their respective Sustainability Reports. The emissions reported in this document refer to those activities within scopes 1 and 2 of the Green House Gas Protocol. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 21 SUSTainability Report 2009 Green Project Awards 3.3 Investment in the Community For the second year running, Sonae supported the Green Project Awards, an initiative which awards prizes to good business practices in the environmental and sustainable development areas. Casa da Música (House of Music) Sonae has contributed towards the development of the regions and countries in which it operates through As founder member of the “Casa da Música”, Sonae once again supported its programme to promote culture. actions that promote social harmony. Job creation, investment in initiatives that aim at improving the quality of life of communities and developing partnerships with community institutions are examples of the ways that we help to solve specific problems and strengthen community socio-economic development. While there are clear guidelines from Sonae defining specific areas of community support, the various business units have the freedom to define their strategies and identify investment priorities, based on finding common ground between the business area concerned and the needs of the local population. Some actions, which involve all sub-holdings of the company, are managed at a corporate level. Community support 8% 3% Every month, the story of a life €9.6 Million of community As part of the “Porto of the Future” project, in which Sonae has been involved since 2008, a programme support called “Role Models” was run, which involved identifying 11 well known personalities in Portugal with 12% outstanding career paths, to give a talk to children from the Cerco schools. Belmiro de Azevedo was the Equal to 11.3% of Profits first personality to take part. before Tax 2% Sonae MC 5,993,682 € 62% Sonae SR 1,259,852 € Involvement in Associations 2,619 Institutions supported Involvement in the following: COTEC, AEP, World Economic Forum, ERT and WBCSD and BCSD Portugal. 13% Investment Management 190,916 € Sonae Sierra 1.142,628 € The remaining community involvement actions carried out by the different business units are described in chapters 5. (Retail), 6. (Shopping Centres) and 7. (Telecommunications) of this report. Sonaecom 262,380 € Corporate Centre 791,000 € Corporate Investment in Community Development Junior Achievment (Learn to be an entrepreneur) Sonae sponsored the “Empresa” competition in Portugal, promoted by the “Learning to be an Entrepreneur” Association, which seeks to promote entrepreneurship and innovative business ideas among secondary school children. Serralves Foundation Sonae was the exclusive sponsor of the “Emissores Reunidos” exhibition, which took place at the Serralves Foundation, of which the company is a founder member. Designed for a building in which a radio station would have been operating, in this exhibition the artists modelled the rooms of the building using materials from a former radio station. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4 Management 24 25 SUSTainability Report 2009 Management In 2009, it was decided to merge the Corporate Centre of Sonae with that of the retail business, creating a single corporate centre, thus creating synergies and freeing up resources for new challenges. The goal of this change was to sharpen the focus on retail activities and on assets with the potential for the development of new businesses and for shareholder value creation. Composition of the Board of Directors Belmiro Mendes de Azevedo Non Executive Chairman Álvaro Cuervo Garcia Independent Non Executive Michel Marie Bon Independent Non Executive José Neves Adelino Independent Non Executive Bernd Hubert Joachim Bothe Independent Non Executive Christine Cross Independent Non Executive Duarte Paulo Teixeira de Azevedo Executive Committee Chairman Álvaro Carmona e Costa Portela Executive Ângelo Gabriel Ribeirinho dos Santos Paupério Executive Nuno Manuel Moniz Trigoso Jordão Executive Composition of the Executive Committee – Management Team – Duarte Paulo Teixeira de Azevedo Effective management implies a robust and flexible governance model that can unleash the potential of a team of 39 thousand employees, in which the recognition of merit and continuous training are the Álvaro Carmona e Costa Portela cornerstones of growth. Ângelo Gabriel Ribeirinho dos Santos Paupério Nuno Manuel Moniz Trigoso Jordão 4.1 Governance Model Note: Bernd Hubert Joachim Bothe was co-opted onto the Board of Directors on the 17th of March 2009, and this co-option was approved by the Shareholders’ General Meeting held on the 20th of April 2009. Christine Cross was elected as a Board member for the current mandate at the Shareholders General Meeting held on the 9th of November 2009. Executive Committee Sonae he Governance structure of the company is made up of the Board of Directors, the Statutory Audit Board and the Statutory Auditor, all of whom are elected at the Shareholders General Meeting, while day to day management of the company is delegated by the Board of Directors to an Executive Committee. Audit and Risk Human Management Resources The members of the statutory governing bodies, the Board of the Shareholders General Meeting and the Remunerations Committee are elected at the Shareholders General Meeting (SGS) for periods of four years but can be re-elected for further periods. The SGS approves the remuneration policy of the statutory governing Legal General Counsel and bodies and of directors, while decisions on remuneration levels are delegated by the SGS to a Remunerations Corporate Governance Committee, whose own remuneration is decided upon by the SGS. The Board of Directors is thus the body Planning and responsible for managing the businesses Fiscal Council Control Finance and Treasury of the company, carrying out all management actions connected with the Remuneration Shareholders’ Investor company’s stated objectives, deciding Committee General Meeting Relation on the company’s strategic direction, and the nomination and general supervision Tax of the Executive Committee and all other External Auditor Administrative Services specialist committees set up by the Board. Board of Directors In its turn, the Executive Committee has full powers delegated to it by the Board Institutional Relations, Information of Directors to manage the company on Executive Brand and Communication Systems a day to day basis. Committee SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26 27 SUSTainability Report 2009 The Board of Directors through the Finance and Audit Committee monitors the activities of Internal Audit 4.2 Risk Management and Risk Management. (Additional information can be found about all matters relating to corporate governance in Sonae’s Report Risk management is of strategic importance to Sonae, and has a real application in business processes and and Accounts 2009 from page 43 to 112). is a responsibility of all company employees. The aim of this approach is to apply the precautionary principle by managing and controlling uncertainties and threats that may affect the business goals of the company. This process is supported by an internal standard based on the international methodology Enterprise Risk 4.3 Employees Management Integrated Framework (COSO) and allows different kinds of risks and threats to business development to be identified both at a strategic and operational level. For Sonae, employees are one of our most valuable assets: the talent, knowledge, professionalism 1. Goals and objectives and dedication of every employee contribute to the continuous success of Sonae. 1. Set up risk • Risk management organization • Common risk language management infrastructure • Risk management tools and processes • Resources “At Sonae, employees can expect: career development opportunities, where meritocracy is promoted and discrimination is not tolerated; continuous training; and a demanding but friendly work environment.” From Sonae’s 2009 Report and Accounts 2. Identify risks 2. Identify • Prioritise risks and evaluate risks • Check causes (drivers) 4.3.1 Description • Prepare risk map • Identify risk owners As at 31 December 2009, Sonae had 39,372 employees, an increase of 5% over 2008. Total personnel costs were 655 million euros, 7% up on 2008, equal to 12% of turnover. Employee education levels vary: the percentage of those with secondary education is 100% at Sonaecom and over 93% at Sonae Sierra, while in the retail business the figure is 42%. The company invests continually in the career development of its employees. Through access to educational 5. Monitoring 6. Information 3. Evaluate risk programmes and training, the retail business is an active participant in the “New Opportunities” programme, and Reporting for decision management strategies a government initiative aimed at improving the educational qualifications of the Portuguese people, which making involves the opening of training centres to teach basic levels of education, as well as other career programmes 5. Monitor progress on executing 3. Decide on responses to risks and training. In addition to this investment in training and professional qualifications, the company’s the risk management plan • Monitor changes to the approach to recruitment involves an ongoing search for new talent. To that end, and for some twenty years, risk profile the company has held the “Contacto” programme, aimed at final year University undergraduates. • Report progress on executing the plan to risk owners (management and Board of Directors as appropriate) 4. Develop and implement Employee Educational Qualifications risk management actions Centro Novas Oportunidades (New Opportunities Centre) 4. Develop risk management action plans 14% Sonae has invested around 1 M€ in the NOC. The goal of the Centre is to give the • Build risk management plan into opportunity to more than 3,000 employees in the Retail area and in the north of Portugal the annual planning cycle 3% to see their career achievements and aspirations recognised. Diplomas were awarded to 330 employees who completed the 9th to 12th school years programme under the auspices of the “New Opportunities” programme. Various protocols Risk Management activity in the company and its businesses is aided and supported by the Internal Audit, were also signed across the country with other NOCs in order to extend the programme Risk Management, and Management Planning and Control departments through specialist teams, which to employees in other regions of Portugal. report directly to their respective Boards of Directors. Contacto Day The Internal Audit and Risk Management department’s function is to help companies reach their objectives The Contacto programme was launched in 1986 and takes place each year at Sonae. via a systematic and structured approach to developing and evaluating the effectiveness of managing and 83% It gives the best final year university undergraduates the opportunity to get a real feel controlling risks associated with business processes and information systems. The Management Planning for the company by taking part in a day of talks given by Sonae’s top managers. In 2009, and Control department promotes and supports the integration of risk management into the management 60 students were selected from the programme to do traineeships and be given priority and planning control process of companies. in recruitment selection. Primary or Secondary Education Risks relating to the reliability and integrity of financial and accounting information are also evaluated University Degree and reported upon by the External Auditors. As at the end of December 2009, the Internal Audit and Risk Management departments had a total of 40 full time employees, carrying out their work in all countries Bachelor in which Sonae operates. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 29 SUSTainability Report 2009 4.3.2 Internal Mobility and Innovation managers and other employees, conferences, training sessions, seminars, short and medium term courses, exhibitions and social events. In addition, Sonae finances post graduate studies, particularly MBAs, and Internal Mobility also has a key role in the progress and growth of employees. Sonae believes that new provides continuous training, given by internal managers or external trainers. challenges, learning opportunities, increased job responsibilities, involvement in projects, networking, and job mobility within one functional area or between businesses, are the best ways of guaranteeing continuous As for Remunerations and Benefits, Sonae offers attractive and competitive remuneration packages, and progress throughout an employee’s career. a comprehensive and flexible benefits package. Above and beyond fixed remuneration, a performance This is the manner in which the company builds up its ranks of operational, commercial and marketing bonus is paid, aimed at rewarding the achievement of previously defined annual objectives, linked to “key managers, technology specialists (R&D, engineering and IT/IS) and functional and operational managers performance indicators (KPIs) of the company’s businesses activities”, “department key performance with talent and experience, as well as Board directors and top managers with experience gained in a range indicators” and “personal key performance indicators”. of areas. Performance Evaluation is promoted by Sonae by strongly encouraging all employees to take an active role Principles underpinning Internal Mobility: in the planning and identification of their own annual “key performance indicators” for the year, taking into • Talent has to be managed at the service of the entire Company, not to one specific unit or function; consideration the company’s goals and strategy • Every individual has a responsibility to take his/her career development into his/her own hands; • The Company offers guidance, opportunities and resources to maintain employability throughout an employee’s career; As in previous years, in 2009 Sonae carried out its annual performance appraisal process, through which • Sonae looks for a balance between developing competencies internally and attracting them from the each individual’s personal performance and contribution to the organization’s success was measured and outside. assessed, and variable remuneration to be awarded was calculated. Innovation is encouraged through the sharing of knowledge and experiences between businesses, bringing different ideas together, sharing knowledge and different opinions and challenging people with a unique 4.4 Main Stakeholders and means of engaging them combination of talents and characteristics to work together. Sonae thus stimulates innovation, reduces the risk of mistakes, and promotes the adoption and sharing of best practices. To this end, Sonae fosters the following Forums: SONAE STAKEHOLDERS 1. FINOV, a Forum dedicated to innovation; Retail, Telecommunications and Shopping Centres 2. Sustainability Forum, with the purpose of sharing sustainability knowledge and best practices in this area; 3. Planning & Control Methodologies Forum, with the purpose of promoting and discussing the implementation of best control methodologies; 4. Legal Forum, with the purpose of sharing experience and knowledge among internal legal departments; Costumers Employees Investors 5. Marketing and Communication Forum, with the purpose of coordinating negotiations with Media • Websites • Employee Attitude Surveys • Shareholder General companies among all business units, as well as promoting the sharing of best practices in Marketing at • Suggestions and • News on the internet Meetings Complaints System • Internal Publications • Quarterly financial reports specific seminars; • Sonae Ombudsman • Knowledge Sharing Forum • Opinion Surveys 6. Engineering, Construction and Safety Forum, with the purpose of promoting and discussing • Opinion Surveys the implementation of best practices, with a special focus on matters and issues related to safety and health; 7. Negotiation Forum, with the purpose of presenting, analyzing and discussing negotiation strategies, identifying opportunities for joint negotiations with suppliers among business units and to share Community Suppliers Governmental and Regulatory Entities experiences and knowledge. • Partnerships with • Suppliers Portals representative institutions • Visits and Audits • Dialogue to plan and • Community Involvement • Reciprocal Training design new opportunities The Audit Committee and the Finance Committee The three existing Consultative Groups – Human projects • Opinion Surveys • Involvement in various • Opinion Surveys • Performance Evaluation sector associations were set up with the goal of serving as a platform Resources, Risk Management and Information for the sharing of knowledge and experience. and Communications Technologies – in addition to having the same general objectives as the Forums described above, review on an ongoing basis existing internal policies and propose any necessary changes in these three areas. SPECIFIC STAKEHOLDERS These informal groups, considered to be coordination and sharing groups, meet several times each year Shopping Centres and organise specific seminars, workshops and internal training courses. Tenants Visitors Media 4.3.3 Career Development and Performance Evaluation • Written communications • Websites • Conferences • Meetings • Suggestions and complaints • Presentations • Training system • Interviews In terms of Learning and Development, Sonae intends that training and investment in competence building • Opinion surveys • Sonae Ombudsman • Opinion surveys should be seen as an essential factor in order to better understand, anticipate and respond to current and future market and competitive challenges, as well as to meet the strategic needs of the Company. The Sonae Learning Centre was thus set up in 2004 to coordinate and organize specific training for top SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 31 SUSTainability Report 2009 Based on the experience gained in managing its businesses, Sonae has identified the following groups as its strategic stakeholders: customers and visitors; tenants; employees; suppliers; business partners and investors; the communities among whom its businesses operate; and government and regulatory authorities. The information gathered from the different forms of relating to these stakeholders groups contributes towards identifying business threats and opportunities, as well as identifying opportunities for improving these relationships. In 2009, various means were used to establish active dialogue and build a spirit of partnership with these stakeholder groups, the goal of which is to create awareness about sustainable development issues and to gain insight into society’s expectations as to the role that Sonae should play in the economic, social and environmental development of Portugal. The content of this report therefore aims at responding to the main issues identified by stakeholders in the course of our day to day business activities and in meetings and specific questionnaires prepared for this purpose, which are detailed in chapter 5 of this report. 4.5 THE FUTURE: MAIN STRATEGIC GUIDELINES Since Sonae started At the beginning of 2009, Sonae announced a set of strategic objectives for the company to ensure business in the 60s, continuous and sustained growth, and become a benchmark retail multinational group. It is thus clearly Governance, Environmental positioned as a retail company with benchmark strategic reference shareholdings in the Shopping Centre and Social matters have and Telecommunications businesses. played a key role in management decision making. It is only in this way Promote the sustainable growth of Sonae and contribute towards Portugal’s development that economic value can be generated for shareholders Strategic Objectives and other stakeholders. Expand internationally Increase presence in international markets Diversify investment style adopt the most appropriate investment style for each business Leverage the exceptional asset base in Portugal innovate, generate business and strengthen competitive position in the market place Cornerstones for action to achieve strategic objectives Governance Environment Social Continue to maintain Improve environmental Contribute towards the high ethical standards performance through economic growth and social of the Board, management continuing to invest and environmental progress and employees in general in actions to reduce in the regions and countries in their interactions our ecological footprint. in which Sonae operates, with stakeholders in while defending human rights the countries where and meritocracy. the company operates. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 RETAIL 34 35 SUSTainability Report 2009 RETAIL Sonae SR, as the Non Food Retail Unit, brings together the Sonae businesses in this area. It is considered to be a benchmark in Non Food Retail in Portugal, is leader in some of the sub-sectors involved, and began its international expansion at the end of 2008. It operates the following brands: Sport Zone, Loop, Worten, Vobis, Worten Mobile, Modalfa and Zippy. Sonae SR Brands Concept Number of Stores Loop Footwear chain with a range of brands for men, women and children. The brand offers the biggest 11 selection on the market in the urban casual and sports casual segments, and is noteworthy for its high quality service. Modalfa Offers clothing, footwear and accessory collections adapted to the different lifestyles of its customers, 99 following the latest fashion trends and excellent quality at affordable prices. Sport Zone The biggest sports goods chain in Portugal, which expanded into the Spanish market in 2008. The 75 brand offers a wide range of articles and equipment for different sporting activities with well known international as well as own brands. Worten Market leader in white goods and consumer and entertainment electronics in Portugal. Supported by 132 qualified staff to give outstanding customer service, the brand expanded into Spain in 2008. Worten Specialist in mobile telecommunications, advising the customer on the most appropriate choice of 48 Mobile equipment and rate packages for his/her needs. Vobis Specialist in retail computing in Portugal, its main goal being to make new technologies accessible to all 17 Portuguese people. Zippy Stores with a range of clothing and accessories for children between the ages of 0 and 14. These are 34 complemented by a wide range of child care products, furniture and toys. The Zippy brand made its entry into the Spanish market in 2009. 5.1 stakeholders s a result of a strategic reflection and the resulting reorganisation of the company, Sonae now In the Retail business, we have contacts with different stakeholder groups with which we establish a variety sees itself as a Retail Company, a business area which presently accounts for 75% of turnover and employees of means of communication and interaction. 90% of its staff. The communications channels that we have set up enable us to manage relationships with our different stakeholders, building bonds of mutual confidence for both parties. An example of this are the relationships Sonae’s Retail business is subdivided into two major business areas Sonae MC and Sonae SR. that we have with charitable institutions and with Environmental NGOs with which we actively interact to work on environmental and social issues arising from our business activity and which can have a positive Sonae MC, as a Food Retail unit, is a leader in Portugal, and operates the Continente, Modelo, Bom Bocado, Área impact on the environment and society. Saúde and Book.it brands. Building a consistent sustainability strategy also implies a profound knowledge of the expectations and In 2009, we prepared and Sonae MC needs of our partners concerning the social and environmental issues of our business. With this in mind, we implemented our Fish Brands Concept Number of stores carried out a process of consultation with our main stakeholder groups, which allowed us to understand how Products Policy, an area 31.12.2009 we can best respond to these expectations, dealing in particular with: which had previously been Área Saúde The first pharma-chemist/health store chain in Portugal as part of a food based retail company, 115 identified as relevant for selling medicines that do not need a doctor’s prescription. It also offers a range of alternative beauty The most relevant environmental, social and economic issues for each group of stakeholders; the Retail activity as and health products in stores next to Continente and Modelo hypermarkets, as well an eye care and The issues that these groups believe should be dealt with in more detail in Sonae’s sustainability strategy a result of stakeholders’ opticians area. and communicated in the company’s sustainability report; interviews. Bom Bocado An innovative cafeteria concept, combining convenience with the quality of its products and services. 80 Feedback about the previous year’s sustainability report. Book.it Innovative concept in Portugal, providing three kinds of business in a single sales area: bookshop, 14 stationery shop and tobacconist. The stores are located in shopping centres with an informal and Consulting stakeholders youthful atmosphere. Customers Continente First major chain of hypermarkets in Portugal. Its stores are designed to serve areas of high 39 With the objective of gaining knowledge of the environmental and social practices considered to be of population and are located in large shopping centres. They offer quality, variety and highly relevance by its customers, Sonae’s Market Survey Department has 707 interviews carried out by an competitive prices. independent entity, which are believed to be representative of the company’s main brands (Continente, Modelo Hyper and super market chains (small to medium size) located in medium sized urban centres. They 125 Modelo, Modelo Bonjour, Worten, Vobis, Sportzone, Modalfa and Zippy). This survey also enabled the company combine proximity with variety and competitive prices. to measure how well known some of the sustainability actions carried out by it are. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 37 SUSTainability Report 2009 Main Results of Customer Interviews The matters presented in the Sonae Distribuição 2008 Sustainability Report, which the majority of stakeholders consulted considered to be of most relevance, were: • The subjects considered to be relevant were the same as those in 2008. However there was an increase • Commitments for 2009 and 2012 in customer concern about providing products for those on lower incomes. • CEO’s Statement • Relationships of Confidence (Social and environmental performance and encouraging responsible • The two best known community involvement initiatives for each brand were as follows: consumption) Measures to protect the environment NGOs and IPSS (Private Charitable Institutions) Products put on sale for customers The following face to face meetings took place: on lower incomes • Meeting with Environmental NGOs: QUERCUS, Euronatura and Liga para a Protecção da Natureza; • Meeting with Social NGOs and IPSS: Portuguese Red Cross, Portuguese Victim Support Association Products put on sale to encourage healthy eating and Portuguese Sports Federation for Handicapped People. Actions taken to ensure Relevant Issues chosen by the majority of Stakeholders product quality Overall Sonae’s stakeholders identified the following issues as the most relevant: 2008 2009 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% Economic and Governance areas: Preferential selection and support of Portuguese suppliers Brands Initiatives best known to customers by brand Availability of products for customers on lower income levels Missão Sorriso (Mission Smile) (87%) and Leopoldina vamos Crescer (Leopoldina Communication of the company’s sustainability strategy and future commitments Continente let’s grow up) (86%) Customer satisfaction survey Collection and Dispatch for Recycling (58%) and 100% Degradable Modalfa Environmental area: Shopping Bags (57%) Inclusion of environmental criteria in the analysis and selection of suppliers Modelo Red Nose Operation (70%) and “Arredonda” Campaign (59%) Energy efficiency, CO2 emissions and use of alternative energy sources Sport Zone Women’s Running (51%) and Sport Zone Half Marathon (42%) Issues related to the use of plastic shopping bags Issues related to over-packaging Vobis 100% degradable shopping bags (67%) and “Go Champion” Campaign (59%) Issues related to biodiversity 100% degradable shopping bags (56%) and Collection and Dispatch Initiatives to increase the environmental awareness of visitors, employees and the community Worten for Recycling (55%) Social area Collection and Dispatch for Recycling (59%) and 100% Degradable Human resources management policies and practices Zippy Shopping Bags (56%) Inclusion of social factors when analyzing and selecting suppliers Job creation and bringing people into the labour market • The percentage of Continente customers who had knowledge of the Sonae Sustainability Report increased Direct investment in the community to 20% (13% in 2008), while other brands also showed an improvement although less pronounced. • Customers continued to show interest in having more information about activities being carried out by Sonae in the areas of Community Support (50.9%) and Environmental Protection (49.1%). 5.2 Promoting Responsible Consumption Complaints and Suggestions Management In 2009, 79,659 suggestions and complaints were received, an increase of 18% compared to the previous year. There were increases for all brands except Sport Zone and Área Saude, where levels fell by 31% and Providing responsible products and our ability to encourage more responsible consumption among millions Sonae’s perishables area 14% respectively1. of Portuguese people are two of the main concerns of our stakeholders. We have thus invested in creating has internal training courses The general increase can be explained by the opening of new stores (+23%) and the resulting increase on Sustainability. products, processes and means of communication, which allow customers to make more informed and in numbers of customers. responsible consumer choices Set up in 2009, these have provided training to more than 900 employees Suppliers and Local Councils 202 questionnaires were sent by e-mail: 108 to suppliers and 94 to town councils, with a response rate of 20%. 5.2.1 Contribution towards Sustainable Fishing each year. Main Results from Questionnaires sent to Suppliers and Town Councils In 2009, Sonae became the first Portuguese retail distributor to have a Sustainable Fishing Policy (see the 90% wanted to have access to the Sustainability Report electronically (75% via e-mail in electronic format full document www.sonae.pt). According to the international environmental NGO Greenpeace, the food retail and 15% through the Sonae website); brands Modelo and Continente have the best fishing policy among Portuguese retail operators and on the 80% replied that the 2009 Sustainability Report should be a concise and simple document. Iberian peninsula. 42.5% had knowledge of Sonae Distribuição’s 2008 Sustainability Report and of these: The main points of the Sustainable Fishing Policy are firstly not to sell threatened species and secondly 41% had access to the Report via e mail in electronic format and 35% through the Sonae website. to evaluate and select suppliers and fishing boats so that all fish sold by Sonae is sourced in such a way 88% had read the Report or at least part of it. as to preserve the environment and sustainability of the oceans. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 The data published relating to 2008 were revised resulting in an increase of 4,736 complaints 38 39 SUSTainability Report 2009 Some Working Principles of Sonae’s Sustainable Fishing Policy In 2009, the “healthy choice” symbol of the Portuguese Heart Foundation was placed on our Own Brand products, which comply with the Foundation’s • “Contribute towards the progressive reduction in consumption of threatened species or coming from criteria relating to fat, salt and sugar content: sensitive ecosystems, as well as from stocks considered to be at critical levels, while at the same • Fishmonger and Fruit and Vegetables – Symbol used in store time continuing to respond positively to factors of regional, national or cultural identity; communication; • “Give preference to fish coming from fishing methods, fish production or stocks that have been • Take Away – 5 products with the symbol (frozen pastry); proven to be sustainable, as well as fish caught using craft fishing methods, particularly in Portugal; • Charcuterie – 5 products with the symbol. • “Increase progressively the options for customers to buy fish from sustainable sources, and gradually improve the information available to them, enabling them to take more sustainable purchasing “Vida Hiper Saudável” (Hyper Healthy Life) Project choices by being better informed.” See the full document at www.sonae.pt A programme of nutritional consultations was begun in 21 Continente Hypermarkets, given by two professional nutritionists. Sonae was on the front line supporting “Docapesca” initiative to develop a “Fishmarket Proof of Purchase” label. It was also the first retail operator to introduce this label in its fish counters. The label makes an As part of the project, the following initiatives were planned and introduced: excellent contribution towards promoting national fresh fish (giving it more visibility), while at the same time offering better information to the consumer. • “Vida Hiper Saudável” Fortnight. The following associations were involved: the Portuguese Nutritionist Association, Portuguese Gluten Intolerance 3 fish suppliers are A Partnership with a Future Contracts with 147 local fishing boats of the Main Portuguese Fishing fleets Sufferers Association, Diabetes Sufferers Protection Association, members of Sonae 20 contracts with boats from the Matosinhos fleet Portuguese Heart Foundation, Coimbra Paediatric Hospital, and Movement Producers’ Club. 47 contracts with boats from the Peniche fleet against Obesity, Portuguese High Blood Pressure Society and Solinca. 2 contracts with boats from the Figueira da Foz fleet Health checks, talks and a taste of a healthy breakfast were given to those 2 contracts with boats from the Sesimbra fleet who attended, as well as the opportunity to do some physical exercises. 50 contracts with boats from the Sines fleet • The “Vida Hyper Saudável”. Brochure was also launched, which is a short 26 contracts with boats from the Sagres fleet guide to healthy eating, giving a list of points that have to be followed to have a healthy life style, plus a number of healthy recipes and messages In addition to these contracts with craft fishing boats, 36 contracts were also signed with various fishing from the various associations and societies which worked with Sonae on boats from the Nazaré fishing fleet. this project. • Prova dos 5. A campaign to promote the consumption of fruit and 5.2.2 Healthy Foods vegetables, using different colours as a means of helping to vary consumption (red, orange, white, green and purple). This initiative was part For Own Brand Products, it was strengthen the Nutritional Information System “Siga as Cores” (Follow of the “Vida Hiper Saudável” Fortnight, which included celebration of World the Colours), and increased the availability of healthy food choices. At the same time, following policy of Food Day. constantly improving and broadening the offer of more healthy products, we have established and adopted protocols and partnerships with specialist entities in health and nutrition, whose support is believed to be • Nutritional Personal Shopper. An innovative concept launched in extremely important. October 2009, assisting our customers while they shop, helping them to make healthier food choices and explaining the contents of labels. 5.2.2.1 Widening healthy food products offer Another 9 “Área Viva” sales areas were opened in stores. As a result, all our hyper and super markets 5.2.2.2 Partnerships and Protocols for promotion of Healthy Eating Habits modules have sales areas with articles in this category. There are now a range of 65 products in the “Área Viva Continente”, 53 more than in 2008. The actions taken to promote more healthier food were complemented by establishing protocols with health associations and foundations, namely: The “Continente Equilibrio” range launched 15 new product references • Portuguese Gluten Intolerance Sufferers Association, as part of which: in 2009, bringing the total to 59. • Lists of Continente Own Brand gluten free sales items were made available. • We Supported the “Gluten Intolerance – A Future without Gluten”, at the Higher Health The “Continente Bio” range, set up in 2008 and exclusively for organic Technology School in Lisbon and the National Conference of Gluten Intolerance Sufferers products, has 57 product references, with 11 of them launched in 2009. in Lagos; Labelling Information • A pamphlet was published called «”Vida Hiper Saudável” – Gluten Intolerance Disease», • “Siga as Cores” (Follow the Colours) an important source of help in the day to day lives of sufferers, providing greater safety • The labelling of Continente Own Brand products highlights the in achieving their dietary requirements; presence of gluten in any food. • Portuguese Heart Foundation (FPC), as part of which: • In the “Área Viva” sections of our hypermarkets, products for • The FPC’s symbol “a healthy choice” was put on products which follow the foundation’s guidelines gluten intolerance sufferers are identified with the colour brown on fat, salt and sugar levels. of the respective product segment area. • The FPC checked the contents of the pamphlet “Vida Hiper Saudável – High Blood Cholesterol” SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40 41 SUSTainability Report 2009 5.2.3 Other Sustainable Products Use of reusable shopping bags 307.533 Textile Area More than 60 of the shoes Modalfa e Zippy brands are pioneers in the sale of footwear with “BIOCALCE” Certification (awarded by the on sale at Sonae are Footwear Technology Centre in Portugal), which are a guarantee that chemicals that are harmful to the 113.460 1.143.890 “BIOCALCE” certified; health and the environment are not used in their manufacture. 1.021.584 3% of cotton products sold To support the use of this certification, Sonae provides a “BIOCALCE Explanatory Manual” in its stores are made from organic for customers and staff. 615.521 cotton. 543.140 Sonae has been supplying Own Brand products made from organic cotton for over three years now. At present, the sales of this type of cotton are equal to 3% of all cotton items sold. Organic cotton products were introduced in 2008 by the Zippy brand. Since 2008, Sonae has sold through the Zippy brand cosmetics with no artificial colouring or allergy causing 2005 2007 2008 2009 APED bags Sonae reusable bags ingredients, which have been dermatologically designed and tested for possible harm to the delicate skin of babies. In 2009, purchases of Sonae reusable bags were up 171% and APED green bags up 12% compared to 2008. As from 2009, all Zippy sales catalogues are produced from paper originating from forests managed At the same time, Sonae has been active in relation to the chemical composition of the shopping bags which in a sustainable manner and from controlled sources certified under the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) are provided free of charge to customers. It became a pioneer in the Retail sector in Portugal by launching scheme. oxy-biodegradable shopping bags. Since 2008, bags provided at the check out counters of all Sonae’s brands are oxy-biodegradable. The textile area also has an ongoing project called “REUSO”, involving the reuse and recycling of clothes hangers. This project, over and above yielding clear environmental benefits, involves the sorting of hangers by mentally handicapped people (under the terms of a protocol signed with the Portuguese Association of 5.3 Product Safety 18% of batteries sold were Parents and Friends of Mentally Handicapped People). rechargeable, an increase of 129% over 2008; Sonae insists that its suppliers comply with a number of rules in relation to production processes and product Higher energy efficiency products requirements, and has in place demanding food safety and product use management systems, which include 65% of light bulbs sold are In 2009, the Worten campaign “Seja mais eficiente” (Be more efficient) continued, which offers a discount carrying out regular audits. This is our way of responding to the main reason that our customers make now economy bulbs; of €30 on the purchase of Classes A+, and A++ white goods to provide an incentive to customers to opt for suggestions and complaints: the quality of the products and services that we offer. more energy efficient equipment. 87.4% of white goods Selection audits are carried out on all international food suppliers. International food safety systems and The campaign helped towards achieving an increase in the proportion of efficient white goods sold sold are of Energy quality management systems such as ISO9001,ISO22000, IFS or BRC are used to help select Portuguese compared to the total sold of 3.4% compared to 2008. Classifications A++, A+ and international suppliers resident in the European Union, while suppliers in the rest of the world, looking to sell food products to Sonae, must undergo mandatory qualification audits carried out by the company’s or A. International Trade Department. In addition, laboratory analyses are carried out on Own Brand products. 66.5% Class A More environmentally friendly packaging 20.4% Class A+ 0.5% Class A++ In addition to the improvements introduced for Own Brand products in the textile and food areas, the Food Area Light Goods area has also been focusing on this issue. Strict control of the company’s value chain is particularly important for the food products that we sell, especially Own Brand products. In 2009, a project began to standardise packaging formats for 154 product items, with the goal of optimising packaging surface areas, and reducing printing ink consumption and packaging container This approach is further backed up by actions taken in relation to product safety, and by the following volume. statistics: As a result, products are more attractively presented and resource use has been optimized which has • 78% of suppliers audited; resulted in financial and environmental benefits. • 5% increase in the number of international suppliers audited; • 1% increase in Portuguese suppliers audited. Also as part of this project, self adhesive labels, inlays and hang tags have been replaced with bar codes Food Area – Quality and Safety in 2009 printed directly onto products. Food Safety Audits Shopping bags 78% (430) of international and Portuguese suppliers were audited, an increase of 13% compared to 2008. Aware of the environmental problems related to the use of plastic shopping bags, Sonae has for over ten 86% (208) of international suppliers were audited years been encouraging its customers to choose reusable bags. This was done initially by putting APED Green 71% (222) of Portuguese suppliers were audited Bags on sale but more recently new Continente reusable bags are also on offer. As a result of this position taken by Sonae, it has, year after year, been leader in the sale of APED (Portuguese 9,831 audits carried out by veterinary doctors – an increase of 68% compared to 2008 Association of Retail Companies) reusable shopping bags to Portuguese consumers. 913 audits carried out by external laboratories – an increase of 59% compared to 2008 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42 43 SUSTainability Report 2009 In 2009, an internal testing Food Safety Analyses Suppliers Supplier purchases panel was set up to make 14,504 micro-biological analyses carried on equipment and utensils were carried out by external laboratories (millions of euros) sensory analysis tests 29,181 product laboratory analyses 7,332 on Own Brand products 884 product comparative analyses 4,000 3,924 planned for launch by 6,547 3,460 Continente. 48 internal 3,304 tests were carried out, Number of laboratory analyses on own brand products 5,376 5,770 3,020 2,658 involving around 92 4,332 proposals for new products. 3,589 24,130 22,436 2,215 1,787 1,562 18,198 696 362 464 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 Internacional Portuguese Total Purchases from Purchases from Total Purchases suppliers suppliers suppliers Internacional suppliers Portuguese suppliers from suppliers 5,051 4,923 4,976 Internal Labs. External Labs. 2007 2008 2009 5.4.2 Fishing As a result of the Fishing Policy adopted in 2009, Sonae, in addition to complying and making its suppliers comply with all national and European Community legislation in force for the fishing sector, also: 5.4 Ethical Relationships with Suppliers • Meets all the sustainability criteria defined by official organisations and/or NGOs for selecting fish for sale; • Requests from all its fish suppliers on an annual basis a list of all the fishing boats with which they work; • Periodically audits fish suppliers, their partners and their fish catches in order to check compliance with 83% of purchases were fish quotas imposed on them. All matters concerning the value chain are of extreme importance to a major company in the retail sector made from Portuguese such as Sonae. Thus, since early in the company’s history, policies, practices and partnerships have been These principles are embedded in Supplier Contracts which must be accompanied by a declaration suppliers developed that help sustainability principles to be incorporated into suppliers’ businesses. by the supplier company stating that it is not on the Greenpeace Black List. Over and above Sonae’s Ethics and Conduct Code which aims at establishing commercial relationships with suppliers based on the quality of their products and services and on their market competitiveness, various examples can be cited, that demonstrate how sustainability has been integrated into the relationships built 5.4.3 International Trading with our suppliers. The International Trading Department continued to focus on the Selection and Evaluation of international suppliers. Suppliers audited 86% Selection visits and qualification audits to international suppliers 83% 82% 73% 71% 70% 270 89 285 274 Audits Internacional Labs Portuguese Labs. Selection visits 2007 2008 2009 2008 2009 Between 2008 and 2009 there was an increase of 203.4% in the number of audits and a fall of 3.9% in 5.4.1. Supplier Contracts the number of selection visits made to international suppliers. The purpose of the audits is to verify every two years if our existing international suppliers continue to comply with our requirements, while that of the Supplier contracts, which are applicable to all Portuguese and international suppliers, include environmental, selection visits is to evaluate if potential new suppliers comply with them. employment and human rights clauses. These include conditions to ensure that companies which work with Corrective action plans are prepared for suppliers which achieve less than satisfactory evaluations with Sonae commit to high standards of social and environmental responsibility. the goal of helping them comply with our requirements. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44 45 SUSTainability Report 2009 These numbers reflect Sonae’s strategy of implementing an evaluation and selection methodology Certification audits carried out by independent third party entities on: for international suppliers. The increase in the strength of the quality team located in the China sourcing All fruit and vegetable segment producers 600 audits office, which had 60 employees at the end of 2009, 23 of whom are in the quality department, is also a direct All producers in the Charcuterie (36 audits) and Bakery/Pastry (6 audits) segments. result of this strategy. Butchers – 12 audits. Slaughter Houses – 4 audits. The audits carried out by the International Commerce Department paid special attention to 21 different As from 2009, 16% of questions on the Producers’ Club checklist now concern the following environmental areas related to: matters: • Product and service quality; • Water and energy management; • Product development; • Non contamination of underground water sources; • Employee training; • Waste management; • Health and safety; • Management of phyto-pharmaceutical products; • Ethics; • Management and conservation of soil and land; • Environment. • Maintaining biodiversity; • Environmental risk evaluation. Selection audits are carried out on all suppliers of Continente Own Brand food products located in countries which are not part of the European Union. Main initiatives of the CPS in 2009 18 suppliers, which did not comply with the minimum requirements in relation to quality, ethics or social Charcuterie, Bakery and Pastry: support to a project to replace disposable cardboard boxes with reusable ones. responsibility demanded by Sonae, were rejected. One of the suppliers was excluded because child labour practices were identified. Support to agriculture in Madeira: contracts signed with 11 local farmers Visit to Italy: A group of 35 people, made up of cheese and sausage producers from the Club, made a visit to share experiences with the Italian cheese industry. A visit was also made to a world leader in packaging 5.4.4 Sonae’s “Clube de Produtores” (Producers’ Club) solutions. Since it was set up, Sonae’s Producers’ Club has been a major force behind promoting fair trade in Portugal. 10th CPS Meeting – “Generations building the future”: the 10th annual event of this kind, the goal of which is to strengthen the close links between Sonae and Portuguese producers by sharing experiences and best Sonae’s Producers’ Club (CPS) was formed about 12 years ago to bring agriculture, livestock farmers and practices. fishermen closer to final consumers to offer them the “Best of Portugal”. In addition to being a major stimulus to production in these sectors of the Portuguese economy, it has made possible a more strict control of the products that Sonae purchases and sells. 5.5 Environmental Performance Purchases from members of the Producers’ Club (Clube de Produtores) (millions of euros) We continued to reduce our environmental impact through the use of the environmental management systems that put our Environmental Policy into practice, and by working on new projects that have an effect 140 on our environmental performance. A highlight of the latter was the programme to install independent power 130 generation stations run from renewable energy sources. Reconciling socio-economic development with environmental protection is one of the goals of Sonae’s 90 Environmental Policy. In 2009, the company continued to follow this goal by continuing already existing practices, while strengthening and extending them to more Retail stores. • Recovery of 75.2% of waste generated. • 12 tons of corks collected and sent for recycling (≈ 4 million corks). 2007 2008 2009 • Water consumption reduced by 13.8% on a like for like basis. • Emissions of CO2 per crate transported reduced by 5%. • Electricity consumption reduced in high consumption food stores by 1.6% on a like for like basis. The Producers who join the club must comply with requirements relating not only to production processes • Start up of electricity generation from renewable sources, reaching a total of 51.7 MWh and avoiding and quality but also to the environment. These requirements have been made progressively more demanding emissions of 24.3 tons of CO2e. over time. • 10,352 training hours given in the environmental area to a total of 3,062 people. • Environmental certification won at the Modelo store in Machico, the first hypermarket to do so in Madeira. At the same time, Sonae provides producers with organised support including specialist training and the • Environmental certification won at the Colombo Worten store, the first Non Food Retail store to do so. sharing of best national and international practices while also guaranteeing the purchase of previously agreed quantities of produce from them. Main environmental initiatives undertaken in 2009: Key Figures in 2009 • The Worten Team Campaign managed to collect 3,895 tons of Waste Electrical and Electronic 227 producers (9% up on 2008) Equipment (WEEE). €140M of purchases from the Club (8% up on 2008) • Start up of the roll out of the cork collection project to Modelo hypermarkets. 147,827 tons of products (31% up on 2008) • The “Save Energy” employee awareness campaign was carried out in stores, offices and warehouses. 60% of total fruit and vegetable purchases were made from Club members • A customer awareness programme about separate waste collection for used batteries was carried out as Local Fishing: agreement made with 30 small fishing boats in Peniche a result of which 800,000 special battery collection boxes were SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46 47 SUSTainability Report 2009 5.5.1 Energy 5.5.2 Refrigeration Gases Electricity consumption was In view of the fact that this is one of the biggest environmental impacts of our Retail business, we have As part of the programme to replace cold centres, begun in previous years, we continued to focus 1.6% lower compared to continued in 2009 to give special attention to this area, ensuring high levels of efficiency in the use of this on the problems related to the escape of refrigeration gases with potentially negative consequences to resource and investing in energy generation from renewable sources. the atmosphere. 2008 on a like for like basis for high turnover food stores. By the end of 2009 the gas R22 was only used by 17 stores (12% of the total). The impact was most noticeable in the consumption of electricity. Refrigeration Gases Electricity Consumption Electricity Consumption Carbon Intensity (GWh) (GWh/1000m2) (ton CO2/M€ net sales) 100% 17% 21% 17% 90% 56 58 0% 55 9% 454,8 80% 62% 7% 64% 393,5 70% 0,52 0,55 57% 0,51 60% 318,3 50% 40% Glicol 30% R427a 20% 21% R404 10% 15% 12% R22 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 0% 2007 2008 2009 In 2009, Retail electricity consumption totalled 454.8 GWh, an increase of 15.6% compared to 2008, explained by the increase in business activity. However, on a like for like basis, there was a fall of 1.6% in those food retail stores with high turnover. 5.5.3 Transport and logistics On a unit basis, consumption was 0.55 GWh/1000 m2 of sales area, which is comparable with that of previous In 2009, the vehicle fleet supplying our stores travelled a total of 34.7 million Km, up 5.1% on the previous year. Emissions of CO2 per crate years. However, efficiency improvements were made such that 8.4% more crates were transported per Km. transported fell by 5% Total consumption of energy, including, in addition to electricity, fuel used in stores and for transportation, both As a result, CO2 emissions per crate transported fell by around 5%. for supplying stores and for employee transport, was 2,121,363 GJ, equal to CO2e emissions of 248,587 tons. The policy of insisting on the use of increasingly more technologically advanced vehicles in the fleet contracted Generation of renewable energy to supply our stores has meant that some 68% of these vehicles complied with the EURO 4 or EURO 5 Standards In 2009, 17 new photovoltaic power stations were installed, continuing the programme to install independent as at the end of 2009, an increase of around 50% compared to 2008. power generation stations from renewable sources begun in 2008. The stations with a licence to link up to the Portuguese National Electricity Grid produced in 2009 a total of 51.7 MWh of electricity, thus avoided emissions of 24.3 tonCO2e. Km travelled Number of Crates transported Kg CO2 emitted per (1,000Km) /Km travelled 1000 crates transported Energy consumption analysis 2009 CO2e Emissions analysis 2009 34,712 33,016 136 136 0.7% 28,332 1.2% 1,9% 6,44 129 3.1% 5,94 11,4% 5,68 18.5% 2.121,363 GJ 248,587 ton CO2e 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 86% 77.2% 5.5.4 Water Consumption of water in 2009 totalled 797,011 m3 (including, in addition to Modelo and Continente hypermarkets, that of Modelo supermarkets, not previously reported and totalling 43,264 m3). On a like for like basis, consumption Electricity in stores, warehouses and offices Electricity in stores, warehouses and offices fell in absolute terms by 13.8% compared to 2008. Diesel for goods vehicles Diesel for goods vehicles Diesel and Petrol for employee cars (Diesel: 3%; Petrol: 0.1%) Diesel and Petrol for employee cars (Diesel: 1.9%; Petrol: <0.1%) For the Modelo and Continente store network (previously reported), unit consumption was 1.56 m3/mt of sales Other (natural gas: 0.7%; propane: 0.2%; diesel: 0.3%) Other (natural gas: 0.3%; propane: 0.2%; diesel: 0.2%) area. If Modelo Bonjour stores are included, this figure was 1.58 m3/m2. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48 49 SUSTainability Report 2009 Water consumption fell by Compared to 2008, unit consumption (water consumption per unit of sales area) fell by 13.4% on the basis of 5.5.6 Construction 13.4% per unit of sales area a like for like number of stores. in comparable store units We know that the performance of our stores depends very much on the implementation of efficiency measures The significant increase in efficiency was the result of a number of different measures implemented, particularly in the design and construction phases of the premises involved. For this reason, we have implemented measures in those stores acquired in 2008 (ex-Carrefour). that allow better performance to be achieved in the operational phase of these units. Water consumption per unit of sales area in food stores (m3/m2)(*) We can highlight a number of examples as follows: • In 2007, the construction of the Estremoz Modelo store, in which, from the design phase, 28 environmental 1,71 1,58 measures, focused on improving aspects relating to energy, water and waste management were applied. 1,56 • In 2008, implementation of the “Eco Modelo” at Palmela, which is an area set aside for the deposit of waste by customers and its later dispatch for recycling. • Since 2008, we have been installing renewable energy generation stations in our stores. As at the end of 2009, we had 29 stations installed, 20 of which were linked up to the National Electricity Grid. • In 2009, the logistics and office Park in Maia was inaugurated, a project undertaken by Sonae Capital for the Retail area of Sonae. This building won the Gold level LEED certification (Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design), because of the outstanding sustainable characteristics of its infrastructure and management. 2007 2008 2009 Maia Logistics and Office Park (*) The figures for 2007 and 2008 do not include consumption of Modelo Bonjour supermarkets. This project involved the construction of new buildings and the upgrade of existing infrastructure and surrounding Some examples of water consumption efficiency measures implemented in 2009: areas in an investment totalling 68 million euros. • Installation of separate counters in various store areas thus allowing greater control over consumption; The office building, linked to one of the warehouses, incorporates LEED system principles, and is the first to win • Installation of flow timers in all taps, reduction of water inflow at various points and triggers on all hoses. Gold level LEED certification on the Iberian Peninsula. The goal of the building is to provide occupants with a • In the Fishmarket area: Installation of perforated grills to reduce blockage, production of only enough ice for healthy and comfortable interior environment, while at the same time minimising negative environmental the needs of a particular workday and the installation of electro-valves with timers to melt ice. impacts arising from its construction and operation. • Change in the method used to wash the fresh products counter, thus increasing operational efficiency. • Awareness campaigns among employees in daily meetings. Some of the more notable innovative features of the project are: • The lighting system uses efficient light bulbs, which adjust light levels in accordance with daylight conditions. • Air conditioning of the building is achieved by making use of residual heat from the combined cycle 5.5.5 Waste co-generation system and absorption chiller installed in the Business Park. • The roof of the building has a paint covering which reduces heat absorbed from solar radiation while exterior In 2009, waste generated increased by 5%, totalling 62,452 tons. windows are shaded, thus permitting air conditioning costs to be reduced. The main types of waste were cardboard (47%) and USW (Urban Solid Waste) (38%). As for other types of waste, • A rain water recovery system is used for watering while water from wash hand basins and showers is reused there was a sharp increase in the collection of bottle corks (+158%), polystyrene foam (+65%), and WEEE (Waste in urinal and toilet flushes, thus avoiding the use of water from the public network. Electrical and Electronic Equipment) (+35%). • 95% of the wood used in the building comes from forests with sustainable management and around 75% construction waste was reused or sent for recycling. We continued the trend of increasing our waste recovery, which reached 75.2% of total waste generated this year, due particularly to an increase in recycling of 7% and composting of 8%. Concerning the latter, organic waste began to be separated in 15 additional stores and 1 warehouse and sent for recovery. Waste generation Final waste destination 2009 5% 4.3% 8.7% 10% 62.2% 62,452 ton 47% 24.8% 62,452 ton 38% 75.2% of waste sent for recovery Cardboard Recycling USW Composting Other Landfill Plastic Incineration SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 50 51 SUSTainability Report 2009 5.6 Community Modelo Education and Environment We continued our policy of community involvement and support by carrying out actions at both a local and In the 6th initiative of this kind, Modelo Encourages recycling through the collection of used national level, some of which had a major impact on the community. donated €120,000 to the 120 winning Pilhas de Livros batteries; schools in the form of books, which (Piles of books) Encouraging reading by offering books to children from In 2009, Sonae’s Retail area (Sonae MC and Sonae SR) invested € 7,3 million euros directly in the community, are part of the syllabus of the National kindergartens and primary schools. a figure which shows clearly how we have, in cooperation with the communities with whom we are involved, Reading Plan programme. continued to support those areas considered to be the main targets for our endeavours, namely health, education, culture, the environment, science and social solidarity. Worten Project Objective Results achieved in 2009 Continente Environment and Social In 2009, 3,895 tons of WEEE were Equipa An appeal to customers to bring their old used household Raise sums through the sale proceeds of the book handed in, resulting in the donation Donation of €500.,000 to 11 hospitals, Worten equipment to Worten stores, leading to new equipment Missão Sorriso “Leopoldina e a ordem das Asas” to be donated to of 2,197 new items of equipment, to improving the levels of care given to sick Equipa being given to charitable institutions across the country. (Mission Smile) hospitals, which presented their projects in a competition a value of €200,000. children. to improve care given to children in hospital. Health Continente, Modelo, Zippy e Sport Zone Continente Operação Nariz Vermelho Donation of sums raised through sales of T-shirts in stores €32,000 were raised and donated (Operation to “Operação Nariz Vermelho” (Operation Red Nose). to “Operação Nariz Vermelho”. Leopoldina Make donations of teaching materials, the goal of which Continente donated educational Red Nose) Vamos Crescer is to improve the school curriculum and which were and interactive DVDs to 60,000 pupils (Leopoldina let’s developed in partnership with various institutions in the in 500 primary schools. grow up) areas of health, education, sport and safety. Worten Education €265,000 raised and donated By rounding up the value of their bills on goods purchased Modelo to these institutions in the form of at Christmas time, Worten customers were invited to help Project 9 specially adapted transport vans. “Humanitas” the Portuguese Federation for the Mentally “Arredonda” This project went beyond all Handicapped, by supplying them with specially adapted expectations, given that initially the transport vans. In order to provide schools in the catchment areas of objective was to donate only one van. Customers voted online for the schools Modelo stores with sports and computer equipment, a line Escola Modelo to receive donations to a value of Health of school products was produced using the image of the (Modelo School) €1,000 per school and a total sum was Zippy football player Cristiano Ronaldo, with 1€ per product sold donated of €122,000. being donated to this cause. In partnership with the Portuguese League against Cancer Zippy Sunny (LPC) and RTP (Portuguese Radio and Television), Zippy The sum raised in this campaign Watch promoted a special campaign in 2009 for children to €3,500 was donated to the LPC. protect themselves against solar radiation. Continente With the involvement of local councils and the supervision of the NGO Quercus, Action taken to improve green areas in the catchment Environment action was taken in open spaces and areas of Continente hypermarkets, helping to upgrade parks in 23 town councils with the goal Hipernatura parks and open spaces as urban areas for leisure and of upgrading and improving these areas entertainment, thus influencing the quality of life of local and promoting their use for recreation. communities. Of the 23 projects begun, 19 were concluded in 2009. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 52 53 SUSTainability Report 2009 Zippy Modalfa Education Sabias que... The “Did you know that...” programme Zippy, in association with RTP, made families aware of “Nós” Movemo(Did you know was aired on RTP during the summer Sales of scarves, totalling 145,000 safety issues by offering practical advice. nos por uma that....) months. in 2009, beat all records, which meant causa The “Nós” Initiative is aimed at supporting causes linked to that 290,000€ could be donated to the (“Us” -Working the family through the sale of scarves expressing solidarity. “Mothers with a Future” project of the for a worthy APF (Portuguese Family Association). Sport Zone cause) Sportzone Half Marathon, Fathers’ Day Run and Mothers’ Sportzone Runs Day Run. Social Sport Zone In total, the running events involved Young Peoples 44,000 competitors and raised €29,500. Events Organization of various events to promote a healthy life These events were attended by more Sportzone style and sporting activities Kid’s cup, Street Basket, than 25,400 young people. €23,300 of funds were raised and “Gira” volleyball and the Surfing Hopefuls National Circuit. On special days such as Mothers’, Fathers’ or Children’s Fund raising donated to the APAV and Acreditar Days, our stores hold workshops for children at which in Sportzone Associations. €5,900 to the “Obra they increase their awareness and become friends of the Stores do Ardina” Foundation and €21,100 environment by helping to recycle and reuse of materials. Sport Sponsorship of various local sporting associations, to Oikos. Federations and other sporting institutions. This year, among those supported were: Portuguese Olympic Committee; Support to more than 1,000 athletes Zippy National Sporting Institution; Sportzone for their sporting activities through the Portuguese Sports Confederation; Sponsorships donation of a total of €90,000 to their Portuguese Sports Federation for Handicapped people; respective federations. Portuguese Gymnastics Federation; Portuguese Canoeing Federation; Environment Portuguese Surfing Federation; On special days such as Mothers’, Fathers’ or Children’s Portuguese Cycling Federation. “ Zippy” Days, our stores hold workshops for children at which Thousands of children were involved in Workshops they increase their awareness and become friends of the the workshops in the Zippy stores. environment by helping to recycle and reuse of materials. Continente and Modelo Donation of Donation of food and non food products to local In 2009, products with a value of €4.7 Book.it products to local institutions. million were donated. communities A partnership was set up with local radio stations to play Modelo a game involving the introduction and promotion of a Culture In all, 2,000 books were given as prizes “Leitura em dia” different book each week. The prize is the offer of 1 book (47 per week). every week, to be collected in the book.it store by the The mission of this initiative is to fight loneliness among The €380,000 raised were used to winning listener. elderly people by helping to integrate them into society. provide for the needs of those elderly Causa Maior The funds raised came mainly from the sale of the book people most in need through help and Social “Receitas do Mundo da Popota.” (Recipes from the World support from the 72 branches of the of Popota) Portuguese Red Cross. Modelo Encouraging activities shared between generations and practising sport are the main objectives of this initiative, Um Modelo de which involves the creation of Parks in cities and towns in In 2009, 8 parks were built, and there Parque (Modelo which Modelo has opened stores. The parks have a garden are currently a total of 30 across the Family Park) area, a senior persons’ park and a children’s park, the goal country. being to bring together different generations in the same location for recreation. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 54 55 SUSTainability Report 2009 5.7 Commitments Commitments for the period 2008 to 2012 Focus on more healthy food habits and products. Promoting information which: Customers Leads to more healthy eating habits; Leads to sustainable consumer habits. Extend our commitments relating to quality, the environment and society along the value chain. Support suppliers to comply with market demands. Increase the number of audit visits to factories. Suppliers Implement progressively more demanding eco-efficiency requirements in all areas covered by the “Clube de Produtores”. Reduce our Environmental Footprint, thus complying with our Environmental Policy. Reduce electricity consumption by more than 6% on the basis of a like for like number of stores; Invest in a sustained manner in the installation of autonomous energy production centres from renewable sources; Reduce progressively the potential for emission of Green House Gases (GHGs); Environmental Reduce the environmental impact of waste generation; Reduce the potential consumption of water in stores; Increase environmental certifications and increase the general public’s awareness of good environmental practices. Contribute towards community citizenship awareness and social cohesion. Invest in increasing public awareness in order to encourage behaviour leading to good citizenship, social cohesion and Community sustainability. Be a benchmark company Continuation of the company’s policy and practices to provide an environment in which employees can grow professionally Employees and personally. Increase the professional and personal qualification levels of employees. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 56 57 SUSTainability Report 2009 Commitments for 2009 What we did in 2009 Status Focus on more healthy food habits and products. Focus on more healthy food habits and products. Goal achieved. 88 sales items in the “Gama Continente Equilíbrio” (Continente Equilibrium range), 15 more than in 2008; Increase in the offer of more healthy products. 57 sales items in the “Gama Bio” (Organic Product Range), 11 of them launched in 2008; “Área Viva”: this sales area is now in 100% of food stores (9 more than in 2008), and have 65 Continente Area Viva sales items (53 more than in 2008). Customers Customers Goal achieved. Launch of the “Vida Hiper saudável” project (see page 39). The “Vida Hiper saudável” fortnight event took place (see page 39). Promotion of more healthy eating habits. Launch of the Nutritional Personal Shopper project – to accompany our customers while they are shopping, helping them to make more healthy food choices and understanding food label information (see page 39). The “Prova dos 5” event took place (see page 39). Extend our commitments relating to quality, the environment and society along the value chain Extend our commitments relating to quality, the environment and society along the value chain Support suppliers to comply with market demands. Support suppliers to comply with market demands. Goal achieved. Increase the number of audit visits to factories; Number of audit visits maintained and an increase of 203% in qualification audits for international suppliers. Goal achieved. Suppliers Implement progressively more demanding eco-efficiency requirements in all areas covered by the “Clube de Produtores”; Suppliers Increase in the requirements relating to eco-efficiency for our suppliers in the “Clube de Produtores”. 16% of checklist questions concern environmental matters. Goal achieved. Formalise the Sustainable Fishing Purchasing Policy. Fishing Sustainability Policy formalised (see pages 37 and 38). Reduce our Environmental Footprint, thus complying with our Environmental Policy. Reduce our Environmental Footprint, thus complying with our Environmental Policy. Goal achieved and exceeded by 60%. Reduce electricity consumption by more than 1% on the basis of a like for like number of stores; A fall of 1.6% recorded on a like for like basis (higher consumption food stores). Install 15 new autonomous energy production centres from renewable sources within the scope of legislation in Portugal Goal achieved and exceeded by 13%. on micro-generation; 17 new autonomous renewable energy production centres installed. Replace the refrigerant gas R22 by R427a in all cold production equipment (R22), which have not yet already been Goal partially achieved. replaced; Reduction in the use of R22 gas for 65% of the potential store network. Goal partially achieved. Widen the offer of reusable shopping bags; Development of new ranges of reusable plastic bags for launch in 2010. Environment Goal achieved. Environment Reach a waste recovery rate of 75%; The waste recovery rate reached 75.2%. Goal achieved. 100% of existing stores with gardens (and 100% of new ones) with automatic watering systems; All stores with gardens are equipped with automatic watering systems. Goal achieved. Test rainwater collection systems for use in lavatories, for washing floors and watering; A rain water recovery system has been installed for watering, while water from wash hand basins and showers is reused in urinal and toilet flushes in the new Retail office building located in Maia. (see page 50). Goal achieved. Increase the number of premises certified according to ISO 14001. 2 units (Colombo Worten and Machico Modelo) won ISO 14001 environmental certification. Contribute towards community citizenship awareness and social cohesion. Contribute towards community citizenship awareness and social cohesion. Continue with high impact social projects which we have been carrying out, such as “Missão Sorriso”, “Causa Maior” and Goal achieved and exceeded. Community “Hipernatura”. Continue the School Support Programmes, in particular through initiatives such as “Pilhas de Livros” Community Work continued on community support social projects and at schools where we have been developing and (Piles of Books), “Leopoldina Vamos Crescer” and “Escola Modelo”. implementing new projects in these areas (see pages 51 and 53). Be a benchmark company. Be a benchmark company. Due to the organic restructuring of Sonae, a common human resources approach has been adopted for Sonae, Employees Formalise the Human Resources Policy. Employees which can be consulted in chapter 4.3 of this document. SUSTAINABILITY Legend: Goal achieved Goal partially achieved Goal not achieved REPORT 58 59 SUSTainability Report 2009 What we will do in 2010 Commitments 2010 Focus on more healthy food habits and products. Broaden the offer of products in the “Equilíbrio” and Organic Product range. Launch of gluten free Own Brand products. Promote more healthy food habits with a focus on providing more and better information concerning healthy food. Develop a weight control programme for customers and employees. Awareness campaign among schoolchildren about “Healthy Food”. Focus on more ecological products. Customers Release of a new environmental friendly range of automobile products. Improvement and increase in the number of quality control and certification processes. Improve the processes involved in developing, tracking and following up on products. Win NP EN ISO 9001 certification for the development of Continente Own Brand Products and Product and Supplier follow up After Development and Launch. Extend our commitments relating to quality, the environment and society along the value chain Support suppliers to comply with market demands. Continue to increase the number of qualification audits of suppliers. Progressively implement more demanding eco-efficiency requirements in all areas covered by the “Clube de Produtores”; Reduction of fish from unsustainable sources available for sale. Replacement of fish species at risk of extinction (shark), or threatened (monkfish): 100% of cod from sources with recognised Sustainable Fishing policies; Suppliers Reduction of species caught by drag net fishing and promotion of other line-caught fish; Total elimination of Greenland halibut and Atlantic Cod; Increase in sales of fish from “Docapesca”, proven users of sustainable and craft methods of fishing; Increase in sales of farmed fish products; Introduction of organic products; Increase employee training and information about this issue on the Continente website; Make information available to customers about the kinds of fish available, the techniques used for catching fish, and proof of fish market purchase. Reduce our Environmental Footprint, thus complying with our Environmental Policy. Reduce electrical energy consumption by more than 1% on a like for like store basis. Continue the focus on the installation of new autonomous renewable energy generation centres in line with guidelines of new legislation in this area. Ensure that 80% of the vehicle fleet complies with the EURO 4 or higher standards. Ambiente Continue with the programme of replacing the refrigeration gas R22 in cold centres where this has not yet been done. Make available a wider offer of reusable shopping bags. Exceed the waste recovery rate reached in 2009. Increase the number of premises with ISO 14001 certification. Contribute towards community citizenship awareness and social cohesion. Continue work on projects with a positive social impact in the community in the health, education, environment Community culture, sporting and recreational areas. Be a reference company. Formally introduce Sonae’s Human Resources Policy (suitably adapted to the company’s new organisational Employees structure). SUSTAINABILITY Note: Additional information about KPIs can be obtained by looking at the online version of Sonae’s 200 Sustainability Report REPORT 6 Shopping Centres 62 63 SUSTainability Report 2009 Corporate Responsibility Management System Shopping Centres The main issues relating to Corporate Responsibility (CR) at Sonae Sierra are managed through a CR management system, which is based on a cyclical model that allows us to achieve continuous improvement in the nine most important impact areas of its business: Energy and Climate, Water, Waste, Biodiversity and Habitats, Suppliers, Tenants, Communities and Visitors, Employees and Safety and Health. Policies and strategies have been established with the goal of putting the values into practice and keeping to our commitments. In order to control and achieve long term goals and thus our defined strategy, CR targets are regularly monitored, as well as key performance indicators. Governance and CR The CR Management System functions through six Work Groups, which cover the impact areas identified. The Work Group leaders are members of the CR Steering Committee which is chaired by the CEO. The CR Steering Committee is responsible for overseeing the identification and management of relevant issues in this area and ensuring that performance in these critical areas is monitored and improved. Economic, Environmental and Social Performance In economic terms, Sonae Sierra improved its results and margins, opening two major new shopping centres – one in Germany and the other in Brazil – and began work on a new project in Portugal. In more detail, the main highlights of the performance of the company in 2009 were: • Increase of 13% in direct profits and 6% in Net Operational Margin compared to the same period of last year. • Opening of the Loop5 shopping centre in Germany with 96% of GLA rented at the time of opening. • Opening of the tenth shopping centre of Sonae Sierra in Brazil, Manauara Shopping in Manaus, with 96% of GLA occupied. • Construction of LeiriaShopping in Portugal, an investment of €80 million, and opened in March 2010. • Building began on Le Terrazze in Itália, an investment of €125 million with opening scheduled at the end of 2011. • Start up of the management services provided to third parties in 7 new shopping centres. In terms of environmental performance, there was a significant improvement in the areas of CO2 emissions, energy consumption and efficiency, recycling rates and biodiversity. Progress made in this area has been positive, with the main highlights being: • A reduction of 29% in electricity consumption per square metre (mall and toilet areas) in owned shopping centres, from 737 (2002) to 527 (2009) kWh, which meant a cost avoidance of around 11.7 million euros in 2009; • A sharp fall in the carbon emissions of the company. In 2009, the figure recorded was 67 kgCO2 per m2 of GLA, an improvement of 20% compared to 2005; onae Sierra, international specialist in shopping centres, is one of Sonae’s core partnerships, • Thanks to eco-efficiency (Water) measures taken over the last seven years, it was possible to avoid which combines shopping with leisure, and is passionate about bringing innovation and excitement to the shopping centre sector. Incorporated in Portugal in 1989, Sonae and Grosvenor (United Kingdom) both incurring costs of around 376,500 euros and save 151 million litres of water in 2009; control 50% of the company. Sonae Sierra has an integrated approach to the business which encompasses • Increase of about 142% (from 19% in 2002 to 46% in 2009) in the recycling rates across the entire ownership, development, management and the provision of services to third parties. portfolio, allowing cost avoidance of around 1.7 million euros in 2009. Vision Despite the eco-efficiency measures introduced (Water), they were not enough to offset the fall in the To be the leading international specialist in shopping centres. number of visits in some countries (the number of visits to shopping centres fell proportionately more than water consumption), which explains why the consumption of water in shopping centres increased from 3,6 Mission Sonae Sierra is the international shopping centre specialist that provides ultimate shopping experiences to litres per visit in 2008 to 3.8 litres in 2009. customers and creates outstanding value to shareholders, investors, tenants, communities and staff, while contributing to sustainable development. Sonae Sierra’s performance in the social area also continued to be good, highlights of which were: • Reduction of 28% in the number of non conformances per Safety Preventive Observation hour; “Sonae Sierra, aware of its business and social responsibilities, and regardless of the countries where • Increase of 51% in the number of training hours in Safety and Health, which totalled 20,307 hours/man its companies are located, recognizes the importance of and undertakes to respect certain Values and in 2009; Principles regarding its Business Culture, Responsibility towards Staff, Community Responsibilities and • Increase of 19% in the number of voluntary work hours by employees; Independence from Political Power.” • Increase of 33% in the level of investment in training courses and the personal development You can find more information about our principles and values on the Internet at the following address: www.sonaesierra.com of employees. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 64 65 SUSTainability Report 2009 We present below the key indicators relating to the nine most relevant impact areas of the business, which External Recognition illustrate Sonae Sierra’s performance in 2009. The efforts made over the last few years to integrate Corporate Sustainability into our business management was once again recognised in 2009 with Sonae Sierra achieving a number of distinctions, in which we take Key Figures great pride: • Classified in first place for the fourth time in Portugal in the Euronatura Climate Responsibility Ranking: “2009 ACGE Sector Index”. Direct Economic Value Generated Economic Value Distributed Economic Value Retained • The “Green Centre” concept was considered to be excellent in the Sustainable Energy Europe Awards promoted by the European Commission. 2009: 2009: 2009: • The Personæ Project was considered to be the Best Risk Training Programme in Europe, in the 2009 €296 million €276 million €20 million European Risk Management Awards. 2008: €311 million 2008: €313 million 2008: €-2 million • ISO 14001 certification won for the Environmental Management Systems of 4 more shopping centres and two projects under construction. • The first company in Europe to win OHSAS 18001 certification of the Health and Safety system (H&S) Greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions of Electricity efficiency (excluding Water efficiency (excluding for the construction phase of a shopping centre. the owned portfolio and corporate tenants) of the owned portfolio tenants) of the owned portfolio • OHSAS 18001 certification won for the H&S management systems of 11 more shopping centres offices (tCO2e/m2GLA) (KWh/m2 mall and toilet area/year) (litres/visit/year) in operation. Case Studies 0.081 574 4.2 0.074 0.071 558 553 4.0 0.067 527 3.8 3.6 1 – ENERGY EFFICIENCY: A PRIORITY AT RIVER PLAZA MALL An energy audit performed in 2008 concluded that significant energy savings could be achieved in this centre. As a result, the management team at River Plaza Mall made energy efficiency a top priority in 2009 and successfully implemented a number of energy efficiency measures. These measures, which involved a total investment of 69,700 euros, enabled energy consumption to be reduced by 1,755,500 kWh per year and make annual savings of 50,600 euros, with an average payback time of 1.3 years. In 2009, River Plaza Mall had already decreased its 2006 2007 2008 2009 2006 2007 2008 2009 2006 2007 2008 2009 energy consumption (kWh per m2 of mall and toilet areas) by 16% compared to 2008. Total waste recycled as a Average occupancy index Marketing investments in CR and 2 – GREEN SALES PROMOTE REFORESTATION IN BRAZIL porportion of waste produced (% by (% por GLA) other community contributions In 2009, Sonae Sierra Brazil launched its first green sales campaign. Shoppers weight) across the owned portfolio (€ million) received a “green bar code” for every R$100 (€36) spent in its centres, which could be deposited in a box inside the shopping centre. For every “green bar code” deposited, a tree was planted in an environmental recovery area, donated by the 46 95.6 95.5 shopping centres of Sonae Sierra Brazil. 42 94.3 94.5 2,380 35 3 – IMPROVING ACCESSIBILITY FOR SHOPPERS WITH SPECIAL NEEDS 31 In 2009, the Alexa shopping centre in Berlin, Germany, became the first building of its kind to receive the “Berlin Barrierefrei” (Berlin without Barriers) award for its 1,143 initiatives to promote the inclusion of the disabled, including a project to improve access for visually impaired people. This involves tactile Braille cards to help customers find their way around the centre and an audio guide in MP3 format which d.i. d.i. describes the architecture, layout, shop locations and potential obstacles. Alexa’s 2006 2007 2008 2009 2006 2007 2008 2009 2006 2007 2008 2009 tenants have also been provided with information on how to be of most assistance to visually impaired visitors. Investment in staff training and Number of hours of Safety and 4 8.ª AVENIDA, IN SÃO JOÃO DA MADEIRA, ACHIEVES THE BEST RECYCLING RATE development Health training provided (number) (€ per capita) At the start of 2009, 8ª AVENIDA shopping centre set itself an ambitious target: to become the Sonae Sierra shopping centre with the best waste recycling rate. To do this, access to the unsorted waste compactor was closed off and a special area was created for separating unsorted waste. 1.728 15 By the end of the year, a recycling rate of 79% had been achieved – the highest of all Sonae Sierra’s shopping centres. The cash benefits resulting from this measure, comparing data for 2009 with 2008, totalled more than 5,100 euros, which include the cost savings of avoiding sending the waste to landfill and also the revenue from 1.239 the sale of recoverable waste. 1.195 10,5 900 7,9 5. IMPROVING STAFF WELLBEING WITH “HEALTHY MONTH” In May 2009, Sierra organised the first “Health Month” across all corporate offices 5,7 and shopping centres in Europe. The aim of the Initiative was to make employees more aware of the everyday choices that have an impact on health and quality of life. In total, 417 employees (including some service providers) participated in a total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2006 2007 2008 2009 of 178 different health related activities. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT66 67 SUSTainability Report 2009 6 LEIRIASHOPPING WINS THE FIRST OHSAS 18001 CERTIFICATION FOR Community Panels (Painéis Comunitários) THE CONSTRUCTION PHASE OF A SHOPPING CENTRE Active collaboration with local communities is achieved through community advisory panels that we make LeiriaShopping (construction phase) has implemented a system aimed at use of to understand and respond to local needs and concerns. In 2009, 7 CPs were launched, and 15 are promoting a greater and more direct involvement of construction workers currently active. Among the measures implemented as a result of CP discussions are for example: the use in health and safety issues. The system involves workers representatives of areas in shopping centres to provide training to parents of autistic children; educational programmes participating in Health and Safety meetings, more training and putting about road traffic and pedestrians; support activities to handicapped people and actions to encourage waste a suggestion box on site for improvements in the Health and Safety area. recycling. 7 – COMMUNITY EDUCATION IN BRAZIL: 17 STUDENTS FROM THE SHOPPING METROPOLE COMPLETE THEIR SCHOOL EDUCATION The Shopping Metrópole in São Paulo has made access to education easier for employees, tenants, suppliers and their families by providing free lessons in the Shopping Centre to around 60 students, of which 17 managed to complete their basic education. The project involved financial support totaling €33,380. 8 – INTERIOR DECORATION BY LOCAL ARTISTS AND ARTESANS IN MANUARA SHOPPING The recently opened Manuara Shopping used local artisans from various craft associations to work on decorating the interior of the shopping with themes relating to Amazonia. This was a way of making people more aware of the ecological importance of the region. Main Community Involvement actions We highlight below a number of community involvement actions carried out in 2009. Additional information can be found in the 2009 Sonae Sierra Corporate Responsibility Report. Community Day Initiative to promote cooperation between our employees and the local community. In 2009, 33% of our employees made use of voluntary days to which they are entitled, compared to 28% in 2008, and spent 3,001 hours on a wide range of community projects during working hours. Stop Poverty We supported the NGO “Plan Espanha” by making available space in 10 of our shopping centres in Spain to raise money for its campaign “Stop Poverty”. Junior Achievment (Learn to be an entrepreneur) Initiative carried out on a voluntary basis by employees, the goal of which is to stimulate the interest of schoolchildren from under privileged backgrounds, encouraging them to develop knowledge in their areas of interest and to discover their personal strengths and capabilities. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 Telecommunications 70 71 SUSTainability Report 2009 Sonaecom Excom Sustentainability Bureau Sonae Sustentainability Forum Telecommunications Audit and Risk Management Human Resources Investor Relations Project 6 Marketing Project 1 Project 2 Project 3 Project 4 Project 5 ... SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT EVERY DAY WE SEEK TO INTEGRATE SUSTAINABILITY INTO OUR BUSINESS IN A STRUCTURED MANNER. Sustainability has become part of everyday business. It is part of our strategy and business processes, and the company’s approach is continuously being re-assessed by work groups. Since 2007, sustainability is managed by the Sustainability Office, made up of a team that is representative of the various areas of the company, and is under the direct responsibility of the Executive Committee of Sonaecom and also a member of the Sonae Sustainability Forum. The Sustainability Office (SO) is made up of: • A Board Director of the Executive Committee of Sonaecom; • A Coordinator nominated by the Board Director responsible for the SO; • Members of the Environmental Department; • Members of the Corporate Social Responsibility area; • Member of the Human Resources Department; • Member of the Risk Management Department. Key Figures • An operational holding company which manages a portfolio of companies divided into three business areas and operating in 11 countries. • One of the main generators of communications traffic in Portugal, using its own telecommunications infrastructure. 2,029 employees, of which 1,874 are based in Portugal 949.4 million Euros of turnover 175.7 million Euros of EBITDA onaecom is also a core partnership of Sonae, which has 3 main business units – 5.7 million Euros of annual net profits (attributable to the Group) Telecommunications, Information Software and Systems, and Media. France Telecom is Sonae’s strategic partner in Sonaecom with a shareholding of 20%. Mission Sonaecom is an entrepreneurial growth company whose ambition is to be the best Portuguese communication services provider and the company of choice for exceptional people to work and discover their full potential. Total Economic Economic Retained Value Generated Value Distributed Economic Value APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY 2009: €962.3 million 2009: €808.1 million 2009: €154.3 million Manage the company in accordance with the principles of sustainable development and seek ways every 2008: €990.5 million 2008: €847.6 million 2008: €142.9 million day of maximising value for all stakeholders. The way to achieve this is through dialogue, listening to the expectations of all those with whom Sonaecom interacts and understanding the signals that society sends us. It is on this fertile ground that learning, innovation and growth opportunities arise. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 72 73 SUSTainability Report 2009 Total emissions of CO2e Total energy consumption Case studies per unit of turnover per unit of Turnover (Kg de CO2/€) (GJ/Million de €) SONAECOM joins the Carbon Disclosure Project Euronatura, partner in Portugal of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), is an independent non profit 482.22 making organisation with the biggest data base of green house gas emissions in the world. It challenged PSI20 companies to report information about their carbon footprints with the goal of publishing the 2009 Report “Carbon Disclosure Project – Portugal (PSI20)”. Sonaecom responded positively to this challenge 434.40 and, in addition to the indicators requested, provided information about a number of projects that it has been undertaking in this area. Freecooling Sonaecom has adopted freecooling technology for its data centers and MSCs (Mobile Switching Centres 0.049 – control and commutation centres), which involves making use of outside air to cool equipment rooms, 0.043 and replacing partially or entirely conventional refrigeration systems. As part of this project, a comparison 2008 2009 2008 2009 was made of energy consumption based on the monthly historical energy consumption of the heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment (HVAC) at each site. A saving of 79.10 MWh was achieved in the Northern region premises and 84 MWh in those of the Southern region, which may also be due to other actions and policies to increase energy efficiency in these premises over and above the impact of freecooling. Waste Recovery Average Training Hours Percentage per Employee Energy Management : Tellus and Cascais CascaisEnergia and Tellus, in partnership with Optimus, found a solution to optimise energy use for 85% public lighting in Cascais, using a unique energy management system. The system includes an interface 37.3 with measurements of energy consumed in buildings and other infrastructure in the city, has an urban 28.8 lighting system which uses LED intelligent streetlamps, and a system of communication via the electricity network to equipment which manages street lighting remotely. The solution not only increases the quality of street lighting and reduces operational costs, but also allows a fall of 13% in CO2e emissions and an energy saving that can be as high as 45%, thus making this a true case study at a European level. 18% The savings are around 20% for public buildings and 60 to 85% for street lighting, and in some specific cases rise to 90% (when the lighting can be completely switched off as from a specific time). 2008 2009 2008 2009 InovGrid Project In this project developed with EDP, the goal was to minimise costs throughout the organisation’s value chain. Work was carried out to automate tasks that are part of commercial and technical processes, with External Recognition the expectation that these could be significantly improved. Two way communications based on the Optimus network played an important role here, since they In 2009, what we have been doing over the years to integrate sustainability and innovation into our business support the real time link between the control centres and devices, but also between devices themselves, has once again been recognised in the form of a number of prizes and awards. creating the “Internet Grid” of the future. By developing the communications technology for the requirements of the EDP InovGrid project, Optimus “Messaging Services Innovation” Prize |Optimus thus contributed towards making the electrical energy distribution network more intelligent, as well As part of the prestigious Global Telecoms Business Innovation Awards, Optimus was given a distinction in the as responding more effectively to the challenges of the new working standards of the electricity market. Service Innovation category for its Webphone and Mobile Instant Messaging service, launched at the time that Optimus Tag was introduced onto the market. Optimus Kanguru – more capacity without limits “Innovation Prize” |Optimus At Sonaecom, our business has a clear objective of helping to increase social inclusion and diversity, and EMC awarded the Innovation prize to Optimus for developing a virtual workplace solution for call centre contributing towards learning and knowledge in society. We are thus determined to innovate and invest operators to support the travel of these teams to partner run premises, to ensure high standards of service vtin technologies and initiatives that will continue to make our performance a reference in this area. and resilience, and the confidentiality and integrity of both software and data. Optimus Kanguru, in particular, has shown how it is possible to contribute towards broadening the use of Internet in society in Portugal and be a major driver towards building the Information Society. “International Service Innovation Prize”* |Optimus In August 2009, Optimus launched its Kangaru unlimited offer, which for the first time provides effectively This prize rewarded Optimus’ e-Phone service for providing a service that: makes and receives voice and unlimited Internet access traffic through the mobile network, putting Optimus once again at the cutting video calls, sends text and multimedia messages, or even forwards calls and messages from a mobile phone edge of development in this product category worldwide. Access to the product was facilitated by to a computer using the same number and tariff rate.” a progressive reduction in the price of the equipment during the year and by rationalising and simplifying In Sonaecom’s 2009 Sustainability Report the range of terminals. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 74 75 75 75 SUSTainability Report 2009 Main Community Involvement Actions We highlight below the following community involvement actions undertaken in 2009.. E-escola (E-school) E-escola is part of the E-Initiatives programme, and its goal is to encourage the use of computers and broad band Internet links by secondary schoolchildren, teachers (nursery, primary and secondary schools) and those pupils registered on the “New Opportunities” programme, facilitating access to the information society and equality of opportunities. Público at school As part of the Público at school programme, launched in 1990, the Público newspaper promoted three projects, their goal being to encourage nature conservation and environmental protection among pupils from primary and secondary schools. The projects are: “Griffon on the Web”, “Lagartis” and “Bats on the Web”. The “Webcegonhas – Condoninho da Renata” is the fourth project in this series of teaching initiatives. “Smile” Programme Sonaecom accepted the challenge to commit to provide help and equipment to institutions providing training in information technology skills. We believe that this is an area which lacks support but is essential for institutions to be able to simplify processes and procedures, so that they can have more time and availability to focus on their core mission. Smile is divided into four main areas of involvement: Smile Competencies, Smile Intervention, Smile Team Building and Smile Causes. In 2009, Smile supported around 23 institutions through the involvement of almost 300 employees. Smile also donated 6,000 books and equipped the “Vida e Paz” Community with 10 computers. Mobile phone collection campaign This campaign not only contributes towards protecting the environment by avoiding waste generation, but also helps AMI (International Medical Assistance) by providing financing for the humanitarian, environmental, medical and social work that this institution carries out within and outside Portugal. As a result of the campaign, 62 kg of mobile phones were collected. More information about the above can be found in Sonaecom’s 2009 Sustainability Report. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8 Retail KPIs 78 79 SUSTainability Report 2009 Retail KPIs Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided in the report pAGE 06 3.2 Date of the last report published 3.3 Reporting cycle 06 06 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report, including e mail address and internet site 84 3.5 Process for defining report content including: determining materiality, prioritising topics within the report, 29, 34 37 and identifying stakeholders who are potential users of the report 3.6 Boundary of report 16 17 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 16 17 3.8 Basis for reporting on issues that can significantly affect comparability from period to period or with reports 12, 19, 48 of other organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons 12, 19, 48 for such restatement 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied 12, 19, 48 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 78 84 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to external assurance for the report Governance, Commitments and Engagement pAGE 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees, under the highest governance body 24 25 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 24 25 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest 24 25 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 24 25, 28 governance body 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 10, 42 environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation Strategy and Analysis pAGE 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management 24 25 1.1 Declaration of the person with the greatest decision making power in the organisation concerning the 06 07 of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or relevance of sustainability for the organisation and its strategy compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 1.2 Description of the main impacts, risks and opportunities concerning the company’s business 18 19 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 18 19, 26 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 18 19, 26 Organisational Profile pAGE the organization subscribes or endorses 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation Backcover 4.13 Significant involvement in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 18 19, 26 2.2 Main brands, products and/or services 16 17, 34 35 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 29 30, 35 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 24 25 4.15 Basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders to be involved 35 37 2.4 Location of company’s head office Backcover 2.5 Countries in which it is present and the name of those with operations which have significant relevance 16 for sustainability issues discussed in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Backcover 2.7 Markets served 16 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation, including the number of staff, net sales and the quantity of products 16 19 sold and services provided 2.9 Main changes which have taken place concerning size, organisational structure and shareholder structure 25 2.10 Awards received during the period to which the report relates 12, 64, 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 80 81 SUSTainability Report 2009 LA5 Economic Indicators Observed according to the Portuguese Labour Advance warning periods 81 Code and collective work agreements Millions GRI Reference Definition pAgE of Euros % 0,33% Turnover 4,546 Turnover 80 Absenteeism rate by work accident Number of work Sales 4,420 Sales 80 1.201 accidents Cost of Sales 3,437 80 While working 18.926 For accidents occurring in the work place Third Party Supplies and Services 566 Cost of goods, materials and services acquired 80 LA7 Days lost per work 81 Other costs and operational losses 71 80 accident To/from work For accidents that took place going to or 3.876 from work place Personnel Costs 504 Personnel costs 80 Absenteeism rate % 2,47% Excludes illnesses arising from pregnancy Interest 43 Interest costs incurred 80 by illness Hours 1.566.862 Hours lost per illness Dividends 85 Total of dividends distributed in 2009 80 Blood Diseases Taxes 24 Tax on Income 80 Heart disease prevention EC1 Includes donations to the Belmiro Azevedo Foundation, Domestic Violence Community Investments 7 and Modelo and Continente Community Involvement 80 Programmes, as well as Maxmat and Sportzone actions Employee health Flu Actions involving increasing awareness and LA8 81 GVA=Turnover + Change in Stocks + Own Work support programmes Breast cancer providing information GVA 2 910 Capitalised + Other Income-Cost of Sales-Third party 80 supplies and services AIDS Consolidated profit-corporation tax+ investment income Bone marrow disease EBIT 210 + profits/losses from associated companies-net financial 80 Osteoporosis charges Operating profit amortisations and depreciationIncludes training hours recorded in the company Total training hours EBITDA 356 provisions-impairment losses-reversal of impairment 80 1,359,156 during the period, being openings/initial training, during the year losses improvement or recyclin EC4 Subsidies received 1 Operating subsidies 80 Number of employees Total number of employees who received training LA10 Training 34,586 81 Policies, Practices and percentage of costs with training during the year Percentage of purchases made from Portuguese EC6 with local suppliers in significant operational 83% 42 suppliers Average number of units Average number of hours of training for those hours of training per 39 employees who attended a training course during Increase in gross fixed assets (tangible and intangible) employee receiving the year + change in perimeter (arising from acquisitions and training disposals) + divestment in fixed assets (tangible and EC8 Net Investment 329 intangible) + increase in goodwill. To calculate the 80 Total 41 Number of competence building programmes investment in acquisitions (measured by the changes that took place in the consolidation perimeter), the figure Examples of training projects: net of cumulative depreciation was used. 2 Best management practices for contact centres Gross Value Added “Cies” Supply Chain Programmes for Training in negotiation SOCIAL INDICATORS the development Sales school GRI Reference 2009 Definition pAGE LA11 of competencies 81 Perishables school and continuous Full time 24,555 Number of full time employees 80 improvement Technical training for suppliers Total workforce Part time 10,031 Number of part time employees 80 Technical training for products by employment type In addition, there are a further 1,454 employees Total 34,586 80 Leadership, organisation, transformation LA1 working outside Portugal Kaizen continuous improvement Permanent 24,338 Number of permanent staff 80 Total workforce Risks at the work place by type of contract Number of employees with a fixed or uncertain Term 10,248 80 Environmental Management System term contract Voice picking LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective All employees are covered by the Portuguese 100% 80 Employees who receive regular performance work agreements Collective Work Regulations (I.R.C.T.) LA12 100% Relates to eligible population 29 reviews during the year SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 82 83 SUSTainability Report 2009 SOCIAL INDICATORS (CONTINUED) Land which is owned, GRI Reference 2009 Definition pAGE rented or managed EN 11 by the organisation in The Retail Area does not operate premises in such areas 83 Nº of employees in Portugal by Gender habitats that are rich Nº of masculine employees 10.935 in biodiversity Nº of feminine employees 23.651 Total 1.678 t CO2 Direct emissions from the consumption Nº of employees by age groupl Natural Gas 833 t CO2 of natural gas, propane and diesel. All Direct emissions LA13 From 18 to 34 years 22.827 In addition to those employees in Portugal, 82 EN 16 of CO2 emissions were calculated based on 46 there were 1,454 employees working Propane 377 t CO2 the emission factor in the “Portuguese From 35 to 44 years 8.353 outside Portugal. Inventory of Greenhouse Gases 2005”. Diesel (stores) 468 t CO2 From 45 to 54 years 3.015 Total 246,909 t CO2 From 55 to 64 years 385 Indirect emissions from the transport Employee of goods, from employees travelling on Over 65 years 6 4.766 t CO2 transport company business and from electricity The company has no knowledge of any consumption. Transport emissions were HR4 Total number of discriminatory acts and actions taken 0 82 Indirect emissions Goods transport 28,380 t CO2 such discriminatory acts EN 17 calculated based on the number of 46 of CO2 Operations that might put the right of association or The company has no knowledge of such kilometres driven and on average vehicle HR5 0 82 fuel consumption rates, using the emissions collective bargaining at risk operations Electricity 213,764 t CO2 factor given in the “Portuguese Inventory of There is no child labour used in Sonae’s HR6 Child labour 0 82 Greenhouse Gases 2005”. business operations HR7 Operations that might lead to situations of forced labour 0 There is no kind of forced labour used 82 EN 18 Initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions 46 48 Product and services life cycle analyses, where the impact on health and safety is evaluated with the goal of making The effluents generated in Retail Area premises are sent to municipal collection points, in PR1 41 42 Significant discharges improvements, as well as the percentage of the main categories of products and services subject to these procedures EN 21 accordance with appropriate regulations. In situations where this is not possible, the effluents 83 to water are treated using specific dedicated equipment. PR5 Practices relating to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 35 36 Hazardous Wastes Total 4,238 ton Total quantity of hazardous waste Quantity collected in all stores and Light bulbs 13 ton warehouses ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Quantity collected in all stores which sell GRI Reference 2009 Definition pAgE Batteries 98 ton batteries or from equipment which uses batteries, except the Azores Natural Gas 393,570 m3 Propane 110 ton Recycling Quantity collected in stores, warehouses Computer 11 ton and administrative centres, except the Diesel (stores) 177,039 litres Total consumption by Modelo and consumables Azores and Madeira Diesel (goods Continente stores in mainland Portugal plus Food oils 4 ton Quantity collected in the retail area 10,698,570 litres EN 3 Fuels vehicles) that of light vehicles used by employees 46 48 Quantity collected on mainland Portugal of the company, and of fleet vehicles used Diesel WEEE 4,112 ton in stores that sell EEE or at the homes of 1,751,127 litres to supply stores. (employee cars) customers Petrol EN 22 Non Hazardous Waste Total 58,214 ton Total quantity of hazardous waste 49 51,210 litres (employee cars) Total of electrical energy consumed in Paper/cardboard 29,500 ton Total quantity of waste generated. The stores, warehouses and central services Plastic film 3,329 ton figures exclude the Sport Zone, Zippy, Electricity of Sonae Distribuição, as per electricity Expanded Book it and Loop stores, as well as stores EN 4 Electrical Energy 1,637 10^12 J 46 47 126 ton in Madeira and the Azores Consumption counter readings. These consumption Polystyrene figures do not include those of premises in the Azores. Quantity collected in stores and Wood 1,389 ton Recycling warehouses EN 7 Initiatives to reduce consumption of indirect energy 46 47 Corks 12 ton Quantity collected in Continente stores Consumption of drinking water from the public network in higher consumption Quantity collected in Continente, Modelo stores (Continente and Modelo) measured Water Used uniforms 16 ton and Worten as a result of uniforms of EN 8 Water 797,011 m3 by the reading of counters and through 48 Consumption employees being changed in these stores invoices received by the company. The consumption excludes that of stores Reuse/ Quantity generated in stores with textile in the Azores. Coat hangers 215 ton Recycling sections SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 84 85 SUSTainability Report 2009 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS (CONTINUED) Undifferentiated Energy recovery Urban Solid 5,427 ton Quantity of USW sent for energy recovery Waste EN 22 49 Composting Organic USW 2,712 ton Quantity of USW sent for composting Undifferentiated Landfill 15,488 ton Quantity of USW sent to landfill USW Significant spills of chemical products, oil EN 23 Spills Occurrences 0 84 and fuel Non compliance EN 28 with environmental There were no significant fines for non compliance with laws or environmental regulations 84 regulations For information about the contents of this document, please contact Sonae’s Department for Institutional Relations, Brand and Communications SUSTAINABILITY REPORT For information about the contents of this document, please contact Sonae’s Department for Institutional Relations, Brand and Communications Tel. 220 104 000 e-mail: comunicacao@sonae.pt Owner: Sonae SGPS, S.A. Address: Lugar do Espido, Via Norte, 4470-909 Maia, Portugal Consultants: Sustentare Graphic Design: Ivity Printing: LidergrafT Printed on Cyclus Print paper, made 100% from recycled fibres and free from chlorine, 100% from used paper. Printed with vegetable oil based inks. Printed by Lidergraf, which holds environmental certification ISO 14001 20 SUSTAINABILITY Legal Deposit: 275020/08 09 REPORT www.sonae.pt -
