The OKI Group's initiatives of corporate social responsibility (CSR) focus on contributing to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world through sound corporate activities based on our corporate philosophy. Corporate Philosophy The people of OKI, true to the company’s enterprising spirit, are committed to creating superior network solutions and providing excellent information and communications services globally to meet the diversified needs of communities worldwide in the information age. OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct For the betterment of corporate value, the OKI Group (Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and members of its group of companies) seeks to provide satisfaction to its customers at all times and to become a trusted partner for our stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, employees, customers and suppliers, and the local societies of the areas in which it operates. In addition to complying with all related laws and regulations, the OKI Group will implement sound corporate activities consistent with social norms, and contribute to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world. Customer Satisfaction A Better Working Environment The OKI Group is dedicated to developing and providing The OKI Group ensures and maintains a safe and products and services that ensure continued customer comfortable working environment for all employees. satisfaction, in full consideration of safety and ease of use. Respect for Employees Fair Corporate Activities Respecting the individuality of each employee, the OKI The OKI Group conducts appropriate transactions and Group creates a corporate culture in which its personnel works to ensure fair, transparent, and free competition. are encouraged to engage challenges facing the group with courage and determination. Good Communication The OKI Group engages with society through a variety Environmental Conservation of interactions, and discloses company information in In order to realize and pass on a better global environment, manners that are appropriate and fair. the OKI Group promotes environmental management and makes efforts to conserve the environment through its Intellectual Property and Information products and its business activities. Management The OKI Group recognizes the importance of intellectual Social Contribution property, and properly manages and protects company As a good corporate citizen, the OKI Group implements and customer information, including personal information. social contribution activities dedicated to the betterment of society. Respect for Human Rights The OKI Group respects the human rights of all persons Regional Awareness involved in its corporate activities and eliminates illicit The OKI Group endeavors to build a positive relationship discrimination of any kind. It does not allow child labor nor and grow together with local societies, respecting the forced labor. cultures and customs of the countries and regions in which it operates. 2 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 The OKI Group, as described in its corporate philosophy, Code of Conduct which is to be conformed to by all aims at contributing to the improvement of the quality of life executives and employees of the group. We have for people around the world through its core business, disseminated the charter and the code across the group namely the manufacturing and distribution of products and through various means such as training programs. We have services that can serve the development of the information also defined seven priority themes to be pursued. The CSR age. What underlies the group's CSR (corporate social Division, an organization dedicated to CSR-related efforts, responsibility) initiatives is our commitment to the pursuit and takes the initiative in promoting activities under these themes. fulfillment of this idea. We will continue to make every effort to fulfill our social In order to cohesively promote our CSR initiatives, we responsibility based on our corporate philosophy by ensuring enacted the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct as a that each member of the group complies with the OKI Group statement of values to be shared by all member companies of Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of the group. In addition, we also established the OKI Group Conduct. Foundation of CSR at the OKI Group CSR Initiatives by the OKI Group Contributing to the Improvement of the Quality of Life Corporate Philosophy for People around the World Customers Shareholders/Investors Business Partners Local Communities Global Environment Governments NPO/NGO Corporate Activities Creation of Economic Value Statement of values OKI Group companies need to share コーポレート・ガバナンス OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Corporate Governance Customer Satisfaction Good Communication Respect for HumanRights Respect for Employees Social Contribution Regional Awareness A Better Fair Corporate Activities IntellectualProperty and Environmental Information Management Working Environment Conservation Code of conduct to be conformed by all OKI executive officers and employees OKI Group Code of Conduct Compliance Employees The OKI Group’s Activities Social Responsibilities Stakeholders in Business Participation in the United Nations Global Compact OKI has participated The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the United Nations Human Rights: Global Compact since Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of May 2010. The UN internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Global Compact is a Labor: CSR initiative proposed Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective by then-UN Secretaryrecognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; General Kofi Annan at the World Economic Forum Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and meeting in January 1999. The participating Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and organizations are asked to make autonomous efforts occupation. based on the Global Compact's ten principles in the Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental areas of human rights, labor, environment, and antichallenges; corruption. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and The OKI Group regards its participation in the UN Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Global Compact as a perfect opportunity to further technologies. Anti-Corruption: enhance its CSR activities and contribute to the Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including realization of sustainable society. extortion and bribery. OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 3 A Message from the President We keep our customers' trust and help people enjoy an improved quality of life through our ongoing efforts and sincere business activities based on an enterprising spirit. I would like to express my sincere condolences to all those suffering from the effects of the disaster caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake and hopes for the swift recovery of the affected areas. The OKI Group gives first priority to the recovery of systems supporting social infrastructure such as those used at hospitals, police stations and fire departments in order to ensure the safety and security of the people afflicted by this unprecedented disaster. We will continue to exert our utmost efforts to assist in the reconstruction of the areas hit by the earthquake. We will fulfill our responsibilities to society in accordance with our corporate philosophy. OKI marks its 130th anniversary this year. Kibataro Oki, the company's founder, established Meikosha, Japan's first manufacturer of telecommunications equipment and the predecessor to OKI, in 1881 soon after the Meiji Restoration. He took on the challenge of producing telephone sets only five years after Alexander Graham Bell's invention of the telephone. In short, OKI has been enthusiastically taking on new challenges in unknown fields since its inception. This attitude embodies our corporate philosophy that underlies our CSR initiatives: The people of OKI, true to the company's enterprising spirit, are committed to creating superior network solutions and providing excellent global information and communications services to meet the diversified needs of communities worldwide in the information age. 4 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 We contribute to society through our inside and outside Japan. Furthermore, OKI participated in the United Nations products and services Global Compact in May 2010. OKI supports the Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, Based on this philosophy, the OKI Group's mission is to environment, and anti-corruption while further promoting its contribute to society through our products and services. CSR activities to help build a sustainable society. Today, we provide many products and services that constitute and maintain social infrastructure. Among them are telecommunication infrastructure for carriers, operational We address climate change and the systems for financial institutions, automated teller machines reduction of chemical substance risk (ATMs), ticket issuing and check-in processing systems for in order to realize a better global transportation services, and other public service systems. We take pride in them because they were created by the results of environment. our business activities characterized by the integration of sales and marketing, technology development, production, and From this perspective, we believe that proactive actions for maintenance. More specifically, we accurately understand the reducing environmental load form an integral part of the OKI needs of society, reflect them in the development of element Group's CSR initiative. In order to address climate change and technology, create products utilizing such technology, help realize a low carbon society, the entire OKI Group has establish effective manufacturing techniques, achieve a level promoted Green IT and has been involved in the improvement of quality that truly satisfies customers, and offer reliable of energy use efficiency through all business activities inside maintenance systems. and outside Japan. In order to further serve customers and society in this age On the other hand, as existing and new regulations to of volatility and change, we brushed-up our mid-term business control chemical substances contained in products have plan in October 2010, and worked out various measures for become increasingly demanding across the world including the program for the enhancement of management base and Europe, more concrete and effective systems to handle such the program for growth. substances are required for companies. The OKI Group will We will shift to consolidated group management, enhance enhance its systems to manage chemical substances in order monozukuri (the art of manufacturing), strengthen our service to ensure strict conformity with these regulations and reduce business, and create new businesses based on our unique chemical substance risk, develop solutions based on our technologies in order to help people enjoy a more improved knowledge and experiences accumulated through such quality of life under the following two strategies: efforts, and offer such solutions to our customers to help them OKI provides products and services to contribute to the build effective systems to control chemical substances. development of the information society through joint efforts by sales and marketing, technology development, As the OKI Group reaches its 130th anniversary as an production, and maintenance. important turning point, we will go back to the starting point, an OKI aims to become a company that makes steady growth enterprising spirit, continue to make steady and sincere by generating profit stably. efforts for our CSR initiatives, and further increase our corporate value. This Social and Environmental Report 2011 is intended to help all stakeholders better understand the OKI We promote responsible corporate Group's social and environmental activities carried out in fiscal 2010. We sincerely hope that as many people as possible will management as a global corporation. read this report. Your honest opinions regarding our CSR initiatives would be greatly appreciated. In order to advance responsible management as a global enterprise, the OKI Group has enhanced corporate June, 2011 governance and facilitated the implementation of group-wide CSR-related activities. Part of such efforts was the enactment of the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct, the statement of values to be shared with all group companies, and the OKI Group Code of Conduct that should be conformed by all Hideichi Kawasaki executive officers and employees. We have disseminated the President charter and the code across all companies of the OKI Group Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 5 Company Profile Profile Net Sales Consolidated Non-consolidated (Billions of yen) Corporate Name: Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. Founded in: January 1881 8,000 719.7 Company Established: November 1, 1949 6,000 Capital: 44 billion yen 545.7 Employees: 16,697 (Consolidated), 3,103 (Non-consolidated) 443.9 432.7 408.8 *As of March 31, 2011 4,000 Head Office: 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, 271.1 200.5 189.9 Tokyo 105-8460, Japan 2,000 TEL: +81-3-3501-3111 Business Segments 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fiscal year Info-Telecom Systems Employees Consolidated Non-consolidated The OKI Group offers telecommunication systems, (Number of employees) social systems, mechatronics system, and various solutions & services utilizing its core technology of info30,000 telecommunication and mechatronics. 22,640 Printers 20,000 17,415 18,111 16,697 The OKI Group manufactures printers for business use utilizing its LED technology and distribute them throughout the world. 10,000 5,313 EMS and Others 3,182 3,170 3,103 The OKI Group offers EMS (Electronics Manufacturing 0 Services) and other services based on its highly 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fiscal year sophisticated design and production expertise developed within the group. Editorial Policy ●  he OKI Group Social and Environmental Report featuring our T social and environmental efforts is published in order to inform our greater 《 Stakeholders' interests 》 [ Information featured in this report ] ● Discussions related to GRI and ISO26000 stakeholders of the group's CSR (corporate social responsibility) ● Initiatives in the industry such as EICC, initiatives in an easy-to-understand way. Meeting GeSI and JEITA ● Opinions from stakeholders on the past Our CSR Social Responsibility Reports and Stakeholders' interest Commitments Environmental Reports ● In June 2009, the OKI Group published the Social and ● Opinions from stakeholders collected Environmental Report 2009. It was the group's first attempt to through various surveys of employees and others integrate two of its annual reports, the Environmental Report ● Corporate governance launched in 1999 and the Social Responsibility Report launched ● Priority themes 《 Significance to the OKI Group 》 (Achievements in fiscal 2010) ● Corporate Philosophy in 2005 to let our stakeholders know our CSR-related activities. ● The OKI Group Charter of Corporate In reporting what we did for the environment and society during [ Information provided on the website ] Conduct, the OKI Group Code of Conduct ● The OKI Group Environmental Policy fiscal 2010, we again take this approach while some detailed ● Priority themes (Policies and systems and ● The United Nations Global Compact information are provided only on our website. We believe we can other related information) ● Priority themes about CSR ● Risk management and other issues inform our stakeholders of our environmental and social activities in Significance to the OKI Group greater a compact and easy-to-understand way by doing so. ●  his report features five articles under the title Meeting Our CSR T Reference Guidelines Commitments that cover five key challenges for the OKI Group in which our stakeholders as well as the public show an intense Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.0 (GRI) interest. The report describes our seven priority themes concerning Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2007 social responsibility and our efforts made in fiscal 2010 as well. It (the Ministry of Environment) also includes the Detailed Data section at the end which covers Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 performance data concerning our environmental activities. Detailed (the Ministry of Environment) information on each priority theme, such as that on specific policies and systems for it, are provided on our website. (Please see Page 19 for the specific topics provided on the website.) GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): An international NGO that develops and disseminates globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines. ISO26000 (International Organization for Standardization 26000): An international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility (issued in November 2010). EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition): An alliance of electronic manufacturers focusing on CSR that has enacted a code of conduct in the supply chain. GeSI (Global e-Sustainability initiative): A partnership of information and communications technology companies that collaborates with EICC about CSR management in the supply chain. 6 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 CONTENTS OKI Group's CSR 2 Net Sales by Business Segment A Message from the President 4 Others in fiscal 2010 (Consolidated) 3.7％ Company Profile / Editorial Policy 6 EMS 7.2％ CONTENTS 7 Special Features: Meeting Our CSR Commitments Printers 28.9％ 432.7 Infotelecom billion yen systems A 130-year History of an Enterprising Spirit 8 60.3％ Contributing to the Development 1 of Safe and Secure Social Infrastructures 10 Net Sales by Market in fiscal 2010 (Consolidated) Asia and Realizing a Low Carbon Society through other regions 9.8％ 2 Green IT and CO2 Reduction in Business Activities 12 Europe 14.2％ North 432.7 Japan America billion yen 71.2％ 4.8％ Management to Support the Sustainability of 3 Businesses and Society 14 Prompt Response to Increasingly 4 Demanding Regulations about Chemical Substances in Products 15 Scope Covered by this Report Pursuing Sophisticated Information 5 Security as a Leader in the 〈 Time Period 〉 Information Society 16 This report covers fiscal 2010 (the year from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011). However, the report also discusses some facts preceding this period as well as policies and plans to be implemented in subsequent periods. 〈 Organizations 〉 Corporate Governance 17 The report covers the activities of Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd., its Promoting CSR at the OKI Group 18 subsidiaries and affiliates inside and outside Japan. Environmental data mentioned in this report refer to the following organizations: ■ Full Compliance with Laws and Regulations 20 Atago district, Shibaura district, Honjo district, Takasaki district, Tomioka district, Numazu district, ■ Information Security 21 OKI Warabi district, Kansai Laboratory, Hokkaido Regional Office, Tohoku Regional Office, Chubu (Japan) Regional Office, Kansai Regional Office, Chugoku Regional Office, Shikoku Regional Office, ■ Improvement of Customer Satisfaction 22 Kyushu Regional Office ■ Good Communication with Shareholders and Investors 23 OKI Data (Fukushima Distrtict), OKI Printed Circuit, Nagano OKI, Shizuoka OKI, OKI Sensor Group Companies Device, OKI Micro Engineering, OKI Digital Imaging, OKI Techno Power Systems, OKI Metaltech, ■ Respect for Employees 24 OKI Engineering, OKI Proserve, OKI Customer Adtech, OKI Communication Systems, O F Networks (Japan) Co., Ltd. ■ Social Contribution 25 Group OKI(UK), OKI Data Manufacturing(Thailand), OKI Telecommunications Technology (Changzhou) , ■ Consideration for the Environment 26 Companies OKI Electric Industry (Shenzhen), OKI Precision (Thailand), OKI Electric Technology (Kunshan) , (Overseas) DongGuan TangXia OKI Micro Engineering Factory ー Detailed Data 28 〈 Corporate Names / Names of Organizations 〉 In this report, Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. is referred to as OKI, and its corporate group, including its subsidiaries and affiliates, as the OKI Group. The names of the organizations referred to in this report, in principal, are those used as of April 2011. For further information, please contact Forecasts, Plans and Targets In addition to factual information about the past and current activities of the OKI CSR Division Group, this report also includes forecasts, plans and targets for the future. They reflect Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. assumptions and judgments based on information available at the time of writing. Thus, e-mail: oki-csr@oki.com readers are requested to understand that the future results of the company's activities could be different from what is described in this report. OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 7 Special Features: Meeting Our CSR Commitments A 130-year History of an “Enterpris In 1881, Kibataro Oki, a process from product development to distribution in order to former engineer of the respond appropriately to changes in the business environment Telegraph Bureau, founded such as the increasingly globalized economy and rapid Meikosha, the predecessor to progress toward an information society. OKI. The company developed This section takes a look back over the history of the OKI a series of new products Group and introduces some episodes leading to its current including a microsound CSR initiatives. device that worked on the same principle as the Edison telephone when Japanese people had little interest in electricity, let alone telephony. In other words, Meikosha, true Founder Kibataro Oki to its enterprising spirit, contributed to the expansion of the telephone business in its early days. Since then, the OKI Group has developed and offered technologies, products and services resolving various social challenges in many aspects through its 130-year history. In One of Meikosha's earliest posters advertising an alarm bell recent years, the group has also promoted the improvement rental service, bargain lighting rods, and others. We can see and enhancement of its management systems for the whole the teething troubles and innovative ideas of the company. 1949 Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. is established. 1940 1920 1930 1880 1890 1900 1910 1930 1923 Japan's first in-house 1881 1896 1912 The company automatic exchange Japan's first in-line Oki Electric Co., Ltd. makes a concerted is delivered to Meikosha is multiple is established. effort to restore the Nakano Telephone established. communication Office. 1898 switchboards are 1915 delivered to the The company starts facilities damaged Meikosha is Tokyo Naniwacho by the Great Kanto manufacturing radio renamed OKI substation. Earthquake. apparatuses. Electric Works. Episode Contribution to the Recovery from the Great 1 Kanto Earthquake The growing telephone network in the Tokyo and Yokohama metropolitan area was heavily damaged by the Great Kanto Earthquake on September 1, 1923. OKI made a concerted effort to restore the communication facilities devastated by the earthquake. Records show that OKI contributed its power supply units for the recovery of communication Kyobashi Telephone Office damaged by systems at public facilities. As the earthquake highlighted the importance of the Great Kanto Earthquake wireless communication in times of disaster, Japan decided to start radio broadcasting in the near future. At the same time, automatic exchanges were started to be introduced to telephone offices because they were quake-resistent and easy to restore in case of emergencies. 8 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 Episode Management of Chemical Substances 4 ing Spirit” Contained in Products In 1999, OKI established an information system of chemical substances contained in products based on data collected from its green procurement surveys and started using the system in-house. Comprised of a data base and a product design system, this information system allows users to calculate the quantities of chemical substances contained in a product and verify the conformity with the applicable regulations. The convenience and usefulness of the system attracted so much attention when a presentation about it was given 2010 at an outside seminar. This later led to the commercialization of the system. OKI has continued to be involved in the sophistication of the system by promptly responding to newly enacted regulations as well as changes in the existing regulations inside and outside Japan. 2010 The company participates in United Nations Global Compact. 2000 Episode 5 Information Security Efforts in the Internet Age The use of the Internet increased dramatically in the early 1990's when many employees at OKI started using e-mails on a daily basis. As the company opened its official website in 1995, the threat of computer virus also increased. As a result, OKI started making organizational efforts for 2001 information security. OKI Customer Adtech a company responsible for the A subsidiary for manufacturing ATMs is established in China. 1990 maintenance of OKI's information system, was quick to respond to the threat and had its service engineers carry notebooks with anti-virus tips in order to 2003 prevent virus infection on its customers' computers. An information system of chemical substances contained in products is launched. 1990 2005 1980 The OKI Group Charter of A page Corporate Conduct is printer for Japanese established. with LED as a light source is launched. 1994 1995 A printer manufacturing The company starts 1970 1982 The world's first ATM with plant is built in Thailand. 1995 trying to obtain ISO 14001 certification. 1996 banknote The company's official Japan's first VoIP 1960 recycling is website is opened. system is launched. launched. 1971 1950 D10 digital electronic telephone switchboard is delivered to Nippon Telegraph and Telephone 1961 Public Corporation. Japan's first computer using 1979 The company's LED page printer core memory is 1951 launched. headquarters starts for Japanese The company's shares conducting an is listed on the Tokyo environmental audit. Episode Stock Exchange. 1953 2 Approach to LED Page teletypewriters are launched. LED has recently attracted considerable attention as an energy-saving light source. OKI initiated its research on LED in 1966. Two years after that, the company developed an optical mark reader. It was Japan's first commercial application of LED for a large-size device. Based on the technology used therein, OKI and (then) Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Public Corporation started a joint research project to develop an electronic photo printer with LED as a light source. As a result, an LED array head was successfully developed In 1979. It has later become a basis of today's downsized, energy-saving LED printers. First group blood donation at OKI Shinagawa Station (at the time) Episode 3 Japan's First Corporate Blood Drive On August 21, 1964, OKI launched Japan's first corporate blood drive inspired by a single employee. In those days, Japanese people started realizing an impending need for blood donation as hepatitis after transfusions of sold blood became a huge social issue. OKI's blood drive attracted press attention and eventually facilitated corporate blood drives in Japan. Since then, the member companies of the OKI Group inside and outside Japan have contributed to the development of local communities through their blood donation. It is Commendation from particularly notable that OKI Precision Thailand has been committed Thai Red Cross Society to blood donation activities since 1996 because blood for transfusions are always in short supply in the Kingdom of Thailand. In fiscal 2010, OKI Precision Thailand was commended by Thai Red Cross Society for its continuous blood drive efforts. OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 9 Special Mee ting Our CSR Commitments 1 Features Contributing to the Development of Safe and Secure Social Infrastructures OKI's fire/disaster prevention systems, including the disaster prevention administrative radio system, support social infrastructures. OKI's Technology for the governments across Japan thus far. OKI has also offered fire command systems that allow prompt dispatches of ambulances Safety of People and fire engines to the fire authorities since 1968. Today OKI's IT-integrated high-performance fire command systems are used at The OKI Group has offered numerous products and services approximately 150 Fire Fighting Headquarters throughout Japan. based on its advanced information technologies cultivated through While fire and rescue services have become increasingly its 130-year history. It has also made a considerable contribution sophisticated, there has been an increasing need for more to the fields that ensure the safety and security of social life, such effective use of radio waves. In this context, fire and emergency as disaster prevention and emergency medical care through the radio communication networks are planned to be digitized in the development of new technologies and products. future. OKI has already started developing systems for the One of them is the disaster prevention administrative radio digitization of fire and emergency radio communication based on system. Equipped with many convenient features such as master/ its experiences. In fiscal 2010, OKI participated in some slave two way communication, weather data collection, provision demonstration experiments of digitized fire and rescue radio of textual information, and linkage with other disaster prevention communication including those at the Fire and Disaster systems, this system allows the prompt provision of information on Management Bureau of Kobe City and the Fire Fighting disasters and evacuation shelters to local residents. OKI has Headquarters of Gifu City. delivered this system to more than 200 local municipal ● Disaster Prevention Administrative Radio System City Hall/Town Hall/Village Office Wireless Communication Device Operational J-ALERT Unit Console Broadcasting Unit with Receiver at Each Household Loudspeakers 10 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 OKI's Response to the the recovery of lifeline infrastructures were unable to secure access to information on repeated aftershocks. Great East Japan Earthquake Under these circumstances, the disaster prevention administrative radio system has attracted attention as a useful The Great East Japan Earthquake hit Japan on March 11, medium in times of disasters. In fact, many municipal governments 2011 and caused devastated damages in the northern region of in areas unaffected by the earthquake have introduced the system the country. The areas heavily damaged by the earthquake or added new slave stations to their existing systems. In order to include a number of local municipalities using OKI's fire/disaster meet these new needs and address new challenges, the OKI prevention systems. Group has started making specific proposals for building safer, The OKI Group set up an emergency headquarters headed by more reliable disaster prevention wireless communication systems OKI's president on the day of the earthquake, and started working while being involved in recovery efforts. for the recovery of lifeline infrastructures in each area. The business unit in charge of local municipal governments also set up an emergency center, and immediately started collecting Aiming at Developing Safe and information on afflicted customers and designing assistance measures. At the same time, the group sent relief supplies and Secure Social Infrastructures equipment such as batteries, battery chargers and radios, to municipal governments and fire fighting headquarters in the Let us save as many lives as possible. This is the slogan afflicted areas with cooperation from local dealers. Since then, the under which the aforementioned emergency center was set up on OKI Group has been involved in the recovery of afflicted areas by the day of the earthquake. We eventually became interested in repairing and restoring damaged equipment and systems with the improvement of our systems for greater safety and security. OKI Customer Adtech and local dealers as the main members. Then, we became determined about contributing to the realization of truly safe and secure society and communities. For this purpose, we have come up with various ideas and Changes Caused by the started addressing new technological challenges. Among them are the functional enhancement of the disaster prevention Great East Japan Earthquake administrative radio system, and the provision of disaster information utilizing different information infrastructures and After the Great East Japan Earthquake, a movement to review terminals. the existing disaster prevention plans has been rapidly spreading The OKI Group has offered various systems and solutions thus across Japan. Soon after the earthquake, telephone lines went far for contributing to the improvement of the quality of life for dead and cell phone service was interrupted due to excessive people. We are proud of our past achievements and will continue traffic load and power outage. As a matter course, a large number to contribute to the development of safe and secure social of people in the afflicted areas were not able to get information infrastructures. from their PCs and TVs. In particular in the coastal areas with devastating damages, people involved in life-saving activities and Stakeholder’s Voice Voice Our main service is the installation We appreciate it very much that and maintenance of electric information SasakiDenki Co., Ltd. has been involved and communication systems for in the restoration of systems devastated customers in the northern Tohoku by the earthquake. They were very region. OKI's disaster prevention quick to go to afflicted areas in spite of administrative radio system has been the damages of themselves. We believe one of our main products for a long we have to reexamine the role of the time. We started working for the disaster prevention administrative radio recovery of devastated information and system in the contexts of the communication systems in the afflicted reconstruction plans of the concerned areas soon after the earthquake. We municipalities while fully respecting the have reaffirmed the importance of the opinions of afflicted people. As a system as many people have said, We manufacturer to support social were able to evacuate to a safer place infrastructures and public services, we in time because a directive over the will further strengthen the partnership Hajime Sasaki Hiroyuki Hayasaka system told us to do so. It will take time with local dealers and communities President for Japan to recover from the General Manager toward recovery. earthquake. We will continue to work SasakiDenki Co., Ltd. OKI Tohoku Regional Office with OKI and do our best to help develop a safer and more useful system reflecting the opinions of people in the afflicted areas. OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 11 Special Mee ting Our CSR Commitments 2 Features Realizing a Low Carbon Society through Green IT and CO2 Reduction in Business Activities Green IT such as OKI's Web Sensing helps reduce CO2 emissions from offices. Realizing a Low Carbon Society save energy. Furthermore, the OKI Group has made a concerted effort to address challenges caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2011, such as serious power Global warming and climate change are two of the most shortages and the recovery of afflicted areas. important global issues. As they have become increasingly * The Energy Saving Act : The Act Concerning the Rational Use of Energy aggravated and conspicuous, there have been active discussions about possible solutions to them on a global basis. For example, the industrially advanced nations including China Promotion of Green of IT as a rapidly growing economy have been negotiating with each other for setting greenhouse gas emission targets. On the other hand, a wide range of measures to achieve such targets have As the number of IT devices has dramatically increased with also been taken including those about financial support, the spread of IT, the energy saving use of IT devices (Green of technical assistance and capacity building. IT) has become an important challenge. In order to develop In line with this trend, the Energy Saving Act* was revised low-power-consumption products, the OKI Group has on April, 2010. As a result, energy consumption has to be conducted environmental assessments in the design phase managed and controlled by each company now, not by each since 1998 in which each product is compared to its factory or office. Many municipal governments have also predecessors. In fiscal 2000, we introduced the OKI Eco tightened their regulations about energy saving and Product Certification Program through which the energyenvironmental protection. In addition, new product standards saving feature of each product is clarified. The certified for energy saving are planned to be established in accordance products as well as the certification standards are posted on with the Top Runner program in Japan while the certification our website. In fiscal 2010, we started reviewing the standards for the Energy Star program have recently been certification standards in light of the compliance with the revised to become more demanding. In short, there has been applicable energy-saving regulations. an accelerating move toward realizing a low carbon society in which greenhouse gas emissions can be reduced on a global basis. Promotion of Green by IT The mitigation of climate change and the realization of a low carbon society are two of the most important agendas for the OKI Group. As a business group deeply involved in IT, we Energy saving through the effective use of IT has attracted have actively promoted Green IT that has two aspects of considerable attention since it can be introduced to various Green of IT and Green by IT, and made various activities to fields such as transportation and office work. Energy-saving 12 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 efforts of this type have been actively made since they can Environmental Efforts in contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions from society as a whole. Business Activities In this context, the OKI Group has offered CoolClover and Web Sensing since 2009. The former is an energy While pursuing energy efficiency through products and management system for IT devices utilizing networks. The latter services (Green IT), the OKI Group is also committed to is a system to track and collect environmental information reducing greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide (CO2) (such as temperature, humidity, power consumption and etc.) emitted from its business activities. of offices or other facilities. Such environmental information are The OKI Group has already started various activities to made available through an internet server. meet the target for the Kyoto Protocol first commitment period. Two technologies are used in these systems, sensor We made a 66.1% improvement of the basic unit for CO2 network technology to collect information, and inferencing emission with respect to real output* during fiscal 2010. It technology to make situational judgments based on the means that we have substantially exceeded a goal set in the collected data. Believing that these two technologies can be Voluntary Action Plan on Measures to Fight Global Warming of utilized in many different fields, we are currently developing the Japanese electric and electronics industry, improving the some new systems using them. Among them are Real-time basic unit for CO2 emissions with respect to real output in fiscal Power Monitoring System to infer the power consumption of IT 2010 by 35% or more compared to that in fiscal 1990. Our devices from their operating conditions without using a other efforts to combat global warming include the realization wattmeter, and Power Consumption Visualization System for of zero-emission plants through carbon offset activities, Offices that visualizes the power consumption of each area of production reforms, and the replacement of aging an office in the form of a floor layout chart. The former allows infrastructure facilities, let alone appropriate responses to the the reduction of power consumption and helps promote Revised Energy Saving Act. effective energy-saving activities by inferring power Global warming and climate change are two of the most consumption from an analysis of how IT devices are being important issues that should be addressed by people around used at an office. The latter has proven to be effective in the world in the long run. The OKI Group will continue to raising energy-saving awareness by visualizing the areas address these issues through its products and business where electricity is being wasted. Since there is an impending activities. need for more effective systems to save energy, the OKI Group will continue to make its utmost efforts to commercialize these ● CO2 Emissions(from Major Production Sites of the OKI Group) technologies. 100 Emission Volume 100.0 Basic Unit Compared to Fiscal 1990 (%) ● Power Consumption Visualization System for Offices 80 100 Emission Volume (1,000 tons) 80 Three different levels of 57.8 wasting electricity are shown 60 in three different colors as to each area of the office 46.9 CO2 Emission Basic Unit for Real Output No waste 44.5 44.3 60 41.4 41.7 of electricity 40 Level of 31.2 30.8 33.9 40 wasting electricity by 25.3 business unit Large waste Some waste 20 of electricity of electricity 28.7 20 Levels of wasting electricity by floor 0 0 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Base Year) （Fiscal Year) * Basic unit for CO2 emission with respect to real output: CO2 emission / real output (real output = nominal output / Bank of Japan's Domestic Corporate Goods Price Index for electrical machinery and equipment with fiscal 1990 as the base year) C olumn OKI's LED / Multifunction Printers Win Ecohitech Award in Italy In February 2011, OKI Data won the 2010 Ecohitech Award in the category Prodotti Hi-Tech Eco-Virtuosi (Eco Conscious High-tech Products) in Italy for the eco-friendliness of its 16 printers launched there in July 2010. Sponsored by a consortium studying and evaluating office equipment, the award has been given to IT companies developing environmentally friendly products and solutions since its inception in 1998. Equipped with its original IC chip called Green ASIC designed particularly for energy saving, OKI's A4 color LED printers and A4 color LED multifunction printers feature the Deep Sleep mode and a double face printing function, help users save electricity and paper, and thus allow considerable environmental performance. Ecohitech Award ceremony OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 13 Special Meeting Our CSR Commitments Features 3 Management to Support the Sustainability of Businesses and Society The OKI Group's Production Activities supply chain, the OKI Group has developed an assessment format reflecting the requirements for global CSR procurement, and Management Systems and disseminated it to every production site of the group. As the globalization of economy has accelerated, competition among companies has become increasingly Contributing to the Countries and fierce. In order to achieve continuing growth and development under these circumstances, it is indispensable for any Regions in Which We Operate manufacturer to offer new values to customers by developing new products and technologies, and ensure the appropriate The most important key to managing these overseas management of production activities. The OKI Group currently production sites is responsible corporate management that has production sites in Japan, Thailand, China and Great pursues not only the level of manufacturing truly meeting the Britain. We always put importance on the further improvement needs of customers but also contribution to the development of of our sophisticated production technologies such as highthe countries and communities in which we operate. density mounting, high-speed testing, and high-precision From this perspective, the OKI Group's overseas production processing, and the dissemination of our sophisticated has been characterized not only by the pursuit of economic production management across the group. advantages, but also by efforts for promoting trust with local There are various issues to be addressed at any production communities from the outset. As we have worked closely with site. Among them are the strict control of product quality, the local employees and vendors for the improvement of reduction of environmental impacts arising from manufacturing production technologies and the dissemination of sophisticated activities, and the appropriate management of occupational production management, local employees have begun taking health and safety for people working in manufacturing settings. initiatives in solving production problems at many overseas As these issues are covered in the OKI Group Charter of production sites. We have also been active in providing local Corporate Conduct, the OKI Group has established and employees with IT education and language education while implemented some systems to appropriately address them. encouraging them to obtain various certifications. We would In order to ensure quality, the OKI Group has been very like them to utilize their skills and capabilities acquired through active in quality control efforts with Quality Management their careers for society. Department at each business unit or group company. The OKI Group has also Furthermore, the group's production sites have established been active in interacting with their own quality control systems in accordance with their local residents and production lines and the characteristics of their products. participating in various social Regarding environmental conservation, the OKI group has action programs inside and established a group-wide management system to set business outside Japan. For example, themes and site themes, and carry out various environmental OKI Electric Industry activities in accordance with these themes in an efficient, and (Shenzhen, China) carried out Tree-planting project in Zhongshan integrated way. Occupational health is being managed at each a tree-planting project for the Park, Shenzhen , China production site by its Safety and Health Committee. The first time in March 2011 (See Page 25). We will continue to committee is comprised of members from both management establish and maintain good relationships with countries and and employees. Since efforts to address these issues are communities in which we operate through these activities. indispensable also for the promotion of CSR throughout the C olumn OKI Software Technology Wins Best CSR Company in Chinese IT Industry Award 2010 OKI Software Technology (OSTJ) designs and develops software and communication devices in Jiansu, China. In December 2010, the company won the Best CSR Company in the Chinese IT Industry Award 2010 from the China Computer Award ceremony in Beijing Users Association for its quality CSR initiatives. The award is designed to be given to IT companies with outstanding achievements in their efforts for occupational health, environmental conservation and social contribution. Since its establishment in 2001, OSTJ has been involved in various social action programs such as group blood donation. It established CSR Promotion Committee in 2006, and built its original management system and obtained CSA8000, a CSR certification of Changzhou City, in 2007. The award was a tremendous validation of these efforts. 14 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 Special Meeting Our CSR Commitments Features 4 Prompt Response to Increasingly Demanding Regulations about Chemical Substances in Products Pioneering in Establishing Systems to indicators to the OKI Green Procurement Standards. Among them are the analytical estimation of the purchased components and Manage Chemical Substances Contained materials, and the chemical substance management systems of in Products our suppliers. We will start the full-scale implementation of these guidelines after a trial with some suppliers. Regulations to control chemical substances contained in products, such as EU's RoHS directive and REACH* regulation, have recently become increasingly demanding. Similar Promoting the Efficiency in Surveys regulations have been enacted in other countries such as China, Korea and Canada as well. This global trend indicates that the of Chemical Substances Contained in management of chemical substances contained in products Products have now become an important challenge for companies. The OKI Group has always been a pioneer in the The functions of COSMOS-R/R have also been improved in management of chemical substances in products. In fact, it conformity with the revisions of applicable laws and established and implemented some management systems for regulations. It now supports the latest unified format set by the chemical substances long before the above regulations. One of Japan Green Procurement Survey Standardization Initiative such system was the Product Assessment System established in (JGPSSI) and the Joint Article Management Promotion 1998. OKI's management of chemical substances contained in Consortium (JAMP). Furthermore, a new feature to allow products is highly effective because the same criteria for linkage with JAMP-IT* was added to the system in February operational management is shared among all group companies. 2011. JAMP-IT is an information transferring infrastructure It is also notable that we developed and implemented original promoted by JAMP. JAMP-IT is designed to streamline the information systems early on in our efforts to manage chemical processes of obtaining and providing information on chemical substances to order to pursue preciseness in information. We substances in materials, components and products, and have repeatedly improved these systems in response to the enhance compliance through the distribution of up-to-date enactment and revisions of relevant regulations. Since the information. The linkage of JAMP-IT and COSMOS-R/R allows enforcement of REACH required us to understand and manage the users of the latter to obtain chemical information thorough information on chemical substances throughout our supply chain, the Internet, and thus improve the efficiency of their surveys. we developed a new system called COINServ-COSMOS-R/R We will continue to ensure safe and secure manufacturing by (hereafter referred to as COSMOS-R/R) in fiscal 2008.COSMOSappropriately maintaining and operating these systems to R/R, that has been used within the group since 2008, helps users manage chemical substances. cope with Green Procurement (the avoidance of any materials * JAMP-IT : A chemical information transferring infrastructure comprised of a global portal (GP) and an application service (AS). The former features a system management function, a consolidated index, and a function to process containing hazardous substances) and answer inquiries from two or more requests for information exchange from different companies collectively. The features of the latter include an interface on the screen that allows direct operation by users, and a data base for chemical substance customers. This system has been sold to outsiders since 2009. survey sheets. * REACH( Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals ) regulation : A new European regulation to be applied to all companies manufacturing and importing chemicals in the European Union. It requires manufacturers / importers to register and evaluate any chemicals subject thereto. In addition, they need to obtain ● Linkage of JAMP-IT and COSMOS-R/R authorization from the relevant authorities about the use of substances of very high concern. The regulation also restrains the use of substances with higher risks. Firewall Ensuring Conformity to Regulations COINServ-COSMOS-R/R Supplier AS/GP Request linkage functions to: Regulations to manage chemical substances in products are Function to extract commando ❶ components to be surveyed ❷ Request surveys Internet often revised or tightened as additional substances become AS Register chemical ❸ Receive answers subject to control. The OKI Group has promptly revised the OKI ❺ substances in Answers/updates GP Guidelines for Managing Chemical Substances in Products, a set components/materials ❹Check survey status of rules to handle chemical substances in all business processes AS from design to delivery, and the OKI Green Procurement Standards, a guideline to study information on chemical substances, whenever needed. In fiscal 2010, we started operating a system to manage chemical substances in conformity with Survey department Supplier Supplier REACH and other regulations. This system also covers chemical substances handled by our suppliers. As the number of chemical substances to be managed has rapidly increased, we added some OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 15 Special Meeting Our CSR Commitments Features 5 Pursuing Sophisticated Information Security as a Leader in the Information Society The OKI Group's Efforts for Instilling Strong Security Information Security Awareness As the use of information technology is indispensable for Believing that information security is ultimately ensured by any company to improve its productivity and develop new individual employees with strong security awareness, the OKI services, information security is one of the most important Group puts greatest importance on building a system that issues in today's business environment. encourages its employees to observe security-related rules. The OKI Group, as a leader in the information society, has More specifically, we provide group training programs and been long committed to the promotion of information security, e-learning programs to all employees using the information and offered its customers various security products and infrastructure of the OKI Group in order to increase and instill services. It has also made various efforts to enhance its own security awareness. The contents of these programs are information security to make customers feel assured to use its reviewed and revised every year. products and services. For example, we have implemented our In fiscal 2010, we revised the curriculum of a group training security measures from three perspectives as shown in the program designed for the people in charge of information following diagram since the enactment of the OKI Group security at each business unit of OKI and each member Security Policy in fiscal 2002 while obtaining ISMS* company of the group, and provided a re-education program at certification. (See Page 21) OKI's all business units and all member companies in Japan. Furthermore, the OKI Group established the Information The revised curriculum focused on the improvement of security Security Committee in fiscal 2007 in order to strengthen awareness through case studies and accident information. It measures against information leaks. Since then, each business also contained appropriate responses to security accidents. unit of the group has designed its measures to promote The OKI Group's e-learning program includes an e-learning information security under the supervision of the committee. course on mobile PCs. People desiring to use their mobile PCs The secretariat of the Information Security Committee conducts are required to apply for a permit to use them and attend the on-site monitoring to check how each business unit has course at the beginning of each fiscal year. The program also implemented its measures. In fiscal 2010, four business units includes a course on information security to be attended by all were monitored. employees of the OKI Group every autumn. In fiscal 2010, the course was provided in October and attended by almost all ● Information Security Systems Based on Three Perspectives employees. We also conducts an information security general checkup Monitoring at the Protection from Automatic updating of of all employees including temporary staff every October during security center computer viruses virus pattern files the OKI Disaster Prevention Week. In fiscal 2010, we reexamined Systems for Visibility the items to be checked and made them more specific based on (monitoring and so on) recent cases of computer virus infection in order to avoid any OKI Group Security Policy misunderstanding and improve security awareness. Systems for Support (IT governance) Systems for Protection (the introduction of IT) (rules, education and so on) Since the development of web services always entails new types of network threats, we need to provide educational Management of confidential data Clarification and definition of data using a shared server and business processes programs meeting the current needs of information security. Implementation of information The OKI Group will continue to improve the quality of Development of IT infrastructure security education information security by reexamining and revising the contents of its education programs on a regular basis. *ISMS : Information Security Management System C olumn Safario V3 USB Thin Client with Enhanced Functions Thin clients*1 have recently attracted considerable attention as effective systems against information leakage because data cannot be stored in them. OKI Consulting Solutions launched Safario V3, an upgraded version of Safario USB thin client, in September 2010. Since it is compatible with Citrix ZenApp*2, Safario V3 Safario token allows a client PC environment larger than that of the previous version. With this product, you can use your PC as a thin client with reliable security at your home. Thus you can work as if you were in the office even in a time of emergency. *1 Thin Client: a computer system with minimum functions which depends heavily on its server for the control of resources such as applications and files *2 Citirix XenApp: an application management system of Citrix Systems Inc. that delivers virtual applications to any user on any device 16 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 Corporate Governance The OKI Group regards ongoing improvements in corporate value as its most important management priority in its quest to earn the trust of stakeholders. To this end, we are working to reinforce corporate governance based on our fundamental policies, including “the enhancement of management fairness and transparency” and “the acceleration of decision-making processes.” Corporate Governance Structure Committee Organizations OKI maintains a corporate auditor system, with a Board of As part of its efforts to reinforce corporate governance, Directors and a Board of Company Auditors. To enhance OKI established the Compensation Committee, whose management efficiency, it has also introduced an executive members include an outside director. The Committee is officer system, with the aim of separating the roles of the Board responsible for ensuring transparency in the criteria and of Directors and Company Auditors/Board of Company mechanisms used to set executive remuneration. We have also Auditors (supervision and auditing of business execution) and set up the CSR Committee to deliberate basic policies related executive officers (business execution). to our CSR activities, as well as several dedicated committees; The Board of Directors makes decisions on fundamental the Compliance Committee to deliberate fundamental management policies and other important issues, and also compliance-related policies; and the Information Security supervises the execution of business. Company auditors audit Committee to ensure the thorough implementation of the business execution functions of directors―based on audit information security measures. In addition, OKI has set up the policies and methods decided at Board of Company Auditors’ Disclosure Committee to ensure that disclosure to stakeholders meetings―through attendance to Board of Directors’ meetings is accurate and timely. and other important meetings. Company auditors also liaise closely with the accounting auditors and the Internal Auditing Division to accurately ascertain the overall status of company Internal Control operations as well as to carry out audits of business In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the executions. The Board of Directors and Board of Company Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act, the Board of Auditors include two independent director/company auditor Directors in May 2006 passed a resolution concerning the who have no conflict of interest with general shareholders. Basic Policy for the Establishment of an Internal Control The Executive Officer Committee makes decisions related System. In May 2010, the Board of Directors made a partial to the execution of Group operations. Through participation by modification to the Basic Policy. Conforming to the Basic all executive officers, the Committee seeks to accelerate Policy, OKI has been developing a system to secure decision-making and business advancement and clarify appropriate business operations. Pursuant to the Financial business responsibilities. Instruments and Exchange Act, we also have an internal control reporting system in place, through which we submit internal control reports to the Kanto regional bureau of the Ministry of Finance and disclose the assessment results of the effectiveness of internal controls related to financial reporting. Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Board of Company Auditors Board of Directors Compensation including Outside including Outside Accounting Auditors Committee Collaboration Company Auditors Audit Director Supervision President Audit CSR Committee Internal Auditing Executive Officer Committee Collaboration Division Compliance Committee Corporate Audit Marketing & Sales Section Information Security Business Section Committee Audit Subsidiaries and Affiliates Disclosure Committee OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 17 Promoting CSR at the OKI Group In order to cohesively promote its CSR initiatives based on the corporate philosophy, according to the basic policies determined by the CSR Committee, by the CSR Division in cooperation with other relevant business units under the seven priority themes. CSR Priority Themes: Focal Points and Achievements CSR Priority Themes Focal Points for Fiscal 2010 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 ◦Improvement of risk management as a group ◦Launch of the compliance portal site ◦Enhancement of measures against registered ◦Enhancement of responses by overseas group Full Compliance risks companies ◦Sharing of cases about registered risk and with Laws and enhancement of monitoring processes Regulations p.20 ◦ Visualization of how the information security ◦Evaluation of how the information security measures measures have been entrenched in suppliers have been entrenched in suppliers based on the Information (confirmation of yearly improvement) security checklist ◦Improvement of the items to be checked ◦Revision of the items to be checked for more Security to evaluate how the information security measures have been implemented and specificity based on an experience of computer virus infection established p.21 ◦Improvement of educational programs for ◦Launch and implementation of a new course unit Improvement of mid-level engineers focusing on practical business processes at group ◦Implementation of education and training companies Customer programs on quality across the group ◦Development of a direction board for a special-needs ◦Expansion of the application range of school utilizing universal design that assists visual Satisfaction universal design technique function p.22 Good Communication ◦Fair and timely disclosure of the achievements made in the first year for the mid-term ◦Holding of a briefing session on the refined mid-term business plan with Shareholders business plan and Investors p.23 ◦Recruitment and training of diverse human ◦Improvement of the systems for career building resources ◦Promotion of the supports for the development of the ◦Entrenchment of the supports for the next generation by improving related systems and Respect for development of the next generation disseminating information thereon among employees ◦Promotion of work-life balance ◦Establishment of specific goals at the Work-Life Employees ◦Promotion of the mental and physical health Balance Promotion Committee to take actions of employees ◦Continuation of the Health OKI 21 campaign p.24 ◦Continuing operation of the OKI 100 Yen Fund ◦Review of the criteria to select social action of Love organizations for the OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love Social ◦Enhancement of social contribution activities inside and outside Japan in collaboration with ◦Implementation of new social contribution activities inside and outside Japan Contribution municipal governments and NPOs p.25 ◦Improvement of the basic unit for CO2 ◦Improvement of the basic unit for CO2 emissions with emissions and response to the Revised the goal for the OKI Group unattained Energy Saving Act ◦Completion of the promotion systems, managerial ◦Expansion of the registration of OKI Eco standards, execution plan called for by the Revised Products Energy Saving Act Consideration for the ◦Enhancement of conformity with regulations to control chemical substances in products ◦Improvement of compliance with evaluation criteria such as laws and regulations about power saving Environment inside and outside Japan ◦Strengthening oversight of compliance within products ◦Improvement of IT systems for greater compatibility and of the OKI Group and its partners with the information distribution system and industry-standard research tool ◦Commencement of the operation of the CMS (Chemical Management System) in which suppliers are participated p.26 18 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 In order to disseminate the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of Conduct as the basis of our CSR activities throughout the group, we published a booklet featuring the full text of the charter and code with explanatory notes in four languages (Japanese, English, Chinese and Thai). Copies of the booklet were distributed to all applicable employees. In fiscal 2010, an e-learning program called the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of Conduct was given to all employees of the group companies in Japan while an attitude survey of them was conducted. Based on the United Nations Global Compact (in which we have participated since May 2010) and ISO26000 (an international standard about social responsibility published last November), we will continue to reflect on our social responsibilities to be fulfilled through our global business activities, reexamine our CSR activities in terms of what our stakeholders expect from us, and further contribute to people and society through our core business. Focal Points for Fiscal 2011 Information Provided on the Website ◦Expansion of risk management as a group ◦Establishment of compliance systems ◦Improvement of efficiency in risk management ◦Risk management promotion systems and the enhancement of monitoring ◦Fair business and purchasing practices ◦OKI Group Procurement Policies ◦Efforts for security export control ◦Review of the items to be checked in-house ◦Strengthening of information security ◦Continuation of the visualization of how the ◦Regulations and rules related to information security information security measures have been ◦Information security education entrenched in suppliers ◦System for protecting personal information ◦Improvement of educational programs for ◦Quality assurance system and management mid-level engineers ◦System to support customer engineers that help improve customer satisfaction ◦Expansion of the application range of ◦OKI Group's approach to universal design universal design technique ◦Fair and timely disclosure of the achievements ◦OKI Group's investor relations activities made in the first year for the revised mid-term ◦Strict prevention of insider trading business plan ◦Information for shareholders and investors (IR site) ◦Recruitment and training of diverse human ◦Basic policy on human rights and resources resources ◦Holding internship events ◦Entrenchment of the supports for the ◦Career design support initiatives development of the next generation ◦Maternity, childcare and nursing care programs and time adjustments ◦Promotion of work-life balance ◦Special-purpose leave ◦Promotion of the mental and physical health ◦Initiatives for occupational health and safety of employees ◦Creation of new activities that provide ◦Basic philosophy and systems for social contribution activities reconstruction assistance to those affected by ◦The OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love achievements in fiscal 2010 the Great East Japan Earthquake ◦Donation of a blood transport vehicle to the Japan Red Cross Society ◦Enhancement of social contribution activities ◦Supporting social action organizations in which OKI's employees are involved inside and outside Japan ◦Participatory social action programs, activities contributing to local communities in Japan and overseas ◦Improvement of the OKI Group's basic unit for ◦OKI Group Environmental Policy CO2 emissions and the achievement of the ◦OKI Group Environmental Management industry's goal ◦Scope of ISO14001 consolidated certification ◦Addition of some new facilities to those ◦OKI Group Environmental Accounting applicable to the management standards, ◦OKI Eco Products and the review of the standards ◦Operation of Chemical Substance Management System ◦Response to the revision of laws and ◦Controlling and Reducing Chemical Substances regulations about power saving products ◦Improvement of efficiency in surveys of information on chemical substances in products ◦Implementation of surveys of suppliers' CMS systems OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 19 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 OKI GROUP Full Compliance with Laws and Regulations The OKI Group has worked to strengthen compliance in Emergency / Disaster Response Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Fair Corporate Activities order to comply with all related laws and regulations and The OKI Group has established “Safety Countermeasures implement sound corporate activities consistent with social Committees” and emergency communication networks at its norms. Under the leadership of the Compliance Committee domestic and overseas sites as well as its group companies. In headed by the Chief Compliance Officer, we focus on the the event of a disaster, appropriate countermeasures are enhancement of training and the promotion of integrated, enacted to protect people's lives, prevent secondary accidents, systematic, companywide risk management. Furthermore, contribute to local communities and foster good relationships we have established consultation and reporting channels with them, and ensure the continuity of business operations. As as well as whistle-blowing regulations such as those about for the continuity of business operations, we set guidelines for the protection of whistle-blowers, thus tried to discover and formulating a BCP (Business Continuity Plan) in fiscal 2008. rectify improper activities at an early stage if any. In accordance with these systems and guidelines, we set up an emergency headquarters on March 11, 2011, the day when the Great East Japan Earthquake hit Japan, in order to Enhancement of Compliance Education take various measures for recovery. Since there were some In order to disseminate unanticipated circumstances, such as severe damages on our compliance-related suppliers and a serious electricity shortage, we are currently measures across the reviewing the BCP. We will continue to make our utmost efforts company, OKI gives training to appropriately deal with any disasters such as an earthquake. sessions for Compliance Managers at six sites in Japan. Compliance Fair Business Activities Managers facilitate the Compliance portal site In order to ensure fair business activities in good faith, the steady dissemination of compliance-related measures by rolling OKI Group clearly states, as part of the actions to be taken out the knowledge they have learned in such training sessions to specified in its Code of Conduct according to Japanese laws, their organizations. The participation rate in the program for that it observes antitrust laws, and is objective and free from fiscal 2010 was 100% as had been in fiscal 2009. bribery to civil servants and quasi-civil servants in Japan and In March 2011, we opened a compliance portal site on our other countries. Furthermore, in order to avoid offering and intranet. In light of the need for easy access to the pieces of taking bribery to and from all stakeholders including civil information required for conducting business activities servants, the code of conduct also prohibits any gift or appropriately (which had been highlighted by a survey of all entertainment that exceeds normal business customs (such as employees of the group), the site was designed to help users the offering and receipt of a monetary reward and a special easily search compliance-related information provided on the service). The group has helped its employees fully understand intranet for different business tasks such as laws and the significance of fair business activities by posting its code regulations, in-house rules, contact information of relevant of conducts on its intranet and offering them training programs. business units, and texts for case studies. Efforts Across Supply Chain Improvement of Measures to Deal with Believing that cooperation from its partners in the supply Compliance Risk chain is indispensable for the fulfillment of its corporate social OKI has steadily promoted risk management based on its responsibilities, OKI has promoted green procurement based Risk Management Regulations and established a system to on the “Green Procurement Standard” established in 2002. The deal with any risk. As OKI regards compliance risks* as the standard is to be updated as needed. In 2006, we created the most important category thereof, each business unit of the “OKI Group Procurement Policies” by revising the existing company needs to register potential risks related to its purchasing policy. The new policy includes several new operations with the Risk Management Promotion Office, which stipulations on compliance with the laws and social norms, monitors twice a year the implementation of preventive considerations for environmental protection, proper measures, whether any risks have materialized, and takes management and protection of information and other issues. corrective measures if necessary. Since then we have promoted the dissemination of the new In fiscal 2010, the company improved the measures for policy among employees involved in purchasing across the risks about product safety, from among all registered risks, group. gave a group training program about them, facilitated the In fiscal 2010, we became a member of the Working Group sharing of information on related cases, and enhanced on Supply Chain Management of the Global Compact Network monitoring. We also gave a training course on competition Japan, one of the Local Networks of the United Nations Global laws in different countries and regions as part of our measure Compact, explored the global trend of CSR procurement, and for enhancing risk management at overseas group companies. examined what sustainable supply chain management was People working at the sales departments of those companies supposed to be. We will further promote sustainable had to take the course. procurement in cooperation with our suppliers as our partners. * A compliance risk : a risk associated with violation of laws, regulations and in-house rules 20 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 OKI GROUP Information Security The OKI Group, based on the OKI Group Security Policy, In fiscal 2010, we launched a project to encrypt the hard Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Intellectual Property and Information Management has established a system to ensure information security drives of mobile PCs used in China and require the users of under the leadership of the Information Security Committee. the approved mobile PCs to put the certificate sticker as we We properly manage and protect company and customer did in Japan. information, including personal information, through various activities such as twice-a-year reviews of efforts for information security and information security audits. Promotion of Acquiring ISMS Certification The OKI Group is working to acquire the ISMS* certification for divisions involved in building and operating internal Visualization of How the Information Security information systems and for divisions engaged in general Measures Have Been Entrenched in Partners system design development, in order to improve the reliability and Suppliers of network solution construction and related services. In order to improve the quality of information security In fiscal 2010, OKI Software a new company established throughout the supply chain, OKI has also checked the through the merger of three software-related companies of the information security measures of its business partners and group as part of the group's reorganization project, acquired suppliers handling important confidential information since fiscal the ISMS certification. Five companies and seven business 2008. More specifically, we ask such companies to self-check units of the OKI Group are ISMS-certified organizations as of their information security measures using a check list designed by June 2011. us, evaluate the results of their self-checks using our own scoring Business Units / Group Companies That Have Acquired the ISMS Certification system, and share the challenges found in this process with them. (as of June, 2011) In fiscal 2010, information security at our partners and Name of Business Unit / Group Company Initial Registration Date suppliers in general made a progress, 4 points up from the Japan Business Operations Co., Ltd. (Operations Dept. Inspection and Training Dept.) January 30, 2004 previous year. They made a visible progress particularly in the Oki Consulting Solutions Co., Ltd. September 20, 2006 categories, regular change of passwords and access right OKI Software Co., Ltd. December 21, 2007 control with personnel changes. It showed that their Oki Customer Adtech Co., Ltd. January 31, 2004 understanding of the importance of access control on an Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (OKI System Center) August 4, 2003 individual basis had greatly improved. Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (Government & Public Business Div., Enterprise Business December 27, 2004 Div., Government & Public Systems Div. and Information Systems Div. at Shibaura site) Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (Information Planning Div.) February 14, 2003 OKI-CSIRT for Prompt Response to Security * ISMS : Information Security Management System Accidents In order to enhance our preventive measures against threats to computer security and improve our capacity to Enhancing the Protection of Personal respond to them, we established OKI-CSIRT (Computer Information Security Incident Response Team) as an organization The OKI Group has enhanced the specializing in responding to security accidents in September protection of personal information based 2008. OKI-CSIRT publishes a report on computer viruses every on the Privacy Policy enacted in 2004. We month and offers technical assistance within the OKI Group have committed to the protection of while contributing to the Nippon CSIRT Association by personal information under the leadership promoting the sharing and resolution of security issues among of Chief Privacy Officer. Privacy managers its members through its involvement in the development of have been appointed at the corporate guidelines for measures against computer viruses. level, and in business units and group companies. The OKI In fiscal 2010, we established an activity to check the Group has also promoted its member companies' acquisition version of the security software used by each employee and of the PrivacyMark certification so that they can take ask the version upgrade thereof if necessary in order to further appropriate measures to protect personal information. In fiscal prevent virus attacks and other security risks. 2010, OKI Software and OKI Proserve, two companies established as part of the group's reorganization project, acquired the PrivacyMark certification. Furthermore, another Disseminating Information Security Measures group company, Payment First Corporation, acquired the to Business Sites in China certification in April, 2011. Ten companies of the OKI Group The OKI Group has started to disseminate its information have acquired the PrivacyMark certification as of June 2011. security measures to business sites in China since fiscal 2008. Companies that have acquired the PrivacyMark Certification (as of June 2011) As the IT environment in China is different from that in Japan, Japan Business Operations Co., Ltd. Oki Customer Adtech Co., Ltd. we have adopted an antivirus software program designated OKI Proserve Co., Ltd. Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. computer viruses detected in China. We have also improved Oki Wintech Co., Ltd. Oki Communication Systems Co., Ltd. the local help desk function, enhanced support for damages OKI Software Co., Ltd. OKI Networks Co., Ltd. caused by computer viruses, and thus improved the virus Oki Data Corporation Payment First Corporation elimination rate there. OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 21 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 OKI GROUP Improvement of Customer Satisfaction Believing that quality entails customer satisfaction, In order to disseminate knowledge on the four safety Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Customer Satisfaction OKI's quality philosophy focuses on providing products technology laws and ensure full compliance with them, training that always make customers happy. The “Quality sessions focusing thereon were given to Compliance Assurance Regulations” defines OKI's quality philosophy, Managers of the company's all business units and Japanese responsibility and authority, and companywide product group companies in fiscal 2010. safety policy. In addition, there are administrative * The four safety technology laws consist of major legal requirements and voluntary regulations pertaining to the safety of information technology equipment in Japan. More instructions for the entire company and each business specifically, they are the Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Law, the division. These rules and regulations are incorporated into Telecommunications Business Laws, the Radio Law, and the Regulations of the Voluntary Control Council for Interference by Information Technology Equipment (VCCI). the quality management system of each business division. Furthermore, we have obtained ISO9001 certification at all our production sites, and have built the most appropriate The Group's Cooperative Framework for quality control system for each production line or product. Responding to Product Accidents OKI has also made various efforts to ensure product OKI has a set of rules for coping with accidents arising safety based on its Product Safety Policy which clearly states: from product deficiency. These rules specify necessary the corporate activities to ensure the safety of our customers procedures for actions to be taken in case of such accident, using our products must be given the most priority. including the establishment of a task force, the adoption of a remedial measure, the notification of the accident to the market and society, the implementation of a recall, and the Improvement of Quality Education development of a preventive measure. Furthermore, OKI has OKI has given education programs rolled out these rules to major group companies in order to on quality for different types of cope with any accident as a group in a coordinated way. employees at different levels such as In fiscal 2010, we addressed the following issue under this new recruits, novice members of system. We will further enhance our activities to ensure functional departments, and mid-level product safety based on lessons learned. engineers. We have also offered various Seminar on quality elective education programs from among which each employee can choose the most appropriate program for his or her need. Replacement of AC Adapters on RT-200KI Router Our recent education programs have put great importance Two burn accidents on RT-200KI, the rooter manufactured on usefulness on a practical level. In fiscal 2010, we started a by OKI for the HIKARI DENWA (optical IP telephony service) of new course on design of experiments (orthogonal experiments) Nippon Telegraph & Telephone East Corp. and Nippon as a program common to all mid-level engineers across the Telegraph & Telephone West Corp., were reported in 2010. company. This uniquely practical course features lectures Fortunately no one was injured by the accidents. There focusing on the past applications at OKI, and seminars using an seemed to be abnormal current flow for some reasons that original data analysis support tool that enables students to caused overheating and the burns. In order to deal with this concentrate on the process of each experiment without being problem, OKI has made an announcement of new adapters bothered with calculation. We will follow the practical effect of designed to prevent any abnormal current flow as a countermeasure, and started delivering them to customers. the course and continue to improve its quality. The course on Please accept our sincere apologies for the inconvenience statistics and reliability established last fiscal year is now caused to our customers and partners. available also to engineers of group companies. Product Safety and Technology Initiatives to Improve Customer Satisfaction Compliance Initiatives (CS) in Production Activities In order to improve the safety of its products, the OKI In order to ensure customer satisfaction and quality in its Group has been active in ensuring the full compliance with the production activities, OKI has conducted a twice-a-year CS “four safety technology laws*” under the leadership of the survey of customers of its EMS (Electronics Manufacturing “Product Safety and Technology Committee.” As part of such Service) business since fiscal 2003. The results of such efforts, we have facilitated communication among corporate surveys are posted on the CS page of the intranet within the management divisions, business divisions and group limits of confidentiality so that they can be used to further companies so that each issue can be properly addressed in improve our products, services and systems. Believing that order to ensure compliance with laws, regulations and each employee's commitment to customer satisfaction is certification requirements at all areas of business operation indispensable for reliable quality, we have established the CS including design, manufacturing, procurement, sales and Rules of Conduct, give education programs focusing on CS. maintenance services. In addition, problems and Furthermore, all employees involved in production and the improvements at different business units are shared through EMS business are asked to carry cards with MY CS-oriented the Product Safety and Technology Committee in order to Behavior Checklist and My Goals when they work. equalize the level of product safety and technology compliance of these units. 22 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 T OPICS Supporting the Improvement of the Direction Board System of a Special-Needs School Utilizing Universal Design Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Good Communication The OKI Group supported the renewal of the direction board system of Tokyo Metropolitan Hachioji Higashi Special-needs School. Since the school has committed to creating a learning environment that assists the visual function of challenged students, it has organized a special project team and addressed the improvement of the direction board system at the school since fiscal 2010. Universal Design Department of OKI and OKI WorkWell (See Page 24), a special purpose subsidiary of the OKI Group, have worked with the school for this project, conducted an on-site survey, analyzed the circulation in the school and students' viewing habit, and designed a direction board with pictograms. We also offered our advice on the appropriate installation position for the direction board in order to secure adequate visibility for both wheelchair users and walkers. We will continue to support the school's project to assist the visual function of its students. Direction board with pictograms Achievements in Fiscal 2010 OKI GROUP Good Communication with Shareholders and Investors The OKI Group appropriately discloses useful information Communication via IR Website and to shareholders and investors in a timely manner, including e-mail Newsletters corporate information, management strategies and operating OKI has an IR Website where a range of investor relations results. The purposes of our IR activities are to improve information, including financial data, is posted simultaneously management transparency, help build trust with our in English and Japanese in order to maintain fairness in shareholders, and thus improve our corporate value. The information disclosure. We also send e-mail newsletters to department responsible for these activities is IR Unit. The approximately 800 people, including our institutional investors group also makes every effort to prevent insider trading in and people who have signed up on our website. The e-mail order to protect shareholders and investors, and help ensure newsletter includes the latest financial results, information on the integrity of securities markets. filings to securities exchanges, press releases on topics such as new products and services, and information on updates to our IR Website. Corporate Strategy Meeting Focusing on Midterm Business Plan OKI recognizes that the appropriate utilization of the views of the market in management practices and business activities serves to further increase operating efficiency and raise Corporate Strategy Meeting (October 2010) corporate value. Based on this recognition, President and the other members of the management team conduct investor briefings, hold IR meetings Investor Relations site on the web http://www.oki.com/en/ir/ and engage in various other communication activities. On October 8, 2010, we held a Corporate Strategy Meeting focusing We will further promote the disclosure of information in a on the company's mid-term business plan to fiscal 2013. responsive, and appropriate manner while complying with the President Kawasaki explained the company's business policy, revisions of the Companies Act, the Financial Instruments and the program for the enhancement of management bases, and the Exchange Law and the timely disclosure rules of the Tokyo program for growth based on the brush-up version of the midStock Exchange. term business plan announced in February of the same year. OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 23 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 OKI GROUP Respect for Employees Believing that respect for human rights must underlie all 2010, the group introduced a reduced working schedule to Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Respect for Human Rights / A Better Working Environment / Respect for Employees business activities, the OKI Group has a strong commitment help employees attend graduate and other schools for to pursuing fair recruitment and building working academic degrees and qualifications. environments in which diverse people can fully exercise their abilities based on its vision for the development of human resources: Pride, Passion and Sincerity. We have Establishing Support for the Development of made various efforts at overseas group companies as well the Next Generation such as the encouragement of the acquisition of relevant In June 2009, OKI was granted the certifications, and different support programs meeting the Law for Measures to Support the needs of each country or region. Development of the Next Generation In fiscal 2010, we had to implement a voluntary early certification (nicknamed Kurumin ) by the retirement program in Japan for a limited period of time to MHIW’s Tokyo Labor Bureau. The main survive in the difficult business environment. We made our reason for the company's acquisition of the utmost efforts to have the understanding of employees certification was that it had achieved the targets set in its through an orientation meeting and close communication second Action Plan in compliance with the Law for Measures with applicants. to Support the Development of the Next Generation. In fiscal 2010, OKI started implementing its third Action Plan focusing on establishing work-family balance through Good Labor-Management Relationship various support programs that help employees take specific through Dialogue actions. As part of the plan, OKI expanded its leave system, OKI respects the freedom of association and collective and encouraged employees to deepen their understanding of bargaining based on the laws in each country and region, and the plan through the Support Work-Life Balance site on the puts great importance on building trust between employees intranet. The company always offers an e-learning program on and management. In Japan, the company holds general balancing work and family. The program allows employees to labor-management meetings with the company's top self-check their awareness and behavior, and learn from executives and union leaders as well as divisional laborvarious cases. management meetings to exchange opinions and information on economic conditions and labor issues. Promotion of Work-Life Balance OKI has offered various supporting systems about Promoting the Employment of Challenged People childbirth, child rearing and nursing care in order to help its The OKI Group has promoted employees balance work and family life. Among them are a the recruitment of severely flextime system and a HOP (discretionary labor) system that challenged people as teleworking allow flexible work styles. In case of Special Leave for a employees through OKI WorkWel, a Particular Purpose, employees are allowed to take a leave for special purpose subsidiary*of the medical care for themselves, nursing care for their families, group. The percentage of and other purposes including participation in social action challenged employees at the group Award ceremony programs, education and school events. in fiscal 2010 was 1.94%. Furthermore, the Work-Life Balance Promotion Committee, As of March 2011, OKI WorkWel employs 45 people with with members from both the management and the labor union, physical, intellectual, visual or internal disabilities, including 35 sets specific targets, checks and improves the relevant employees who work at home utilizing IT. In fiscal 2010, OKI systems for work-life balance. Information on the committee's WorkWel won the Award for Excellence for employing people activities is available on the intranet. with upper limb disabilities as one of the Examples of Good Practices for Employment Promotion and Expansion of Vocation Areas (chosen by the Japan Organization for Promoting Mental and Physical Health of Employment of the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities, with Employees support from the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare). The OKI Group has promoted “Health OKI 21,” a campaign * A special purpose subsidiary is a company established to provide special considerations for the employment of challenged people as defined in the Law for Employment to facilitate voluntary health management of employees with Promotion, etc. of the Disabled. support from all group companies, labor unions and corporate health insurance societies. As part of this campaign, the Group gives useful advice through the intranet, conducts healthHelping Employees Develop Their Skills related surveys of employees, and offers exercise programs. The OKI Group offers more than 250 elective courses other Furthermore, the OKI Group has the “Mental Health Working than compulsory or designated training courses for new Group” as an ad hoc committee of the Central Safety and recruits, managers and specialists. Employees are able to Health Committee, promotes the utilization of Kokoro Wellness choose the most appropriate courses from among them in Navi, a new tool to support mental health, and provides a order to build the skills required for their career goals. In fiscal consultation services. 24 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 OKI GROUP Social Contribution The OKI Group, based on the Basic Philosophy and Forest Improvement Activities through the Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Social Contribution / Regional Awareness Basic Policy for Social Contribution Activities, has promoted Green Wave 2010 various social action projects. More specifically, the group The OKI Group has made donations, opened its facilities for community use, has continuously been and supported social action programs by employees. There involved in forest are two types of social action programs the OKI Group has improvement activities supported: donation-based programs that collect in some places in contributions from employees every month, and participatory connection with programs related to social welfare or environmental relevant group under protection activities. In order to be involved in a wide range agreements with local In the OKI Group Forest in Komoro of social contribution activities, we have interacted and municipal collaborated with various nonprofit organizations. governments, Forest Offices and NPOs. In May 2010, in conjunction with the International Day for Biological Diversity, we participated in the Green Wave 2010, a campaign to promote Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake reforestation and other forest protection activities targeted at The OKI Group has decided to offer a reconstruction businesses and organizations, and engaged in forest assistance of 10 million yen for people and areas afflicted by the improvement projects in Izu (Shizuoka) and Komoro (Nagano). Great East Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011. The assistance The campaign was supported by the Ministry of Environment, the is comprised of a monetary donation and IT/network devices. Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, and the Furthermore, some management-labor office fund raisers have Forest Agency. been organized in Japan while employees of overseas group On May 22, the International Day for Biological Diversity, 49 companies have also been active in fund raising. participants from the OKI Group, employees and their families, planted seedlings, cleared underbrush and thinned the forest in Komoro. The OKI Group has carried out similar activities also in Donation-based Program The OKI 100 Yen Takasaki (Gunma). A total of 230 people participated in the OKI Fund of Love Group's forest improvement activities in Japan in fiscal 2010. The OKI Group has made various assistance efforts through the OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love, a donation-based social action program. Among such efforts are the donation of blood Tree-Planting Project in Shenzhen, China transport vehicles to the Japan Red Cross Society and financial OKI Electric Industry (Shenzhen), a manufacturer of ATMs assistance to different social action organizations. The and printers in China, carried out a tree-planting project in participants in the OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love include executives Zhongshan Park, Sehnzhen for the first time in March 2011. and employees of the member companies of the OKI Group (24 Since its inception in 2001, the company has been active in companies as of April 2011) who agree with the purport the environmental conservation activities from both business and program. They are asked to donate 100 yen a month. social contribution aspects. Such activities include the In fiscal 2010, we reviewed the criteria to select social establishment of an environmental management system and action organizations to be supported as we had participated in voluntary cleanups around its production site. The purposes of the United Nations Global Compact. As a result, we added the company's first tree-planting project, in which 45 employees compatibility with the United Nations Millennium Development planted peach seedlings, were to help preserve the scenery of Goals (MDGs) to the criteria. the park, make a contribution to the local community, and raise Social Action Organizations as Recipients of Financial Assistance from the OKI the environmental consciousness of its employees. 100 Yen Fund of Love and MDGs MDGs Organizations Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger NPO Hunger Free World Supporting Elementary Schools for Mountain NPO Action with Lao Children Tribes in Northern Thailand Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education EDF-Japan OKI Precision (Thailand), the group's NPO Child Fund Japan production site in northern Thailand has visited Goal 5: Improve maternal health NPO PH-Japan elementary schools in villages of mountain Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other disease tribes to donate supplies since 2009. In December 2010, approximately 30 employees In March 2011, the NPO Action of the company including its president visited with Lao Children published a an elementary school for children of the Karen, kamishibai (a storytelling tool one of the mountain tribes in Thailand. The Karen child holding a gift from OKI comprised of a set of picture employees donated an antenna for satellite Precision (Thailand) cards) titled Little Caterpillar broadcasting, school supplies, toys and used clothes. Looking for Leaves in Laos with a Furthermore, they installed a water filtration system in order to financial assistance from the OKI prevent health hazards caused by drinking undrinkable water Kamishibai Little Caterpillar 100 Yen Fund of Love. Looking for Leaves from the mountains as a gift form the company. OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 25 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 OKI GROUP Consideration for the Environment In its quest to create and has realized a 30% reduction of power consumption compared Related Issue in OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Environmental Conservation pass on a better world to to the previous model. We plan to introduce these measures future generations, the OKI for reducing power consumption to cash processing systems Group promotes effective and other products. environmental management and conducts initiatives to protect the environment Printers with Low Power Consumption through its products and OKI Data has been active in developing printers with low Logo for the OKI Group's environmental business activities. We activities power consumption. As for electricity used for a printer, power coordinate and implement consumed mostly in the toner fixing process. In order to reduce environmental management systems across the entire the heat capacity for this process, OKI Data has developed a Group that underpin our environmental management new toner fixing unit with a new design using some new commitment. Under the OKI Group Environment Policy, we materials. The company has also developed a toner that can be have actively promoted the continued reduction of fixed at lower temperatures compared to conventional toners. It environmental impact through environmentally conscious currently aims at reducing power consumed for printers more products such as those with low power consumption, and than 50%, when measured using the TEC method*. energy saving and resource saving in business activities. How toner fixing unit works * TEC method : a method to Halogen Heating roller measure power consumed for a lamp period of one week under a Environmental Contribution through Products Toner Paper typical condition five days in on/sleep/off modes, and two days in sleep/off modes Automated Teller Machine (ATM) with Low Power Consumption As the enforcement of the Revised Energy Saving Act requires the private sector to make visible efforts for saving Pressure roller energy, there has been an increasing need for ATMs with low power consumption in both Japan and overseas. OKI has made various efforts in different aspects to meet this need. World's First 40 Gbps Optical Communication For example, we have dramatically decreased the number Technology for Dramatically Reducing Power of components used for each ATM unit, shorten the length of the Consumed for Network Devices banknote conveyance route, and thus dramatically decreased As power consumed for expanding networks is expected power consumed for conveying banknotes by developing new to jump sharply in the near future, there has been an impeding components for the conveyance and sorting processes. We need for new technology that can dramatically reduce power have also achieved a reduction of standby power consumption consumed for network devices. In fiscal 2010, OKI by adding a new low power consumption mode to the banknote successfully developed an optical phase synchronization handling module and the banknote recognition unit. technology*1 for coherent optical communication*2. Regarded As a result of these efforts, the latest model of OKI ATMs as a promising high-speed communication system of the next OKI Group Environmental Activity Plan (Fiscal 2010): Targets and Achievements Achievements in Fiscal 2010 Category Activities Targets for Fiscal 2013 Targets for Fiscal 2010 Results Evaluation See Page Enhancing chemical Establish and implement a new set of Green Start the full-scale implementation Control of Started the operation of the system for substance management Procurement standards to include the of a new CMS in compliance with some specific products ○ chemical • Response to REACH CMS* evaluation standards of suppliers REACH and other regulations substances regulation 15 Completed the improvement of the IT Products contained in • Response to similar Release a new IT system Assemble and utilize a database of system compatible with the information products regulations in China and Suppliers' CMS evaluations compatible with the information distribution infrastructures and ○ other countries distribution infrastructures industry-standard research tools Prevention of Improve compliance with revised Examine the registration of Improved the consistency with the criteria Manufacturing low power global consumption products laws and regulations about the new standards for the OKI Eco of the relevant laws and regulations about ○ (Website) warming reduction of power consumption product certification the reduction of power consumption Reducing C02 emitted from Resulted in a 2.2% increase of basic 12 Business Activities Prevention of business activities Set targets based on industry Basic unit to be reduced by unit and missed the target due to the 13 global (introducing highly efficient trends and achievements in fiscal 1% or more (compared to the full-scale operation of the new × 27 warming equipment, and improving 2012 average of the past five years) production sites for printers and the 28 operational systems) production increase 29 Recycling of Increase the number of sites Reducing waste at main Maintain and continue Maintained and continued zeroused production sites subject to zero-emission zeroemission emission ○ 29 resources (including overseas sites) Streamlining of OKI Group Formulate and implement a Completed the consolidated Facilitate the visualization of Environmental Practices of OKI Environmental Management environmental data consolidated certification plan, certification as planned, and conducted ○ (Website) Group System and an internal mutual audit an internal mutual audit Management environmental Continuously hold the EcoTest management Improving environmental consciousness seminar and improve the quality Hold the Eco Test seminar Held the Eco Test seminar twice ○ 27 thereof * CMS: Chemical Management System 26 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 generation, coherent optical communication had been Projects used for offsetting the carbon emissions in the second half of fiscal 2010 believed to be highly difficult for putting into practical use. Project ID Project Name Country Credit Type Volume (tons) Using a prototype 40 Gbps coherent receiver made with this Bundled 15MW Wind Power Project newly invented technology, OKI was successful in realizing the 364 India VCU * 2,178 in India world's first stable coherent reception of binary phase-shift Mungcharoen Green Power -9.9 modulated signals*3. With this technology, we do not need 256 MW Rice Husk Fired Power Plant Thailand VCU 2,203 Project convert optical signals into electrical signals. Thus, it allows a 10% decrease in power consumed for optical receivers and an 78 Nobrecel Biomass Energy Project Brazil VCU 865 effective reduction of network delay. * VCU (Voluntary Carbon Unit) : A VCU is a tradable carbon offset credit issued by a VSU *1 Optical phase synchronization technology: an elemental technology for the reception of certified project for reducing/absorbing greenhouse gas. VCS, the Voluntary Carbon coherent signals that allows highly accurate synchronization of the phases of two Standard, is a standard to certify greenhouse gas reduction/absorption projects different optical carrier waves within a bandwidth of 200THz developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and *2 Coherent optical communication: a system of optical communication in which other organizations. optically-superimposed signals in terms of optical frequency and phase are transmitted utilizing the characteristics of light as a wave *3 Phase-shift modulated signals: optically-superimposed signals through phase-shit modulation, not through intensity modulation Promoting Environmental Skills The OKI Group has helped Environment Conservation Efforts in Business employees pass the Certification Activities Test for Environmental Energy Saving Measure at Tomioka Site Specialists (Eco Test) in order to OKI's plant at Tomioka site operates leaser beam improve the environmental machines and pressing machines for sheet-metal processing consciousness of individual 24 hours a day to manufacture ATMs and other products. In employees and make them more Successful applicants for the Eco Test order to cool these machines, several chillers have been used motivated to take actions for environmental issues. The group at the plant. In June 2010, as part of our energy saving effort, has held the Eco Test seminar twice a year since 2010. More we moved some of these chillers to a new place outside the than 80% of the participants in the seminar passed the test in plant building Building A in the following figure, reduced waste fiscal 2010. We plan to expand this seminar that is highly heat emitted in the plant, and thus improved air conditioning regarded by employees. efficiency during summer. We later used waste heat for heating a building adjacent to the plant (Building B) during winter. Efforts for Conserving Biodiversity As a result, we reduced electric power used for air As the 10th Conference of the Parties to the Convention on conditioning during summer by about 65,000 kW (a 11% Biological Diversity (COP10) was held in Nagoya in October, decrease compared to the previous year), heavy oil for air corporate efforts for the conservation of biodiversity attracted conditioning during winter by 16.7 kl (a 43% decrease considerable attention in fiscal 2010. OKI became a member compared to the previous year) in fiscal 2010. of the Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon Keidanren Promotion Partners, and also participated in the Japan Move of Chillers Business and Biodiversity Partnership in 2010. We also started Before the move of chillers After the move of chillers examining the evaluation of the impact of our business activities on biodiversity. We have made various environmental activities thus far that can contribute to the conservation of Building A Building B Building A Building B Winter biodiversity, such as energy saving, waste reduction, resource recycling, and forest improvement. We will further promote these activities as a business group. Building A Building B Building A Building B Summer Pollution of Underground Water and Soil The OKI Group has specified a group of observation points at every production site and monitored the quality of underground water there on a regular basis. During such a regular examination at Honjo site, the groundwater sampled Completing the Retirement of Fiscal 2010 from some observation points was measured to be a bit above Emission Credits for Carbon Zero the normal level. In response to this, the OKI Group has Manufacturing Facilities implemented appropriate recovery measures under the OKI Data has made its three main production sites in guidance of the relevant local authorities. In fiscal 2010, no Fukushima (Japan), Thailand, and China Carbon Zero underground water or soil pollution was observed. Manufacturing Facilities through a global carbon offset activity since October 1, 2009. The CO2 emissions from these sites in fiscal 2010 amounted to 9,940 tons (4,694 tons in the fist half, Penalties / Claims and 5,246 tons in the second half). They were completely There were no environment-related penalties imposed on offset in April 2011. The emission credits used for the offset or claims made against the OKI Group in fiscal 2010. were retired through K.K. Satisfactory International. Any third Whenever such an event occurs, we locate the cause thereof, party can check the retired credits on the Markit Environmental deal with the problem properly and take appropriate Registry. preventive steps. OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 27 2010年度の状況 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 OKI GROUP Consideration for the Environment Detailed Data Environmental Impact of Business Activities (Material Balance) The OKI Group uses energy, water and chemical substances as input to conduct business activities focusing on development and production while discharging substances with environmental impact into the atmosphere and waters, and emitting wastes as output. In fiscal 2010, we expanded the scope of the calculation of material balance data to include some new sites to manufacture printers. Emissions into the Energy Consumption Atmosphere Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 ● Greenhouse gas Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Electricity［Million kWh］ 135.8 143 CO2* ［1,000 tons CO2］ 52 69 Heavy oil ［kl］ 781 745 PFC ［1,000 GWP-tons］ 0 0 ● Acidifying gas Benzine ［kl］ 1,787 2,081 NOx ［tons］ 3.7 4.1 Kerosene ［kl］ 70 71 SOx ［tons］ 0.8 0.8 Light oil ［kl］ 109 126 Input Output ● Chemical substances City gas ［km3］ 1,964 2,159 Substances subject to PRTR ［tons］ 2.4 3.2 Liquefied petroleum gas ［tons］ 87 134 Liquefied natural gas ［tons］ 0 0 Total amount converted into ［kl］ 36,008 39,012 crude oil The Water Use Input OKI Group Output Emissions into Waters (Development and Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 ● Chemical substances Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Production Activities) Tap water ［1,000 tons］ 271 315 Substances subject to PRTR［tons］ 0 0 Industrial water ［1,000 tons］ 274 318 Groundwater / well water ［1,000 tons］ 402 566 Total ［1,000 tons］ 947 1,199 Input Output Use of Chemical Substances Waste Emissions Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 ● Chemical substances Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Substances Substances subject to ［tons］ 37 33 subject to PRTR ［tons］ 2.9 5 PRTR ● Waste emissions Quantity of waste emitted ［tons］ 3,210 15,567 Final waste disposal ［tons］ 28 64 *Breakdown of CO2 Emissions Emission Category Sites (1,000 tons) Warabi district, Shibaura district, Takasaki district, Honjo district, Tomioka Major sites of the OKI 47 district, Numazu district, OKI Data, Nagano OKI, OKI Printed Circuit, OKI Group Metaltech, OKI Digital Imaging Other sites 22 Sites other than the above Total 69 All sites in the scope 28 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 OKI GROUP Reducing Environmental Impact of Business Activities and Products The OKI Group has been active in reducing environmental impact of its business activities and products in order to contribute to environmental conservation. Reducing Environmental Impact of Physical Distribution CO2 Emissions from Transport Activities OKI, as a shipper, has enhanced its efforts to reduce environmental impact of physical distribution in partnership with OKI Proserve (hereinafter called OPS). As a pioneer in 5,000 reducing CO2 emissions by adopting modal shift, OPS has accumulated a wide spectrum 4,213 CO2 emissions (tons) 4,000 3,721 of transit information and organized it into a database to fully meet the requirements of the 3,441 3,259 2,682 Energy Saving Act. In fiscal 2010, the CO2 emissions reduced by modal shift amounted to 3,000 603 tons, a 250% increase compared to the previous fiscal year, due to an increase in 2,000 long-distance transport utilizing modal shift. The total volume of CO2 emitted from OPS's 1,000 transport activities in fiscal 2010 amounted to 4,213 tons, a 30% increase compared to the 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fiscal year previous fiscal year, partly due to an increase of local transport using small freights. Promotion of Material Recycling (Zero Emission) Material Recycling Rates of Main Production Sites The OKI Group has been active in improving its material Zero Emission as a recycling rate recycling rate*1 since 1996. In fiscal 2002, we achieved zero Material recycling rate (%) of 99% or more 99.9 99.1 99.8 99.1 99.6 100 emission *2 at main production sites. In fiscal 2010, the material recycling rate was 99.6%. 90 *1 Material recycling rate: quantity of material-recycled resources / (quantity of materialrecycled resources + quantity of 80 wastes subject to final disposal) x 100 *2 Zero emission: defined by the OKI Group as a material recycling rate of 99% or more 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fiscal year Amount of Wastes Subject to Final Disposal Amount of Wastes Subject to Final Disposal Emitted from Main Production Sites 70 64 The amount of the general and industrial wastes emitted from 60 the OKI Group's main production sites and subject to final 50 Final Disposal (tons) disposal was 64 tons in fiscal 2010 due to the expanded scope 40 of the calculation of material balance data. 30 26 30 28 20 10 5 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fiscal year Recycling of Used Products Recycling of Printer Supplies The volume of used products collected in fiscal 2010 was OKI Customer Adtech has been active in reusing and 2,516 tons (with a 60% increase compared to fiscal 2009), with recycling printer supplies such as toners and drum cartridges. ATMs, printers and PCs comprising a large part of them. The The recycled product rate to sales volume was 4.8% in fiscal material recycling rate was 94.6% and remained at the almost 2010 (a 68% decrease compared to fiscal 2009) due to an same level as fiscal 2009. increase in the sales volume of standard items. Recycling of Used Products Recycled Product Rates Recycling rate (%)*3 （%） 2.8 96.5 100 2.4 2.9 22.8 95.2 2.3 20 2.4 95 21 91.7 Reuse rate (%) *1 91.2 95.2 94.6 18.3 2.0 93.3 90 15 1.6 1.9 90.5 15.3 1.8 88.9 88.4 85 Material 1.2 10 80 0.8 recycling rate (%)*2 75 5 4.8 0.4 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fiscal year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Fiscal year *1 Reuse rate: the ratio of reused parts and materials to collected used products (in mass) *2 Material recycling rate: the ratio of material recycling and reuse to collected used products (in mass) *3 Recycling rate: the ratio of material recycling, thermal recycling and reuse to collected used products (in mass) OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 29 Achievements in Fiscal 2010 Consideration for the Environment Detailed Data Environmentally Conscious Products The OKI Group has developed various environmentally conscious products utilizing its innovative technologies and offered them to customers. IR630H, a New Energy-Saving Lot Scanner Contributing to the Streamlining of Paperwork at Financial Institutions There has been an increasing need for energy saving and paperwork streamlining at business offices of financial institutions. In order to meet this need, OKI launched IR630H, a new lot scanner featuring an enhanced capability of scanning a large volume of business forms at once, in January 2011. While it retains the main features of the previous model such as the capability of scanning different forms in different sizes and the numbering function, IR630H allows a reduction in heat generation therefrom through the introduction of LEDs and a low-power-consumption power circuit. Thus, we were able to reduce the number of cooling fans to one. (The previous model had two fans.) Furthermore, IR630H has a special feature that automatically turns off itself if the power to the control device is turned off. As a result, the lot scanner allows a 20% decrease in power consumption at a maximum. It complies with the European RoHS. IR630H lot scanner The World's Thinnest A4 Color LED Printer (an Winner of the 2010 Good Design Award) OKI Data launched the World's thinnest* A4 Color LED Printer with a duplex printing function in May 2010. We were able to reduce the product's height by about 10 cm and the volume by 40% (compared to the previous model) through integrating different image drum units for different colors into one and concentrating the used toner boxes in one place. It also allows lowest-in-class power consumption of 0.9W in the sleep mode by using our proprietary Green ASIC chip. It is also notable that the product's Intelligent Quick Print function optimizes power consumption according to the volume and quality of the document(s) to be printed, and thus effectively balance energy saving and speed. As a result, standby time for small volume printing is quite short and power consumption in the warming up mode can be reduced by up to 20%. This printer won the 2010 Good Design Award for its simple, thin design that ensures easy operation and maintenance. The world's thinnest printer C530dh * It is thinnest among all Color LED/laser printers. (The thickness of the protruding part of the operation panel is not included.) Source: OKI Data (as of September 2010) The Web Sensing Environmental Information Collection ASP Service with Enhanced Features In May 2010, OKI Network Integration (present Marubeni OKI Network Solutions) released the upgraded version of the Web Sensing service for managing and monitoring environmental information (such as temperature, humidity, electricity and gas used, and etc.) in real time. The upgraded version of the service allows effective energy management even at places without dedicated measurement sensors by registering information included in utility bills. The service also enables users to manage energy usage in basic units using energyrelated parameters such as floor area and production output, and thus visualize energy consumption efficiency. The other features include trend analysis of peak power that is useful in designing specific measures to save energy, comparative analysis of power consumption for each electrical system, and screen display of monthly and yearly reports for each energy system in compliance with the Revised Energy Saving Act. Energy consumption efficiency shown on the screen 30 OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 OKI GROUP Environmental Accounting The OKI Group introduced environmental accounting in fiscal 1999. Since then, we have conducted environmental activities in a highly efficient way to optimize investment effects. Environmental Conservation Costs The OKI Group has adopted a specific procedure for selecting equipment and devices with low environmental impact and has used it when renewing or introducing any infrastructure system. For example, we have replaced energy consuming facilities with energy-saving ones, and promoted the recycling of wastes through capital spending. Capital investment in fiscal 2010 amounted to 328 million yen (compared to 198 million yen in the previous fiscal year) while the amount of costs was 1.501 billion yen (compared to 1.563 billion yen in the previous fiscal year). Investment / Costs (Unit: million yen) Investment Costs Category Main Efforts 2009 2010 2009 2010 Pollution prevention cost Investment in pollution control facilities, and maintenance and operation costs 8 9 45 41 Cost in Global environment conservation cost Investment in energy-saving facilities, and maintenance and operation costs 55 236 92 90 business areas Resource recycling cost Investment in facilities for internal treatment of organic waste liquid, waste recycling costs 116 59 265 261 Total 179 305 401 391 Upstream / downstream cost Green procurement (chemical substances survey) costs, costs for remodeling systems to collect data on chemical substances contained in products 3 3 280 275 Administration cost Costs for obtaining environment management certifications, and maintenance and operation costs 14 17 229 233 R&D cost R&D costs for creating energy-saving products 1 1 648 599 Social activity cost Costs for planting trees in production sites, costs for activities contributing to local communities 1 2 4 3 Environmental damage cost Cost for reserves to respond to environmental damages, insurance cost and surcharge 0 0 1 1 Other cost － 0 0 0 0 Total 198 328 1,563 1,501 Benefits Related to Environmental Conservation Costs The economic effects decreased to 50 million yen (compared to 280 million yen in the previous fiscal year) as a result of increased energy consumption due to the full-scale operation of the new production sites and the production increase. As for environmental conservation effects, both CO2 emissions and final waste disposal increased. Economic Effects (Unit: million yen) Environmental Conservation Effects Effects Environmental Impact Difference compared to Category Main Efforts previous 2009 2010 Conservation Effects 2009 2010 fiscal year Cost Effect of saving energy and resources Reduction of electricity, petroleum, gas, packaging materials, etc. used in business activities 159 −104 reduction CO2 emissions (tons) 52,432 68,583 16,151 effect Effect of reducing treatment cost Reduction of waste generated from business activities through recycling −25 −1 Sale of valuable waste generated from business activities 118 149 Waste Final waste disposal 28 64 36 Real income effect emissions (tons) Sale of used valuable products 28 9 Total 280 53 〈Accounting Conditions〉 ① When environmental conservation costs and other costs are consumed for a single activity, only the environment costs are calculated for environmental accounting. ② The depreciation cost of investment is calculated using the fixed installment method for a period of three years. The economic benefits achieved due to these investments is calculated for three years, in line with the depreciation period. ③ Personnel costs are calculated by prorating the personnel costs for the total time spent on environmental conservation activities. ④ The real income effect represents the value for the current fiscal year. Major Environmental Conservation Efforts The following tables show main efforts with respect to investment, costs and economic effects calculated in our environmental accounting. Main Efforts in Each Category in Japan （Unit: 1,000 yen) Main Efforts in Each Category in Overseas （Unit: 1,000 yen) Category Main Efforts Amount Site Category Main Efforts Amount Site/Company Recycling of waste plastic, oil, glass and other materials 51,195 OKI Data Facility remodeling for improving production 2,097 OKI Data Manufacturing (Thailand) efficiency Shift to energy-saving lighting fixtures 45,690 Tomioka district Investment Investment Introduction of inverters to boilers and air-conditioning Shift to energy-saving air-conditioning systems 22,500 Honjo district （UK) 2,587 OKI units Shift to energy-saving lighting systems and highly efficient transformers 3,900 Nagano OKI Remodeling of effluent treatment facilities at the production site 2,390 OKI Digital Imaging Mangrove reforestation project 691 OKI Data Manufacturing（Thailand) Development of ASIC for energy-efficient products 137,220 OKI Data Air conditioning maintenance and effluent 28,381 OKI(UK) Development of highly-durable image drums for printers 133,188 OKI Data treatment costs Costs Development costs for making the existing products more energy-efficient 100,446 OKI Data Costs Effluent treatment costs 17,466 OKI Precision(Thailand) Industrial waste and effluent treatment costs 4,960 OKI Printed Circuits OKI Telecommunication Technology Training for environmental auditors 4,960 Forest preservation activities 1,474 Nagano OKI (Changzhou) Reduction of electricity costs by shifting to energy-saving air-conditioning systems 26,492 Numazu district * Exchange rate : 114 yen / ￡, 2.75 yen / Baht Economic Effects Sale of valuable waste 26,222 OKI Sensor Device Sale of valuable waste 18,434 OKI Printed Circuits Sale of valuable waste 3,339 Honjo district Sale of valuable waste 2,651 Nagano OKI OKI Group's Social and Environmental Report 2011 31 CSR Division 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan oki-csr@oki.com http://www.oki.com/ OKI Group's Published in June 2011 Social and Environmental Report 2011
