Introduction The Olympus Group first published its “EnvironmenOverview of Corporate Social Responsibility Information tal Report” in 2000. In 2005, it began to publish the ● Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest “Corporate Social Responsibility Report,” which also The digest report (this PDF file) is intended as a communication includes information about governance and social tool for use in providing stakeholders with selected information responsibility. about initiatives and key topics relating to fiscal 2010. In 2008, we adopted a new approach designed to ● Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Full Report provide a clear overview of our business activities. The full report, which we plan to publish in October 2011, will contain comprehensive information, including descriptions of Since then, we have provided detailed information specific initiatives and detailed data. on our website, while also publishing a printed digest version of the report containing information about our policies and significant initiatives each year. Starting in 2011, we will publish a more detailed full report in addition to the digest version. Readers Investor relations can choose the version that they wish to use accordwebsite ing to their particular interests. (The full report is scheduled to appear in December 2011.) Because of anticipated shortages of ink and paper following the Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred on March 11, 2011, we have decided to pubFinancial reports lish both the digest and full versions of the report only in PDF form. The English digest version was published a month behind schedule in October. It includes reports about past and future initiatives in response to the earthquake. ● Olympus CSR Activity Website This notation WEB indicates that more detailed information is available on the website. WEB Olympus CSR activity website http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/ Reference Guidelines Used in the Compilation of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report *Comparative tables pertaining to the Environmental Reporting Guidelines and the United Nations Global Compact have been placed on the Olympus Group CSR website. ●G  RI, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 ●E  nvironmental Reporting Guidelines of the Ministry of the Environment, Japan (2007 edition) ●E  nvironmental Accounting Guidelines of the Ministry of the Environment, Japan (2005 edition) Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 1 Contents CSR activity website Olympus Top Messages… ………………………………… 3 in English To be published in CSR Management in the Olympus Group………… 5 Full report December 2011 in English (on plan) Our Relationships with Stakeholders………………… 7 To be published in December 2011 (on plan) Highlight 1 … ……………………………………… 9 Digest Published October 2011 For Customers in Each Business Medical Systems Business Helping to Improve Healthcare Standards in Asia’s Growth Economies through Enhanced Endoscope Training Life Science & Industrial Business Meeting Diverse Customer Needs through a Global Multilingual Website Imaging Systems Business A Universally Usable Product with Audio Guidance and DAISY-Compliant Features Highlight 2 … ……………………………………… 15 Photo Contest Held to Promote Efforts to Achieve the MDGs—“Picture This: Non-financial reporting We Can End Poverty” Highlight 3 … ……………………………………… 17 Changes to Leadership Training Program Highlight 4 … ……………………………………… 19 1 The website provides information Toward the Recycling-Oriented Society about the Group’s CSR policies, —Reducing Environmental Loads detailed case studies and information for each stakeholder across Product Lifecycles category. 2 Special Feature: 2 There are also sections presenting The Olympus Group’s Response to information designed for specific the Great East Japan Earthquake……………… 23 groups of stakeholders, such as consumers, shareholders and Results of the Olympus Group’s Main Social and Environmental Activities in Fiscal 2010……… 25 1 investors. Corporate Profile/Financial Highlights… …………… 27 External Assessments………………………………………… 28 Scope of Report Period: April 1, 2010–March 31, 2011 *The report also includes information about important recent events occurring up to June 2011. (Special feature: The Olympus Group’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake) Organizations: Economic Report Olympus Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies Social Report In principle, Olympus Corporation, Olympus Imaging Corporation, Olympus Medical Systems Corporation (Information about other companies is included in items about specific events.) Environmental Report Olympus Group parent company and major production subsidiaries in Japan and overseas *In principle, the ITX Group is excluded from the scope of the non-financial reports. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 2 Olympus Top Messages Social IN Olympus aims to realize a better livelihood and happiness for all through its activities. In today’s world, with accelerated globalization, many also need to work with our stakeholders through dialog global issues have arisen, such as economic and social and build win-win relationships based on mutual trust. I am imbalance, global warming and water scarcity. convinced that this is the meaning of the Olympus Group’s The Olympus Group began to export microscopes Social IN management philosophy, through which we offer early in its history and by the start of the 1960s we were new value, based on engagement with society and the actively expanding our business globally, including the sharing of values. establishment of subsidiaries in Europe, North America and India. As our business activities expanded, I am keenly As part of its responsibilities as a corporate citizen, aware that we have a need to increase the scope of our determined to survive in a global environment, Olympus social responsibility to contribute to the solution of various has continually supported the initiatives launched in 2002, problems, and we can do more than we have already done. to achieve the United Nations Millennium Development Our slogan under the new medium-term corporate Goals (MDGs) and Olympus joined in activities under the strategic plan adopted last year is “Advancing to the Next 2004 United Nations Global Compact. Stage of Globalization.” For the Olympus Group to achieve One of the ways in which we are contributing to true globalization under this plan, it is necessary for us to the achievement of the MDGs is through the use of the develop corporate strategies with a global perspective, not Olympus Group’s imaging technology, to raise awareness prioritizing our focus on local matters. of key challenges in Africa, such as poverty and I believe it is not enough to focus simply on profit. We environmental problems. For example, we have staged Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 3 First of all, we would like to express our condolences for all the victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake, and our sympathy to the many people who are still in a difficult situation in the wake of the disaster. We are also sorry for our customers, as many of our suppliers and some Olympus Group facilities were also affected by the disaster, whilst further work will be needed before we can fully restore the Olympus Group as a whole with stakeholders. We are not only making relief donations but wherever possible, donating our products and providing special repair services for those who suffered in the disaster. photographic exhibitions in cooperation with the UNDP and the AFP Foundation. We are also making a positive contribution to society through our business activities, including the Brave Circle campaign to eradicate colorectal cancer. Furthermore, it is essential to achieve sustainable development of society as a fundamental principle in fulfilling our management philosophy. With a strong sense of mission toward society’s expectation of reducing the environmental burden, we set our long-term target, “Carbon 1/2 2020” to halve our total fiscal 2007 CO2 emissions by fiscal 2020 and will promote this in all areas of our business activities, including products, manufacturing operations and logistics systems. We will strive to establish group-wide CSR management structure, to realise our management Tsuyoshi Kikukawa philosophy at global level. Representative Director, Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer Notice Concerning the Publication of the Second Edition of CSR Report Digest 2011 An event with significant implications for the Olympus Group occurred in October 2011. While this is outside of the period covered by CSR Report Digest 2011, we have decided to compile a revised edition of the report reflecting this event. The second edition of the CSR Report Digest was published on October 18, 2011. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 4 CSR Management in the Olympus Group Corporate Governance Organization and Role of the CSR Committee Our “Social IN” management philosophy is the starting point for all activities of the Olympus Group. In September 2004, we adopted the Olympus Group Corporate Conduct Charter to ensure that we would fulfill our corporate social responsibilities by applying this philosophy to our day-to-day business activities. In fiscal 2010, we established the CSR Committee, which works through several promotion committees to strengthen our initiatives to realize our management philosophy. Corporate Governance Timely Decision-Making and Effective Supervision The Board of Directors consists of 15 directors, including three external Corporate Governance Structure directors. Normally the Board of Directors meets once each month to make timely decisions on business strategies and other important management General Meeting of Shareholders matters, and to provide appropriate supervision of business operations. To Appointments, Appointments, Appointments, ensure accountability, the term of office of directors has been set at one year dismissals dismissals dismissals so that their performance can be assessed annually. Olympus has further Board of Auditors Audits Board of Directors Recommendations Special strengthened its governance by adopting an executive officer system, under Audits Directors Committees which the decision-making and oversight responsibilities of the Board of Appointments, dismissals, supervision Directors are separated from the operational executive functions of the executive Collaboration Office of Audits officers. The external directors supervise decision-making by the Board of Auditors Representative Directors Directors from an independent perspective. They are also seen as a source of Accounting audits expert knowledge that can be applied to the management of Olympus. Internal Audit Accounting Executive Management Committee Olympus discloses information about its governance systems, including Department Auditors details of its audit systems, in its Corporate Governance Report. CSR Committee Audits WEB Business Management System Business Divisions, Corporate and R&D Divisions, Group Companies http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/olycsr/soundcorpo/ business/ Establishment of CSR Committee Target Setting and Performance Assessment for CSR Activities in the Olympus Group Olympus expanded its existing Risk Management Committee and created a new CSR Committee CSR Committee with the aim of realizing its “Social IN” corporate philosophy through further reinforcement of its company-wide CSR activities. The task of Risk Management Promotion Committee the CSR Committee is to spread and consolidate CSR activities throughout the Compliance Promotion Committee Olympus Group by helping the President, who chairs the committee, to make decisions, and by promoting and monitoring the application of the plan, do, check Information Security Promotion Committee action (PDCA) approach to all decisions. CSR Procurement Promotion Committee Several promotion committees have been established under the CSR Committee. These work with the CSR Committee to study corporate policies, develop Safety & Health and Ethical Conduct Promotion Committee plans and promote their implementation in the functional areas for which they are Social Contribution Promotion Committee responsible. Management Philosophy of the Olympus Group CSR Concept of the Olympus Group Social IN Toward the Realization of a Better Livelihood and Happiness Contribution to Society Contribution to Society through Business: through Other Voluntary CSR = Development of both society and Olympus By providing needed value Activities: Social IN to society and producing By investing in society and We establish a profits through business establishing a meaningful Social demands relationship with and expectations relationship within it society through Customers the three “INs.” Business Partners Employees Shareholders INvolvement INsight INspiration Local International communities Social Sharing Creating Duties and community Involvement Society Values New Values responsibilities Fulfillin ce to society g all om p li a n w it h l a w o b l i g at i on s t h ro u g h c s e t h i c s s , r e g ul a ti on s a nd b u si n e s E c o no m i c, s Social IN comes from Social Value IN the Company, a concept of incorociety, the environment porating social value into the Company’s activities. The philosophy is also based on the three INs of INvolvement, INsight, and INspiration defining the Through its CSR activities, the Olympus Group meets the demands and relationship of the Company and society. expectations of society whilst fulfilling its duties and obligations to it. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 5 Compliance Structure Reinforcement of Compliance Structure and Enhancement of Education Systems As part of its compliance education activities, Olympus distributes a CSR GuideThe CSR Education Cube book to employees and other members of the Olympus organization and works Recipients to raise awareness of compliance and CSR initiatives. oy ec The main priorities for the Compliance Promotion Committee, which was Pr om ees ia lt /g d created as a subsidiary organization of the CSR Committee, are to visualize kse sp ot io en as ks ba CS n er the compliance situation throughout the Olympus Group, and to provide CSR ra n th wi R Co a l s/ Di m education for employees and other members of the Olympus organization. m es ors i ve oy pl vi s itt e io ut ee ct m Compliance visualization is achieved by clearly identifying the organizational n Di Ex pl le re ec Em Al s units responsible for regulatory compliance, and by sharing information about ns Handbook the compliance situation across all units. CSR education has been restructured Mea Lectures, group training around a newly developed CSR Education Cube concept, which is based on e-learning three axes: content, means and recipients. CSR Overview Risk management Education Methods Content Compliance Proposed in Block Unit Information security CSR-based procurement CSR Guidebook Increased Promotion of CSR-Based Procurement Strengthening Collaboration on CSR-Based Procurement In addition to quality, delivery time, price and environmental considerations, Olympus has also made regulatory compliance, human rights, compliance with labor standards and the prevention of corruption important priorities for its procurement activities under the Olympus Group Procurement Policy, which was adopted in November 2005. In fiscal 2010, the CSR Procurement Promotion Committee, which was established as a subsidiary organization of the CSR Committee, reviewed the Olympus Group Procurement Policy and drew up the “Request to Suppliers.” Olympus also introduced assessment of suppliers of parts and other items A procurement policy briefing In-house training in monitoring methods based on monitoring of their sites in Japan and overseas. As for suppliers part of its human resource education activities, Olympus also provided in-house training in monitoring methods and other WEB The Olympus Group Procurement Policy skills for procurement staff. http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/procurement/policy/ WEB Request to Suppliers  ttp://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/procurement/supply/pdf/ h request.pdf Olympus Group Corporate Conduct Charter (Extracts) UN Global Compact 1. Sound corporate activities Policies for Corporate Activities 2. Act on behalf of the customer 3. Respect for human rights Involvement with People 4. Working environment with vitality 5. Harmony with the environment Involvement with Society 6. Good relationship with the community Based on the fundamental concept of Social IN and being fully aware of its responsibilities as a corporate member of society and the company is also comprised of the people with various value systems around the world, the Olympus Group continues to provide value for our society in support of the Olympus agrees with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and livelihood and happiness of people all over the world. The Olympus Group, has participated in the Compact since October 2004. Details of the Global with a strong sense of ethics, engages in global corporate activities while Compact can be found on the websites of the United Nations Information strictly complying with relevant laws and regulations. Centers. WEB Olympus Group Corporate Conduct Charter WEB United Nations Global Compact http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/olycsr/ http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ philosophy/csrcorporate/ Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 6 Our Relationships with Stakeholders Toward the Realization of a Better Livelihood and Happiness Olympus is a company dedicated to continuously creating value-added products and services and contributing to health, happiness and livelihood for people. As such, Olympus approaches CSR activities to build win-win relationships with all stakeholders. Details of this commitment can be found on the following website. WEB Olympus CSR website http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/ To ensure consistent compliance with laws and regulations, Olympus has established compliOlympus aims to improve not only its own corpoShareholders/ ance systems based on its Social IN managerate value but also that of its suppliers through colInvestors ment philosophy. In fiscal 2009, we continued to laborative CSR initiatives at all stages of the supply provide compliance education for executives and chain. Specifically, we are working to strengthen employees. We also assessed the effectiveness our partnerships with suppliers by ensuring that of the internal control systems used to ensure the every transaction is based on compliance with all accuracy and reliability of financial reporting. laws and regulations, respect for human rights, as well as the environment, whilst ensuring that all P 5-6 business dealings are fair and open. WEB Olympus Investor Relations website http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/ir/ P6 WEB For Suppliers http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/ procurement Olympus Suppliers R&D Production Olympus aims to contribute to the creation of a healthy environment and a human society capable of sustainable development, through technology development and business activities based on harmony with the environment and respect for the natural systems on which human safety and health depend. Under this environmental philosophy, we are working globally to minimize environmental burdens throughout The product life cycle by creating environment-conscious products and Environment conducting environmentally responsible business activities. P 19-22 WEB For the Environment http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/environment/ Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 7 We want our customers to be happy that they chose Olympus products, which is why we have established systems to support the use of customer feedback across the entire Olympus organization through “Voice of Customer” (VOC) activities. We are also enhancing and expanding our customer satisfaction (CS) training programs for all employees. P 9-14 WEB For Customers http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/customer/ Customers Sales Repair and Services Employees and Their Families Employees are the most vital and valuable asset for the Society Olympus Group. We aim to provide the best possible working environments for our employees by respecting human rights and providing attractive work opportunities that contribute to enhanced personal and corporate growth. We ensure that As a global citizen, Olympus aims to improve and continue its working environments are safe and pleasant by complying relationships with all stakeholders by developing business acwith all local laws and regulations and by implementing meativities from the perspective of making contribution to society sures and initiatives that reflect the characteristics of individual by using our technological and human resources in activities overseas subsidiaries. that benefit society. P 17-18 P 15-16 WEB For Employees and Their Families WEB For Society http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/workplace/ http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/social/ Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 8 Highlight 1-1 1 1 An endoscope training center was Olympus contributes to the opened in Beijing in July 2010. improvement of health ser2 Endoscope training activities inside the center vices in emerging and devel3 The Chinese version of the logo oping countries through its used for the gastrointestinal health education campaign business activities by opening training centers, by promoting 4 The Chinese version of the onakakenko.com logo minimally invasive medicine, 5 Mascot characters used in a gastroand by disseminating healthintestinal health education program in China related information. 2 3 5 4 [For Customers] Medical Systems Business Helping to Improve Healthcare Standards in Asia’s Growth Economies through Enhanced Endoscope Training systems in various countries to ensure safety and help physiEarly Discovery, Early Treatment cians to acquire the necessary skills. Many years ago a doctor asked Olympus if it could create a At the same time, Olympus has worked to eradicate cancamera capable of recording images inside the stomach as cer through public information campaigns about the impora way of discovering stomach cancer, a common disease in tance of regular examinations. In recent years, the incidence Japan. This led to the development of the world’s first practiof colorectal cancer has increased in Japan, Europe and cal gastrocamera in 1950. North America. However, advances in medical technology alIn the six decades since that time, Olympus has continulow cancers to be removed endoscopically without the need ally enhanced its systems by introducing the latest technolfor abdominal surgery. Because colorectal cancer produces ogy of the day, including glass fiber, charge coupled devices few subjective symptoms in the early stages, it is important (CCDs) and Hi-Vision, always heeding the views of physicians to have annual fecal occult blood tests, and to undergo thorand other medical professionals as it worked. Today the role ough endoscopic examinations if the presence of disease is of endoscopes has expanded to include not only observations suspected. In Japan, Olympus launched the “Brave Circle” inside the body, but also minimally invasive medicine, in which campaign to eradicate colorectal cancer in 2007. In 2009, it endoscopes are used in combination with various medical inrestructured the campaign as a specified non-profit organizastruments to allow medical procedures to be carried out while tion, through which it now works with government agencies, minimizing the impact on the patient. From the initial gastroorganizations and other companies to promote regular cancer camera, endoscopes have evolved to include systems dechecks. Overseas, Olympus supports similar campaigns to signed for other areas of the body, including the esophagus, promote cancer examinations in Canada, the Czech Republic duodenum, large intestine, biliary tract, respiratory organs, and South Korea and is a member of the National Colorectal the ear, nose and throat, the urinary organs, and gynecologiCancer Roundtable in the United States. cal organs. Olympus has also established endoscope training Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 9 Refer to the following website for information about other initiatives. http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/customer/ general public. In fiscal 2009, gastroenterologists presented Strategies in China’s Expanding briefings for the local media in 20 cities. The purpose of this Medical Equipment Market initiative was to spread awareness of the concept of the “three With a population in excess of 1.3 billion, China continues to earlies” (early discovery, early diagnosis, early treatment). In achieve rapid economic development. It is estimated that the addition, Olympus created a Chinese version of its onakanumber of stomach cancer patients in China is increasing by kenko.com website. This website, the name of which means 400,000 every year and accounts for around 40% of the world “belly health,” is used in Japan to provide information about total. There has also been a significant increase in the number gastrointestinal health to the general public under the superviof colorectal cancer sufferers over the past 10 years. sion of physicians. People in China can now use the ChineseIn 2009 the Chinese government announced its “Opinions language version of the site to check their own gastrointestinal on Pharmaceutical and Healthcare System Reform” and a prihealth. oritized medium-term implementation plan for pharmaceutical In addition to the dissemination of information through the and healthcare reform. China’s goals for its reform program media, Olympus has begun to implement a variety of initiatives include the establishment of a uniform national insurance based on public participation in fiscal 2010. In collaborascheme. However, medical institutions are unable to recruit tion with two media organizations in the fashion and health sufficient physicians with endoscopic skills, and training has field, it staged a series of “Health Lectures for 100 People.” become an urgent priority. Presented by medical specialists, the lectures were presented Olympus responded to this situation by establishing a in 10 cities, starting in March, and each was attended by an training center in Shanghai in 2008. In July 2010 it established invited audience of 100 readers. In August, Olympus began to its second training center in China in Beijing. These training promote awareness of the “three earlies” concept and actively centers are making an important contribution to the training of encouraged people to have endoscope examinations by usphysicians with endoscopic skills. Trainees undergo theoretical ing mascot characters to present information on a dedicated and practical training in subjects that include the endoscopic website. In September, Olympus launched a major campaign examination of digestive organs, and the operation of medical in Beijing under the title “Wei ai wei wei” (for the sake of love, instruments and surgical equipment in conjunction with love your stomach). Gastroenterologists and celebrities were endoscopes. invited to participate in a press conference to announce the The medical staff who manage the equipment, including campaign, which included walking-for-health programs, health nurses and technicians, undergo the same training as physilectures and other events. Publicity initiatives included the cians. Through these activities, Olympus is helping to raise designations of October each year as “Gastrointestinal Care the standard of medical care while also creating a market. Month.” These initiatives have produced a steady increase in Benefits include the increased use of endoscopic examinaawareness of the “three earlies” concept in China. Olympus tions and minimally invasive medicine to reduce the impact of will continue to implement a range of initiatives, including tourmedical procedures on patients, the early detection of cancer, ing exhibits and events. and the improvement of patients’ quality of life (QOL). Through these activities, Olympus is contributing to the development of healthcare systems and the improvement of health in this rapidly growing market. Gastrointestinal Health Awareness Programs for the General Public WEB A dedicated website used to promote awareness of Cancer is frequently discovered early in Japan and South gastrointestinal health http://cn.olympus.com/T_gajh/index.aspx?nodeid=163 Korea, where health checks are common, but in China few (Only in Chinese) people undergo preventive examinations, and the early disWEB The Chinese version of the onaka-kenko.com website covery rate for stomach cancer is low. In fiscal 2008, Olympus http://www.cwjk.com.cn/ (Only in Chinese) responded to this situation in China by launching a gastroWEB The Japanese onaka-kenko.com website intestinal health awareness campaign targeted toward the http://www.onaka-kenko.com/ (Only in Japanese) TOPICS Building the Medical Systems Business in Emerging and Developing Countries Economic growth has also been accomIn April 2010, it established Olympus Medical Systems panied by increasing demand for healthcare services India Private Limited on the outskirts of Delhi, the capital in other emerging and developing countries. In India, of India. This medical subsidiary will undertake marketing endoscopes are already used extensively in therapies for activities and strengthen customer interfaces by building patients suffering from spleen and gallbladder conditions. systems to support the provision of high-quality services. The healthcare business is expected to emerge alongOlympus is also establishing training centers to proside the IT sector as a major contributor to India’s rapid vide training for medical professionals and support staff in economic growth, and demand for medical equipment other emerging and developing countries in Asia, Central is likely to expand speedily. Olympus has established and South America and Africa. Decisions on the locations endoscope training centers at several hospitals in India to of these centers are based on healthcare needs and local support the training of physicians with endoscopic skills. circumstances. A service center in India Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 10 Highlight 1-2 1 2 1 Viewing the new comprehensive website 2 A worker inspects pipes using the OmniScan MX2 phased array ultrasonic flaw detector. 3 An IPLEX FX industrial videoscope in use at a wind power facility in New Zealand Olympus industrial products are used 3 throughout the world. To ensure that Olympus products offer the same value to all users, Olympus provides support through a multilingual website. As part of our efforts to respond to the needs of our customers, we also conduct continual customer satisfaction surveys worldwide. The results are used to improve the usability of the website. [For Customers] Life Science & Industrial Business Meeting Diverse Customer Needs through a Global Multilingual Website Multiple Sites for a Single Product Website Integration Corporate websites are one of the means used to provide In March 2008 we launched a website integration project. This product information to customers. For this reason, we must began with the translation of content compiled in English into ensure that the information is easy to understand and free of texts in multiple languages, which were then checked by local omissions and duplication. However, when Olympus acquired subsidiaries. While the website creation process was complex, R/D Tech Inc. (now Olympus NDT Inc., “ONDT”), which manuit was completed in a short period under the overall control of factures and sells non-destructive testing equipment in North executives in Japan, who were in direct contact with local staff America, in June 2005, overseas subsidiaries of Olympus and in each country. R/D Tech all maintained their own websites, and there were As a result of this work, we now have a single website that multiple websites for the same products. In some locations, can be maintained and updated centrally. This ensures that outdated product information was left on websites, and the product information is updated properly. focus of advertising content also varied. During the project, some overseas subsidiaries resisted Since the Olympus Group as a whole supplies the same the closure of their existing pages, on which they had spent industrial products globally, we decided to integrate the two considerable time and effort. There were also differences in companies’ websites into a single global website that would design values. Much time was needed to resolve these and be easier for our worldwide customers to use. other issues. There were also numerous communication problems resulting from time differences, and from the need to use English in all communications, despite the fact that English is not the native language of many of the countries involved. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 11 Refer to the following website for information about other initiatives. http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/customer/ However, each problem was overcome through a shared In May 2009, we began to use this mechanism to conduct commitment to approaching the task from the customer’s percustomer satisfaction surveys as a way of determining whethspective, and through sustained coordination efforts, including er customer inquiries were being handled effectively. One the use of videoconferencing to discuss design factors. It was week after their inquiry, customers in each region are asked to also necessary to review our global sales promotion strucindicate (1) how long it took to receive a response, (2) whether tures, and we integrated our promotional catalogs under a they were satisfied with this response time, and (3) whether common design. they were satisfied with the response. If customers indicate Through this work we created a website with content in that they are dissatisfied, we ascertain the situation with the 11 languages, including not only English and Japanese, but local subsidiary or distributor and take steps to remedy any also French, German and Spanish. (In 2010 the number of problems. Through this process, we are steadily taking steps languages was increased to 13.) By using the same design to deal with individual issues, such as regional variations in and distributing the same information content in all languages, satisfaction levels, and failure to respond to inquiries because we were able to ensure the distribution of uniform information of the large number received. However, while the number of about Olympus in 95% of the world’s market, regardless of people who were dissatisfied was initially high, we were able the regions or products involved. The platform used by ONDT to make improvements based on analyses of detailed views in the United States was adopted to create a system that alobtained from survey participants. Two years later the majority lows the staff responsible for each product to edit related inof respondents are indicating that they are satisfied. formation via the Internet. This has enhanced the efficiency of web development and reduced both person hours and costs compared with website creation in Japan. Enhancing Website Usability Products shown on the website immediately after the By creating this integrated global website, Olympus has been integration project in 2008 included an industrial videoscope able to distribute its brand image as a manufacturer of noncapable of remote control, and a high-speed video camera. destructive testing equipment to customers worldwide. We In 2010, the scope of the website was expanded to include will continue to update the website and add useful new funcindustrial microscopes and X-ray analysis systems. On May 2, tions. We also plan to add more languages, and to make op2011, the website was revamped and relaunched. timal use of existing systems and information processing tools to enhance the content, including the provision of web-based training for complex products. This website will continue to be Responding More Efficiently to an important tool for the improvement of customer interfaces. Customer Inquiries With the integrated website, inquiries about repairs and WEB Olympus Life Science & Industrial Business http://www.olympus-ims.com/ products are placed in a central data base. This means that regardless of the country or region from which an inquiry originates, immediate assistance can be arranged anywhere in the world, simply by sending an e-mail to the appropriate local subsidiary or distributor, according to the product concerned. VOICE Comment Comment Website integration has allowed from an We want to create a better website from an us to respond to regional Employee from the customer’s perspective. Overseas in Japan Employee differences in customer needs. Apart from the difficulty of negotiating in English, we also had to deal with a Previously our websites were managed separately in each region variety of disagreements and arguments stemming from differences in deand product category. By creating an integrated global website sign values in each country, differences in responses to problems and the and identifying each visitor’s country or region from IP addresses, time taken to make decisions. We sought to reconcile these views by workwe are able to display the information sought by each customer ing as a group and approaching our tasks from the customer’s perspective. instantly even though there is only one global website. I believe I am very happy that this work has borne fruit in the form of a new website that this approach will allow us to improve customer confidence that can be used to distribute information to customers throughout the by building a global business with local customers. world. We will never be satisfied with the status quo, and we will continue to work to achieve further improvement in customer satisfaction. Misa Asao Marketing and Communications Group Product Planning & Marketing Meindert Anderson Communications Department Communications and Marketing Manager Life Science & Industrial Systems Group Olympus NDT Inc. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 12 Highlight 1-3 1 2 1 A user reads a Braille catalog for the Digital Voice Recorder, DM-4/DM-5 digital voice recorder. 2 The Digital Voice Recorder, DS-40 (left) is the first Olympus digital recorder with voice Olympus continues to enguidance. The Digital Voice Recorder, DM-4/ DM-5 (right) conforms with the Digital Accessible hance the usability and Information System (DAISY) standard*1 and the accessibility of its digital reColor Universal Design (CUD) principles. corders for all users, includ*1 This is a system of common international standards for digital books, which are taking the place of books recorded ing those with disabilities. on tape for people with visual impairments or reading difficulties. It is developed and maintained by the DAISY Consortium, of which Olympus is a supporting member, as a common global system for information accessibility. [For Customers] Imaging Systems Business A Universally Usable Product with Audio Guidance and DAISY-Compliant Features Launched in November 2006, the Digital Voice Recorder, Developed with the Cooperation of DS-40 features a voice guidance system (switchable between Organizations for People with Visual Japanese and English) that audibly announces the operatImpairments ing status of the device so that it can be controlled even if Olympus has been a leading manufacturer of voice recorders the display cannot be seen. This feature makes the product since the launch of its first microcassette recorder in 1969. It accessible for people with visual impairments. The product’s has continually pioneered new advances in this field, including excellent reputation for usability also reflects the advice prodigital voice recorders and linear PCM recorders that surpass vided by RNIB and other organizations concerning the shapes CD playback in terms of sound quality, so that users can enjoy of the buttons, including the “Record,” “Playback” and “Stop” enhanced audio quality and ease of use. controls. Around 2003, Olympus received a communication from a The Digital Voice Recorder, DS-61, which was launched person with a visual impairment and learned that its recorders in October 2008, features an enhanced voice guidance syswere being recommended as products that could help people tem. This product has earned an excellent reputation for its with visual impairments to convey their wishes and intentions. sophisticated features and won the Wonder Vision Award*2 in We then began to develop new products with the assistance January 2009. It has also been introduced at NFB events. of organizations for people with visual impairments and oth*2 These awards are presented to suppliers of “Vision Free” products and ers with reading difficulties, including the British Dyslexia services for use by people with visual impairments. The winners are seAssociation (BDA) and the Royal National Institute for the Blind lected by a U.S. organization for people with visual impairments. (RNIB) in the United Kingdom and the National Federation of the Blind (NFB) in the United States. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 13 Refer to the following website for information about other initiatives. http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/customer/ In addition to the development of new products. We also The DAISY-Compliant Digital Voice enhance the usability of products that have already been sold Recorder, DM-4/DM-5 by issuing firmware updates. A single user inquiry prompted Olympus to develop the Digital *3 The narrow definition of “usability” is the ease with which products and Voice Recorder, DS/DM series. Our aim in creating these services can be used. The term is also applied to the development of products is to provide enhanced usability*3 and accessibilproducts and services from the user’s perspective, taking into account ity*4 for all users by reflecting the assessments and views of the characteristics of products or services, and changes in the people who use them and the circumstances under which they are used. organizations for people with visual impairments, such as the RNIB, in their designs. *4 Accessibility is the ability of an item, such as a product, building or serExamples of this approach include the shapes of the butvice, to be used without difficulty by anyone, including aged people or people with disabilities, or the level of that ability. tons and the provision of voice guidance, including audible indications of the battery level. We also applied the Color *5 Dyslexia is a condition that includes difficulty with reading or writing in the absence of specific abnormalities in relation to intellectual capacity or Universal Design (CUD) principles to facilitate recognition by other characteristics. people whose color vision differs from that of the majority. The Digital Voice Recorder, DM-4/DM-5, which was launched in Japan and the United States in June 2010, and Future Initiatives the DM-5, which went on sale in Europe, offer not only conOlympus is a major sponsor of QAC Sight Village events, ventional music, audio book and podcast playback functions, which are held by Queen Alexandra College Birmingham but also the capacity to create reading environments for for people with visual impairments. Venues include London, people with visual impairments and dyslexia*5, including audio Manchester, Birmingham and other British cities. Each year book playback and text display functions that comply with over 2,000 people attend these events, which are important the DAISY standards. One of the reasons for the popularity opportunities for people with visual impairments to obtain inin Europe, North America and Japan is the fact that they are formation about new technologies and support equipment. sold as general products and are available at ordinary mass In addition to its collaboration with related organizations, sales outlets, eliminating the need to go to specialist retailers. Olympus also works directly with people who have visual imOlympus has based the development of these products pairments to improve the usability, accessibility and functionalon direct dialog with representatives of national organizations ity of its products. We will continue to develop products with for people with visual impairments in the United Kingdom enhanced usability for all users, regardless of whether or not and the United States. In Japan, where related groups and they have disabilities. facilities tend to be organized within local government areas, Olympus promotes its products at information meetings in Braille libraries and other facilities and at exhibitions of welfarerelated equipment. We also lend products in response to inquiries and seek user opinions for use in the development of future products. VOICE I look forward to working with Comment Our goal is to create products that Comments from a User Olympus again to enhance product from an will provide enhanced usability for Employee usability. people with visual impairments. Due to the commitment of the team at Olympus, its excellent digital In the area of digital voice recorders, Olympus has not only been recorders and other recording devices that combine excellent accesworking with the RNIB but also with visual impaired users to improve sibility with a wide variety of functions, including playback functions the products that meet their needs. I am very pleased that this colfor audio teaching materials and DAISY books have been produced laboration has allowed us to supply many products with functions and continue to be developed. that include voice guidance and the DAISY book playback, and that We are wholeheartedly continued working with the company as these products are so highly regarded by our customers and organizapartners to produce high quality accessible products for the people tions for the visually impaired. We will continue our efforts to create with visual impairments. products that will provide enhanced usability for people with visual impairments. Mr. Steve Tyler Lee Buckley Head of Innovation and Development National Account Manager Royal National Institute for the Blind KeyMed (Medical & Industrial Equipment) Ltd. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 14 Highlight 2 1 2 Olympus and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) organized the second “Picture This” photo contest to support efforts to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. The award ceremony and photographic exhibition were held in the United Nations General Assembly Auditorium. A program about this project was produced for international broadcasting. 3 4 5 Overcoming Poverty Photo Contest Held to Promote Efforts to Achieve the MDGs—“Picture This: We Can End Poverty” of poverty by 2015. Over 3,400 entries were received from 3,400 Entries Worldwide countries throughout the world. As in 2009, Olympus again sponsored a photo contest on Prize-winning entries were selected in professional and the theme of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)*1 in amateur categories for each of the eight MDGs by a fivecooperation with UNDP and the AFP Foundation founded by member judging panel that included actor and UNDP Goodwill the French news agency Agence France-Presse. The title for Ambassador Antonio Banderas and former U.N. photograthe second contest was “Picture This: We Can End Poverty.” pher John Isaac. Entrants were asked to submit photos depicting ordinary The award ceremony was held in September 2010 to copeople in both developed and developing countries working incide with the United Nations Millennium Summit. The venue toward the realization of the MDGs, which include the halving was the Trinity Hall, which is adjacent to the United Nations A logo created to promote awareness of the MDGs The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 1. E  radicate extreme poverty and 5. Improve maternal health hunger 6. C ombat HIV/AIDS, malaria and 2. Achieve universal primary other diseases education 7. E nsure environmental Reproduced with the permission of the Hottokenai Sekai no 3. P romote gender quality and sustainability Mazushisa (Don’t let it be-World Poverty) organization empower women 8. D evelop a global partnership for WEB “Picture This: Caring for the Earth” 4. R educe child mortality development http://www.undp.org/picturethis2010/ Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 15 Refer to the following website for information about other initiatives. http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/social/ contribute to the realization of the MDGs through education 1 The award ceremony was held at and publicity initiatives. Trinity Hall in September 2010. From left: UNDP Administrator Helen Clark, Olympus Corporate Executive *1 T he Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are eight goals to be Officer (then) F. Mark Gumz, AFP achieved by the international community by 2015. In addition to goals Photo Director Paola Messana, the adopted by at the United Nations Millennium Summit in September winner of the overall first prize in the 2000, they also include international development goals adopted at preprofessional category vious summit meetings. 2 Prakash Hatvalne of India won the overall first prize in the professional category for his photograph “A Step Ahead.” International Program about the 3 This photograph, entitled “Daily Contest Work,” earned Tran Vinh Nghia of Vietnam the overall first prize in the “Picture for the Future,” *2 a documentary about the conamateur category. test, was produced by Olympus and Japan International 4 “Gender Equality” by Agha Rizwan Ali Broadcasting Inc. It includes scenes from the award ceremoof Pakistan won the People’s Choice award. ny and interviews with prizewinners, interviews with young 5 A photo exhibition arranged by the Japanese who traveled around Asia taking photographs to UNDP at the Global Environmental enter into the contest, comments by John Isaac, who was one Outreach Centre (GEOC) of the judges, and coverage of the United Nations Millennium Summit. The program gave people around the world an opportunity to see many photographs with a strong message of hope for the future, and to learn about the significance of dayto-day efforts by ordinary people toward the realization of the MDGs. *2 The program was broadcast worldwide (excluding Japan) a total of 12 times by NHK World, on November 5 and December 31, 2010. General Assembly Auditorium. A photographic exhibition was also staged just prior to the Summit as an opportunity to VOICE inform delegates about individuals working toward the realizaComment An Opportunity to Encourage tion of the MDGs. from Our At the award ceremony, F. Mark Gumz, then President Co-Sponsor Efforts to Achieve the MDGs and CEO of Olympus Corporation of the Americas, presented I would like to thank UNDP’s partners in Picture This Photo Cona message calling for cooperation toward the achievement of test and the Exhibition, Olympus Corporation. By showing what the MDGs. He also presented the awards to the winners. people around the world are doing to eradicate extreme poverty in their communities, we see that the Millennium Development In Japan the photographic exhibition opened in December Goals are not just abstract targets, but are about making a tangi2010 at the Global Environmental Outreach Centre (GEOC). It ble difference in people’s lives. It is our hope that through showhas since been taken to other cities, including Kobe, Osaka, casing these real and positive actions, more people will be motivated to contribute to this Sapporo, Yokohama, Nagoya and Tokyo. These exhibitions effort. are staged with the cooperation of organizations supporting efforts toward the achievement of the MDGs, including the Ms. Helen Clark Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the Japan Administrator United Nations Development Programme NGO Center for International Cooperation (JANIC). As a mem(UNDP) ber of the international community, Olympus will continue to TOPICS Sharing Meals with Children in Developing Countries In October 2010, staff at Olympus Group business site in Japan mance and basic health. This initiative also helps to prevent disease and were able to buy meals that include donations to the “Table for build a sense of community between schools and parents and is playing Two” program. Beverage vending machines also offer items that include an important role in the reduction of poverty. donations. Between October 2010 and March 2011, Table for Two, which originated in Japan, is a social contribution proOlympus donated ¥366,002. Cafeterias at gram designed to alleviate hunger in developing countries, and obesity some business sites were closed because of and lifestyle diseases in developed countries. Participants donate ¥20 the shutdown of operations after the Great for each Table for Two meal purchased and ¥10 for each beverage. The East Japan Earthquake and subsequent probproceeds are used through Table for Two International to provide school lems, including food shortages and planned meals for children in developing countries. power cuts. This situation has led to the In developing countries, ¥20 is sufficient to provide one school meal. suspension of Table for Two services in some The provision of school meals not only reduces the hunger of children, locations, but the program is progressively but also leads to improvements in school attendance, scholastic perforbeing reinstated. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 16 Highlight 3 1 2 The development of young leaders is vital both to the Olympus Group and to the local community. One of the goals of our human resource development activities is to support the development of young managers with high potentials at Olympus and strengthen personnel exchanges and business networking among the diverse nations, peoples and 3 cultures of Europe. 1 2 Lecture and Discussion in the JuMP Module 3 Attendants of JuMP in FY2011 JuMP an Initiative to Develop Future European Leaders of Olympus Changes to Leadership Training Program Changes to Leadership Training Six-Month Focus on Business Program Priorities Under its Social IN (Social Value in the Company) manageSince the inception of the program, its outcomes have been ment philosophy, the Olympus Group works to help people continually analyzed and the findings used to make further everywhere to enjoy healthier and happier lives through its improvements. In 2010, Olympus Europa Holding decided global business activities. Through its Corporate Conduct to introduce some major changes to the programme by (1) Charter, Olympus has also made a commitment to respect for introducing Olympus Senior Managers next to external facilitahuman rights, the provision of dynamic working environments, tors as trainers therefore making active use of their internal and engagement with society. As a member of the local comspecialized knowledge, (2) fostering interaction and exchange munities in which it undertakes business activities, Olympus between participants and senior management by introducing has worked to develop human resources according to cusregular round-table discussions, and (3) revising all content of toms and conditions in each country. the program and aligning it strictly to the critical success factors In 2004, Olympus Europa Holding GmbH (OEH) intro(CSFs) needed to become successful Olympus managers. duced the European Junior Management Program (JuMP) to The participants are selected according to recommenprovide development opportunities for young managers. The dations by executives at Managing Director level. Selection program is designed to achieve benefits that contribute to orcriteria include specialized knowledge, past achievements, ganizational growth, including enhanced leadership skills and motivation, leadership qualities and commitment to growth. management qualities in individuals, improved cross-cultural Before entering the program, participants must first complete understanding, and expanded personal and business netassessments of their current situations by taking part in the working within Europe. Feedback Workshop*, which is an in-house human resource development program run by OEH. Combining both theory and practice, the JuMP program consists of several days of training, including lectures, case Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 17 Refer to the following website for information about other initiatives. http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/workplace studies from various fields and group discussions, together of directors give program participants opportunities to demonwith a six-month period working on projects relating to busistrate their skills to directors. ness priorities assigned by the Board of Directors of Olympus Europa Holding. During the training phase, Managing Directors * This program is designed to allow individuals to assess the current level of their own capabilities through feedback from executives at the Director attend classes for round-table discussions, while executives at and Managing Director level concerning areas in which individuals would the divisional/department general manager level provide direct need to develop their strengths further if they were working at a higher level within Olympus. guidance by facilitating the training sessions. As a result of these changes to the program, managers at a high level of seniority play a direct role in the development of young managers. In fiscal 2010, 13 young managers from six European Olympus Group’s Human Rights and countries (France, Russia, the Netherlands, Germany, Belgium, Labour Policy Denmark) took part in the program between January 2011 Setting our Human Rights and Labour Policy as the Olympus and January 2012. A cumulative total of 56 employees will by Group’s common base, we respect the independence of each then have completed the program since its inception in 2004. local company in the world, taking into consideration national Olympus believes that the key strength of the JuMP circumstances when developing personnel and labor meaprogram is the fact that it helps participants to improve their sures. We will consider cross-border cooperation in nurturing management-related problem-solving skills in ways that are management that contributes to the healthy development of closely linked to actual business situations, such as case the company and the creation of workplaces with improved studies provided by executives at the General Manager and working environments. Managing Director level. In addition, the program provides excellent opportunities for networking as participants from Olympus Human Rights and Labor Policy (Extract) different organizations and countries undergo the training. In particular, the problem-solving projects set by the OEH board • O  lympus supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted by the United Nations in 1948, and commits to respect our employees’ human rights, and also expects the protection of human Structure of Program in FY2011/2012 rights by our business partners. • This Olympus Human Rights and Labour Policy applies to all Olympus group companies globally. Training Project Work • Olympus respects diversity, character and human rights of each employee, provides employees with opportunities to fulfill their potential, develop their Module 1 capabilities and maximize their value, and strives to maintain safe and Jan 17 – 20 2011 Hamburg healthy working environment. • O lympus supports and respects the protection of internationally proModule 2 claimed human rights within the sphere of our influence, and ensures that July 2011 Olympus are not complicit in human rights abuses. March 15 – 18 2011 Amsterdam – January 2012 • Olympus ensures not to use any forced or bonded labor in the production Module 3 of Olympus products or services. • Olympus complies with local minimum age laws and requirements and June 29 – July 2 2011 Hamburg does not employ child labor. • Olympus strives to eliminate discrimination based on gender, race, nationModule 4 ality, ethnicity, religion, disability etc. that are unrelated to the job perforJan 19 – 20 2012 Hamburg mance required for the business interests of Olympus. • Olympus respects the rights of workers to organize in labor unions in accordance with local laws and established practice. Networking / Cross-Divisional & Cross-Country Exchange *T his policy is not applicable to listed companies that have a separate policy. VOICE Comment Programme has multiplier effects to Comment JuMP adds the significant personal from the from a organizer the Senior Managers participant development as the manager We can see in the development of the JuMP participants that they The Junior Management Program has added significant value to my transfer learnings and ideas out of the training sessions quickly to personal development towards being a manager within the Olympus their daily life. We explain this with the introduction of Senior Managorganization. In my current role as sales manager for the microscopy ers as trainers—in addition to external facilitators—directly linking the division in the Netherlands, JuMP is a structured way to get trained in training contents to the Olympus world. Furthermore the networking all aspects of my business. I strongly believe in trying to get the best opportunity of Senior Managers and participants has lead to fruitful out of people. By challenging them on a daily base and by creating an discussions giving both sides the opportunity to exchange thoughts environment where they can give and expect the best from Olympus. and ideas in an informal way. All in all, we can truly say that the introThis requires good management and the JuMP program helps me duction of the changes to our JuMP-Programme with that. in 2011 has proven to be a great success. Esther Kebbel Gerrit Bouw Manager Corporate Social Responsibility Manager Manager European HR Development Sales of Microscope Olympus Europa Holding GmbH Olympus Nederland B.V. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 18 Highlight 4 1 2 1 Malaysian fireflies are being studied as part of research into luminescent substances. 2 Olympus Surgical Technologies Europe has reduced its electric power needs by around 74% by installing heat recovery compressors and by using rooftop solar panels to collect heat and generate electricity at its facilities in the Czech Republic. 3 The OLYMPUS PEN Lite E-PL2 SLR camera (left) and the SZ-30MR compact digital camera (right) have both been classified as Olympus Super Eco-Products. 3 One of the targets adopted by the Olympus Group is a 50% reduction in CO 2 emissions throughout product lifecycles by 2020. We are now working to minimize environmental loads at all levels, including products, packaging, manufacturing processes and logistics. Helping to Build a Sustainable Society Toward the Recycling-Oriented Society—Reducing Environmental Loads across Product Lifecycles Environmental Policies and Initiatives The Olympus Group Environmental Charter (Extract) of the Olympus Group Environmental Protection Declaration In 1992, the Olympus Group adopted the Olympus The Olympus Group respects people’s security and health Group Environment Charter. This consists of the Olympus as well as the natural mechanisms on which these rely. Environmental Principles, which define our basic positions We are also contributing to the realization of a sustainable on environmental issues, together with the Guidelines for society and sound environment through environmentally Environmental Action, which provide specific activity guidecompatible technological development and corporate activities. lines. Since then we have sought to align our activities toward society’s need for a transition away from business models and Guidelines for Environmental Action lifestyles based on mass-consumption of finite resources, and In all business activities, the Olympus Group will give to contributing to the creation of a recycling-based society priority to environmental protection and will apply itself committed to the sustainable utilization of diverse resources, with dedication to this task, both on an organizational and individual basis. including energy, minerals and biological resources. We regard global warming as a problem of particular importance, and 1. Technology Development 2. Drawing up Norms and Assessing Results we have set ourselves the long-term goal of achieving a 50% 3. P  rotection of Natural Resources and Prevention of reduction in total CO2 emissions across entire product lifePollution cycles by 2020 (relative to the fiscal 2007 level). In fiscal 2010 4. Compliance and Activity Support we conducted an assessment of the relationship between our 5. Education and Total Staff Participation 6. Structure to Promote Activities business activities and biodiversity. In 2011 we will formulate an action plan based on this assessment so that we can unWEB Olympus Group Environmental Charter dertake biodiversity initiatives linked to the characteristics of http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/environment/ our business. emanagement/principles Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 19 Refer to the following website for information about other initiatives. http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/environment/ Consideration for Biodiversity Product-Related Initiatives Fair Sharing of Benefits with Biological ResourceCommencement of Olympus Super Eco-Products Producing Nations Program To develop a new microscope capable of capturing luminesIn fiscal 2003, Olympus began to formulate its own ecocent images through CCDs, Olympus needed to develop friendly design standards with the aim of reducing environhighly luminescent reagents. We therefore began to study the mental loads throughout product lifecycles. Products that luminescent substances used by Malaysian fireflies, which are met these standards were certified within Olympus Group as characterized by the strength of their lights. Olympus Eco-Products. In fiscal 2010 we certified another 63 During this research, we took particular care to apply the Eco-Products, bringing the cumulative total to 349. For the access and benefit sharing (ABS) principle* with regard to the first time the items certified as Eco-Products included accesharvesting and utilization of genetic resources. Because this sories, such as medical endoscope instruments and immerresearch project involved the use of biological resources in ansion oil for use during microscopic observation through oil other country, we began by asking Nimura Genetic Solutions immersion object lenses. Co., Ltd. (NGS), a biological resource exploration company, In fiscal 2010, we decided to accelerate our efforts to which has a local R&D facility and research personnel in achieve long-term environmental targets through the reducMalaysia, to intermediate on our behalf. tion of environmental loads by designating Olympus EcoOlympus then conducted the research in collaboration Products that meet any of four additional criteria as Super with local researchers, eliminating the need to take fireflies Eco-Products. The additional criteria are (1) a reduction of and luminescent substances out of Malaysia. As intermediary, at least 50% in total CO2 emissions throughout the product NGS created a mechanism that allowed benefits from the relifecycle, (2) a mass reduction of at least 30%, (3) the use of search, including intellectual property rights obtained through innovative eco-friendly technology, and (4) selection for exterthe use of biological resources, to be returned to Malaysia. By nal environmental awards. We have been administering this entering into an agreement with the Malaysian government new system since fiscal 2010. In that year we certified the concerning the use of the biological resources, NGS was first seven Super Eco-Products, including the OLYMPUS PEN able to reconcile our corporate interests with the interests of Lite E-PL2, which is a micro SLR camera featuring innovative Malaysia as the owner of the resource. eco-friendly technology, and the SZ-30MR, a compact digital As a result of this approach, Malaysia benefited both from camera with 38% less mass than a standard product. We will the research expenditure and benefits obtained through the continue to contribute to the reduction of environmental loads research, including intellectual property rights. Our approach through our business activities by working to create Olympus to this research and development project was guided by a Super Eco-Products in all product categories. commitment to the equitable sharing of benefits with the country that owns the biological resources. The Olympus Eco-Products System * The ABS principle calls for the sustainable use of biological resources and Super Eco-Products Standards the fair and equitable sharing of benefits gained through the use of genetic resources, including money, knowledge, information and technology. Products must meet the Olympus Eco-Products Standards A legal framework for ABS was established at the 10th Conference of and each of the following additional criteria. the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP10) in October 2010. 1. A reduction of at least 50% in total CO2 emissions*1 (compared with benchmark products*3) 2. A mass reduction of at least 30%*2 VOICE (compared with benchmark products*3) 3. T he use of innovative eco-friendly technology A Development Approach that 4. S election for external environmental awards Comments from Staff Respects Biodiversity and Brings *1 L  CA basis Super Benefits to All Concerned *2 Mass of packaged product (the total mass of Eco-Products product, together with accessories and packaging) We have been studying luminescent substances used by fireflies *3 In principle, compared with FY2007 products for many years. Since the Convention on Biological Diversity came into effect in 2000, we have taken particular care with the handling of genetic resources in this work. This latest project foEco-Products cused on tropical fireflies, which are characterized by the superior intensity of the light that they produce. We carried out research in cooperation with local research organizations and ensured that WEB Olympus Eco-Products our development work was guided by concern for local biodiverhttp://www.olympus-global.com/en/ sity and sustainability in Southeast Asia. The Olympus Eco-Products logo corc/csr/environment/products/ eco-products/ Hirobumi Suzuki Team Leader, Cytological Analysis Group 1 Advanced Analysis Technology R&D Dept. Medical Technology R&D Division Corporate R&D Center, Olympus Corporation Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 20 Manufacturing Initiatives Logistics-Related Initiatives Environmental Load Reduction Measures Geared to Dramatic Reductions in CO2 Emissions through Conditions at Individual Sites Expanded Modal Shifts and Other Initiatives From its business sites in Germany, the Czech Republic and Environmental loads are also generated during the transporelsewhere, Olympus Surgical Technologies Europe (OSTE) detation of products and parts because of the use of fuel and velops, manufactures, sells and services medical endoscopic packaging materials. The Olympus Group is especially comequipment. The company approaches these activities in envimitted to the reduction of environmental loads relating to its ronmentally responsible ways that reflect local conditions. Imaging Business because of the large volumes transported. OSTE’s new manufacturing and service site in the Czech We are working globally to reduce CO2 emissions in logistics Republic has been operational since November 2009. OSTE by expanding our modal shift from air to sea freight, and by has worked exhaustively to optimize the environmental perdeveloping lighter and more compact products and packagformance of facilities at the site, which it hopes will be the first ing materials. These initiatives reduced the Olympus Group’s plant in Central Europe to achieve a Class A environmental total logistics-related CO2 emissions by 33% compared with assessment*. Energy-related measures include the installathe fiscal 2009 level. tion of energy-efficient lighting systems, heat pumps and heat We will continue to seek further reductions in environrecovery compressors, as well as rooftop solar panel arrays mental loads by selecting environment-friendly transportation to generate electricity and collect heat. These initiatives have methods, by reducing the weights and volumes of products reduced the plant’s energy needs by 74% compared with earand packaging, and by improving packaging materials. lier plants. OSTE has also emphasized the 3R (reduce, reuse, recycle) concept in its selection of facilities. Organic solvents are reused after treatment within the plant, and every effort is VOICE made to utilize resources efficiently. At its development, manufacturing and sales sites in Major Increase in Percentage of Comments Germany, OSTE has worked with Olympus Europa Holding from Staff Imaging Products Transported to the United States by Sea GmbH, the Olympus Group’s regional headquarters for Europe, not only to reduce energy consumption, but also We initially saw modal shifts as a way of reducing costs. However, consumers began to focus increasingly on our efforts to to switch to renewable hydroelectric sources for all electric reduce environmental loads, and we are now working more power purchased. These efforts have reduced electricityproactively in this area. Our exhaustive environmental initiatives include not only the reduction of weights of individual product related CO2 emissions to zero and cut total CO2 emissions by packages, but also changes to the bulk packaging used to hold approximately 2,000 tons per year. multiple products, and even measures targeting accessories. * This standard (ČSN 730540-2, IEC 730540-2) was formulated by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) to define conditions for the technical assessment of thermal insulation costs in energy-efficient buildings. Hiroshi Kishimoto Vice President VOICE Finance & Operations Olympus Imaging America Inc. Everyone living today has a Comments from Staff responsibility to protect the environment. I believe that consideration for the environment is essential Future Goals because of our need to achieve harmony with the local environThe entire Olympus Group will continue to contribute to the ment, and also as a duty to our descendants. By installing advanced facilities, OSTE has raised the environmental awareness creation of a sustainable society by reconciling manufacturing of its employees and given them a sense of pride in their work with environmental protection through eco-friendly business and workplaces. I think that everyone living today should be enviactivities and the supply of eco-friendly products and services. ronmentally responsible in their day-to-day activities and work to maintain a healthy environment for future generations. All Olympus employees are united under corporate committees and organizations in their efforts to supply the best products and services while maintaining high standards of environmental responsibility in all processes. This commitment Jan Sondag is especially strong in the area of product development and General Manager design, which defines the overall direction of manufacturing Olympus Medical Products Czech Olympus Surgical Technologies Europe activities, and in the development of technology to support development and design. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 21 Refer to the following website for information about other initiatives. http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/environment/ Summary of Performance Data for the Olympus Group’s Environmental Activities CO2 Emissions at Manufacturing Sites CO2 Emissions Reduced by 16% from FY2007 Level （t-CO2） ■ Scope 1 ■ Scope 2 FY2014 Target: 20% Reduction from FY2007 Level 140,000 84,722 CO2 emissions in the current fiscal year amounted to 100,071 tons, a reduction of 73,566 84,635 78,707 16% from the fiscal 2007 level (7% year on year reduction). 73,045 95,802 100,000 At our business sites in the Shinshu region of Japan, we have been switching from heavy fuel oil to liquefied natural gas (LNG) and electricity, which emit less CO2. We have also substantially reduced emissions of greenhouse gases used in clean60,000 ing, semiconductor etching and other processes, such as HFC, PFC and SF6. These reductions have been achieved through technological innovations, including the use 37,317 35,031 of alternative solvents. 30,700 28,798 27,026 In addition, we are working to improve energy efficiency through improvements 20,000 to our manufacturing operations, including day-to-day energy-saving initiatives based 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2014 target on data from electric power monitors installed at our plants, as well as the devel*Olympus reports in the following categories under the GHG Protocol. (fiscal years) opment of compact production facilities that use less electric power. We are also Scope 1: G reenhouse gas emissions resulting from the direct use of fossil fuels installing solar light and heat utilization equipment at our business sites in Japan and Scope 2: G reenhouse gas emissions resulting from secondary utilization, such as the Europe. purchase of electric power Logistics-Related CO2 Emissions Logistics-Related CO2 Emissions Reduced by 60% from FY2007 Level （t-CO2） ■ International logistics ■ Domestic logistics FY2014 Target: 20% Reduction from FY2007 Level 140,000 Logistics-related CO2 emissions in the current fiscal year totaled 53,499 tons, a re128,976 duction of 60% from the fiscal 2007 level (33% year on year reduction). 98,760 105,066 The Olympus Group will continue to target further reductions in environment 100,000 loads by choosing environmentally responsible transportation methods, by reducing 77,692 the size and weight of products and packaging materials, and by improving packaging materials. 60,000 51,707 20,000 2,356 2,168 1,914 1,792 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2014 target (fiscal years) Waste Emissions Waste Emissions Reduced by 20% from FY2007 Level （t） ■ Waste ■ Recycling FY2014 Target: 20% Reduction from FY2007 Level （t-CO 2） 6,000 5,588 5,624 ■ スコープ1 ■ スコープ2 140000 4,962 5,211 5,168 5,120 In the current fiscal year, waste emissions were reduced by 20% from the fiscal 84,722 4,684 4,451 4,470 2007 level and by 13% year on year to 4,451 tons. 73,566 4,527 84,606 81,600 109,660 In addition to measures to reduce disposals at landfills and improve recycling 4,000 75,735 100000 4,053 ratios, we are also working to reduce the actual quantity of waste by improving resource productivity in our manufacturing operations. For example, we are developing 100 new manufacturing technologies to reduce process losses, and designing products 2,000 to minimize waste. 60000 80 37,317 35,031 30,700 28,060 27,024 60 200000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2014 target 0 for fiscal 2014 relates to waste emissions. (fiscal years) *The target 2010 目標 40 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 （年度） 20 Use Water Water Use Reduced by 28% from FY2007 Level (thousand m3) ■ Groundwater ■ Piped water 3,0000 FY2014 Target: 20% Reduction from FY2007 Level Water use in the current fiscal year was reduced by 28% from the fiscal 2007 level 580 680 and by 11% year on year to 1.73 million cubic meters. 660 2,000 570 1,930 Water is an extremely important resource for our business activities because of 470 1,730 its use in various processes, such as the washing of parts. The protection of water 1,660 1,530 1,360 resources is also an important priority for the maintenance of biodiversity. For these 1,000 1,260 reasons, we are working to reduce the consumption of water resources in our business activities through various initiatives, including cascade recycling, whereby water is reused multiple times between the intake and wastewater stages, as well as the 0 development of manufacturing methods that reduce water use, and the prevention 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2014 target (fiscal years) of water leaks through facility inspections. * The target for fiscal 2014 relates to total water use. Emissions and Movements of Chemicals (PRTR-Listed Substances) Handling of PRTR-Listed Substances Reduced by 8% from FY2007 Level （t） ■ Substances already monitored FY2014 Target: 20% Reduction from FY2007 Level 30 ■ New and existing monitored substances In the current fiscal year, emissions and movements of PRTR-listed substances were reduced by 8% relative to the fiscal 2007 level to 17.9 tons. However, there was a 21.6 20 19.5 19.6 18.3 18.9 10% year on year increase resulting from the increased use of toluene and xylene in 17.9 16.2 coating processes. The total amount of PRTR-listed substances handled, including substances that were newly listed in fiscal 2010, amounted to 47.0 tons, and emis10 sions and movements totaled 21.6 tons. We are developing new powder coating materials for microscope coats. Other initiatives include the use of alternative solvents in order to reduce the amount of 0 organic solvents used on lens processing lines. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2014 target (fiscal years) *Newly listed substances are substances that were added in fiscal 2010 following amendments to the PRTR system. *Substances already monitored are substances that were listed in or before fiscal 2009. The target for fiscal 2014 relates to substances already monitored. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 22 Special Feature The Olympus Group’s Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake We offer our heartfelt prayers for the safety of everyone in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, and for a speedy recovery from the disaster. The first priority of the Olympus Group after the March 11 earthquake was to ensure safety and health. As a company involved in the healthcare field, we also had a social responsibility to resume our business operations as quickly as possible. In addition to donations of money and products, we also recruited volunteers from among our directors and employees to participate in relief initiatives in the disaster area. March 11, Earthquake, March 14, Responding to 2011 Initial Response 2011— Various Situations Immediately after the earthquake, a central response headOn March 14, construction contractors began to inspect quarters with subsidiary functional teams and local response buildings at the Shirakawa Plant, where there was substanorganizations were established under the leadership of then tial damage. Units responsible for the supply of parts to afPresident Kikukawa. The initial priorities as this organization filiated companies and repair and service divisions resumed began to respond to the disaster were to ensure the safety operations on March 16. and health of employees, prevent further damage, maintain Steps were also taken to secure logistics channels to business continuity, and coordinate information flows. The manufacturing sites and sales offices in the disaster area, headquarters organization confirmed the well-being of all and to provide relief supplies to employees at business sites employees in the Tohoku and Kanto regions through the in the Shirakawa and Sendai areas. Other measures includsafety confirmation system* and directly traced some indied the introduction of flexible working arrangements in areas viduals. In the Tokyo area, approximately 600 employees affected by planned power outages. were unable to return to their homes. Emergency measures The central response headquarters formed a health were implemented, including the distribution of stockpiled management working group, including industrial medicine emergency food and other requirements. specialists and Olympus experts, to safeguard the safety *Under this system, all employees are asked to register multiple means of and health of employees from the effects of radiation leaking communication, including mobile telephones, web mail and landline telephones. The system aggregates information about the safety and wherefrom the nuclear power station in Fukushima. abouts of employees using information obtained through these modes of communication. The Future: Strengthening Our Business Continuity Systems Changes to Business Continuity Plans Strengthening Disaster Prevention Measures As a result of business continuity planning over several years, we We will rewrite our disaster prevention manuals to reflect experiwere able to minimize damage to buildings and facilities. However, ences gained through our response to the recent earthquake. We as we worked to repair the damage caused by the disaster, we will also revise our disaster stockpiling standards and redistribute became concerned about the impact of disruptions to deliveries stockpiles after first clarifying management methods. from suppliers, and about the concentration of our manufacturModifications to buildings will be undertaken after a review of reing sites. We will use the disaster as an opportunity to respond sponse performance and anti-seismic levels at each facility. We will to these new issues by taking steps to ensure continuing access also check countermeasures designed to prevent equipment from to supplies needed for critical operations, and by modifying our toppling. production sites to facilitate a rapid return to operations even if Our system for checking the safety and whereabouts of employfacilities are affected by disasters. We will also modify our BCP ees will be reviewed to reflect issues that were identified, including to encompass additional safety measures for core systems and the need to check the safety of employees’ families, who are not other vital infrastructure, and also to cover logistics and product covered by the existing systems. We will also provide continuing storage. education and training to ensure that employees are able to act in accordance with predetermined response procedures when disasters occur. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 23 Key Effects of the Disaster We were very concerned at the inconvenience experienced by our customers after our manufacturing and service operations were suspended. However, we sought to minimize the impact by providing information updates at regular intervals. Our output was lower in the first half of fiscal 2011 but is expected to recover in the second half of the year. We will continue to do our utmost to meet the needs of our customers. Human Losses Damage to Facilities We regularly implement drills relating to emThere was partial damage to office buildings in the Sendai area. However, there was no interployee safety, systems to confirm employee ruption to services, including our capacity to respond to customer inquiries. Seven mobile safety and whereabouts, and our business conphone shops in the ITX Group were damaged and subsequently closed. Damage to productinuity plan (BCP). At all Olympus business sites tion facilities was especially severe at throughout Japan, including the Shirakawa Plant the Shirakawa Plant. Both buildings and Aizu Olympus in Fukushima Prefecture and infrastructure, including water and gas Aomori Olympus in Aomori Prefecture, only one pipes and electrical systems, were afemployee suffered a minor injury. However, there fected. However, the value of ongoing were fatalities among members of employees’ disaster-prevention efforts was proven families. We wish to offer our sincere condoby the fact that only one manufacturing Quake soil liquefaction A collapsed ceiling at the lences and prayers. facility was destroyed. damage in the parking lot Shirakawa Plant at the Shirakawa Plant April 11, Full Operations Resumed May 13, From Disaster Recovery to 2011— One Month after the Disaster 2011— Business Continuity Repairs to buildings and infrastructure at the Shirakawa Two months after the earthquake, Olympus was on track to Plant were completed, allowing the resumption of full opthe resumption of full production operations. After a review erations. Service divisions became fully operational on April of actions since the earthquake, responsibility for disaster 4 and production lines were progressively reinstated from response initiatives was transferred from the central reApril 5 onwards. By April 11, all operations had been fully sponse headquarters to individual units. restored. New business continuity issues were identified as a reIn addition to the earthquake, it was necessary to cope sult of the March earthquake. We will continue to strengthen with the effects of scheduled power cuts. Continuing interour business continuity planning, which we regard as a corruptions to flows of parts and other items from suppliers porate social responsibility, while always giving first priority became a major business continuity challenge. Procurement to the safety and health of our employees. coordination units and production units cooperated to avoid the use of items affected by delivery items. This was achieved by replacing outsourced parts with items produced in-house, by using equivalent alternative items, or by modifying designs. By the end of April, the resumption of full production operations was in sight. Meeting Electricity Requirements Recovery Support Activities As a company involved in the healthcare business, we have a responsibility to Olympus Group directors and employees supported recovery efforts in the ensure the continuity of our business operations. We also have a responsibilarea affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake by participating in voluntary ity to conserve electric power. Our target for the Tokyo and Tohoku regions is work. Approximately 100 volunteers were sent to the disaster area between to reduce electricity consumption by at least 15% through additional conserMay 16 and June 17. These people provided support to disaster victims with vation measures. the cooperation of the RQ Citizens Disaster Relief Network, which provides A range of initiatives will be implemented across the entire Olympus emotional support and carries out disaster relief activities. The Chairman and Group. Shifting the public holidays to extend the summer vacation period, the Executive Vice President of Olympus took part in this work. early implementation of the “Cool On June 14 and 15, Olympus staged a “Wakuwaku Science Workshop” Biz” program, the reducing of lights, for 80 children from elementary and junior high schools in the disaster area. and the reduction of the number The purpose of these programs is of vending machines in use. There to inspire children with the excitewill also be initiatives based on local ment of science through expericircumstances, such as changes ments and other activities. to working formats, the use of inWe will continue to provide ashouse generators, and the reducsistance according to the ongoing tion of electricity consumption in situation and needs in the disaster kitchens. area. Reduced lighting in the cafeteria at the Research and Development Center in Hachioji (Ishikawa) Relief work in the disaster area Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 24 Results of Social and Environmental Activities Results of the Olympus Group’s Main Social and Environmental Activities in Fiscal 2010 The Olympus Group undertook a wide range of social and environmental activities in fiscal 2010. The results of these initiatives will be reflected in our medium-term Corporate Strategic Plan (10CSP), and in future initiatives. Corporate Governance and CSR Management Summary on Pages 5-6 Priority Measures Targets Results Future Efforts Promotion and ● Establishment of CSR Committee ● CSR Committee established in September to ● Reinforcement of initiatives based on medium/ reinforcement of CSR work toward the realization of the “Social IN” long-term strategies through the activities of by CSR Committee management philosophy, primarily through the CSR Committee initiatives focusing on the non-financial aspects of the Corporate Conduct Charter ● Establishment of promotion committees ● Establishment of six promotion committees ● KPI assessment of activities of promotion (Compliance Promotion Committee, committees, acceleration and expansion of CSR Procurement Promotion Committee, activities Social Contribution Promotion Committee, Risk Management Promotion Committee, Information Security Promotion Committee, Safety & Health and Ethical Conduct Promotion Committee) ● Establishment of key performance indicators (KPI) for promotion committees Summary on Pages 9-14 For Customers WEB http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/customer/ Priority Measures Targets Results Future Efforts Service innovation ● Development and administration of ● Administration of management systems to use ● Continuing improvement of mechanisms to based on VOC systems to utilize direct customer input “voice of customer” (VOC) information in key ensure reliable VOC feedback and its effective management at the organizational level business segments utilization as the product planning and ● Fostering customer-focused culture through development stages expanded seniority-based customer ● Increased emphasis on usability and safety satisfaction (CS) education programs in product development, improvement of customer satisfaction Summary on Page 6 For Suppliers WEB http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/procurement/ Priority Measures Targets Results Future Efforts Self-assessment ● Response rate of 85% or higher in Japan ● 92% response rate in Japan ● Progressive expansion of CSR selfsurvey of suppliers in assessment survey in other regions as well Japan concerning CSR as in Japan initiatives Reinforcement of CSR ● To deepen understanding of CSR-based ● Dissemination of information about CSR ● Continuing dissemination of CSR promotion initiatives by suppliers procurement among major suppliers and promotion at procurement policy briefing for information to suppliers encourage initiatives suppliers Consistent application ● Updating of CSR needs data to reflect ● Addition of green procurement to procurement ● Updating of CSR procurement policy to reflect of CSR-based social needs policy, amendment of “Request to Suppliers” social needs procurement policy to reflect the supply chain CSR promotion guidebook of the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Monitoring of CSR● Commencement of on-site checking of ● On-site confirmation of CSR compliance by ● Expansion of scope of on-site checking based procurement CSR initiatives by suppliers suppliers in Japan and overseas Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 25 For Employees and Their Families WEB http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr/workplace/ Priority Measures Targets Results Future Efforts Promotion of employee ● Promotion of increased take-up of ● Administration of the system improved ● Implementation of educational measures growth the MBO-S* target management and through seminars for department/division to support the improvement of employees’ assessment system introduced in fiscal managers and e-learning programs for all English language skills, leading to the 2009 with the aim of fostering the employees reinforcement of their global communication personal growth of individual employees, ● Survey results confirming the consolidation skills as required under the skill development from the perspectives of independence, of awareness of the importance of taking a guidelines (employee development policy) challenging roles and medium/long-term proactive approach to the performance of ● Reform of assessment and employment vision work conditions to reflect employees’ contributions and growth appropriately Support for diversity ● Development of friendly working ● Active commitment to global utilization of ● Reform of employment conditions from a (friendly workplace environments that provide full scope for human resources, increased efforts to provide global perspective to facilitate the global environments) employee diversity opportunities to achieve full potential utilization of human resources ● Introduction of in-house awareness programs ● Expansion of work options to provide growth and childcare support systems that surpass and skill utilization opportunities for employees statutory requirements with the aim of who are motivated to raise children while reducing the number of women leaving working employment ● Improvement of working environments with ● Initiatives to improve working environments for the aim of increasing the percentage of people with disabilities, including modifications workers with disabilities to 2% to make facilities barrier-free, and reflection of employees’ wishes in decisions about working locations and working hours Health promotion ● To support health promotion for ● Improved guidance on specified health checks ● Use of health statistics, including health check employees and their families through and health insurance for employees and results, to prevent diseases from occurring mental and physical health promotion their families, promotion of colorectal cancer and existing conditions from worsening plans checks, gynecological health checks and ● Plans for seminars to raise health awareness walking campaigns among young people ● Provision of health promotion information ● Improvement of mental health education for to employees through the promotion of diet employees and executives improvement and exercise, mental health seminars and other initiatives * MBO-S stands for “Management by Objectives and Self-Control.” The aim of the system is to combine enhanced progress toward the achievement of organizational goals with human resource development by breaking organizational goals down into individual goals that are subject to thorough self-management. For Society Summary on Pages 15-16 Priority Measures Targets Results Future Efforts Building good ● Implementation of ● Sponsorship of photo contest calling for the achievement of the Millennium ● Continuation of social relationships with social contribution Development Goals, in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme contribution activities society activities based on (UNDP) corporate philosophy ● Introduction of Table for Two program in employee cafeterias and vending machines ● Co-sponsorship Natural Science Observation Contest ● Colorectal cancer eradication campaign in collaboration with Brave Circle Steering Committee (nonprofit organization) and government agencies ● Support for campaign to designate the 4th Sunday in July as “Parent and Child Day.” ● Co-sponsorship of half-year overseas (throughout Asia) photo-fieldwork program for students who aim to become news photographers ● Regional social contribution activities based on regional characteristics For the Environment Summary on Pages 19-22 Priority Measures Targets Results Future Efforts Reinforcement ● Reinforcement of environmental risk ● Environmental assessments conducted ● Establishment of global-level environmental of environmental preparedness systems in conjunction with quality and labor governance systems management systems ● Promotion of biodiversity conservation management assessments of factories in ● Formulation of biodiversity conservation plan Japan and overseas by senior management ● Assessment of relationship between business activities and biodiversity Provision of ● Expanded creation of Olympus ● Creation of 63 Olympus Eco-Products ● Creation of Olympus Super Eco-Products in environmentallyEco-Products (cumulative total: 349), raising percentage of all product categories conscious products total product sales to 55% and services ● Super Eco-Products system launched, seven imaging products and OEM products designated Reduction of ● 20% reduction in manufacturing-related ● 16% reduction in manufacturing-related CO2 ● Reduction of manufacturing-related environmental burden CO2 emissions by fiscal 2014 (from fiscal emissions compared with fiscal 2007 level environmental footprints through improved relating to business 2007 level) ● 20% reduction in waste emissions compared operating efficiency and development of activities ● 20% reduction in waste emissions by with fiscal 2007 level manufacturing-technologies fiscal 2014 (from fiscal 2007 level) Improvement of ● Promotion of information about ● Distribution of information through Corporate ● Continuing distribution of environmentalenvironmental environmental initiatives to stakeholders Social Responsibility Report and websites related information communication ● Expansion of environmental contribution ● Implementation of tree-planting programs, ● Development of regionally focused activities no-car days and other initiatives environmental contribution activities Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 26 Corporate Profile/Financial Highlights Profile of the Olympus Group Please visit investor relations website for updates and detailed information. WEB Investor Relations http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/ir/summary/ Olympus Corporation Consolidated net sales, operating income, net income ■ Consolidated net sales (Millions of yen) ■ Operating income Established ■ Net income 1,200,000 1,128,875 October 12, 1919 1,061,786 980,803 883,086 847,105 Head office 800,000 Shinjuku Monolith, 3-1 Nishi-Shinjuku 2-chome, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 163-0914, Japan 400,000 Activities 98,729 112,623 60,149 34,587 35,360 0 Manufacture and sales of precision equipment 47,779 57,969 47,763 7,381 -200,000 -114,810 Capital 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (fiscal years) ¥48,332 million 978,127 Segment contributions to consolidated net sales in fiscal 2010 Others 5.9% Medical systems 42.0% Business Fields Information and Communication Medical Systems 24.7%62,523 Manufacture and sale of medical 28,564 endoscopes, surgical endoscopes, 2005 endotherapy devices, etc. Imaging Systems Life Science & Industrial 15.5% 11.9% Life Science & Industrial Manufacture and sale of biological microscopes, industrial Consolidated net sales by market in fiscal 2010 microscopes, industrial endoscopes, non-destructive testing Others 3.2% Japan equipment, etc. 45.6% Asia/Oceania 11.5% Europe North America 18.2% 21.5% Imaging Systems Manufacture and sale of digital cameras and recorders Consolidated number of employees 40,000 35,772 36,503 35,376 32,958 34,391 Information and Communication 30,000 Sale of mobile telephones, etc. 20,000 Other Activities 10,000 Development of systems, manufacture and sale of 0 biomaterials, etc. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (fiscal years) Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 27 External Assessments Results of Questionnaire Survey on 2010 Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest We would like to thank the many people who submitted their views and impressions concerning the 2010 Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest. In addition to the questionnaire survey distributed with the report, we sought to increase the number of comments and impressions received by commissioning a questionnaire survey on the 2010 Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest and the corporate social responsibility using the donation survey* system of DFF Inc. The responses received were reflected in this Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report. *Donation survey: When a person registered with DFF Inc. responds to a corporate questionnaire, the company concerned donates ¥100 on behalf of the respondent to a non-profit organization nominated by the respondent.  ircumstances of people who read the 2010 Olympus Corporate C Assessments by people who read the 2010 Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest (total responses: 27) Social Responsibility Report Digest (total responses: 27) Olympus Group employee or Not impressed 0% family member 7% Not very impressed 0% Resident near Olympus Group Very good 38% business site 4% So-so 17% Student/housewife 11% Customer 37% Corporate CSR/ environmental executive 11% CSR/environmental organization 7% Good 45% Media worker 0% Supplier 4% Research/education worker 4% Government Shareholder/ administration 4% investor 11% Circumstances of donation survey participants (total responses: 502) Assessments by donation survey participants (total responses: 502) Resident near Olympus Group Others 9% Not impressed 0% Not very impressed 1% business site 0% Very good 19% Olympus Group employee or family member 1% Student 18% So-so 27% Corporate CSR/ environmental executive 1% CSR/ environmental organization 2% Media worker Customer 0.2% 65% Research/ education worker 2% Good 53% Supplier 1% Government administration 0.4% Shareholder/investor 2% ■ Recipients of Funds from Donation Survey In accordance with the wishes of survey participants, funds were donated to WWF Japan, Amnesty International Japan, Save the Children Japan, National Women’s Shelter Net, the Japan Philanthropic Association, and the Child Line Support Center. Issues highlighted concerning the 2010 Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest Issues highlighted Resulting changes to the Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report There should be detailed information about risks and Starting in 2011, we will publish not only the digest version and the website but also the full report other key items. (in Japanese and English). There should be descriptions of activities in each We reported on areas of activity in each business segment (Page 27) and on our initiatives for segment. consumers in each business segment (Pages 9-14). This report and the website were produced with the assistance of many employees in related divisions and departments, both in Japan and overseas. We will continue to work toward the creation of a sustainable society by expanding our dialog with stakeholders, and by proposing and implementing CSR-related policies and measures. We look forward to receiving your comments and impressions again this year. Olympus Corporate Social Responsibility Report Digest 2011 28 Olympus Corporation Contact CSR Department, CSR Division Shinjuku Monolith, 3-1 Nishi-Shinjuku 2-chome, Tokyo 163-0914, Japan TEL: +81-3-6901-9299 FAX: +81-42-642-9017 E-mail: csr_info@ot.olympus.co.jp Olympus Corporation Social Responsibilities Activities website http://www.olympus-global.com/en/corc/csr Revised: Issued on October 25, 2011 (previous edition issued in August 2010) Next volume scheduled for issue in August 2012 X020-11E ②1110C
