2010 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 RE N E SAS E L ECTRONI CS CORP ORATI ON Renesas Electronics TODAY & TOMORROW In April 2010, NEC Electronics Corporation and Renesas Technology Corp. merged to form Renesas Electronics Corporation, a semiconductor powerhouse boasting the capability to generate consolidated net sales at the ¥1,000-billion level. Through the integration of the two companies, which had been competing for the leading position in the microcontroller (MCU) field, Renesas Electronics now commands an approximate 30% share of the global MCU market (see Note) and has become the undisputed leader in this market. Semiconductors and other products of Renesas Electronics are used in wide-ranging fields, including home appliances, mobile devices, automobiles, and industrial machinery, throughout the world. The Company operates 28 overseas business bases centered on Asia and has approximately 48,000 employees on a worldwide basis. Note Source: “Semiconductor Industry Worldwide Annual Market Share: Database” by Gartner, Inc. (March 25, 2010; 2009 revenue basis) The Renesas Electronics Group is focusing on three fields: “MCU Business,” “Analog & Power Devices Business” and “System-on-Chip (SoC) Solutions Business.” By generating synergy among the operations in these fields and thereby promoting the development and launch of products designed to meet the needs in the markets of China and other emerging nations, the Group aims to achieve growth in the global market. In addition, with an eye on contributing to the sustainability of society and the environment, we have added a “green economy” fi eld—encompassing smart grid, energy-saving home appliances, eco-cars and many other applications—to our priority business portfolio. In this way, we will support the development of society and the preservation of the environment. Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter Formulated April 1, 2010 The Renesas Electronics Group will contribute to the sustainable advancement of society. As an enterprise, we will conduct business that helps build a better future for people around the world by supplying superior semiconductor products powered with advanced technologies and by providing customer service that is honest and sincere. We pledge to conduct our business with integrity and in compliance with legal requirements. We will work with and for the benefit of our stakeholders based on the following guiding principles: Customer focus We will quickly provide optimized, high-quality solutions in response to our customers’ needs to maximize customer satisfaction and to earn our customers’ trust. Sound business practices We will carry out fair, ethical and transparent business practices and convey these practices to all our stakeholders. In addition, we will maximize our corporate value through business practices that allow us to continue to grow. Healthy work environment We will respect the individual personalities of our employees. We will promote a rewarding, safe, and flexible working environment where each person is able to demonstrate his/her best talents and capabilities. Global perspective As a member of the global community, we will respect the history, culture, customs and human rights of each country and region, and we will not practice or permit any forced or child labor. In addition, we will promote activities that contribute to the betterment of the global society. Environmentally friendly We pledge to develop, manufacture and sell semiconductor products that respect the environment, and we will strive to minimize the environmental impact of our products throughout the entire product life cycle. We will also participate in activities intended to harmonize human pursuits and the environment, promoting increased awareness of issues such as climate change and biodiversity. Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 1 Top Message: To Our Stakeholders Junshi Yamaguchi Yasushi Akao Representative Representative Director, Chairman Director, President Renesas Electronics Corporation was established on April 1, 2010 through the merger of NEC Electronics Corporation and Renesas Technology Corp. and is specialized in the manufacture of semiconductors. By integrating the two companies’ product technologies and marketing capabilities and further strengthening cost competitiveness, Renesas Electronics aims to achieve sustainable growth in an industry that is subject to dynamic changes in market conditions. At the same time, the Company will contribute to a world where people and the planet prosper in harmony by realizing its vision and building a new future for everyone. In line with its establishment, Renesas Electronics has formulated the Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter, which defines the Group’s basic approach to CSR. In other words, this charter embodies a commitment that all Group members must adhere to in order for the Group to further enhance the trust of all stakeholders. In addition to product quality assurance and sound customer relationships, the charter covers issues that the entire Group must tackle. These issues include: (1) the proactive disclosure of corporate information; (2) the achievement of human resource diversity based on race, nationality, gender and age; (3) the creation of workplace environments where individuals can exert their full capabilities; (4) the addressing of human rightsrelated problems; (5) the realization of appropriate labor environments through, for example, the elimination of forced or child labor; and (6) the promotion of activities aimed at preserving biodiversity and preventing further climate change. These issues are similarly covered by the ten principles in the four categories of “human rights,” “labour,” “environment” and “anti-corruption” under the United Nations Global Compact. Accordingly, Renesas Electronics has declared its agreement with these principles and now participates in this UN initiative. With the goal of accomplishing the Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter, we are implementing various plans and measures. The continued existence and growth of corporations are a prerequisite for the fulfillment of CSR. In accordance with this view, the Renesas Electronics Group launched a “100-day project” to examine and identify possible measures within 100 days following the merger to enable the stable growth of the Group and thereby quickly generate synergistic effects. Building on the successes made through this project, we are currently striving to sustain stable growth. 2 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Also building on the successes gained under the 100-day project, the Renesas Electronics Group is promoting business activities through which it is endeavoring to contribute to the protection of the global environment through the reduction of its environmental impact and to help realize an affluent society through the provision of advanced technologies. The semiconductor industry exerts a significant environmental impact due to substantial consumption of electricity, water and chemical substances in the fabrication processes. As a player in the industry, Renesas Electronics is continuing to step up efforts to minimize its environmental impact. In addition to minimizing the environmental impact of our fabrication processes, we are working to reduce the environmental impact of semiconductors throughout their entire life cycle—from development to disposal. In this way, we are aiding worldwide efforts to protect the environment. The Company’s semiconductor products are based on advanced technologies and are widely used in a variety of equipment and systems developed by our customers, including electronic device and automobile manufacturers. In fact, our semiconductors are contributing to the downsizing and improved energy efficiency of various finished products while increasingly serving as “building blocks” of societal development for future generations. Also, the concept of “cloud computing” is gaining a firm foothold in society. Roughly speaking, cloud computing releases Internet users from the burden of maintaining and managing personal hardware and software and enables them to use the services that they desire via the Internet. The proliferation of cloud computing is expected to break down barriers between people and computers, allowing people to lead a convenient lifestyle without being conscious of the presence of computers. Our semiconductor products—embedded in communications systems and terminals—are supporting the development of cloud computing services today. In recent years, technological development has enabled photovoltaic (PV), wind and other types of power generation. In fact, some types of power generation can now be conducted by households. In conjunction with such a change, there is a growing need to realize the comprehensive control of power consumption and supply at the household level. In response, the establishment of “smart grid”—a next-generation, optimal power distribution network system—is being promoted on a global scale with an eye to early deployment. Leveraging its sophisticated semiconductor technologies, Renesas Electronics is providing wide-ranging solutions to help realize smart grid power distribution in the near future. As explained above, the Renesas Electronics Group is promoting business activities aimed at preserving the global environment and realizing an affluent society. We strongly believe that the technological advances we achieve will, directly and indirectly, benefit the future of the international community and the world in general, and that they will consequently empower society at large to advance, becoming a world where people and the planet prosper in harmony. This CSR and Environmental Report 2010 is the first communication tool that describes the CSR activities and outlook of the Renesas Electronics Group as a newly established entity. We are committed to communicating with you, our fellow stakeholders, thereby further reinforcing our relationship based on trust with you. At the same time, we will do our utmost to maximize the corporate value of the Renesas Electronics Group. Your candid opinions and advice on this report and our corporate activities are important to us. We would like to hear from you. Your voice will be incorporated into our future activities. Renesas Electronics Corporation November 2010 Junshi Yamaguchi Yasushi Akao Representative Director, Chairman Representative Director, President Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 3 Special Feature: Renesas Electronics TODAY & TOMORROW The establishment of Renesas Electronics in April 2010 has integrated the product, technology and competitive capabilities of NEC Electronics and Renesas Technology. In addition, the stakeholders of the two companies have been integrated, which means that Renesas Electronics is now shouldering the social responsibility tasks and issues that were previously handled by the two companies separately. This special feature section will explain the current strengths and characteristics of the Renesas Electronics Group and elaborate on the Group’s approach to the protection of the global environment into the future. NEC Electronics Corporation Renesas Technology Corporation Prior to the integration of the two companies, the NEC Electronics Before the integration, as part of efforts to help realize a sustainable Group worked constantly to fulfill its corporate responsibility as a consociety, Renesas Technology contributed to the development of scientious, publicly traded company. More specifically, NEC Electronics compact, energy-efficient finished goods through the provision of aggressively tackled not only basic issues, such as protecting human various products. These products included microcontrollers, for rights and ensuring compliance, but also other issues, including prowhich Renesas Technology has commanded the leading global marmoting workplace diversity through the increased employment of ket share. In the area of CSR, Renesas Technology proactively tackfemale workers and people with disabilities. Meanwhile, NEC led human rights-related issues to assist in the realization of a society Electronics advanced its contributions to environmental protection free of discrimination, worked to ensure compliance, and focused on through its business operations including, for example, the deployment social contribution activities, which included exchange with local of All FlashTM Microcontrollers, which are widely known as “eco-friendly communities. Moreover, to aid worldwide efforts to protect the envimicrocontrollers.” Furthermore, NEC Electronics proactively strengthronment, Renesas Technology devised and promoted a proprietary ened its engagement with the local communities where it has operasystem to designate “Renesas Green Devices,” which have been certions. As such, the company has implemented activities consistent tified as having a reduced environmental impact throughout their with being a member of the global community while actively dissemientire lifecycle, from the R&D and fabrication stages to final disposal. nating information relating to these activities. Renesas Electronics Today Today, with its newly integrated expertise in CSR, Renesas Electronics is a global company boasting net sales at the ¥1,000-billion level, commanding the leading share of the global microcontroller market and generating the world’s third highest sales of semiconductors. The synergy of our three product segments Renesas Electronics is supporting modern industries enables us to provide rapid, optimum solutions. and lifestyles through its world-leading operations in the three fields of “MCU Business,” “Analog & Power Devices Business” and “SoC Solutions Business” as well as through the generation of synergy among the Microcontrollers activities in these fields. Furthermore, the Company is (MCU) contributing to environmental protection through the Specializing in MCUs provision of sophisticated semiconductor technologies, and boasting which help to realize more compact, energy-efficient the world's home appliances and automotive electronic devices. No.1 market share. n Consolidated net sales (fiscal 2010) Approx. ¥1,062.4 billion* Energy-saving Green appliances cars n Workforce (as of April 2010) Approx. 48,000 (on a global basis) n Global microcontroller market share (2009) Smart grid Customers Consumer 30% (overwhelming No. 1 position) solutions (see Note on inside front cover) AV/PC n Semiconductor sales (fiscal 2010) SoC Solutions Analog and Approx. ¥942.5 billion Offering system Industrial/ Power Devices (No. 3 in the global market) solutions based factory on our advanced automation An extensive, n CO2 emissions reduction and proven high-quality technologies. Mobile lineup. (fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2010; Japan) devices Approx. 57,000 tons n Ratio of employment of people with disabilities (as of June 1, 2010) 1.99% *T he sum of NEC Electronics and Renesas Technology consolidated net sales in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, including sales of products other than semiconductors, is presented by adjusting the former Renesas Technology’s sales account to those presented by the former NEC Electronics. 4 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Special Feature Renesas Electronics Advancing toward a New Tomorrow Renesas Electronics will continue to develop and market leading-edge semiconductors, thereby contributing to the improved convenience that society seeks for today and tomorrow and helping to protect the global environmental. Most of electronic devices and equipment—which underpin secure lifestyles than ever before. our modern lifestyles and allow us to make creative Indeed, technological advances can be the most effecadvances into the future—use semiconductors. At present, tive means in helping to prevent further destruction of the the value of annual semiconductor production in Japan global environment. For example, smart grid systems, totals approximately ¥5 trillion, commanding only about which are expected to optimize electric power distribution, one percent of Japan’s GDP. However, the market scale of use microcontrollers, and a lot of smart-grid projects using all the industries that use semiconductors—such as the various types of measurement and communication devices electronics, automobile, broadcasting and telecommunicaare being promoted in many regions throughout the world. tion industries—is estimated to be around ¥220 trillion, Of these devices, an electric power meter called “smart which represents about 40% of the GDP. As this data meter” provides communication functions, enabling electric shows, the significance of the semiconductor industry is power companies to constantly and accurately monitor rapidly growing. Meanwhile, the entire world is increasingly household power consumption. Based on such monitoring, sharing the burdens of future issues in such fields as medielectric power companies will be able to promote the more cal care, care for the elderly, social welfare, disaster preefficient use of electric power. Moreover, if all home applivention and food security. As digitalization accelerates in ances were networked, monitored and controlled approprithese fields, expectations for the roles that semiconductors ately, the efficiency of power consumption would be can play are continuously ballooning. improved for individual appliances. Thus, smart grid sysToday, the entire human race is facing many problems tems are drawing attention as a promising infrastructure for that are completely different from those it has overcome in future communities. the past. These problems include: (1) societal changes As the above example clearly shows, microcontrollers, attributable to advances in information communication along with semiconductors, help reduce power consumptechnologies and the pace of such changes; (2) depletion tion. What is more, they help eliminate various kinds of of fossil energy resources; (3) climate change; and (4) redundancies in households, offices, automobiles, and destruction of the ecosystem. In order to help modern industrial machinery and facilities. In other words, they are society overcome these and other problems, Renesas playing an indispensable role in achieving efficiency in variElectronics is continuing to achieve technological advances ous aspects of human activities today. As manufacturer of in the semiconductor field. As such, the Company is assista comprehensive lineup of semiconductors, Renesas ing the international community in saving energy and Electronics will contribute to the realization of a sustainable reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions while stepping society in advancing toward a new tomorrow. up efforts to enable people to lead more convenient, Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 5 RENESAS ELECTRONICS CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Contents CSR Management 7 CSR Promotion Structure 8 Corporate Governance 9 Compliance 10 Social Responsibility 15 Policies and Activities for Improving Customer Satisfaction 16 Product Quality and Safety Improvement 17 Approach to Transparent Management 19 Working Together with Suppliers and Sales Partners 20 Community Involvement 21 Respecting Human Rights and Providing Equal Opportunities 23 Environmental Preservation 25 Environmental Policy 26 Scope of Environmental Reporting 26 Eco-Management Initiative 27 Eco-Factories Initiative 33 Eco-Products Initiative 39 Eco-Communication Initiative 42 Company Information 46 6 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR Management CSR Promotion Structure Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter 8 CSR Promotion Committee 8 Specific CSR Activities 8 CSR Management Participation in the United Nations Global Compact 9 Corporate Governance Basic Approach 9 Externally Appointed Executives 9 Internal Control System 10 Compliance Renesas Electronics Group Code of Conduct 10 Compliance Promotion Structure 11 Compliance Promotion Activities 11 Compliance Education/Communication 12 Secure Export Control Initiatives 12 Compliance Hotline 13 Risk Management 13 Confidential Information Management/Personal Information Protection 14 Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 7 CSR Promotion Structure Renesas Electronics has clearly announced the Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter as the basis of its policies for Groupwide CSR activities, both internally and externally. At the same time, the Company has established a CSR Promotion Committee, which is chaired by its president and is in charge of making decisions regarding its CSR activities. In addition, the Company has set up a CSR & Compliance Division, which is exclusively tasked with promoting CSR activities. More specifically, the CSR & Compliance Division organizes Groupwide CSR activities while providing support and implementing educational programs to facilitate effective CSR activities. Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter n Promoting Various Social Contribution Activities Renesas Electronics formulated the Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter on April 1, 2010 in line with its estabToday, the world is witnessing dynamic climate changes. lishment. This charter clarifies the principles and standards Due to extreme weather events, many problems are arisof behavior that we must adhere to in our business activiing, including rapid desertification and water resource ties with customers and all other stakeholders. Specifically, depletion in certain regions. As Renesas Electronics conin addition to ensuring legal compliance, the charter consumes a significant amount of water in the manufacture of sists of such guiding principles as swiftly providing optimal, semiconductors, it must proactively tackle the problems high-quality solutions in meeting customer needs, carrying relating to water resources. Based on this understanding, out ethical and transparent business practices, respecting individual business sites of the Renesas Electronics Group the personality of individuals and contributing to harmoniare implementing their own measures aimed at helping ous coexistence between the human race and the environsolve these problems in their respective locations. For ment. Pursuant to this charter, the entire Renesas example, the protection of watershed forests is closely Electronics Group is working as one to advance CSR associated with the sustainability of the Group’s business. activities. Accordingly, the Company is actively promoting activities to protect watershed forests in Japan, including those CSR Promotion Committee named the “Semiconductor Forest” in Kanagawa Prefecture and the “Forest of Renesas” in Kochi Prefecture. Renesas Electronics has established the CSR Promotion We are also promoting afforestation and other environmenCommittee to facilitate activities in line with the Renesas tal protection activities in China and other countries and Electronics Group CSR Charter. The CSR Promotion regions. (For more details, please refer to page 43 of this Committee determines policies for Groupwide CSR activireport.) ties, CSR objectives and targets, and priority CSR projMeanwhile, to stimulate students’ interest in science ects. Based on the decisions made by this committee, and to nurture coming generations of the workforce in CSR activities are promoted on a Groupwide scale. these areas, Renesas Electronics continues to hold electrical engineering workshops using the Company’s semiconSpecific CSR Activities ductors and to support such events as the “Micom Car Rally Competition,” a nationwide contest of self-propelled model cars using the Company’s microcontrollers. (For n Responding to the Latest CSR-Related more details, please refer to page 21 of this report.) Movements n Reinforcing Our Supply Chain Management As an international standard providing guidelines for social Corporations are increasingly required to conduct CSR responsibility, ISO26000 will be published by the end of activities not just within the scope of their business, but 2010. This standard upholds the seven core subjects of also throughout their entire supply chains. In response to “organizational governance,” “human rights,” “labour practhis trend, the Renesas Electronics Group is proactively tices,” “the environment,” “fair operating practices,” “coninvolving all of its domestic and overseas suppliers in its sumer issues” and “communit y involvement and framework of CSR activities. Together with our suppliers, development.” To promote corporate activities with due we are committed to promoting our CSR activities. consideration given to these subjects, the Renesas Electronics Group is currently reviewing its CSR activities. Based on such reviews, the Group will adjust its activities Promotion of CSR-Oriented Procurement (Website) as appropriate. http://www.renesas.com/comp/procurement/csr. Meanwhile, the 10th meeting of the Conference of the html Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP10) was held in Nagoya City, Aichi Prefecture, Japan this year. Biodiversity protection is a difficult issue to tackle as it involves the preservation of individual organisms, species and ecosystems. Therefore, it is viewed as an important issue that must be addressed by the entire human race. Accordingly, the Renesas Electronics Group will proactively aid global efforts in protecting biodiversity through business and social contribution activities. As such, the Group is accurately responding to the latest CSR-related movements while bolstering related activities. 8 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Participation in the United Nations Global Compact Renesas Electronics participates in the United Nations ＜The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact＞ Global Compact. The Global Compact was announced at the World Economic Forum in January 1999 by Kofi Annan, Human rights the Secretary-General of the United Nations at that time. It Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human is a list of ten principles in the four categories of “human rights; and rights,” “labour standards,” “environmental protection” and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human “anti-corruption,” and participating corporations are rights abuse. requested to follow and practice these principles. Since the Global Compact was officially launched at the UN Labour CSR Management Headquarters in New York in July 2000, approximately Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of asso8,000 corporations and organizations* worldwide have ciation and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; declared their agreement with these principles and, consePrinciple 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulquently, participated in this compact. More than 100 sory labour; Japanese corporations and organizations* have also parPrinciple 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and ticipated in this effort. At the Renesas Electronics Group, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of we regularly provide our executives and employees with employment and occupation. e-learning seminars aimed at instilling a way of thinking consistent with those ten principles. These seminars are Environment helping our executives and employees to raise their awarePrinciple 7: Businesses should support a precautionary ness of these principles through their daily operations. approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environ* As of June 2010 mental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Governance Renesas Electronics is working constantly to reinforce its corporate governance, based on the understanding that efficient, sound and transparent corporate management is the key to making continuous improvements in its corporate value. Basic Approach Externally Appointed Executives Renesas Electronics has adopted a corporate auditor sysWith the aim of bringing an external perspective to corpotem , as defined under the Japanese Companies Act. The rate management and thereby tackling management Board of Corporate Auditors audits the execution of duties issues from various angles, Renesas Electronics has proby members of the Board of Directors, underpinning the actively selected members of its executive team from outCompany’s corporate governance structure. More specifiside of the Company. These externally appointed cally, full-time corporate auditors—including those appointexecutives have varied backgrounds and boast specialized ed internally and having extensive knowledge of and knowledge in their respective field of exper tise. experience in the Company’s business—collaborate with Furthermore, to enhance its corporate governance and, related divisions and offices to efficiently collect high-qualiconsequently, business performance, the Company has ty information. At the same time, the Board of Corporate selected independent directors and corporate auditors, Auditors—which includes externally appointed corporate who are competent in providing accurate and objective auditors who are independent from the Company— advice and judgment, pursuant to the Securities Listing analyzes the collected information from a multifaceted and Regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange on which the objective perspective. In this way, Renesas Electronics is Company’s shares are listed. None of them have any vestmaintaining an effective corporate governance structure. ed interest in the Company. Corporate Governance Report (Website) http://japan.renesas.com/comp/csr/management/ cg_report.html (Japanese language only) Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 9 Internal Control System Renesas Electronics’s Board of Directors has formulated Act. Moreover, the Company’s Internal Control Promotion and implemented the basic policy for developing corporate Committee periodically holds meetings to deliberate and systems—including those to ensure appropriate operations make decisions on issues, policies and other matters of the Company—defined under Article 362, Paragraph 4, regarding internal control, stipulated under the Companies Item 6 of the Companies Act and Article 100, Paragraph 1 Act and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. and 3, of the Enforcement Regulations of the Companies General Meeting of Shareholders Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss Appoint/dismiss Report Board of Directors 11 directors Report Accounting Auditors Audit (5 outside director) Board of Corporate Auditors 5 corporate auditors Cooperate (3 outside corporate auditors) Appoint/dismiss Corporate Report supervise Auditors Office Audit Audit Cooperate Cooperate Appoint/ Representative Directors Internal Control dismiss Promotion Committee Report Internal Audit Office Instruct Executive Committee Information Management (Deliberation on key issues, etc.) and Security Committee Audit 16 Executive/Senior Vice Presidents (Including those concurrently serving as directors) CSR Promotion Committee (Execution of business) Instruct Divisions and Offices, Corporate Staff, Subsidiaries, etc. (As of June 25, 2010) Compliance As an ongoing concern, ensuring thorough compliance is one of the most significant tasks for Renesas Electronics. Accordingly, the Company disseminates compliance-related policy information to all employees, while ensuring that they closely observe these policies. Renesas Electronics Group Code of Conduct With the aim of promoting compliance throughout the entire Group, Renesas Electronics formulated the Renesas Electronics Group Code of Conduct in April 2010. The Renesas Electronics Group Code of Conduct stipulates specific matters to be observed by all Group executives and employees in their daily business operations. The subject “we” is used purposely in each provision under this Code of Conduct in order to make all Group members understand that compliance issues affect each and every one of them. At the same time, the use of “we” expresses our commitment that all of us strictly observe the Code of Conduct. Renesas Electronics Group Code of Conduct (Website) http://www.renesas.com/comp/csr/management/ action.html 10 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Compliance Promotion Structure At Renesas Electronics, the CSR & Compliance Division relating to overall compliance-related subjects. Meanwhile, under the Legal & Compliance Division is in charge of prothe Company has appointed compliance officers at indimoting compliance throughout the Group. More specificalvidual business units and Group companies. These comly, this division is tasked with: (1) the establishment of pliance officers support general managers of business compliance systems; (2) the provision of support in the units and presidents of Group companies in promoting administration of compliance systems; and (3) the implecompliance at each organization. mentation of educational and awareness-raising programs Compliance Promotion Structure CSR Management Business Units of Renesas Electronics Domestic Group Companies Consult/ Consult/ Report Report Support Order Transaction Control Department Corporate Export Control Office Corporate Planning Division Legal & Compliance Division Finance & Accounting Division Human Resources & Purchasing Division Information Systems Division Intellectual Property Division Quality Assurance Division Sales Strategic Planning Division Environment Promotion Department, General Affairs Division Production and Technology Unit Compliance Promotion Activities In order to effectively prevent compliance violations, educational programs and information dissemination and Renesas Electronics classifies compliance-related risks conducting the monitoring of compliance status. In more into certain categories and designates a division or office specific terms, these divisions and offices are working to responsible for each risk category. In their respective areas train executives and employees so that they will know of responsibility, these divisions and offices are then tasked which division or office to consult with or which internal with developing guidelines and manuals, raising the comguidelines to refer to should they be involved with complipliance awareness of executives and employees through ance-related problems. Compliance-Related Risks Responsible Division/Office Major Compliance-Related Risks Order Transaction Control Fictitious sales posting Corporate Export Control Illegal export Corporate Communications, Deceptive advertising Corporate Planning Antimonopoly Law violations (cartel, etc.), transactions with antisocial forces, insider trading, confidential/ Legal & Compliance personal information leaks Finance & Accounting Accounting fraud Human-rights abuse (sexual harassment, etc.), occupational accidents, corporate entertainment/gift-giving Human Resources & General Affairs scandals, illegal political donations Purchasing Subcontract Law violations, camouflage contracting, illegal importing, interest-conflicting transactions Information Systems Computer viruses, illegal software copying, unauthorized access Intellectual Property Intellectual property infringement Quality Assurance Defective products, product data falsification Sales Strategic Planning Inappropriate relationships with sales partners, illegal conduct against sales partners Environment Promotion, Production Environmental damage, use of specified hazardous substances and Technology Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 11 Compliance Education/Communication The Renesas Electronics Group provides position-specific ening the internal dissemination of compliance-related compliance education programs for new employees, new information. More specifically, the Company distributes a section chiefs and new managers. At the same time, the variety of compliance-related information through its Group offers compliance education programs common to Intranet and monthly e-mail newsletters to all executives all executives and employees every year. and employees. In particular, these e-mail newsletters Also, the Company conducts compliance education include “Renesas Electronics Group Code of Conduct tailored for divisions and offices responsible for individual Case Studies,” which provides possible compliance-related risk categories—such as fair trade, information security, issues and compliance-related quizzes. These tools are environmental protection and export control—through helping executives and employees to familiarize themselves e-learning sessions and group seminars. with compliance issues. In addition, Renesas Electronics is constantly strengthInternal e-mail Newsletters e-Learning Material Secure Export Control Initiatives The Renesas Electronics Group’s semiconductors and of security export control, the Company is providing technologies are widely used in various industries. To keep Groupwide educational programs to raise employee from diverting its products and technologies to uses that awareness. Furthermore, through periodic internal audits, could prevent the maintenance of international peace and we are working to maintain, and improve as necessary, our security, the Group must manage these assets approprisystems to ensure sound export control. ately. Accordingly, and not to mention strict observance of Thanks to these and other efforts, Renesas Electronics applicable laws and regulations, Renesas Electronics has has been certified as an “Authorized Exporter” by the incorporated voluntary control into its compliance proTokyo Customs office of the Ministry of Finance of Japan, grams, thereby promoting security export control in a manwhich is one of Japan’s Authorized Economic Operator ner more stringent than that mandated by these laws and (AEO) programs. Authorized Exporters are certified to have regulations. the capabilities to perform appropriate security manageMeanwhile, to allow all of its employees to take adement and ensure strict compliance with related laws and quate action in line with the latest developments in the area regulations. 12 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Compliance Hotline Group executives and employees may encounter a situaThis external contact point can be accessed not only by tion where they are not able to consult with or report to the Group’s executives, employees or temporary staff, but their supervisors or divisions and offices responsible due also by members of the Group’s suppliers and authorized to certain reasons and circumstances even when they distributors. The Company’s internal rules clearly prohibit have identified compliance-related problems. To deal the disadvantageous treatment of those who consult with effectively with such a situation, the Company has estabor report to the Group Hotline. The Company has posted lished the Renesas Electronics Group Hotline (“Group such rules on its Intranet so that persons can use the Hotline”) as a whistleblower’s contact for consultation by Group Hotline without anxiety. executives and employees of domestic Group companies The content of such consultation and reports is reportand the reporting of such problems. In addition, by employed at meetings of the Internal Control Promotion CSR Management ing a third party that serves as an external contact point, Committee chaired by the Company’s president, which we have established a system under which the anonymity enables the sharing of information about potential risks of the person reporting is protected upon their request. among top management. Renesas Electronics Group Hotline Renesas Electronics Group Hotline (CSR & Compliance Division) Report (autonym only) Renesas Electronics Rep only) ort (aut onym Re port Domestic Group Companies Report Third-Party Consultation Window Report Suppliers Report The person who contacted the consultation window can request that the third party withhold his Receive autonym reports or her name. Report (To confirm reporters’ identity) Distributors Risk Management Risk-Management Structure n Formulation of the Basic Rules for Risk Review of di ts Au Management and Policies for Countering Risk Identification/Assessment, Risk Countermeasure Implementation t er nal In Management Crises Mapping, Definition of Division/Office Plan Responsible for Each Risk Category and the Level of Countermeasures Renesas Electronics has formulated the Basic Rules for Risk Management and, based on these rules, the Deliberation by Division/ Office Responsible Company has established a Groupwide risk-management for Each Risk Category structure. Risks in overall corporate management are categorized Monitoring by Division/Office Responsible for Each Risk Category and Promotion according to the level of possible exposure and the degree Preventive of Preventive/Minimization Measures Not Measures Exposed of potential impact on the Company’s management. Then, to Risks the Company designates a division or office responsible Exposed to Risks for each risk category, and these divisions and offices work to manage risks in their respective fields of responsibility on a regular basis. When a management crisis occurs, Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Renesas Electronics sets up a risk-specific taskforce in line Serious Other with its predetermined countermeasures. These riskCountermeasures Companywide Management Management Emergency specific taskforces do their utmost to minimize the negaCrises Crises tive impact resulting from a management crisis. Companywide Countermeasures Countermeasures Countermeasures by Multiple by Division/Office Divisions/Offices Responsible for Each Risk Category Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 13 Confidential Information Management/ n Business Continuity Plan Personal Information Protection Through efforts to reinforce its risk-management structure, In April 2010, Renesas Electronics established the Renesas Electronics and its Group companies have unaniInformation Management and Security Committee. Chaired mously recognized a business continuity plan (BCP) as the by the Company’s president, the Information Management central means to prevent disasters and manage risks. In and Security Committee is tasked with the deliberation, line with this recognition, the Company has worked proacformulation and promotion of important Group policies and tively to establish and strengthen its BCPs with the aim of measures relating to overall information management, protecting the safety of its employees, continuously fulfilling which includes the management of confidential information its responsibility as a supplier of products and services and the protection of personal information. and safeguarding its management resources. In accordance with the policies formulated by this comFor example, in preparation for large-scale earthmittee, the Legal & Compliance Division formulates specific quakes, all related divisions and offices have formulated plans for confidential information management and pertheir own BCPs, which include general safety measures, sonal information protection through collaboration with emergency response frameworks, damage minimization related divisions and offices. In addition, the Legal & measures, business continuity measures and quick recovCompliance Division is working to make sure that all busiery measures. ness units and Group companies are thoroughly impleAlso, based on the lesson it learned in connection with menting activities in line with the plans it formulated. the outbreak of a new strain of influenza during 2009, Renesas Electronics and its domestic subsidiaries have Renesas Electronics has formulated BCPs that assume the appointed information management managers and informaoccurrence of a pandemic, including the new strain of tion management promoters who assist information maninfluenza. As such, the Company is working to enhance its agement managers. Information management promoters BCPs in terms of risks and countermeasures assumed. are in charge of promoting information management activiLooking ahead, we will examine the feasibility of our BCPs ties at their respective business units and subsidiaries. while improving their effectiveness through training proSpecific procedures for confidential information mangrams aimed at strengthening the business continuity intelagement and personal information protection have been ligence of our employees. stipulated in the Basic Rules for Confidential Information Management and the Basic Rules for Personal Information Protection, respectively. Pursuant to these internal rules, the Company is striving to manage these types of informaCountermeasures against New Influenza Outbreak— tion in an appropriate manner. Putting Employees’ Lives First Also, in April 2010, Renesas Electronics formulated a Privacy Policy that explains the Company’s stance toward In response to the pandemic of a novel H1N1 influenza, personal information protection. This policy is disclosed on Renesas Electronics prioritized related countermeasures Renesas Electronics’s Website. during 2009. Specifically, the Company formulated basic pandemic countermeasure policies and phasePrivacy Policy (Website) specific action plans. At the same time, we promoted http://www.renesas.com/privacy/ the stockpiling of surgical masks and sanitizers, closely monitored the status of infections among employees and encouraged employees to take preventive measures, such as hand-washing and gargling. Based on this experience, we will continue to reinforce our BCPs that enable us to keep operating with priority placed on employees’ lives should an H5N1 influenza pandemic occur. 14 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Social Responsibility Policies and Activities for Improving Customer Satisfaction Basic Policies for Promoting Customer Satisfaction 16 Customer Communication 16 Contact Centers 16 Product Quality and Safety Improvement Policy for Product Quality Improvement 17 Activities to Improve Product Quality and Safety 18 Approach to Transparent Management Investor Relations (IR) 19 Social Responsibility Shareholders’ Meetings 19 Working Together with Suppliers and Sales Partners Procurement Policies 20 Formulation of Business Continuity Plan (BCP) 20 Involving Suppliers in CSR-Oriented Procurement 20 Collaborating with Sales Partners 20 Community Involvement Basic Policies for Social Contribution Activities 21 Social Contribution Activities in Japan 21 Social Contribution Activities Overseas 22 Respecting Human Rights and Providing Equal Opportunities Respecting Human Rights 23 Promoting Diversity in Human Resources 23 Human Resources Development and Educational Programs 23 Balancing Work and Private Life 24 Communicating with Labor Unions 24 Occupational Health and Safety/Mental Health Management 24 Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 15 Policies and Activities for Improving Customer Satisfaction The Renesas Electronics Group listens to the voice of customers. Based on their feedback, the Company is implementing various measures required so that it can continue to offer products and services that achieve true customer satisfaction. By promoting business that embodies a strong awareness of responsibility for the quality of our products and services, as well as promoting strict adherence to a market-oriented approach rather than a technology-oriented approach, we are continuing to strengthen our customer service and support capabilities. Everything Starts with the Voice of Customers Basic Policies for Promoting Customer Satisfaction “The voice of customers” is the starting point for all of our business activities and helps us check and improve these activities. n Enhancing the Customer Satisfaction and Confidence in Renesas Electronics and Customers Contributing to the Creation of a Society That Provides Improved Quality of Life CS surveys TQRDC measurement Daily operations and assessment In promoting customer satisfaction, the Renesas Customer services and support Electronics Group follows the basic policies of: (1) providVoice of customers ing high-quality, high-performance semiconductors in a timely manner; and (2) offering semiconductor-based soluAccelerate CS activities tions that are developed with customers’ added-value creIncorporate Analyze/improve ation in mind. In line with these policies, all Renesas Reinforce foundations Electronics employees in development, fabrication, sales Development, production, sales and marketing, and administration are promoting their daily & marketing, administration for improving CS operations to better serve the Company’s customers. Customer Satisfaction Management Development, production, sales & marketing (Group companies) q Check Contact Centers CS surveys Identify issues n Providing Customers with Technical Information on Products and Their Use rDo w Action To help customers use its products safely, appropriately Everything starts and effectively, Renesas Electronics has established Corporate activities with the voice Solve issues Contact Centers. Through these Contact Centers, the of customers Company provides a variety of technical information on its products and their use. During fiscal 2010, the number of customer inquiries received by Renesas Technology and NEC Electronics totaled approximately 17,000. The Contact Centers are ePlan working to respond to these inquiries swiftly and accurately. Corporate image Opinions, requests and other inquiries received from Products/services customers are fed back to related divisions and offices, and these divisions and offices use them to improve their documentation and the Company’s Website. In particular, important matters, as well as other matters that are commonly found in inquiries, are compiled as frequently asked Customer Communication questions (FAQs). The FAQs are posted on the Company’s Website in line with efforts to enhance information disclon Always Aiming to Improve Customer sure. In addition, the FAQs are updated periodically, and Satisfaction through CS Surveys and their content is strengthened as needed. Other Means Contact Us (Website) Renesas Electronics constantly receives information on http://www.renesas.com/contact/contact_tech. customer needs from customers and sales partners. In html addition, the Company is working to acquire such information through annual CS surveys. Results of these surveys are analyzed from the five CS perspectives of “Technology,” “Quality,” “Responsiveness,” “Deliver y” and “Cost” (TQRDC). Findings from analyses are used to improve our products, services and business activities. 16 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Product Quality and Safety Improvement As a company specializing in semiconductors, Renesas Electronics develops and supplies extremely reliable, high-quality products based on leading-edge technologies. At the same time, with the aim of constantly improving customer satisfaction, the Company is working to enhance the total quality and safety of its products and services throughout the entire process, from design and manufacturing to support services. Policy for Product Quality Improvement Meanwhile, the Renesas Electronics Group uses a Companywide quality management system in the entire In accordance with its Quality Policy, which elaborates the production process, from development to manufacturing Top Management Commitment regarding product and and delivery. This approach has enabled the Company to service quality, Renesas Electronics sets quality objectives provide extremely reliable, high-quality products and serevery year. To achieve these objectives, divisions and officvices that achieve improved customer satisfaction. Also, es in development, manufacturing, and sales and marketthe Company supplies its products to many companies ing are implementing activities aimed at constantly involved with automobile production. In view of this, we use improving the total quality of their business processes. manufacturing tools that conform to automobile sector Social Responsibility Based on these objectives, individual business divistandards. Through these activities, we are continuing to sions and offices set prioritized semiannual projects for improve the quality of our products and services so that quality improvement, and they formulate and implement we are always able to accommodate the specific requireaction plans to accomplish these projects. The progress of ments of our customers. these action plans is checked at the end of each six-month At present, NEC Electronics and Renesas Technology period, and these action plans are reviewed, and adjusted have separately acquired the ISO9001 quality manageas necessary. Through this cycle, we are implementing ment system certification and the ISO/TS16949 automotive these action plans strategically. quality management system certification. The Renesas Electronics Group aims to acquire Groupwide certification under ISO9001 and ISO/TS16949 by 2011 through the Renesas Electronics Group integration of its quality management systems. Quality Policy ISO9001 Certificate ISO9001 Certificate We aim to deliver customer satisfaction and NEC Electronics Renesas Technology enhance society by providing highly reliable and high-quality products and services We abide by the following principles in all stages of our business activities—including sales, design, development and manufacturing—in accordance with our corporate quality management system. We will: • Comply with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements • Enhance product safety and trust • Commit to continuously improving the quality of products and services • Strive to continually improve our quality management system ISO/TS16949 Certificate ISO/TS16949 Certificate Quality Policy Implementation Process NEC Electronics Renesas Technology Top Management Commitment Quality Policy Quality Objectives Companywide Policy Implementation Business Divisions/Offices Activities to Constantly Improve the Total Quality Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 17 Activities to Improve Product Quality and Safety Renesas Electronics is working constantly to improve the ● Product Safety total quality of its products and services by setting quality indices in each of the development, manufacturing, and To promote the safe use of its products by customers, sales and marketing processes. The Company also coopRenesas Electronics undertakes various activities, includerates with industry groups to improve its quality manageing the preparation of appropriate product specifications ment systems so that the quality of its products can be and the provision of documents with accurate technical assured even after application by customers. These activiinformation and information pertaining to compliance with ties are complemented by our product safety risk assessenvironmental laws and regulations. ment, enabling us to comply with various laws and regulations. In this way, the Renesas Electronics Group is ● Commitment to Offering Products and Services promoting the development of products that are safe and That Our Customers Can Rely upon More than Ever reliable to use. In an effort to achieve the quality of products and services required by customers, we are working to soon generate ● Development Process new synergies through the integration of the technologies The Renesas Electronics Group is working continuously to and exper tise that NEC Electronics and Renesas develop advanced design and testing methods and Technology have accumulated. sophisticated evaluation technologies. These methods and technologies are required to respond to increasingly deliTotal Quality Improvement cate product design rules attributable to shrinking transistor dimensions and large-scale circuits. Meanwhile, the Company utilizes design reviews (DRs), which are conCustomers ducted at each key stage of the development process, to better focus on design changes and modifications. Moreover, with the aim of improving the quality of our software products, we are advancing efforts to standardize our software design methods while promoting advanced project management. Support Quality ● Manufacturing Process Total Quality To ensure the stable manufacture of semiconductors, Renesas Electronics is tackling constant improvements of “4M” (Man, Machine, Material and Method) management. Manufacturing At the same time, the Company is promoting qualityDesign Quality Quality focused manufacturing activities, which are underpinned by scientific process management and improvement activities at manufacturing frontlines. These activities are implemented at the Company’s business sites throughout the Compliance with Laws and Regulations, Including Those Relating world. In addition, we are managing the quality of our to the Environment (Product Safety/Environmental Quality) semiconductors comprehensively to ensure that defective products do not leave our manufacturing sites. This capability has been achieved through procedures to detect and correct abnormalities at an early stage in the manufacturing process. ● Customer Support Process Renesas Electronics supports its customers throughout the entire production process—from system development to distribution and maintenance—by effectively providing product information and solutions. Also, we have established a system to efficiently respond to customer inquiries so that they can use our products with confidence. As such, we are striving to improve the quality of our support services. 18 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Approach to Transparent Management As a corporate entity that values openness, the Renesas Electronics Group is working to improve the transparency of its management through timely and fair information disclosure and the promotion of proactive corporate communication. Investor Relations (IR) n Objectives of Our IR Activities Renesas Electronics practices the timely, fair and appropriate disclosure of important corporate information—such as management strategies and financial results—that may affect the investment decisions of its shareholders and other investors. In this way, the Company aims to build strong, trusting relationships with these stakeholders and, at the same time, improve management transparency. In addition to creating a favorable financing environment and raising its future corporate value, Renesas Electronics believes that IR activities have another imporSocial Responsibility tant objective: contributing to the enhancement of management quality. To accomplish this objective, we regularly report opinions on and assessments of capital markets— gathered through IR activities—to related divisions and offices so that they may make further improvements in Financial results meeting management quality. n Overview of Our IR Activities Shareholders’ Meetings Renesas Electronics continues to reinforce its IR Website to facilitate fair disclosure of information to all of its individn Open Shareholders’ Meetings ual and institutional investors and to other investors inside and outside Japan. Through its Website, the Company Renesas Electronics believes that shareholders’ meetings provides a variety of IR-related materials, including quarare an important occasion for direct dialogue with shareterly earnings reports and annual reports, as well as stock holders. Based on this belief, the Company makes every quotes and information on its IR events. In particular, mateeffort to organize these meetings so that it can take full rials used in the Company’s financial results meetings and advantage of such occasions. Specifically, we send out corporate strategy presentations hosted by the president convocation notices to all shareholders three weeks in for institutional investors and financial analysts are promptly advance. Moreover, we display exhibits at the meeting posted on our IR Website in both English and Japanese, venue that introduce our products and technologies. along with audio files of these meetings and presentations. Through these activities, we are working to ensure openAlso, in order to allow all stakeholders to better understand ness in our shareholders’ meetings. its activities, the Company has established special Website sections to introduce its technologies and CSR activities. By effectively organizing these Website sections, we are strengthening our corporate communication. In recognition of the proactive promotion of these activities, in September 2010, Renesas Electronics was included as one of 150 companies in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) operated by Morningstar Japan K.K. Notice of Shareholders’ Meeting Notice of Resolutions at IR Website Shareholders’ Meeting http://www.renesas.com/ir/ Notice of the 8th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (Website) http://www.renesas.com/ir/event/pdf/ meeting/08e_meeting.pdf Notice of Resolutions Adopted at the 8th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (Website) http://www.renesas.com/ir/event/pdf/ meeting/08e_resolution.pdf Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 19 Working Together with Suppliers and Sales Partners Renesas Electronics procures high-quality materials and services from global markets at reasonable prices within required delivery timelines. In this way, the Company not only strives to enhance its own corporate value, but also helps its customers and suppliers to enhance their corporate value. Procurement Policies Involving Suppliers in CSR-Oriented Procurement Renesas Electronics provides suppliers with equal opportunities for competition, while engaging in fair, impartial and The Renesas Electronics Group is promoting CSR-oriented open business transactions. Also, Renesas Electronics has procurement. always given priority to “Green Procurement,” which essentially means purchasing materials, equipment and services having minimum impact on the environment from suppliers n Disclosure of Requirements in CSR-Oriented who give extra consideration to environmental issues. In Procurement addition, the Company undertakes extensive CSR activities throughout the entire supply chain by incorporating compliThe Renesas Electronics Group believes that it must keep ance, risk-management and human-rights-protection perstrengthening cooperative relationships with its suppliers spectives into its environmental approach. We understand across the entire supply chain so that it can continue to that cooperation of all the partners involved in our supply provide products desired by customers and society. To this chain as well as close collaboration with these partners is end, the Company has prepared Guidelines for CSRthe key to successfully conducting these activities. Oriented Procurement, which lists the requirements that need to be satisfied by suppliers. These guidelines are posted on the Company’s Website. * These guidelines conform to the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guidebook, published by the Japan Electronics and Information Renesas Electronics Group Technology Industries Association (JEITA). Procurement Policies Promotion of CSR-Oriented Procurement (Website) 1. Provision of opportunities for fair competition We provide information on procurement in an appropriate and http://www.renesas.com/comp/procurement/csr. timely manner so as to offer opportunities for fair competition to html all domestic and overseas companies who express an interest in working with us. 2. Fair evaluation and selection of suppliers n Promotion of Green Procurement We employ a comprehensive supplier evaluation and selection process that considers: the reliability of the potential supplier’s Renesas Electronics is promoting green procurement. management; the prices, quality, delivery timelines and advanced Specifically, the Company prioritizes the procurement of technical features of the products and services to be procured; eco-friendly raw materials and others free of hazardous and the supplier’s CSR policies. substances, from suppliers who are proactively promoting 3. Development of mutual trust We value communication with our suppliers and always strive to environmental protection. form relationships of mutual trust which will grow stronger in the Requirements to be met by suppliers have been comyears to come. piled as Green Procurement Guidelines. These guidelines 4. Management and protection of information are disclosed to all suppliers. In addition, Renesas We recognize the value of the information that we obtain through Electronics conducts periodic investigations on the enviour procurement transactions, and we manage it appropriately. ronmental measures implemented by suppliers. Furthermore, the Company performs examinations of suppliers’ products to confirm that these products comply with the European Union’s RoHS Directive and other environmental laws and regulations. These examinations are promoted based on the understanding and cooperation of Formulation of Business Continuity Plan our suppliers. (BCP) Renesas Electronics requests its suppliers to notify it Collaborating with Sales Partners immediately in the event that they are affected by natural disasters or major accidents. The Company has a system In order to provide more meticulous services in regions in place to ensure that information from suppliers in such throughout Japan and around the globe, Renesas an event reaches all the concerned employees both in Electronics is promoting sales activities in cooperation with Japan and overseas, regardless of when the event sales partners, in addition to carrying out direct sales of its occurred. Based on this system, the employees in quesproducts through its local sales subsidiaries. tion take appropriate measures in a swift manner. Specifically, in Japan, Renesas Electronics holds meetings with executives of distributors at least once a year. At Renesas Electronics Website for Suppliers these meetings, we share the Company’s policies and the http://www.renesas.com/comp/procurement/ policies of each business unit, while exchanging opinions policy.html and information. Fur thermore, the Company holds working-level meetings with staff members of distributors once a month to provide information regarding future product lineups and technologies. In this way, we continue to strengthen mutual understanding. 20 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Outside Japan, Renesas Electronics holds “Distributor Meanwhile, the Company uses opinions and feedback Meetings” at least once a year and management-level provided by its overseas sales partners through these quarterly review meetings with distributors in order to conmeetings for promoting deeper understanding of its techfirm local sales policies and solve region-specific problems nologies, products and solutions among customers. More in an effective manner. The Company also holds regular specifically, we hold annual semiconductor seminars in meetings with sales personnel more frequently than the Tokyo, Osaka and other locations in Japan while staging above-mentioned meetings to tackle individual business the Renesas Developers’ Conference (DevCon) in the issues that arise in the course of their operations. In addiUnited States and the Industrial Open Day (IOD) in Europe tion, content and outcome of the meetings with distributors once every two years through collaboration with our overheld in Japan is shared with their local subsidiaries, and seas sales partners. such information is deliberated upon at regular meetings to As explained above, the Renesas Electronics Group is solve region-specific issues. constantly strengthening its partnerships with sales partners to enhance its sales activities strategically. Community Involvement Social Responsibility The Renesas Electronics Group is promoting various social contribution activities in regions where it conducts business. In so doing, and to fulfill its responsibility as a corporate citizen, the Company endeavors to develop systems that enable its employees to engage in such activities in a sustainable manner. Basic Policies for Social Contribution n Wheelchair Repair and Cleaning at Nursing Activities Home (Takasaki Factory) The Renesas Electronics Group’s Basic Policies for Social Employees of the Takasaki Factory visit a local nursing Contribution Activities are as follows. home every May to repair and clean the wheelchairs used (1) As a good corporate citizen, the Renesas Electronics there. Through this volunteer activity in 2009, a total of 70 Group shall work to preserve the global environment, wheelchairs were repaired and cleaned. which is closely related to the sustainability of the semiconductor industry, and make meaningful contributions to society. (2) As it pursues business on a global scale, the Renesas Electronics Group shall promote social contribution activities that help to improve its corporate image. (3) The Renesas Electronics Group shall implement social contribution activities through cooperation with its stakeholders in order to enhance its brand value. Social Contribution Activities in Japan n Lake Biwa Reed Mowing n Support for the Education of Coming (Renesas Kansai Semiconductor Co., Ltd.) Generations Every January, Renesas Kansai Semiconductor partici(Nippon Building Headquarters) pates in a reed-field preservation program, hosted by the Otsu City government. Through this program in fiscal 2010, During the summer vacation period every year, Renesas employee volunteers mowed withered reed on a Electronics hosts a “Make Your Own LED Lantern” seminar 4,000-square-meter reed field around the Activa Biwa for elementary school students. At this event, the Company nursing home near Lake Biwa. provides participating students with their own microcontroller kit. Also, the Company supports the holding of the “Micom Car Rally Competition.” We support this nationwide contest featuring self-propelled model cars that use the Company’s microcontrollers. The contest is hosted by the Hokkaido government and the National Association of Principals of Technical Senior High Schools, with the Company providing the microcontroller boards and motors used in the automatic model cars and other equipment used for the event. Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 21 Social Contribution Activities Overseas n “Giving Tree” Program n Other Social Contribution Activities (Renesas Electronics America Inc.) North America As part of its “Giving Tree” program, employees of Renesas Renesas Electronics America Inc. Electronics America Inc. handcrafted blankets using their (1) The Company supported employees who participated lunchtime and donated these blankets to an orphanage in the “Novi Walking for 28-Hours Marathon” through that is taking care of 45 orphans. the Relay for Life program of the American Cancer Society. (2) The Company provided charitable contributions and foodstuff to families in need, matching the level of donations collected from employees. (3) The Company donated backpacks filled with school supplies to underprivileged children through a church. (4) Employees participated in a home remodeling project for needy families. Asia Renesas Electronics Singapore Pte. Ltd. (1) Employees participated in the Marathon Singapore n Provision of Support for Sichuan Junior High 2009 charity event. (2) The Company held the Renesas Green Hour 2009 to School Students clean the seacoast nearby. (Renesas Electronics (China) Co., Ltd.) Renesas Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Since the Sichuan Ear thquake in 2008, Renesas (1) The Company implemented the Continuous Support Electronics (China) Co., Ltd. has provided support to the Program for needy students. Puyang Junior High School located in Dujiangyan, Sichuan (2) The Company made donations to victims of the Haiti Province. In September 2009, the company made charitaEarthquake. ble contributions, which covered the six-month tuition for all 32 students of the school, while also contributing staRenesas Electronics Hong Kong Limited tionary and books. (1) The Company received a Caring Company Award from Among employee volunteers, 32 employees have been the Hong Kong Council of Social Service in recognition selected, and each of them exchanges letters with a stuof its community-oriented activities. dent counterpart as a means of providing psychological (2) The Company received an Award for WasteWise from support. To fund these activities, the company collected Hong Kong’s Environmental Protection Department in charitable donations from its employees. recognition of its activities for environmental protection and waste reduction. Renesas Electronics Taiwan Co., Ltd. (1) The Company made charitable contributions to the Red Cross. (2) The Company donated used clothing. * For more information on our social contribution activities relating to the environment, please refer to pages 43 and 44 of this report. Community Involvement (Website) http://www.renesas.com/comp/csr/social/ 22 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Respecting Human Rights and Providing Equal Opportunities Renesas Electronics is working to create workplaces where all of its employees can fully exert their capabilities through effective communications and trust-based relationships. Respecting Human Rights Promoting Diversity in Human Resources Both the Renesas Electronics Group CSR Charter and the Renesas Electronics is strengthening initiatives to promote Renesas Electronics Group Code of Conduct clearly state human resource diversity. It is, without question, important that the Renesas Electronics Group shall respect human to recruit people so that they can—regardless of nationalirights in hiring, human resources development, employee ty, gender or physical constitution—apply their individual treatment and all other aspects of employment, while elimicapabilities to contribute to society. This is a prerequisite nating any discrimination based on race, belief, gender, for ever y company. Fur thering this idea, Renesas age, social position, family origin, nationality, ethnicity, reliElectronics continues to create employee-friendly, pleasant gion, or physical and mental disability, to ensure that all of workplaces by placing particular focus on human resource its employees are treated equally. Also, the charter and the diversity. For example, we are promoting the hiring of more code of conduct clearly prohibit sexual harassment as well female employees and people with disabilities. as forced labor and child labor. We make sure that all of As of June 1, 2010, Renesas Electronics’ rate of our Group companies, which are promoting global operaemployment of people with physical disabilities stood at Social Responsibility tions, are familiar with these principles. In line with these 1.99%, compared with the 1.8% threshold set by the govprinciples, all Renesas Electronics Group companies must ernment. The entire Renesas Electronics Group is steadily not only comply with relevant laws and regulations, but increasing the employment of such employees. To create also implement educational and awareness-raising proworkplaces friendly to them—in other words, to allow them grams on human rights and other related subjects. to use facilities within the Company’s offices and other More specifically, Renesas Electronics has established business sites with ease—the Company is considering the a Companywide Human Rights Awareness Committee, development of barrier-free environments through new which is chaired by a director in charge of personnel affairs construction and renewal projects. and includes general managers of individual divisions and offices. This committee holds meetings twice a year, and Human Resources Development and at these meetings committee members deliberate on and approve related action plans while promoting the impleEducational Programs mentation of these action plans. In addition, the committee In order for Renesas Electronics to achieve sustainable works to raise employee awareness of human rights growth and contribute to society, each of the Company’s through new employee and position-specific training proemployees must continue to develop his or her skills and grams and e-training programs for all employees as well as capabilities and effectively leverage them. As an organizavarious events held during Human Rights Week every year. tion that promotes human resources development on a Meanwhile, the Company is striving to prevent sexual Groupwide scale, Renesas Electronics has established a harassment by raising employee awareness through the Companywide Human Resource Development Committee. presentation of specific examples. Also, we have launched This committee holds meetings twice a year, and at these an in-house service for consultations on equal treatment meetings committee members formulate human resources and other issues. Posters are put up on bulletin boards to development policies (incorporating a global perspective), inform employees of this service. In this way, we are implement specific measures and perform budget allocaendeavoring to create an environment that facilitates contion, among other activities. Also, each of our sites has sultation and enables appropriate responses to the conestablished its own Human Resource Development cerns of our employees. Committee. These committees promote measures specific to their operations and responsibilities in accordance with the policies formulated by the Companywide Human Resource Development Committee. Companywide Training Programs Project Managers to New Employees Section Chiefs Managers and above Project Leaders New employee training New manager training Mentor introduction training New section chief training First-year review training Leadership training Position-Specific Training New section chief training Basic management training Training outcome reporting Advanced manager training Trainers’ training Advanced section chief training Second-year employee interview New general manager training Specialized courses (approx. 90 courses) Technology Basic course Skills check trials, system/embedded software training, digital circuitry training, analog circuitry training, system LSI Training Patent training design/comprehensive fabrication training Skills Training Sales case-study training, practical sales training, sales skills training, technical knowledge training (approx. 80 courses), Sales Training negotiation skills training, customer support skills training Technical Fabrication leader training, maintenance New core staff training Training engineer training, in-house skills test Studying-abroad program, OJT, International Training overseas expatriate program Advanced English education, in-house English test Business Skills Training Schooling support (universities, business schools, etc.), logical-thinking/presentation training General Training RISM training, library of books recommended by executives, CSR education Self-Development Support Online study (languages, skills, qualifications), language training (English, Chinese) Career Development Support Career training Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 23 Balancing Work and Private Life n Mental Health Management With the aim of supporting employees in balancing their We are living in a high-stress society today. In such a sociwork life and private life, while exerting their full capabilities ety, it is important to maintain not only physical health, but at work, Renesas Electronics carries out various familyalso mental health. In view of this, the Renesas Electronics friendly measures. These measures are implemented in the Group considers measures to promote mental health as a form of flexible work conditions, leave systems and benefit paramount management issue and is consequently proplans. moting various activities in this regard. For example, our employees are allowed to use their Specifically, Renesas Electronics has established conpaid holidays for various purposes, such as attending volsultation windows available to all employees who seek unteer activities, receiving medical care for injuries and disdiagnosis and counseling by industrial physicians, occupaeases and participating in school events with their children. tional health nurses and contract counselors. Also, in cooperation with occupational health staff, the Company provides those employees who have taken long-term Communicating with Labor Unions leaves due to mental health problems with support to Renesas Electronics holds labor-management meetings enable them to come back to work. twice a year with the Renesas Electronics Labor Union, to The Company periodically offers mental health educawhich its employees belong, to exchange frank opinions tion programs to managerial employees as part of efforts on management policies and business conditions. In addito establish a mental health management structure based tion, committees consisting of representatives of employon lines of command. Through these educational proees and management are promoting activities aimed at grams, managerial employees strive to raise their own preventing long working hours, improving working condiawareness of workplace mental healthcare. At the same tions and supporting the development of employees who time, managerial employees work to promote mental selfwill play an important role in achieving the future growth of care among their subordinates by, for example, encouragthe Company. In this way, Renesas Electronics is helping ing the use of a simplified stress check system. Also, the to build stable labor-management relations. Company includes subjects relating to mental health in Similar efforts are being made by the workers’ unions various training programs. Through these initiatives, and management teams of Group companies in Japan. At Renesas Electronics is endeavoring to remain a company overseas Group companies, management teams exchange where all employees can better maintain their health and opinions on working conditions and other matters with work with vigor and enthusiasm. workers’ union representatives or employee representaIn addition, the Company has established consultation tives based on laws and regulations in their respective windows for employees who have been assigned to overcountries. seas locations and their family members in the belief that working and living overseas may entail a significant mental burden. When these employees and their family members Occupational Health and Safety/ return to Japan, we provide them with opportunities to Mental Health Management receive both physical and mental health checkups. We will continue to implement measures that enable In line with the basic policy, “Renesas Electronics shall prothe early detection and treatment of mental health probtect the safety and health of its employees and work to lems while reinforcing activities aimed at preventing such realize employee-friendly, safe workplace environments,” problems in employees. the Company is implementing various measures. n Occupational Health and Safety The Renesas Electronics Group recognizes the protection of employees’ safety and health and the creation of Supervisor Occupational Health Staff rewarding, employee-friendly workplace environments as the basis of its corporate activities. Accordingly, the Company is promoting various activities aimed at ensuring Consult occupational health and safety. More specifically, a Companywide Safety and Health Conference—consisting of occupational health and safety officers at individual business sites and Group companies— Support Health Management Center has formulated the Renesas Electronics Group Disaster Prevention and Occupational Health and Safety Management Policy. Based on this policy, the occupational health and Approach Consult Patient Information Name Age safety officers organize related activities. Meanwhile, the Status All information related to the patient condition patologies and other significant data. Company is promoting the sharing of information relating to Observations occupational health and safety within the Group. Such inforConsult mation is utilized to prevent disasters and reinforce the Group’s occupational health and safety activities. Counseling Rooms Specific activities to ensure occupational safety include risk assessment conducted by employees. Through risk Cooperate assessment processes, disaster risks are identified, and Employee possible countermeasures are prepared. These processes are helping us prevent disasters and accidents. Consult In the area of occupational health, we are strengthening activities primarily aimed at fostering mental health, safeguarding against overwork, and maintaining and improving health. Medical Institutions Medical Specialists (Third Parties) 24 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Environmental Preservation Environmental Policy 26 Scope of Environmental Reporting 26 Eco-Management Initiative Four Environmental Cornerstones of Renesas Electronics 27 Renesas Electronics Group’s Business Activities and Their Environmental Footprint 27 Environmental Plan and Fiscal 2010 Results 28 Ensuring Compliance with Environmental Regulations 29 Environmental Accounting 30 ISO14001 Certification 32 Eco-Factories Initiative Reducing GHG Emissions 33 Global Warming Prevention through Energy Saving 34 Environmental Measures in Logistics Operations 35 Chemical Substance Management 36 Water Resource Saving 37 Environmental Preservation Waste Management 37 PCB Waste Management 37 Protecting the Ozone Layer 37 Environmental Activities at Overseas Production Bases 38 Eco-Products Initiative Creation of Eco-Friendly Products 39 Contributing to Global Energy-Saving Efforts through Semiconductors 40 Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations 41 Environmental Quality of Products 41 Eco-Communication Initiative Environmental Education 42 Communication and Social Contribution 43 External Recognitions 45 Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 25 Environmental Policy We will contribute to the harmonization of society and the environment in the course of our business activities. Action Guidelines 1. We will incorporate environmental considerations into all stages of the product life cycle, including research & development, design, procurement, production, sale, logistics, use and disposal. 2. We will strive to prevent pollution as well as to minimize the impact of our products on the environment. When environmental problems arise, we will take appropriate steps to minimize the environmental impact and disclose accurate information. 3. Our environmental management efforts will involve compliance with all environmental laws, regulations and agreements, and we will promote compliance activities. 4. We will disclose environmental information to stakeholders and encourage communication with society for the purpose of promoting mutual understanding. 5. We will educate all employees in environmental conservation to create a company culture that promotes the harmonization of the environment and business activities. Scope of Environmental Reporting 【Reporting Period】 April 1, 2009 – March 31, 2010 【Applicable Organizations】 ＜Japan＞ ＜Overseas＞ Renesas Electronics Corporation Renesas Electronics America Inc. Renesas Electronics Sales Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Canada Limited Renesas Solutions Corp. Renesas Electronics Europe Limited Renesas Micro Systems Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Europe GmbH Renesas Design Corp. Renesas Electronics (China) Co., Ltd. Renesas Northern Japan Semiconductor, Inc. Renesas Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Haguro Electronics Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Hong Kong Limited Hokkai Electronics Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Taiwan Co., Ltd. Renesas Yamagata Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Singapore Pte. Ltd. Renesas Naka Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Renesas Electronics Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Renesas Eastern Japan Semiconductor, Inc. Renesas Semiconductor Design (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Renesas Kofu Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor Design (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Renesas High Components, Inc. Renesas System Solutions Korea Co., Ltd. Renesas Yanai Semiconductor, Inc. Renesas Electronics America Inc. Roseville Factory Renesas Kansai Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor Kyushu Yamaguchi Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Renesas Kyushu Semiconductor Corp. Shougang Renesas Electronics Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor Engineering Corp. Renesas Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. Renesas Takasaki Engineering Services Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd Renesas Musashi Engineering Services Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor (Kedah) Sdn. Bhd. Renesas Kitaitami Engineering Services Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor Technology (M) Sdn. Bhd. Nippon Denshi Light Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor KL Sdn. Bhd. 【Guidelines Used】 【Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR Website】 Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2007 http://www.renesas.com/comp/eco / (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) 【Inquiries】 Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 Environment Promotion Department, Production and Technology Unit, (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) Renesas Electronics Corporation E-mail: cepo@renesas.com 26 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Eco-Management Initiative Renesas Electronics believes that environmental issues have a direct impact on the sustainable development of its business. Based on this belief, the Company is promoting all business activities so that it can contribute to promoting harmony between the human race and the environment. Four Environmental Cornerstones of Renesas Electronics (1) Eco-Management Initiative, aimed at ensuring compliters relating to these initiatives. Meanwhile, the ance with laws and regulations and promoting overall Environmental Promotion Meeting, which is chaired by a environmental management director in charge of environmental issues, promulgates (2) Eco-Factories Initiative, aimed at reducing the environrelated activities throughout the Company. mental load of manufacturing sites through the reduction of greenhouse gasses (GHG) and the appropriate Environmental Management Meeting management of chemical substances in manufacturing processes (chaired by the president) (3) E co-Products Initiative, aimed at supplying eco-friendly semiconductors to which environmental considerations are given throughout their lifecycles, including the conEnvironmental Promotion Meeting trol of chemical substances contained in products and the achievement of higher energy-saving performance (chaired by the director in charge of environmental issues) (4) Eco-Communication Initiative, aimed at strengthening employee awareness through environmental education and disseminating environmental information to society Renesas Electronics is accelerating environmental Eco-Management Eco-Factories Eco-Products Eco-Communication • Overall • Environmental • Eco-friendly • Information management—involving all business units, executives and environmental load reduction at product disclosure and employees—underpinned by the four environmental initiamanagement manufacturing development internal tives just outlined. • Compliance with sites, others dissemination Environmental Preservation laws and The Environmental Management Meeting, which is regulations chaired by the president, makes decisions regarding matRenesas Electronics Group’s Business Activities and Their Environmental Footprint The Renesas Electronics Group is promoting business activicreate a significant environmental load, generating exhaust ties in such a way that it can better contribute to the preservagasses, wastewater, industrial waste and others. tion of the global environment. Specifically, the Company is Therefore, the Group is working to quantitatively grasp the providing eco-friendly semiconductors to enable its custominput and output of these materials and other matters, thereers—often finished product manufacturers—to develop energyby accurately identifying problems in terms of material baland resource-saving products. ance. Based on the findings, we are strategically implementing However, the Renesas Electronics Group inevitably uses initiatives aimed at reducing the environmental load of our chemical substances and other materials and components, production activities. The Renesas Electronics Group is comas well as electricity, fuels, water and other types of energy mitted to using limited resources and energy in an effective and resources. Such production activities consequently manner and to offering eco-friendly products efficiently. Fiscal 2010 Overview of Material Balance Scope of caluclation: Japan A-heavy oil/ Electricity kerosene Fuel (city gas) Chemicals Water Paper 2,726GWh 18,665kℓ 28,505,000m3 1,839t 43,643,000m3 213t (PRTR-regulated substances) Input Products Output CO2 Wastewater Waste 1,159,000t 18,184,000m3 188t (from energy use) (for landfil disposal) Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 27 Environmental Plan and Fiscal 2010 Results n Fiscal 2010 Results n Fiscal 2011 Plan We promoted activities focusing on the prevention of global Renesas Electronics will accelerate activities in the newly deswarming and the development of eco-friendly products. ignated four types of environmental initiatives described below. ● Eco-Management Initiative ● Eco-Management Initiative ◎ We strengthened the internal exchange of environmen◎ We will further promote the exchange of environmental information and environmental awareness-raising tal information among our manufacturing sites and activities. Also, we worked to help environmental activistrengthen our environmental management systems. ties take hold in non-manufacturing sites. ● Eco-Factories Initiative ◎ We reviewed materials used for environmental education while enhancing environmental education for ◎ We will continue to reduce CO2 emissions attributable to employees in manufacturing and technology divisions. energy use through energy-saving activities while decreasing the use of PFCs and VOCs to reduce their emissions. ● Eco-Factories Initiative ◎ We will continue to replace the chillers that use speci◎ We implemented various activities aimed at helping fied CFCs in order to protect the ozone layer. prevent global warming. Specifically, we promoted energy saving to reduce CO2 emissions attributable ◎ We will work to reduce waste generation and keep to energy use and decreased PFC* 1 emissions our landfill disposal rate at 1% or lower. through the introduction of PFC abatement systems. ● Eco-Products Initiative ◎ In the area of reducing the emission of specified ◎ To keep providing products that our customers can CFCs,*2 we have promoted the replacement of chillers use with a sense of security, we will continue to conwith those that do not use CFCs. However, as we duct environmental assessments of our products in postponed related investments during fiscal 2010, we the design and development stages and strictly were not able to achieve our CFC reduction target. observe regulations governing chemical substance ● Eco-Products Initiative use in the production stage. ◎ We bolstered the promotion of eco-friendly products. ◎ We will also continue to closely monitor the addition In particular, we expanded the lineup of halogen-free and changes of chemical substances for statutory or products. Also, before its merger with NEC Electronics, voluntary restrictions and swiftly adjust to them. Inc., Renesas Technology Corporation established a Fiscal 2011 Targets system for internally certifying eco-friendly products. Purpose Category Reference FY11 Target ◎ We have swiftly modified our products in line with CO2 emissions regulatory changes, such as the addition of certain Global warming reduction (per unit of FY91 level 65% or chemical substances regulated under the REACH prevention actual production lower Regulation.*3 In addition, we have improved our sysvolume) tem for responding to inquiries from customers PFC emissions Global warming Keep 90% regarding our products and regulatory changes. reduction (GWPCY95 level prevention or lower equivalent) NEC Electronics: Fiscal 2010 Results Air pollution VOC emissions Keep 70% FY10 FY10 FY01 level Category Reference Evaluation prevention reduction or lower Target Result CO2 emissions Replacement of reduction (per unit of 76% or Ozone layer chillers using FY91 level 60% ○ ̶ Continue actual production lower protection specified CFC volume)*4 refrigerants PFC emissions Landfil disposal rate Keep at less 60% or Waste reduction of less than 1% or ̶ than 1% or reduction (GWP*5CY95 level 33% ○ lower lower lower equivalent) Specified CFC 94% or reduction (chillers) ̶ higher 91% × ● Eco-Communication Initiative ◎ We will continue to disclose information regarding our Renesas Technology: Fiscal 2010 Results environmental activities through the publication of an FY10 FY10 annual CSR and Environmental Report and our Category Reference Evaluation Website. In addition, we will reinforce CSR and enviTarget Result CO2 emissions ronmental content on our Website. 50% or reduction (per unit of FY91 level lower by 68% ̶ ◎ We will strengthen our environmental and social conactual production 2012 tribution activities to enhance our collaboration with volume) stakeholders. PFC emissions Keep *1: P  erfluorocompound. The semiconductor industry has specified CHF3, reduction (GWPCY95 level 90% or 36% ○ CF4, C2F6, C3F8, C4F8, SF6 and NF3 for emissions reduction. equivalent) lower *2: Chlorofluorocarbons *3: Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Keep Chemicals of the EU VOC*6 emissions *4: C  O2 emissions per unit of actual production volume = CO2 emissions ÷ FY01 level level with 41% ○ (Production volume ÷ Annual revenue adjusted by an index for electric reduction FY09 and electronic businesses compiled by the Bank of Japan) CO2 emissions of domestic business sites and factories *5: G  lobal warming potential, a measure of how much a given mass of greenhouse gas is estimated to contribute to global warming *6: Volatile organic compounds 28 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Ensuring Compliance with Environmental Regulations As part of their efforts to maintain effective internal control, From fiscal 2011 (the first year after the merger of these both NEC Electronics and Renesas Technology have contwo companies) onward, Renesas Electronics will continue tinued to audit their business sites, in-house companies to conduct environmental audits that the two companies and affiliates to monitor the status of compliance with laws had separately performed as “environmental compliance and regulations applicable to semiconductor manufacturaudits” for its business sites and Group companies. ers as well as the status of preparations of emergency During fiscal 2010, none of the business sites, in-house response measures. During fiscal 2010, NEC Electronics companies and affiliates of NEC Electronics and Renesas and Renesas Technology each audited six of their busiTechnology received orders to pay fines or surcharges in ness premises, for a total of 12. connection with environmental accidents or incidents. Also, none of them were involved in environmental lawsuits. Environmental Preservation Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 29 Environmental Accounting Renesas Electronics’s environmental accounting for fiscal validity of the costs required for environmental conserva2010 covered the period from April 1, 2009 to March 31, tion activities, making effective investments and assessing 2010. In data calculation and presentation, the Company the results of such investments. These steps help the followed the 2005 Environmental Accounting Guidelines Company to achieve harmony between its business activiissued by the Ministry of the Environment. ties and environmental conservation. The following tables Semiconductor businesses, by nature, can have a sigshow the fiscal 2010 results of environmental accounting nificant impact on the environment. Therefore, Renesas for NEC Electronics and Renesas Technology separately. Electronics recognizes the importance of clarifying the n Results for NEC Electronics Environmental Conservation Costs Effects Category/Subcategory Description Capital Economic Effects Environmental Impact Investment Costs (¥ million) (¥ million) Reduction (¥ million) Global Warming Global warming prevention 24 10 174 161,342t-CO2 Prevention Reduction of the use of chemical substances, materials, Efficient Resource Use 0 20 301 49,931t water, etc. Within Business Sites Resource Recycling Waste recycling, waste reduction, etc. 2 971 325 4,505t Pollution prevention measures, compliance measures, Risk Management establishment of chemical substance and waste 144 1,326 2 ― management systems, etc. Upstream/ Environmental Downstream Considerations in Assessment of products and production processes 0 20 ― ― Processes Products Environmental Management Activities Activities Personnel costs, personnel training costs 0 385 ― ― Development of technologies to reduce environmental impact R&D of products 0 0 ― ― Social Contribution Activities Social contribution, information disclosure, greening 0 22 ― ― Fines and surcharges in line with the scale and degree of Environmental Damage (others) pollution ― 1 ― ― Total 170 2,755 802 ― 〉〉〉Capital Investment… N E C E l e c t r o n i c s i n v e s t e d 〉〉〉Costs… NEC Electronics incurred environmental conapproximately ¥170 million in servation costs totaling ¥2,750 million in fiscal pollution prevention and other 2010. Major components included waste proactivities during fiscal 2010. cessing, factory management, and depreciaSpecifically, NEC Electronics tion and amortization. renewed pollutant monitoring equipment and upgraded the ● Resource recycling 35% auxiliary drainage facilities of its ● Risk management 48% production sites. Capital Investment Costs ● Management activities 14% ¥170 million ● Global warming prevention 14% ¥2,760 million ● Others 3% ● Resource recycling 1% ● Risk management 85% Within business sites Within business sites 〉〉〉Economic Effects… NEC Electronics enjoyed economic 〉〉〉Five-Year Data… The graph below shows the trends of effects totaling ¥800 million due to capital investment, costs and ecoits environmental conservation nomic effects over the five-year period activities during fiscal 2010. Major from fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2010. components included ¥310 million proceeds from the sales of recyclables and others and a ¥200 million effect of decreased use of (¥ million) 5,000 chemical substances. Economic effects excluded de facto effects 4,000 based on hypothetical calculations. ● Global warming prevention 22% 3,000 ● Efficient resource use 38% Economic Effects 2,000 ● Resource recycling 40% ¥800 million ● Risk management 0% 1,000 Within business sites 0 06 07 08 09 10 ■ Capital investment ■ Costs ■ Economic effects (FY) 30 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation n Results for Renesas Technology Environmental Conservation Costs Effects Category/Subcategory Description Capital Economic Effects Environmental Impact Investment Costs (¥ million) (¥ million) Reduction (¥ million) Pollution Prevention Pollution prevention (air, water, etc.) 37 2,099 25 Global Environment Energy-saving measures, global warming prevention, etc. 297 898 1,184 Within Business Sites Conservation Efficient use of resources through waste reduction, water Resource Recycling 1 579 1,000 saving, recycling Green procurement, product assessment, recovery and Upstream/Downstream Processes 33 34 298 recycling of packaging materials Energy use reduction Maintenance and administration of environmental Management Activities ― 524 ― 62.0GWh management systems, environmental education, etc. R&D for reducing environmental impact of products and R&D ― 11 ― production processes Local volunteer activities, donations and assistance to Social Contribution Activities ― 1 ― environmental organizations Cleanup of pollution (soil, groundwater, etc.) compensation in Environmental Damage ― ― ― connection with environmental conservation, etc. Total 368 4,146 2,507 ― 〉 〉〉Capital investment… During fiscal 2010, Renesas 〉 〉〉Costs… Renesas Technology incurred environmental Technology invested approxiconservation costs totaling ¥4,150 million durmately ¥370 million in global ing fiscal 2010. Pollution prevention activities environment conservation and included water pollution prevention, totaling Environmental Preservation other activities. Global environ¥1,350 million, and air pollution prevention, mental conservation activities totaling ¥670 million. included energy-saving measures, totaling ¥270 million, and PFC reduction measures, totaling ¥20 million. ● Pollution prevention 51% ● Global environment conservation 22% ● Pollution prevention 10% Capital Investment Costs ● Resource recycling 14% ● Global environmental conservation 80% ● Management activities 13% ¥370 million ● Resource recycling 1% ¥4,150 million ● Upstream/downstream processes 9% Within business sites Within business sites 〉 〉〉Economic effects… Totaling ¥2,510 million, economic 〉 〉〉Five-Year Data… The graph below shows the trends of effects included ¥1,100 million capital investment, costs and ecoproceeds from the sales of recynomic effects over the five-year period clables and others and ¥1,410 milfrom fiscal 2006 to fiscal 2010. lion in cost reductions. Renesas Technology reduced electricity use by 62.0 GWh through energys av ing me a sure s. Ec onomic effects excluded de facto effects (¥ million) based on hypothetical calcula7,000 tions. 6,000 5,000 ● Pollution prevention 1% ● Global environment conservation 47% 4,000 ● Resource recycling 40% 3,000 Economic Effects ● Upstream/downstream processes 12% 2,000 ¥2,510 million 1,000 Within business sites 0 06 07 08 09 10 ■ Capital investment ■ Costs ■ Economic effects (FY) Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 31 ISO14001 Certification ISO14001 Alternative Audits The Renesas Electronics Group has acquired the Official internal environmental audits in place of external ISO14001 audits ISO14001 environmental management system certification for all of its domestic business sites, all of its overseas Audit of Secretariat manufacturing sites and principal overseas sales bases. Environment Promotion JQA Department (Secretariat) Before the merger of Renesas Technology and NEC at Headquarters (External Auditing Body) Electronics, the latter had conducted Groupwide internal environmental management audits for its subsidiaries and Environmental Management Verify independent affiliates in Japan. These internal audits had Audits (Internal Audits) Witness (Direct Audits) served as official alternative means of attaining ISO14001 *Must be of the same quality certification by external auditing bodies. Through such as external ISO14001 audits Sampling alternative audits, NEC Electronics acquired the integrated ISO14001 certification for all of its domestic business sites. Domestic Group Companies Audit/ Registration Registration Code Registration Date Body Tamagawa Sales Office, Sagamihara Sales Office JQA-EM3490* JQA 2003.11.1 Nippon Building Headquarters EC05J0320 JACO 2006.2.1 Musashi Factory EC98J2020 JACO 1996.3.26 Takasaki Factory EC98J2024 JACO 1996.3.27 Renesas Electronics Naka Factory EC97J1025 JACO 1997.6.23 Corporation Kofu Factory EC99J2011 JACO 1996.7.22 Kita-Itami Factory EC06J0158 JACO 2006.10.18 Saijo Factory EC97J1038 JACO 1997.7.28 Kochi Factory EC97J1026 JACO 1997.6.23 Renesas Yamagata Semiconductor Co., Ltd. JQA-EM3490* JQA 2003.11.1 Renesas Kansai Semiconductor Co., Ltd. JQA-EM3490* JQA 2003.11.1 Renesas Semiconductor Kyushu Yamaguchi Co., Ltd. JQA-EM3490* JQA 2003.11.1 Renesas Northern Japan Semiconductor, Inc. (Tsugaru Factory) EC98J1043 JACO 1998.8.25 Renesas Northern Japan Semiconductor, Inc. (Hakodate Factory) EC97J1201 JACO 1998.2.24 Renesas Northern Japan Semiconductor, Inc. (Yonezawa Factory) EC97J1168 JACO 1998.1.27 Domestic Manufacturing Haguro Electronics Co., Ltd. 1556-2000-AE-KOB-RvA DNV 2000.2.18 Companies Renesas Eastern Japan Semiconductor, Inc. EC97J1006 JACO 1997.4.21 Renesas High Components, Inc. EC97J1006 JACO 1997.4.21 Renesas Yanai Semiconductor, Inc. EC97J1006 JACO 1997.4.21 Renesas Kyushu Semiconductor Corp. EC98J1030 JACO 1998.7.28 Renesas Kitaitami Engineering Services Co., Ltd. EC02J0168 JACO 2002.9.25 Nippon Denshi Light Co., Ltd. EC04J0445 JACO 2005.2.11 Domestic Design Company Renesas Micro Systems Co., Ltd. JQA-EM3490* JQA 2003.11.1 Application Technologies Renesas Solutions Corp. 04441 MIC 2007.12.7 Company Domestic Sales Company Renesas Electronics Sales Co., Ltd. JMAQA-E766 JMAQA 2001.5.16 Shougang Renesas Electronics Co., Ltd. A16067 UL 2007.3.19 Renesas Electronics America Inc. Roseville Factory A12645 UL 2004.3.3 Renesas Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. 2000-0096 PSB 2000.5.26 Overseas Manufacturing Renesas Semiconductor KL Sdn. Bhd. ER0118 SIRIM 2010.4.3 Companies Renesas Semiconductor (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 02108E10194R2M CCCI 2002.8.15 Renesas Semiconductor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 02110E10218R3M CCCI 2000.12.30 Renesas Semiconductor (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ER0106 SIRIM 1997.8.29 Renesas Electronics (China) Co., Ltd. A16808 UL 2008.2.21 Renesas Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. A16950 UL 2008.3.2 Renesas Electronics Hong Kong Limited 20002036UM UL 2009.1.19 Overseas Sales Companies Renesas Electronics Taiwan Co., Ltd. TW04/00558EM SGS 2004.10.14 Renesas Electronics Singapore Pte. Ltd. SG04/00587 SGS 2004.12.2 Renesas Electronics Europe GmbH 421504 UM DQS 2008.6.16 *integrated acquisition through alternative audits 32 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Eco-Factories Initiative Renesas Electronics is working to reduce the environmental load of its factories through such activities as the efficient use of energy, the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, the limited use and enhanced management of chemical substances, environmental risk management, and the effective control of industrial waste. Reducing GHG Emissions The GHG emissions that result from the Company’s busiPFCs and Their GWPs (CO2 = 1) ness operations include not only CO2 emissions attribut<2002 IPCC*3 Values; Timeframe of 100 years> able to energy consumption in line with the use of electric PFCs GWP and electronic equipment and combustion processes, but also the emissions of PFCs*1 and other GHGs used in proCF4 5,700 duction processes. C 2F 6 11,900 The Renesas Electronics Group uses PFCs to clean C 3F8 8,600 reaction chambers that are used in semiconductor fabricaC 4F8 10,000 tion processes. PFCs are characterized by their long atmospheric lifetime and high GWP*2—approximately 5,000 to CHF3 12,000 20,000 times that of the GWP of CO2. Because of these SF 6 22,200 characteristics, the reduction of PFC emissions has NF3 10,800 become an important issue for manufacturers of semiconductors and other products to address. Applicable Gasses As part of efforts to proactively contribute to the pre6 Gasses for Reduction under 7 Gasses for Reduction for vention of global warming, the Renesas Electronics Group the Kyoto Protocol the Semiconductor Industry is striving to reduce its GHG emissions. More specifically, CO2 (carbon dioxide) Manage as CO2 emissions attributable the Group has set its voluntary target for PFC emissions to energy use reduction and has promoted related activities. CH4 (methane) Exempt Environmental Preservation There are various methods to reduce PFC emissions. The Company has focused on the three methods of: N2O (nitric oxide) Exempt (1) replacing PFCs with other gasses with a lower GWP; HFC (hydrofluorocarbon) CHF3 (2) reducing the use of PFCs in production processes; and PFC (perfluorocarbon) CF4, C2F 6, C 3F8, C 4F8 (3) introducing PFC abatement systems to break down SF 6 (sulfur hexafluoride) SF 6 PFCs. By combining these methods, Renesas Electronics Exempt NF3 has tackled the development of technologies to reduce PFC emissions to 90% or less of the level recorded in 1995 In 2009, Renesas Electronics reduced PFC emissions by by 2010. approximately 50% year on year thanks to such ongoing measures as cutting the use of PFCs, increasing the use of GHG Emission Reduction Image alternative gasses and introducing PFC abatement systems. Through these reductions, the amount of PFCs used stood at approximately 37% of the amount used in 1995, 1 Use Alternative Gasses Gas representing the continued achievement of the Company’s target for the two consecutive years. As such, Renesas Cylinder Cylinder Use gasses with a lower GWP Electronics is building a steady record of accomplishments in the reduction of GHG emissions. From 2010 onward, although an increase in production volume is expected, the Company will accelerate its efforts to further reduce GHG emissions. 2 Reduce PFC Use PFCs: Amount Purchased and Their Emissions Reaction chamber 500 200 Reduce PFC use by eliminating Amount of PFCs Purchased (95 Level = 100) redundancies in production processes 400 160 PFC Emissions Rate (%) 300 120 Vacuum pump P Target (90% or lower of 95 level) 200 80 3 Use PFC Abatement Systems Abatement 100 40 Break down PFCs into gasses with a system lower GWP 0 0 ’95 ’96 ’97 ’98 ’99 ’00 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 (CY) ■ Amount of PFCs purchased ● PFC emissions rate (%) Discharge into the atmosphere *1: Perfluorocompounds. The semiconductor industry has specified CHF3, CF4, C2F6, C3F8, C4F8, SF6 and NF3 for emissions reduction. *2: Global warming potential, a measure of how much a given mass of greenhouse gas is estimated to contribute to global warming *3: Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 33 Global Warming Prevention through Energy Saving In addition to its internal activities aimed at eliminating n Energy Saving for New Fabrication Lines wasteful energy use and improving fabrication processes, the Renesas Electronics Group has proactively participatFor new semiconductor fabrication lines, Renesas ed in programs promoted jointly by the semiconductor Electronics has downgraded the overall air cleanliness for industry, fabrication facilities industry and peripheral facilicleanrooms while having adopted a mini-environment systies industry. Through these activities and programs, we tem, which enables the partial enhancement of the air are advancing energy-saving activities. cleanliness in line sections where semiconductors are With regard to numerical targets, Renesas Electronics actually handled. At the same time, the Company is effecis working to fulfill the target shared by all electric and electively utilizing exhaust heat and outside air in these new tronic equipment businesses in Japan—decrease energy lines. These measures have led to energy savings of more consumption per unit of actual production volume* to 65% than 20% compared with existing fabrication lines. or less of the fiscal 1991 level by fiscal 2011. Energy-Saving Measures for New Fabrication Lines n Energy Saving for Existing Fabrication Lines <Introduction of energy-efficient systems and facilities> Renesas Electronics is promoting various activities to 1. Combination of large cleanrooms and mini-environment systems reduce energy use for its existing fabrication lines. These activities include the complete stoppage of non-operating 2. Introduction of leading-edge, energy-saving fabrication tools facilities, the installation of inverters for pumps and fans, 3. Introduction of latest vacuum dry pumps the optimization of air-conditioning operations (period, method, settings, etc.) and the discontinuation of use of excessive equipment, such as air-conditioners and ventilation fans. New Fabrication Line Image Energy-Saving Measures for Existing Fabrication Lines Fan filter Air supply chamber unit (FFU) 1. Use of inverters (pumps and fans) 2. Optimization of air-conditioning period, method and settings (adjustment of Cleanroom Dry coil Raised access floor reheat temperature, extension of shutdown hours at night, reuse of excessive air in cleanrooms, recycling of exhaust heat) 3. Discontinuation of operations of excessive equipment (air-conditioners, Subfab floor Subfab Power Peripheral facilities supply ventilation fans, air circulators, fan-coil units, exhaust fans, return fans, etc.) Pure water production Chemical agent Transformer equipment Exhaust duct Power conduit supply system 4. Facility and process upgrading (heat retention, humidification) Adjustment of boiler operations for hot water generation and humidification Minimization of operations of air generators using pure water 5. Reduction of power consumption through the introduction of energy-efficient transformers These energy-saving measures have been implemented for 300-mm fabrication lines at Renesas Electronics’s Naka Factory and Renesas Yamagata Semiconductor Co., Ltd., as well as for the 8-inch fabrication line that began ● Examples of Energy-Saving Measures for Existing operations in fiscal 2009 at the Shiga Factory of Renesas Fabrication Lines Kansai Semiconductor Co., Ltd. Also, through the extension of the Shiga Factory, Renesas Electronics has intro◎ Renesas Semiconductor Kyushu Yamaguchi Co., Ltd. duced leading-edge, energy-saving facilities and tools. (Kumamoto Kawashiri Factory ): Operations of inverterThis represents our energy-saving considerations from the equipped pumps facility design stage. Inverters are installed on pumps used in pure water production facilities. This measure has enabled multi*Energy consumption per unit of actual production volume = CO2 step flow speed control and, consequently, energy savemissions ÷ (Production volume ÷ Annual revenue adjusted by ing of the facilities. an index for electric and electronic equipment businesses compiled by the Bank of Japan) ◎ Renesas Semiconductor Kyushu Yamaguchi Co., Ltd. CO2 emissions of domestic business sites and factories (Kumamoto Nishiki Factory ): Replacement of chillers We renewed air conditioners for outside air processing, from absorption chillers, which consume A-heavy oil, to electric turbo chillers. This replacement resulted in energy saving. ◎ Renesas Kyushu Semiconductor Corp.: Use of exhaust heat By channeling heat generated in rooms where compressors are operating into rooms where air conditioners for outside air processing for cleanrooms are running, we reduced the energy consumption of these air conditioners. 34 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation n CO2 Emissions (Domestic) ◎P  reviously, we shipped products manufactured at our overseas (Chinese) bases to overseas customers via In fiscal 2010, Renesas Electronics promoted such meadistribution centers in Japan. By establishing a direct sures as the introduction of energy-saving facilities, the shipment (drop shipping) system, we are now shipping reinforcement of energy use management and the comour products from Chinese manufacturing bases withplete stoppage of non-operating facilities. As a result, the out the detour to distribution centers in Japan. This Company was able to reduce CO2 emissions by 57,000 eliminated the volume of product transport on the tons year on year. However, negatively affected by a domestic front. decline in sales, CO2 emissions per unit of actual production volume deteriorated 4.2 points year on year. ◎ We reduced the volume of waste transport by switching For fiscal 2011, the Company expects to experience to closer waste processors, streamlining waste collecincreases in sales and production volume, which are tion operations and consolidating cargos of different expected to cause CO2 emissions to rise. Nevertheless, we types of industrial waste. will continue to implement energy-saving measures for our production facilities, thereby reducing CO2 emissions. Although also affected by a decline in production volume, both Renesas Technology and NEC Electronics steadily reduced energy use and CO2 emissions in their CO2 Emissions per Unit of Actual Production Volume (Domestic) logistics operations through these activities every year. Target (65% or lower of FY91 level) 140 140 (Unit: ton-km*1) FY NEC Electronics Renesas Technology 120 120 2008 22.82 million 15.25 million CO2 emissions per unit of (’91=100) 2009 14.35 million 11.33 million CO2 emissions 100 100 2010 15.52 million 10.24 million actual production volume 80 80 n Reducing Packing Material Use and Increasing Reuse Environmental Preservation 60 60 40 40 Renesas Electronics is efficiently promoting the reuse of ’91 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 plastic packing materials (trays and magazines) used in ■ CO2 emissions ● CO2 emissions per unit of actual production volume (FY) product transport. The success of these activities is attrib* The annual average CO2 emissions factor among all general utable to the establishment of a reuse framework (recovpower companies in Japan, designated by the Ministry of the ery, cleaning and inspection systems) at its domestic and Environment, has been used. (Fiscal 2008 and before: 0.378 overseas production bases. fixed; fiscal 2009 and after: 0.373 fixed) Meanwhile, thanks to the promotion of drop shipping from its overseas production bases, explained above, the Company has reduced the number of cardboard boxes used in domestic product transport by 60,000 per annum. Environmental Measures in Logistics In addition to trays and magazines, we will promote the reduced use and increased reuse of all types of packing Operations materials we use. Renesas Electronics is implementing various environmental measures in its logistics operations. Specific measures n Promoting the Use of Eco-Cars as Company include the reduction of energy used for the transport of Vehicles products and waste, the promotion of reduction and reuse of packaging materials used in product transport and the Renesas Technology and its affiliates used company vehiexpanded use of eco-friendly company vehicles. cles for sales and other purposes. We are now promoting the switch of these company vehicles from conventional n Measures to Reduce Energy Use and CO2 cars to eco-cars.*2 Specifically, we examine such factors as the degree of obsolescence of company vehicles upon Emissions in Logistics Operations the termination of their term of lease. Then, if deemed necPursuant to the revision to Japan’s Law Concerning the essary to lease new cars, we prioritize the lease of ecoRational Use of Energy, which stipulates specific shipper cars as conditions permit. As of March 31, 2010, the ratio obligations, and in line with the belief that it must work to of eco-cars to all company vehicles stood at 60%, up 2 reduce CO2 emissions in every facet of its business operapercentage points year on year. tions, Renesas Electronics is striving to reduce CO2 emis*1 Ton-km: A unit of measurement equal to the weight in tons of sions in its logistics operations through energy-saving material transported multiplied by the number of kilometers driven measures relating to logistics operations. During fiscal *2 Definition of eco-cars: 2010, the Company implemented the following activities. Passenger cars: Clean-energy vehicles, including hybrid cars, electric cars, natural-gas cars, methanol cars and fuel-cell ◎W  e reduced energy use through a comprehensive cars; or vehicles certified under both the 2010 Fuel Efficiency review and improvements made to the frequency and Standards and the 2005 Exhaust Emissions Standards of the mode of product transport for all production bases. Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism of Japan (MLIT) ◎W  e accelerated modal shift—decreasing truck transport Minicoach: Vehicles certified under the 2005 Exhaust and increasing rail transport—for products delivered Emissions Standards of the MLIT from factories to distribution centers. Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 35 Chemical Substance Management The Renesas Electronics Group conducts various assesstem in 1988. Since then, we have continued to meet the ments of the chemical substances it uses, based on its legal requirements of reporting chemical substances hanchemical substance database compiled through green dled in excess of five tons annually for fiscal 2003 and procurement activities and the acquisition of information before as well as those handled in excess of one ton annuabout related laws and regulations. The Group performs ally from fiscal 2004 onward. Moreover, from a risk-manchemical substance management with the aim of accuagement perspective, we conduct material-balance rately understanding the total volume of chemical submanagement without rounding down figures. Also, we are stances used and from the perspective of reducing the strengthening the management of volatile organic comemissions of hazardous substances into the environment. pounds (VOCs) to achieve management of them with the The outcome of such chemical substance management is same stringency as that for PRTR-regulated substances. channeled into our R&D activities to create “Green Results of material-balance management are not only Devices” and to realize “Eco-Factories.” reported to applicable authorities, but they are also anaWith regard to chemical substances regulated under lyzed to enable feedback for the development of activities the Japanese PRTR system,*1 we first participated in a pilot to promote the use of alternative substances and the project aimed at preparing for the launch of the PRTR sysreduction of chemical substance emissions. *1 Pollutant Release and Transfer Register system Fiscal 2010 Balance of PRTR-Regulated Chemical Substances Emissions into the Atmosphere 27t (30t) Detoxification/Removal 790t (840t) Total Volume of Chemical Substances Handled Used in Products 1,839t (1,955t) 18t (38t) Recycling Rivers Sewage Waste*2 (Valuable Resources Only) 45t Systems 689t 267t (36t) 3t (779t) (226t) (6t) Figures in parentheses are fiscal 2009 results. The above figures have been rounded up to the nearest integer. *2 Includes waste for recycling at the Company’s expenses n VOC Emissions Reduction Activities The Renesas Electronics Group will maintain its twopronged approach of enhancing its production processes The Renesas Electronics Group continues to implement and accelerating emissions reduction, thereby strategically activities aimed at reducing the emissions of chemical subreducing VOC emissions. stances into the atmosphere. In particular, the Company focuses on reducing VOC emissions. Renesas Electronics Group VOC Emissions Our efforts to reduce VOC emissions start with the detoxification of organic exhaust gasses that contain 120 VOCs. Organic exhaust gasses are treated in facilities (’01=100) before they are emitted from our factories. In addition to 100 these measures, we have worked to optimize our production processes and the operations of our fabrication facili80 ties in order to constantly reduce VOC emissions. In fiscal VOC Emissions 2010, the Company was able to reduce VOC emissions by 60 20% year on year, owing to these efforts and to a decline in production volume. With this reduction, the VOC emis40 sions have been cut down to approximately 50% of the emissions level in fiscal 2001, showing the tangible benefits 20 of our efforts to date. 0 ’01 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 (FY) 36 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation emissions, waste management should involve the strict Water Resource Saving observance of waste-related laws and regulations, which The Renesas Electronics Group is adhering to the efficient are becoming increasingly stringent every year. Such laws use of water resources to improve its water recycling rate. and regulations require corporations and other parties to At the same time, the Group is working to reduce the total avoid illegal dumping, even for waste that is handed over volume of water required for its semiconductor fabrication. to presumed industrial waste processing contractors. In For fiscal 2010, the water recycling rate stood at 34.6%, response, representatives from individual business sites while the total water consumption amounted to and Group companies of NEC Electronics and Renesas 43,643,000m3. Both figures remained almost unchanged Technology periodically visited the industrial waste compared with fiscal 2009. processing contractors they use to make sure that these contractors are conducting the appropriate processing of Water Consumption and Recycling, Water Recycling Rates industrial waste. Renesas Electronics will continue such endeavors. 60,000 60 Joint Recycling Activities with Other Industries Ceramics Total water consumption (1,000 m3/yr) 50,000 50 Manufacturing Steelmaking Water recycling rate (%) 40,000 40 Cement Manufacturing Quartz Glass 30,000 30 Sludge Waste Oil Hydrofluoric Solvent 20,000 20 Acid Manufacturing Fabrication Technologies Refining Environmental Technologies 10,000 10 Waste Resist Waste Hydrofluoric Renesas Electronics Removal Acid Solution 0 0 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 (FY) Stainless Steel Fertilizer ■ Volume of water recycled ■ Volume of water procured externally ● Water recycling rate Manufacturing Manufacturing Total volume of water required = Volume of water recycled + Volume of water procured externally Water recycling rate = Volume of water recycled ÷ Total volume of water required × 100 Waste Hydrofluoric Waste Acid/Nitric Acid Solution Phosphoric Aluminum Acid Refining Aluminum Sulfate Manufacturing Waste Management Waste Hydrofluoric Environmental Preservation Acid/Ammonium Waste Sulfuric Acid Fluoride Solution NEC Electronics worked to achieve the target of limiting its generation of waste and recyclables to 37,000 tons on a PCB Waste Management worldwide basis for fiscal 2010. The actual total of waste Pursuant to the Law Concerning Special Measures for and recyclables generated was 34,095 tons, which shows Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Wastes (PCB that NEC Electronics met its target. Special Measures Law; Law No. 65 of 2001) and the Meanwhile, Renesas Technology previously set the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law (Law No. medium-term target of reducing waste generation per unit 66 of 2001), the Renesas Electronics Group has strictly of net sales by more than 10% from the fiscal 2008 (referadhered to the procedures, as stipulated by such laws, for ence year) level by fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2010—the second storage in a secure place of polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) year after setting that target—Renesas Technology worked wastes, including equipment and tools contaminated by to achieve a 4% reduction from the fiscal 2008 level, but in PCB. In addition to handling PCB wastes in an appropriate fact it actually reduced its waste generation by 8%. manner, the Company has submitted reports to the appliAlso, both NEC Electronics and Renesas Technology cable authorities regarding its holding of such wastes. have defined “zero emissions” as achieving the landfill disIn addition, the Company plans to complete the approposal ratio—the ratio of landfill disposal volume to total priate disposal of the PCB wastes currently in storage by waste generation per annum—of less than 1%. In fiscal 2016. In connection with this plan, the Company has 2010, both companies achieved zero emissions. For fiscal already applied to commission the treatment of its PCB 2011, in its first year as Renesas Electronics, the Company wastes to the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation has set the target of sustaining the zero-emissions status. (JESCO), a special company in charge of treating PCB In addition to the reduction of waste generation and wastes in Japan, which is wholly owned by the Japanese the implementation of activities aimed at achieving zero government. Domestic Waste Generation and Landfill Disposal Ratio Protecting the Ozone Layer 50,000 5 Renesas Electronics has abolished the use of Class I 40,000 4 ODSs*1 (CFCs,* 2 etc.), designated under the Montreal Landfill disposal ratio (%) Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone Layer, in Waste generation (tons/yr) all of its production processes. Also, the Company is pro30,000 3 moting the reduction of the use of Class II ODSs (HCFCs*3). Furthermore, we are striving to reduce the use of specified 20,000 2 CFCs (Class I CFCs, halon and others listed in Attachment A to the Montreal Protocol) used as refrigerants in chillers, 10,000 1 refrigerators, air-conditioners and other equipment. In fact, reducing the use of these specified CFCs is consistent with our energy-saving efforts. 0 0 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ■ Waste generation (left scale) ● Landfill disposal ratio (right scale) (FY) *1 Ozone-depleting substances *2 Chlorofluorocarbons *3 Hydorochlorofluorocarbons Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 37 Environmental Activities at Overseas Production Bases In accordance with the Basic Environmental Philosophy of overseas bases for them to establish their own goals, tarRenesas Electronics, the Company’s overseas production gets and specific measures so that they can individually bases are promoting environmental activities based on the respond to legal and regulatory requirements and industry ISO14001 environmental management system. Renesas initiatives in their respective locations. Electronics grants a certain level of independence to these Malaysia China Renesas Semiconductor (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Renesas Semiconductor (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor (Kedah) Sdn. Bhd. Renesas Semiconductor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor Technology (M) Sdn. Bhd. Shougang Renesas Electronics Co., Ltd. Renesas Semiconductor KL Sdn. Bhd. Singapore USA Renesas Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. Renesas Electronics America Inc. Roseville Factory Fiscal 2010 Overview of the Environmental Load of Overseas Production Bases Energy Chemical Substances Water Paper 4.97 million GJ 5,497t 3,773,000m3 92t (electricity: 468GWh; light oil: 576kℓ; LPG: 49t; natural gas: 3,142t; steam: 32,000t) Input Output CO2 Emissions Wastewater Waste 258,000t 1,971,000m3 5,832t (attributable to energy use) 38 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Eco-Products Initiative Through its Eco-Products Initiative, Renesas Electronics undertakes product design and development by giving environmental consideration to the entire life cycle of its products— from procurement, to production, use and disposal. Eco-Products Initiative Processes Products designed and developed with life-cycle environmental considerations in mind Procurement Production Use Disposal We do not procure materials and We save energy and appropriately We work to develop energy-saving We eliminate the use of regulated subsidiary materials having high manage chemical substances in semiconductors, thereby contributing chemical substances while environmental load. production processes. to the energy-saving performance of endeavoring to realize smaller, thinner customers’ products. semiconductors. Creation of Eco-Friendly Products In order to create eco-friendly products, Renesas Electronics conducts product assessments in the design and development stages; such assessments take into account the environmental load of the production processes. n Fiscal 2010 Achievements: NEC Electronics Environmental Assessment Categories Environmental Preservation NEC Electronics implemented the following two types of Service Product Energy environmental assessment. Size Safety life packing saving ● Production Process Assessment In the development of new production processes, NEC Electronics compared these new processes with convenInformation Production tional processes in terms of energy and chemical subLogistics LCA disclosure processes stance use, as well as the nature of the chemical substances contained in products. Based on the analysis of comparison results, NEC Electronics decided on initiatives to implement to reduce the environmental load of its production processes. Environmental assessment of products was performed by comparing products being designed with reference products ● Product Assessment using 28 to 35 evaluation items in each of these nine assessIn the development of new products, NEC Electronics ment areas. The evaluation items used were different for each compared these new products with conventional products product category. For the assessment processes, Renesas in terms of energy consumption, product size, the nature Technology used a “Product Environmental Quality of the chemical substances contained in the products, and Assessment Sheet,” which clearly explained its content and product packing materials. Based on the analysis of comuse. Renesas Technology implemented such environmental parison results, NEC Electronics decided on initiatives to assessments twice, namely, at the beginning of development implement to reduce the environmental load of its prodand before mass-production. ucts, particularly in the use and disposal phases. During fiscal 2010, NEC Electronics undertook 29 ● Effective Utilization of Assessment Results cases of production process assessment and 296 cases Renesas Technology had designated products that achieve of product assessment. both a factor X* of 1 point or higher and a general improvement rate of 10% or higher through the assessment prior to massn Fiscal 2010 Achievements: Renesas production as “Renesas Green Devices.” In fiscal 2010, a total Technology of 187 products were designated as Renesas Green Devices, representing 64% of all products. Taking this approach further, ● Environmental Assessment of Products Renesas Technology selected 15 products as “Renesas Super Renesas Technology incorporated a method of environGreen Devices”—products which achieve a factor X of 1.5 mental assessment of products that enables the evaluation points and a general improvement rate of 50%. of improvements in the environmental load of products * A barometer which represents the result of the comparison between refbeing designed. This method has allowed Renesas erence products and products being assessed in terms of environmental Technology to design eco-friendly products. The following efficiency quantified through the assessment of their energy-saving perfordiagram shows the nine major areas of the environmental mance, resource-saving features and the nature of the chemical content. assessment of products. The greater the value, the lower the environmental load. Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 39 Contributing to Global Energy-Saving Efforts through Semiconductors Among many environmental issues, the reduction of CO2 ture, such as smart grid power distribution systems, and and other greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which are the creation of energy-efficient systems and products, believed to be a cause of global warming, has become one such as consumer electronics. of the most critical issues in modern life. In response, the As a semiconductor manufacturer, the Renesas Renesas Electronics Group has promoted the EcoElectronics Group is seriously searching for ways to enable Factories Initiative aimed at reducing GHG emissions from its semiconductor products to contribute to the reduction its manufacturing facilities. of CO2 emissions in society as a whole. Accordingly, focusMeanwhile, nations throughout the world are accelerating on the Eco-Products Initiative aspects that a semiconing their efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. These efforts ductor business can pursue, we are tackling environmental include the development of eco-friendly social infrastrucissues in line with the following policy. Confidence, Comfort, and Dreams The Renesas Electronics Group is contributing to the development of superior eco-friendly products by its customers and the preservation and enhancement of the global environment by focusing on three themes: “Toward Green Society” “Green Systems” “Green Devices” The first theme, “Toward Green Society,” embodies the municates our determination to keep offering compact Company’s commitment to contributing to the establishsemiconductors that feature low power consumption. With ment of new, eco-friendly social infrastructures. The second particular emphasis placed on these themes, Renesas theme, “Green Systems,” expresses our passion for providElectronics is stepping up its business—business that helps ing semiconductor-based solutions to improve the energy reduce the power consumption of electrical and electronic efficiency of various systems. Finally, “Green Devices” comequipment and various other systems. We continue to provide Eco-cars Smart grid LED lighting semiconductor-based solutions Toward that contribute to the early Green Society establishment and proliferation of new, eco-friendly social infrastructures. <Applied technologies> We continue to offer solutions Inverters, standby mechanisms, networking Green that help realize groundbreaking energy efficiency in finished Systems products and various other systems. <Key technologies> Design, process, high-voltage, eDRAM, multicore platforms Green We continue to supply compact, eco-friendly LSI devices that Devices feature low power consumption. Eco-Friendly Renesas (Website) http://www.renesas.com/ecology/ 40 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Compliance with Environmental Laws Environmental Quality of Products and Regulations As regulations concerning the use of specified hazardous Embedded in wide-ranging finished products such as autochemical substances in products become increasingly mobiles, consumer electronics, IT, and mobile equipment stringent, Renesas Electronics is implementing a system to and communication devices, Renesas Electronics’ semimanage the chemical substances used in its products conductors are being used worldwide. In order to ensure throughout the entire process, from material selection in compliance with environmental laws and regulations relating the design and development stage to pollution prevention to its products and to enable necessary countermeasures in the fabrication stage. Also, based on the idea that such for potential problem issues, Renesas Electronics is working chemical management should be conducted throughout to obtain information regarding such laws and regulations in the entire supply chain, the Company asks procurement nations where it carries out operations. partners to submit analysis data and written guarantees certifying the nonuse of prohibited substances. In addition, we conduct supplier audits to assess suppliers’ systems in n Major Laws and Regulations and the management of such substances. For our authorized Compliance Status of Renesas Electronics dealers, we ask them to appropriately manage the chemical substances they use in their packing materials. The RoHS Directive*1 and the ELV Directive* 2 of the To enable our customers to use our products with conEuropean Union have defined the threshold values for fidence, we provide information on the chemical substancchemical substances contained in certain products. In es used in our products while offering data on our product response to these and other similar directives, Renesas analysis regarding substances regulated under the RoHS Electronics makes sure that it receives product analysis Directive and other prohibited substances. At the same data from suppliers of semiconductor materials and comtime, we make sure that our customers understand our ponents as well as reports certifying that their products are framework for managing the chemical substances used in free of banned substances. In addition, the Company conour products and our actual activities in this regard. ducts voluntary analysis of these materials and compoOn June 1, 2008, the European Chemicals Agency nents to confirm that those threshold values are observed. started the practical implementation of the REACH Meanwhile, China’s Administrative Measure on the Regulation in Europe. Due to this and other regulatory Control of Pollution Caused by Electronic Information movements, the management of chemical substances Products—also known as China RoHS—requires manufacused in products throughout the entire supply chain is turers to use specific labels on products that contain desbecoming more important than ever. In response, Renesas ignated toxic and hazardous substances. Also, products Electronics has established effective management sysEnvironmental Preservation that contain such substances are marked with the tems, and, based on these systems, we are meeting relatElectronic Information Products (EIP) logo, including an ed regulations in an appropriate manner. Environment Friendly Use Period (EFUP) value stated in years. Since semiconductors are too small to mark with logos and labels, Renesas Electronics provides information Chemical Substance Management throughout the Entire relating to chemical substances contained in its products Supply Chain and EFUP values through its Website (see below) and its local sales companies. Requirements for Green Procurement List of Renesas Electronics Products Compliant with China RoHS (Website) http://www.renesas.com/prod/lead/ Manufacturers of Parts/Components Manufacturers of Finished Products Manufacturers of Raw Materials (only for former NEC Electronics products) Renesas Electronics Group With regard to the EU’s REACH Regulation,*3 Renesas Authorized Dealers Electronics is not required to register its semiconductor devices since these products are articles (finished products) that do not emit chemical substances. Still, the Company in Japan and Overseas obtains information relating to SVHC*4 from its supply chain and provides such information to customers through JAMP*5 and other media. Renesas Electronics will continue to closely monitor movements of environmental laws and regulations overseas and implement appropriate measures. *1 RoHS: Directive on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electrical and electronic equipment *2 ELV: Directive on End-of Life Vehicles *3 REACH: Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Submission of Prohibited Substance Nonuse Restriction of Chemicals Guarantees and Evidence (Analysis Data) *4 SVHC: Substances of Very High Concern *5 JAMP: Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 41 Eco-Communication Initiative As a responsible semiconductor manufacturer, Renesas Electronics is promoting the EcoCommunication Initiative to establish a collaborative relationship with all stakeholders. Environmental Education Renesas Electronics is stepping up Groupwide environn Fiscal 2010 Topics mental education to raise the environmental awareness of its employees. During fiscal 2010, Renesas Electronics held classroom lectures in which specialized environmental education was n Environmental Education System provided to employees in its design, development and sales divisions. The Company holds these lectures regularAt Renesas Electronics, environmental education is classily in order to help participants gain knowledge on the latest fied into three programs: general environmental education government, industry and social trends, such as increasfor all employees, specialized, operation-specific environingly stringent regulations on chemical substance managemental education, and ISO14001 education. Through the ment in Europe and elsewhere and growing demands by general environmental education program, the Company society at large for eco-friendly product design. distributes one-time “Web News” articles on current enviFor employees in its manufacturing divisions, Renesas ronmental affairs relating to the operations of executives Electronics has created educational materials that can be and employees. Also, we provide position-specific group used throughout the entire Company, while also working to seminars while offering e-learning sessions that executives standardize curricula. Lectures for employees in the manuand employees can take anytime. facturing divisions are divided into two types: one for those Meanwhile, the specialized, operation-specific environworking on fabrication lines and the other for those workmental education program has been structured to allow ing as administrative staff. In this way, all employees in employees to gain the environmental knowledge required these divisions have the opportunity to attend the lectures. for their respective operations. More specifically, this proTo always keep the educational materials and curricula up gram offers education and training specific to the individual to date, a Manufacturing Divisions Environmental Education fields of design, sales and manufacturing. Finally, the Subcommittee periodically reviews and renews them as ISO14001 education program helps employees to underneeded. stand the ISO14001 certification system and helps internal auditors to develop their auditing skills. Renesas Electronics Environmental Education System Program Purpose Description General Raising environmental • Distribution of environmental “Web News” Environmental awareness of employees • Position-specific education Education (new employees/ new leaders/new managers) • Environmental e-learning sessions, etc. Specialized Gaining environmental • Environmental education for design and Environmental knowledge required for development divisions Education operations • Education for product environmental quality management • Environmental education for sales divisions • Environmental education for manufacturing divisions, etc. ISO14001 • Understanding the • Basic ISO14001 education Education ISO14001 certification • Internal auditor education, etc. Education program for design and development divisions system • Developing skills of internal auditors nE  ducational Materials for Managerial Staff in nE  ducational Materials for Technicians in Manufacturing Divisions Manufacturing Divisions 42 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Communication and Social Contribution n Riverhead Forest Preservation n Family Factory Tours (Kofu Factory) (Tamagawa/Sagamihara Sites) The Kofu Factory provided factory tours for the family In July 2005, the Tamagawa Factory and the Sagamihara members of its employees during the past summer. Factory participated as a corporate partner in a program Through these factory tours, the participants enjoyed organized by Kanagawa Prefecture that is aimed at proobserving various facilities, including fabrication lines, a tecting the prefecture’s water resources through the crecafeteria and a health ation of riverhead forests. Under the program, the two center. Also, through a factories created a “Semiconductor Forest” site in the session aimed at providYadoriki riverhead forest area in the Tanzawa region whereing a factory overview, in employees from these two factories and their family we introduced the envimembers conduct forest thinning and organize forest hikronmental activities that ing events. These activiare promoted at the Kofu ties are providing Factory. participants with opportunitie s to le a r n the impor tance of forest thinning and the benefin Horseshoe Crab Breeding (Saijo Factory) cial role that forests play Horseshoe crabs in the Kawarazu Beach area of Saijo City in ecosystems. were designated by Ehime Prefecture as a protected species in 1949. Today, however, horseshoe crabs are in danger of extinction. n Forest of Renesas (Kochi Factory) In response, the Saijo Factory registered itself with Saijo City as a horseshoe crab foster company in October In October 2009, the Kochi Factory held the Renesas 2006. Since then, the Saijo Factory has accepted 50 freshForest Land 2009 event as part of a campaign—“Forest ly hatched horseshoe crabs (approximately 5 millimeters Maintenance in Cooperation with Environmentally long) every year and has nurtured them. Advanced Companies”—for which it has entered into a These horseshoe crabs have grown to measure over partnership agreement with Kochi Prefecture, Kami City five centimeters in four years. We plan to release them soon Environmental Preservation and the Kami-gun Forestation Union. in cooperation with local Due to rain on the previous day, this event was again held elementary school pupils indoors at the Kami City Gymnasium as it was last year. and hope that these Nevertheless, pupils from local elementary schools and family horseshoe crabs, after members of Kochi Factory employees enjoyed quizzes and release, will settle down logging as well as picture-card shows, which were designed safely in the Kawarazu to disseminate the importance of forest protection. Beach area and that they Also, at the event, the Kochi Factory received a 2009 will flourish. CO2 Sink Certificate for the Cooperative Forest M a inte n a nc e Proj e c t from the government of n Tree-Planting Program Kochi Prefecture in rec(Kumamoto Kawashiri Factory) ognition of its activities to maintain the “Forest To nurture abundant groundwater resources in Kumamoto of Renesas.” City, the Kumamoto Kawashiri Factor y of Renesas Semiconductor Kyushu Yamaguchi Co., Ltd. has been conducting a tree-planting program within an entire area designated for environmental preservation—an area boastn Acorn Picking with Nursery School Children ing high potential for groundwater recharge—in Ozu Town, (Takasaki Factory) Kumamoto Prefecture since 2005. The program event this year (2010) was held on a rainy In October 2009, the Takasaki Factory invited children from a day in March. Despite the unfavorable weather, 74 particilocal nursery school to enjoy acorn picking. Blessed with fine pants, including factory employees and their family memweather, the participating bers, planted 3,000 young trees. With this event, we tots had fun playing in the completed our plan to plant 12,000 broadleaf trees (mounnatural environment within tain cherr y, mountain the factor y site. The maple, sawtooth oak, Takasaki Factory will conetc.) in a four-hectare field tinue to value exchanges on Mount Aso-Gairin. We with local communicates. will continue to maintain this “Forest of Renesas” properly through underbrush mowing. Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 43 n Factory Tour for Elementary School Pupils n Research on Benthic Animals and Birds (Shiga Factory) (Yamaguchi Factory) In October 2009, fifth graders of a local elementary school The Yamaguchi Factory of Renesas Semiconductor visited the Shiga Factory of Renesas Kansai Semiconductor Kyushu Yamaguchi has conducted research on benthic Co., Ltd. The Shiga Factory has promoted a project to revianimals four times every year since January 1991 in order talize a pine-tree colonnade within the factory site—such a to perform biological assessments of the impact of its pine colonnade had been a famous site in the nearby Awazu drainage operations into rivers. Investigations of biotic indiand Seiran areas in the past. As part of the factory tour, ces at the upstream and downstream areas of the factory’s the pupils were guided drains showed no material difference. Thus, we have conthrough the project site. firmed that our drainage has not exerted any negative This walking tour was folimpact on river water and benthic animals. lowed by a picture-card Also, to assess the impact of our drainage operations show, which explained on peripheral ecosystems (birds and animals), we have the Shiga Factory’s activconducted research on bird habitats around the factory ities aimed at protecting site four times every year since April 1995. We have not the environment. identified any significant changes in the average numbers and types of birds, as confirmed at the designated points of observan Meeting with a Local Community tion, and we have thus Association (Fukui Factory) ascer tained that the environment around the In February 2010, Renesas Kansai Semiconductor’s Fukui factor y site has been Factory invited representatives of a local community assomaintained soundly for ciation to attend a meeting concerning the environment, birds and other animals. among other topics. At the meeting, the status of environmental activities promoted at the Fukui Factory was reported to the community representatives. The meeting was followed by a factor y n Preservation of Biodiversity in Mangrove tour. By listening to the Habitats opinions and requests of local representatives, we (Renesas Electronics Singapore Pte. Ltd.) reconfirmed the imporIn line with World Environment Day (June 5 each year), tance of communication which is promoted by the United Nations Environment with local community Programme (UNEP), employees of Renesas Electronics members. Singapore Pte. Ltd. conducted cleaning activities in mangrove habitats in the Pasir Ris Park in Singapore. Employees planted 100 mangrove trees in this park in December 2009 as part of the company’s ecosystem creation n Community Magazine Covers efforts. Then, after finding Environmental Activities out that the park’s wet(Renesas Kyushu Semiconductor Corp.) lands were strewn with garbage, they cleaned up Renesas Kyushu Semiconductor has received an award the mangrove habitats so from the Ozu Town Government of Kumamoto Prefecture, that the trees they had which promotes an award system to honor corporations planted could grow naturally. that conduct outstanding environmental activities. Following this, the company was given the opportunity to introduce its environmental activities by GO-OZU—a community magazine with a monthly circulation of 30,000 in Ozu Town. Accepting n Tree-Planting Activities the offer, we contri(Renesas Electronics (China) Co., Ltd. and buted articles for the January, February and Renesas Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.) March 2010 editions. On Beijing Tree-Planting Day—which has been established These articles helped with the aim of nurturing natural dust shields in the city to effectively communithrough a long-term greening program—employees of cate the company’s Renesas Electronics (China) Co., Ltd. planted trees in the activities in such areas NEC Forest. Also, employees of Renesas Electronics as energy saving (CO2 (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. and their family members planted reductions), recycling trees at other locations in Beijing. Although tree-planting and social contribution itself was not a difficult activities. task, all par ticipants seemed to be satisfied with the fact that they were engaging in something very meaningful for the sustainability of the global environment. 44 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation External Recognitions n Award from Local Hygiene Association n “Eco Factory” Certification Renewal (Fukuoka Factory) (Yamaguchi Factory) The Fukuoka Factory of Renesas Semiconductor Kyushu The Yamaguchi Factory of Renesas Semiconductor Yamaguchi Co., Ltd. has long promoted various environKyushu Yamaguchi was first certified as an “Eco Factory” mental beautification activities, such as river cleaning activiby the Yamaguchi Prefectural Government in March 2007. ties in Yanagawa City and cleaning activities in the coastal In line with the end of the three-year certification term, the region of the Sea of Yamaguchi Factory applied for renewal of the certification, Ariake. In recognition of and after the examination of documents submitted by the th e s e a c ti v i ti e s, th e factory, it was deemed qualified for certification renewal. Fukuoka Factory received The certification was actually renewed on March 31, 2010. a Fukuoka Prefecture Through the “Eco Factory” program, the Yamaguchi H yg i e n e A s s o c i ati o n Prefectural Government examines and certifies factories C h a i r m a n’s P r i ze i n that are proactively tackling industrial waste reduction and September 2009. resource recycling and achieving tangible results in these efforts. The Yamaguchi Factory became the 29th factory n Kirameki Otsu Environmental Award certified by Yamaguchi Prefecture. (Shiga Factory) In December 2009, Renesas Kansai Semiconductor’s Shiga Factory received the Kirameki Otsu Environmental Award from the Otsu City government of Shiga Prefecture. The Shiga Factory has contributed to the preservation of the natural environment and the beautification of living conditions in Otsu City through such initiatives as the cleaning of roads and rivers in various neighborhoods. These activities have received high praise and led to the awarding of this award. Environmental Preservation n “Eco-Friendly Factory” Certification Renewal (Kochi Factory) The Kochi Factory was first accredited as an “Eco-Friendly Factory” by the Kochi Prefectural Government in 2006. In line with the termination of the three-year certification term, the Kochi Factory applied for the renewal of the certification. The Kochi Prefecture Recycled Products Certification Council examined documents submitted by the factory and concluded that the Kochi Factory is qualified for renewal of the certification. The certification was actually renewed on December 24, 2009. L a u n c h e d i n 20 0 4 by th e Ko c h i Prefe c tu ra l Government, the “Eco-Friendly Factory” certification system of Kochi Prefecture has been designed to promote the development of environment-friendly industries and the establishment of a recyclingoriented society. Under this system, Kochi Prefe cture inspects, and cer tifies as appropriate, businesses that are proactively promoting environmental activities and producing tangible results. The prefectural government also examines whether such businesses can be model establishments for other businesses in terms of innovativeness, originality and technological sophistication. Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 45 Company Information Corporate Profile Performance (prior to merger) Company n Net Sales Name Renesas Electronics Corporation NEC Electronics Renesas Technology Head Office 1753 Shimonumabe, Nakahara-ku, (¥ million) (¥ million) Kawasaki, Kanagawa 211-8668, Japan 600,000 700,000 Headquarters Nippon Bldg., 2-6-2, Ote-machi, 500,000 600,000 Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan 500,000 400,000 Established November 1, 2002 (April 1, 2010 as Renesas Electronics) 400,000 300,000 Capital Stock ¥153.2 billion (as of April 2010) 300,000 200,000 Major 200,000 Operations Research, development, design, 100,000 100,000 manufacture, sale and servicing of semiconductor products 0 0 Employees Approx. 48,000 ’09 ’10 ’09 ’10 (consolidated, as of April 2010) (FY) (FY) Website http://www.renesas.com/index.html n Net Loss Editorial Policies NEC Electronics Renesas Technology ’09 ’10 ’09 ’10 ● Renesas Electronics publishes two reports—namely, the (¥ million) (FY) (¥ million) (FY) CSR and Environmental Report and the Annual Report— 0 0 to describe the environmental, social and economic activities of the Renesas Electronics Group. (20,000) (40,000) ● This CSR and Environmental Report 2010 is intended for the many stakeholders of the Renesas Electronics (40,000) (80,000) Group, including employees, customers, members of the local communities where we conduct business, suppliers (60,000) (120,000) and partners, and shareholders and investors. With the objective of promoting two-way communication between (80,000) (160,000) the Company and these stakeholders, this report explains our approach to CSR and the environment and (100,000) (200,000) illustrates our specific activities in an easy-to-understand fashion. n Guidelines Used ● Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2007 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) n Total Assets ● Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 Renesas Technology NEC Electronics (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) (¥ million) (¥ million) ● Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 500,000 700,000 (Third Edition) (Global Reporting Initiative) 600,000 n Reporting Scope 400,000 The report covers the Renesas Electronics Group, which 500,000 consists of Renesas Electronics Corporation, 22 domestic 300,000 400,000 Group companies and 25 overseas Group companies. n Reporting Period 200,000 300,000 This report primarily covers the period from April 1, 2009 to 200,000 March 31, 2010, with the reporting of certain subsequent 100,000 activities. 100,000 n Publication Date 0 0 November 2010 ’09 ’10 ’09 ’10 (FY) (FY) n For more information: Please visit our Website at: http://www.renesas.com/comp/csr/ (CSR section) http://www.renesas.com/comp/eco/ (Environmental Activities section) 46 CSR and Environmental Report 2010 Renesas Electronics Corporation Major Application Fields, Applications and Products 〉 〉〉Communications 〉 〉〉Computing and Peripherals Major Applications Major Applications Mobile handsets Computers Broadband networking equipment • Servers • Workstations • Routers Computing peripherals • Mobile phone base stations • Rewritable DVD drives • Printers • LCDs for PCs Major Products System LSI chips Major Products Driver ICs for small TFT-LCDs System LSI chips System memories Microcontrollers Driver ICs for large TFT-LCDs 〉 〉〉Consumer Electronics 〉 〉〉Automotive and Industrial Major Applications Major Applications Digital consumer electronics Automobiles • Blu-ray players and recorders • Engines • Digital televisions • Body control • Digital cameras • Airbags Home appliances • Car audios Game consoles Industrial • Factory automation Major Products System LSI chips Major Products Microcontrollers Microcontrollers System LSI chips 〉 〉〉Multi-Market ICs 〉 〉〉Discrete, Optical and Microwave Devices Major Applications Major Applications Wide range of electronics equipment Wide range of electronics equipment Major Products General-purpose microcontrollers Major Products Gate arrays Diodes General purpose system memories Transistors Optical semiconductors Microwave semiconductors Renesas Electronics Group Network ■ Manufacture □ Design/application technologies ◆ Engineering services ● Sales ◎ Other Company Information ■ Renesas Electronics Corporation ■ Renesas Semiconductor Kyushu Yamaguchi Co., Ltd. ■ Renesas Northern Japan Semiconductor, Inc. ■ Renesas Kyushu Semiconductor Corp. ■ Haguro Electronics Co., Ltd. □ Renesas Electronics Corporation ■ Hokkai Electronics Co., Ltd. □ Renesas Solutions Corp. ■ Renesas Yamagata Semiconductor Co., Ltd. □ Renesas Micro Systems Co., Ltd. ■ Renesas Naka Semiconductor Co., Ltd. □ Renesas Design Corp. ■ Renesas Eastern Japan Semiconductor, Inc. ◆ Renesas Semiconductor Engineering Corp. ■ Renesas Kofu Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ◆ Renesas Takasaki Engineering Services Co., Ltd. ■ Renesas High Components, Inc. ◆ Renesas Musashi Engineering Services Co., Ltd. ■ Renesas Yanai Semiconductor, Inc. ◆ Renesas Kitaitami Engineering Services Co., Ltd. ■ Renesas Kansai Semiconductor Co., Ltd. ● Renesas Electronics Sales Co., Ltd. ■ Nippon Denshi Light Co., Ltd. ◎ Renesas SP Drivers Inc. ■ Renesas Semiconductor (Beijing) Co., Ltd. □ Renesas Semiconductor Design (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ■ Renesas Semiconductor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. □ Renesas System Solutions Korea Co., Ltd. ■ Shougang NEC Electronics Co., Ltd. ● Renesas Electronics (China) Co., Ltd. ■ Renesas Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd. ● Renesas Electronics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. ■ Renesas Semiconductor (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ● Renesas Electronics Hong Kong Limited ■ Renesas Semiconductor Technology (M) Sdn. Bhd. ● Renesas Electronics Taiwan Co., Ltd. ■ Renesas Semiconductor (Kedah) Sdn. Bhd. ● Renesas Electronics Singapore Pte. Ltd. ■ Renesas Semiconductor KL Sdn. Bhd. ● Renesas Electronics Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. □ Renesas Design Vietnam Co., Ltd. ● Renesas Electronics Korea Co., Ltd. □ Renesas Semiconductor Design (Beijing) Co., Ltd. ◎ Renesas SP Drivers Taiwan Inc. □ Renesas Design France S.A.S ■ Renesas Electronics America Inc. ● Renesas Electronics Europe Limited ● Renesas Electronics America Inc. ● Renesas Electronics Europe GmbH ● Renesas Electronics Canada Limited Renesas Electronics Corporation CSR and Environmental Report 2010 47 RENESAS ELECTRONICS CORPORATION Nippon Bldg., 2-6-2, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan Tel: +81 3-5201-5111 http://www.renesas.com/index.html Printed in Japan
