GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – SME VERSION th Company Name Allied Soft Date May, 4 , 2011 Unit (if applicable) Address 13 Abdel Wahed El Wakel Heliopolis Membership date Cairo Country Egypt Number of 2003 employees Contact name Mohamed Reda Contact Position Chairman Sector Information Technology Contact telephone +20102104252 no. Brief description of nature of business The Middle East has witnessed a rapidly growing need for sophisticated IT software and training in recent years. Allied Soft has grown in direct response to that need. Its goal is to provide effective and professional comprehensive services and support in the field of information technology. New market forces are affecting all nations and the way they interact with their economic environment, both locally and globally. Organizations and businesses have to constantly adapt to meet the requirements of a rapidly changing business milieu. Accordingly, Allied Soft specializes in providing a broad spectrum of clients with state-of-the-art means and know-how, thus enabling them to meet these modern challenges and achieve their goals. In an ever-changing world, those entities with a will to survive adapt to the rapid transformations that have overtaken us in recent times. Major technological achievements and the breakneck speed of the IT revolution have made the possibility of lagging behind an omnipresent danger. Clinging to the old ways is no longer an option whatever the nature of one’s activity; this applies equally to businesses, large and small, as well as to governments. The survivors will be those wise enough to recognize the need to cooperate with professionals. This is where Allied Soft comes in. This company is dedicated to assisting its clients in maintaining the highest standards of performance by ensuring that each client is wholly prepared to meet the challenges of rapidly changing and increasingly complicated Information Technology. That is not where it ends however, for it is a cornerstone policy at Allied Soft that the client’s objectives must always be the priority, and in order to realize those objectives, continued interaction with the client should always be a primary focus. Statement of support This to confirm that Allied Soft will collaborate with Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor rights, anti-corruption and environment protection. Allied Soft commits itself in making Global Compact and its principles part of its strategy, culture and day-to-day operation. It has been almost 8 years since we started our efforts to implement the GC principles in our company. The time and efforts were more into achieving culture change. The corporate culture consists of multi dimensions. The geographical locations, rural and urban areas, the different professional back ground and the centrally management decision. The situation was difficult to implement all in one step. We have created new culture among the company now. The total staff (around 2500) in all locations: Cairo, Alexandria, Ismailia, Mansoura, Tanta, Fayoum, Bani Sweief, Minia and Assiut . The problem The company has long history in development of human resources in Egypt. Our strategy is to turn intensive human resources as wealth rather than burden to find them jobs. As a result, the culture of the business hunting changed into capitalizing on the HR element. We have succeeded to conduct 7 million training hours during the past 10 years. We were facing some problems because the centrally management system in Cairo did not allow for full transparency to exchange ideas with all members of the staff. Several incidents regarding the rights of the staff were not clearly presented to the management. The turnover was relatively high which created frustration and lose of investment in qualifying the staff. The Solution We have developed multi track efforts and action groups: Policies and Procedures (PP) group, culture group, infrastructure group, and management group. All four groups working parallel and have weekly coordination meeting to alter the culture and develop situation that create turn around . The PP group developed manuals of policies and procedures that governs the company’s financial, administration and operational activates with all forms and authorities needed to implement those PP. It was developed in very simple language to be able to be available to all company levels The culture group conducted several meetings biweekly in different locations and different management level to purse human rights concepts and human resources (labor). Our company does not use the term labor as reflecting our staff. They are owners and partners of success, which is our current culture. The new communication channels were established to have fast response from any member of the company to take action and study all problems and find a solution. The infrastructure group developed the wide area and local area network and are using Information Technology as a tool of communication. Almost all staff has email and can communicate back and forth. We also have assigned the company’s Business Manager to champion this communication. The management group conducted restructuring exercise and established flat organization and restructured the operation to result in independent project teams. It has created empowerment commitment authorities to ease the situation. Signature Position PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment or Policy Allied Soft is an equal opportunity company. We strongly support all candidates to apply and/or working in our team regardless: gender, religion, origin and shape A brief description of our Processes or Systems AS has succeeded in avoiding any complicity in human rights abuses. The company does not discriminate between its employees regarding their race, religion or gender. The staffs in our company are distributed such that 49% are women, 85% Muslims and 15% Christians. AS respects all religious practices, where employees are allowed time for prayer (Christian are allowed one hour delay every Sunday mornings and Muslims to pray during the day according to the scheduled praying time). All Muslim and major Christian holidays are paid holidays in addition to five Christian Celebrations where Christian only can have paid religious holidays. Actions implemented in the last year / planned ongoing for next year:  AS has implemented new management meetings chain to discuss any violation to that principle  20 meetings have been conducted last year and will be conducted in the next year to discuss and develop awareness of human rights issues The plan for 2011 is to develop WEB based application for staff to register their complaints freely Measurable Results or Outcomes: No complaints have been registered for last year PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment or Policy No complicit in human rights abuse A brief description of our Processes or Systems The total number of hours per week for each employee is 40 hours, i.e. 8 hour/day for 5 days. Any extra hour or any work during a scheduled vacation/holiday is compensated according to the company rule. All employees have the right to refuse to work on any official holiday. With respect to married women with children, they are allowed to leave the company one hour earlier than the regular scheduled daily time. Pregnant Women are allowed two months paid maternity leave with the option of an extended three months unpaid leave. All employees are allowed unpaid leave for a limited period, this is based on a case by case study. No child labor is allowed in the company and the company does not tolerate with this matter. All expenses and certain compensation are allocated to the families of any employee in case or his/her death or he/she is disabled and not able to work. The Company offers and gives all employees a chance to improve themselves, by providing advanced training in different subjects, either inside the company or with Local & International Companies. The Company is concerned with social activities between its employees and their families to keep the good relation among them. Financial and economical security is one of the most important parameters that are taken care of in order to secure the Company’s employees. Challenges and Competitions between employees are an important issue to motivate them to work harder and achieve the best expected results. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year: see above Measurable Results or Outcome: Since implementing these principles, we experience better communication between all level of staff and ongoing loyalty from staff towards our company. Turnover of staff is much less. PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment or Policy Labour action group is allowed to participate in personnel and human resources policy development. A brief description of our Processes or Systems: The company has reached over 2000 employees. This number is going to grow in the coming 10 years. AS decided to keep its human resources working in team environment. The different locations and categories have effective role to manage great numbers Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year: The company has created an Action Group. This AG has important role to represent all staff in chain of command and in subjects. Each 10 members has one leader and each 20 leaders have one representative in that action group. Meeting take place monthly while the smaller group meet weekly with internal mail system to control the flow. Measurable Results or Outcomes: 44 meetings conducted last year with full documentation PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy Does not apply to our business and we comply with it A brief description of our Processes or Systems Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Measurable Results or Outcomes PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment or Policy No child labour allowed A brief description of our Processes or Systems Our business is professional Information Technology business, which does not allow this for technical reasons too. However, we fight any cases we see in the community and we joined several civil groups Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Measurable Results or Outcomes PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy: It was identified in the first and second principle A brief description of our Processes or Systems Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Measurable Results or Outcomes PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment or Policy We support environment preservation and we apply environment roles. A brief description of our Processes or Systems ENVIRONMENT is an important issue in our Company. Green areas, highly equipped offices with air-conditions, healthy chairs, spacious offices, and communication facilities are all important parameters in our organization. In addition we have a garden in each location that all staff can gather and have their daily recreation in family spirit manner. The company is using paper extensively, however we are having recycling policy to make use of all papers and then shred them later on for specialized company to collect. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year: We are banning the use of plastic bags for circulating marketing materials and instead using paper bags made of recycled paper. We are urging all staff to shut down any electronic devices (computers, scanners, copy machines) and lights over night and on weekends to save electricity consumption. Any new equipment bought is chosen not only by price but also on their electricity consumption. Used electronic equipment will be collected by specialized reputed recycling company. Water consumption is handled more rationally by using watering the gardens by pipes. Measurable Results or Outcomes The green area increased 15% last year Electricity consumption went down 11% last year PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment or Policy To promote environment responsibility among our staff A brief description of our Processes or Systems The company has awareness role in the neighbourhood with planting green areas and keep clean environment by collecting garbage on the streets around. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Planting part of the surrounding area around business facilities. Measurable Results or Outcomes: Increase in the awareness but difficult to measure. PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy: We are using environment friendly electronic equipment with less power consumption. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We are planning for installing solar cells generating part of our electricity consumption. Measurable Results or Outcomes PRINCIPLE BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, 10 INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy The company does not allow any kind of corruption support A brief description of our Processes or Systems: The Company is against any type of Bribery. Any Employee who seeks or solicits bribes is expelled from the company. Employee who does not follow the rules or his/her record is not up to the standard is given a notice after which he/she will be expelled if his/her behavior does not change. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year: Measurable Results or Outcomes: No incidents happened How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? We publish this report in the internal corporate communication
