120, 2-Ga, Taepyung-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul, 100-102, Korea www.shinhangroup.com Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 This report was printed with soy-based ink on eco-friendly paper. 2 3 Message from the CEO Introduction to Shinhan Financial Group I would like to express my appreciation to our customers, Shinhan Financial Group As of March 2011 shareholders, local communities, and employees for the Classification Shinhan Financial Shinhan Bank Shinhan Card Shinhan unwavering support and encouragement you have given to Group Inc. Investment Shinhan Financial Group (SFG). As we emerge from the global Establishment Sep. 2001 Feb. 1897 Dec. 1985 Aug. 2002 financial crisis, our awareness of the need for sustainable Headquarters Jung-gu, Seoul Jung-gu, Seoul Jung-gu, Seoul Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul growth is higher than ever. In the past, business growth has CEO Dong Woo Han Jin Won Suh Jae Woo Lee Hyu Won Lee relied on aggressive, large-scale expansion and short-term No. of Employees 152 13,945 3,451 2,066 profitability. However, the survival of any corporation depends No. of Branches 1 975 38 112 on whether it has a mechanism for sustainable management Capital stock (KRW in billions) 27,574 18,794 48,867 19,288 into the future. In a word, corporate social responsibility (CSR) is the most crucial prerequisite for sustainable growth. Classification Shinhan Life Shinhan Capital Jeju Bank Shinhan BNP Paribas Experience has shown that the corporations with the strongest sustainable growth are those who Insurance Asset Management actively pursue social responsibility management as a part of the communities they belong to. As a Establishment Jan. 1990 Apr. 1991 Mar. 1969 Aug. 1996 Headquarters Jung-gu, Seoul Jung-gu, Seoul Jeju-si, Jeju-do Yeongdeungpo-gu, result of this heightened social awareness, more corporations consider CSR management to be among Seoul their most strategic objectives. Since our earliest days, we have been deeply aware of the significance CEO Jeom Ju Kwon Do Heui Han Chang Kee Hur Bhang Gil Choi of CSR management and have made every effort to practice it in our daily operations. To this day, SFG No. of Employees 1,111 129 432 171 continues to strengthen its CSR activities, building on its advantages as a financial group through three No. of Branches 160 6 39 1 Capital stock core tasks: Coexistence for Welfare, Sympathy for Culture and Symbiosis for Environment. Leveraging (KRW in billions) 10,624 4,326 2,320 1,574 on these core tasks, SFG seeks to fulfill its corporate citizenship by regularly evaluating the impact of the Group’s business on local communities and environment, to find a way to grow hand-in-hand with every member of the society. Today, SFG is redoubling its effort to meet the global-standard in Shinhan Financial Group sustainability management. Classification 2009 2010 No. of Employees 20,194 21,686 In 2008, SFG joined the UN Global Compact, and since then upheld the 10 Principles of the Compact in Total Assets(KRW in billions) 255,018 266,032 the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. Due to these efforts, Total Liabilities(KRW in billions) 233,895 242,834 the Group was designated the most “sustainable performer” among Korean financial institutions by the Total Shareholders’Equity(KRW in billions) 21,123 23,198 Dow Jones Sustainability Index of Korea (DJSI Korea) for two consecutive years in 2009 and 2010. Operating Income(KRW in billions) 51,172 33,651 Furthermore, the Group became the first Korean financial institution to be included in the DJSI AsiaNet Income(KRW in billions) 1,305 2,384 Pacific Index in 2009. Meanwhile, SFG continued efforts to respond to climate changes and to become BIS capital adequacy ratio(%) 12.60% 12.77% the leading financial institution in “Low Carbon and Green Growth” movement in Korea. As a result, No. of Branches 1,320 1,361 SFG was recognized by the Korean Committee of Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2010, winning awards in the fields of financial leadership and for the improvement over the previous year. In April Ownership Structure 2010, the “Shinhan Financial Group Volunteer Team” was launched to encourage subsidiaries to participate in volunteer work for local communities, with the added effect of maximizing synergy BNP PARIBAS 6% between subsidiaries. This report is the embodiment of our efforts for socially responsible KOREA NATIONAL management, documenting the steps that we’ve taken from the beginning to present day. In the year PENSION SERVICE 6% 2011, SFG will continue focusing on the development of core tasks, while at the same time fulfilling our CITIBANK.N.A(ADR DEPT) 4% responsibility as a socially responsibly company by listening to the expectations and needs of our SFG EMPLOYEE STOCK Total No. of Shares OWNERSHIP ASSOCIATION 4% stakeholders. In closing, we sincerely hope to earn your constant support and interest as we continue 474,199,587 SAUDI ARABIAN this journey toward a sustainable future. MONETARY AGENCY 3% THE LAZARD FUNDS INC 3% Thank you. MIRAE ASSET MANAGEMENT 2% THE GOVERNMENT OF SINGAPORE 1% MIZUHO 1% June 2011 * Listed Companies (Shinhan Financial SAMSUNG LIFE INSURANCE 1% Group, Jeju Bank) , Common Stock, As of DAEKYO CO., LTD. 1% Chairman and CEO of Shinhan Financial Group Dong Woo Han the end of Dec. 2010 OTHER SHAREHOLDERS 68% 4 5 Social Responsibility Management Structure & DMA CSR Execution Structure Adopting a strategic approach to its CSR management, the Group-wide CSR strategies – in the field of ● 추진조직 economy, society, and environment are setup by Strategic Planning Team of the holding company. Then, the strategies are executed by CSR and Culture Management Team of the holding company, as SFG’s CSR Management well as by CSR management team of each subsidiary. Additionally, SFG organized group-wide working Strategic Planning Team CSR and Culture Management CSR Management Team level councils to share the progresses in CSR management. According to the responsibilities, SFG is (Holding Company) Team (Holding Company) (Each Subsidiary) operating the Green-Management working level Council, the Green-Financing Executive Council, the Establishment of CSR Execution of CSR Planning & Execution of Social Contribution working level Council, as well as the CSR Management working level Council to Management Strategies of Management at the level of CSR management at the the Group the Group level of a subsidiary discuss the overall status in CSR management. Economy Environment Customer Employee Local Community Despite the ongoing uncertainty SFG has set three roles for the Group’s As a leading financial institution in Having secured many talented SFG supports the “Era of surrounding the market, SFG came out green management practices: Korea, Shinhan Financial Group is employees, SFG is putting efforts Collaboration” and aims to make the strong and achieved the highest greenhouse gas reduction, environbuilding a group-wide customer into creating a great workplace via world a better place for all members profitability ahead of other financial mental monitoring, and promotion of relationship system, utilizing its collaboration between labor and of the society. Adopting a systematic institutions in Korea through green management practices. To this comprehensive services that a management, operation of a approaches for its social contribution preemptive risk management. In end, SFG is promoting six strategic financial group provides. The Group addition, the Group is laying a firm tasks, such as achieving carbon conducted a variety of ‘Customer differentiated welfare system, and activities, SFG is expanding its Management foundation for sustainable growth by neutrality. In addition, to upgrade the Satisfaction (CS)’ programs and expansion of communication among contribution to the society. In carrying out process innovation Group’s green management to the next established ‘Voice of Customers employees. In addition, the Group is addition, the Group is encouraging Principle programs and providing support for level, SFG has established and is (VOC)’ system in order to respond periodically conducting human rights employee participation and SMEs, as well as introducing a variety operating the “Green Management to customer complaints and education and human rights continuing its contribution to the of CS products. Executive Council” and has set the opinions on a real-time basis. In protection activities to protect Smile Microcredit Bank, as well as “Integrated Green Management addition, to protect valuable employee rights and to prevent increasing investments into social System” as its key strategic task. customer information, the Group has established the best discrimination. Looking ahead, SFG contribution activities. Through these information security system in the will make continuous contributions efforts, SFG strives to create mutual industry. and focus on the career development beneficiaries with all stakeholders. of employees to cultivate experts. 1. ROA and ROE in 2010 improved to 1. ‘Establishment of “Green Manage1. Maintained a leading position in 1. Continuous expansion of 1. Establishment of a group-wide pre-financial crisis level ment Executive Council” customer satisfaction education on discrimination and social contribution organization 2. Total Economic value: KRW 6.787 2. Establishment of “Integrated Green evaluations by external human rights 2. Expansion of investments in social 3. Substandard & below ratio: 1.48% Management System”: Greenhouse assessment agencies at home 2. Multi-dimensional evaluation contribution activities and number 4. Minimization of overhang costs Gas Inventory and abroad through through process innovation programs 3. Greenhouse gas reduction through system to secure objectivity and of participants Bank differentiated services offering (BPR Renovation 2.0, Bubble Zero energy saving and integrated emotional fairness in promotion 3. Promotion of the Shinhan Smile campaign, etc.) 4. Preferential treatment in credit marketing 3. Cultivation of experts through Microcredit Bank 5. Supported KRW 56.4 billion for the review for eco-friendly businesses 2. Continuously reduced the career development system 4. Support for SMEs and investments 2010 job creation of SMEs and won the number of VOC complaints by 4. Balance between the work and for the society Progress Grand Prize for “the 14th Fighting utilizing real-time feedbacks personal life by expanding familySmall Business Support Loan from the VOC system friendly management programs Awards” by Maeil Economy 3. Obtained globally renowned Newspaper certificates, including ISO27001 for information protection, and ISO20000 for IT services 4. Strengthened employee CS capabilities by conducting customer satisfaction trainings 1. Establish a stable financial structure 1. ‘Establishment of “Green Manage1. Improve customer satisfaction by 1. Reinforcement of nurturing 1. Revitalization of a group-wide via proactively managing toxic ment Executive Council” providing differentiated and program for global talents social contribution organization assets and risks, as well as offering 2. Establishment of “Integrated Green professional financial services 2. Expansion of communication 2. Expansion of targets for social differential services Management System”: Greenhouse that fit with the customers’ channels between employees contribution activities and number Strategic 2. Maintain stable credit rating Gas Inventory needs 3. Establishment of multiof participants leveraging sound financial conditions 3. Greenhouse gas reduction through 2. Expand the scope of CS activities Direction and firm sales network energy saving to after sales services dimensional welfare system to 3. Diversification of Smile 3. Lay a foundation for innovation 4. Preferential treatment in credit 3. Provide specialized services, support health and welfare of Microcredit Bank program and activities through process improvement review for eco-friendly businesses higher quality of services, and employees expansion of beneficiaries 4. Achieve stable profitability and honest services to customers 4. Diversification of SME support uphold corporate social responsibility through the expansion of program and investments for the by introducing strategic CS products employee CS educations society 6 7 2010 Highlights Realization of an “Enterprise of Community” by Practicing Win-Win Cooperation Establishment of the First Integrated Green Management System SFG is committed to playing a role as a corporate citizen by pursuing a win-win cooperation with its In line with the efforts for green management and to keep pace with the global response to climate partners. To this end, SFG is conducting the “Job-S.O.S II” project, which includes programs for change, SFG established the integrated green management system in 2010, the first of its kind among supporting SMEs’ employment and reducing interest rates for the leasing of facilities. Additionally, the the financial institutions in Korea, while at the same time acquiring international certification for the Group is expanding contribution to the Shinhan Smile Financial Foundation, while at the same time Group’s greenhouse gas inventory system. Through these efforts, SFG is actively disclosing the results wavering bank service charges and cutting interest rates of the Shinhan Hope Loan for the needy in the of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the Group’s preparation for climate changes, through various society. mediums including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the Carbon Disclosure Project, and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Shinhan Smile Microcredit Bank Job Fairs To support underprivileged social groups, SFG contributed additional KRW 20 billion into the Shinhan SFG is nurturing financial experts for SMEs through the Group’s job creation business, while focusing Smile Microcredit Bank in 2010. Founded in December 2009, the Shinhan Smile Bank is the domestic on solving the problem of youth unemployment of the country through a variety of supportive activities, financial group’s first microcredit bank, with a total contribution size of KRW 50 billion. Combining the including job fairs. To continue the efforts, the Group will invest KRW 56.4 billion from the end of 2010 years of financial professionalism and know-how with a passion for social contribution, the Shinhan to 2013. Smile Microcredit Bank has set an exemplary precedence in the financial industry in Korea. 8 9 Stakeholders Ethical Management Communication with Stakeholders Transparent Management As a responsible corporate citizen, SFG interacts with various stakeholders including shareholders, SFG is committed to transparent management and views transparency as part of its corporate social customers, employees, business partners, local communities, media, NGO and the government. To responsibility. The principles of ethical management comprise a major part of our management ensure clear and comprehensive communication channels, SFG is actively collecting the opinions and philosophy. As such, SFG has established and implemented code of conducts and additional ethical ideas of stakeholders on the sustainable management of the Group, while at the same time holding standards to which all of our employees must comply. At the same time, to fulfill our responsibility as a regular meetings with each stakeholder group to collect their feedbacks on the major current issues. corporate citizen, each of our subsidiaries has implemented programs for ethical management. Ethical Looking ahead, SFG will further develop open communication with stakeholders, and continue to focus conduct is strictly enforced by compliance officers in the holding company and each subsidiary. In on a stakeholder-oriented sustainable management. February 2010, a compliance officer was appointed to ensure the principles of ethical and transparent management. As the CEO reiterated in his 2010 New Year's Address, SFG remains deeply committed to Various Stakeholders of the Group reinforcing its ethical management and adhering to strict ethical practices, thus helping to ensure SFG periodically publishes surveys and newsletters as communication channels with various sustainable growth. stakeholders. Additionally, SFG convenes regular joint labor-management conferences, incorporating the opinions of employees into business decisions, and operates employee consultation center and SFG has enacted and is practicing a “code of ethics for financial internal intranet to offer employees a freer and more active platform for stating their views. staff.”Furthermore, each subsidiary has adopted its own codes and The Code of Ethics guidelines for ethics, conduct and business practice, especially against bribery, corruption and information leakage Local SFG operates Internal Transaction Guidelines and a Compliance Community Business Shareholder Government Employee (Branch, Overseas Customer Partner & Investor Compliance with Program (CP). To promote ethical practices, the Group also Branch, Local Subsidiary) Financial Regulations monitors daily operations for violations and holds education programs to inform all employees of the laws and regulations. Academic SFG prohibits contributions to and support of political parties, Local Residents politicians or related institutions, particularly illegal political Prohibition of Political Media donations for political campaigns. There were no known incidents Contribution and Support NGO / NPO of political contribution or support at the Group level during the reporting period. Materiality Evaluation and Selection of the Contents of the Report Once a year, all employees attend mandated training sessions, SFG’s materiality evaluation reviews thirty issue pools based on international standards that assess the including strategic management meetings, position-oriented level of sustainable management of the company, including the G3 guidelines of the GRI, the Dow Ethical Management training sessions, and cyber training courses. SFG also holds Jones Sustainability Index, as well as ISO 26000. Then, we’ve measured interests of both internal and Education training programs on ethical management during on-the-job outside stakeholders regarding these issues, as well as the impacts that they may have on the training company’s business and its operations, to come up with a series of key issues. Through this report, SFG SFG encourages all employees to sign the pledge of ethical discloses the selected key issues and related business strategies and activities. practice. Every year, each subsidiary selects major compliance Pledge of Ethical Practice ● Materiality Issues requirements from ethical management guidelines for inclusion in the pledge Economic Value Creation 5.00 Customer Information Security Education and Training Programs for the 4.50 development of employee capabilities Observance of the Law, Anti-Corruption, Fair 4.00 Competition Labor-Management Cooperation and Employee Importance for Internal Stakeholders Rights Protection 3.50 3.00 → Employment Environment Improvement Profit Sharing Program Social Contribution to Local Communities Product Information Service 2.50 Indirect Economic Effects Observance of Marketing Communication 2.00 Regulations Employee Health and Safety 1.50 Public Policy Participation 1.00 → Equality at the Workplace Investments into the Environment (Green Fund) Human Rights Protection Minimization of Environmental Impact or Observance 0.50 → of Environmental Regulations Raw Material, Energy, Water Usage Reduction 0.00 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50 5.00 Activities Importance for Outside Stakeholders High Interest for Biodiversity Waste Reduction Activities 10 11 Economy Sustainable Economic Value Creation and Distribution Maximization of Indirect Economic Effects through Innovative and Creative Management Process Innovation Campaign to Enhance Business Performance Economic Value Creation and Distribution by the Group In an effort to minimize overhang costs caused by unnecessary overlaps, SFG is pursuing a full range of SFG created KRW 6.787 trillion of economic value from major business operations in 2010 thanks to process innovation campaigns for each subsidiary, such as holding intensive time limited to each higher interest margin from rising interest rates and improved asset quality. The created value was employee’s own duty, simplifying paperwork, and reducing numbers or duration of meetings. In distributed among a variety of stakeholders including shareholders, employees, business partners, the addition, the Group has significantly reduced the product development time, as well as the time government, and local communities. required for settlement of accounts to the lowest level in the industry. Theses efforts are not only improving the Group’s cost structure, but also enhancing customer satisfaction by delivering better ● Net Income by Main Subsidiary products and services more quickly . (Unit: KRW in billions) Banking sector Sharing Diverse Knowledge of Employees : Knowledge Management 40% 4% 1,648 SFG operates a wide variety of knowledge management programs, encouraging employees to share 9% 2% 1,107 their knowledge and experience with colleagues to improve overall operational capability of the Group. 857 To this end, employees are exchanging their best practice (BP) experiences and accumulated job knowFY 2009 749 how, which are systematically entered into the Knowledge Management database, aiming ultimately to provide better products and services to customers. Non Banking sector 48% Pursuing Sustainable Growth by Entering a New Market Banking sector 52% To fulfill its pledge of sustainable growth as a financial institution, SFG is making inroads into public 7% 2% 4% works and new businesses. SFG is nurturing financial experts for SMEs through the Group’s job creation 211 business, while at the same time focusing on solving the problem of youth unemployment of the country. 139 174 FY 2010 56 Currently, SFG is conducting the “Job S.O.S II” project with total funds of KRW 56.4 billion. To this end, 44 38 the Group has developed a “Job S.O.S Hope Business Bankbook” and a “Job S.O.S Hope Installment Non Banking sector Savings”, and is providing KRW 0.3 million for new employees of over one thousand SMEs on monthly 48% Shinhan Bank Shinhan Card Shinhan Shinhan Life Shinhan basis for the next three years. In 2010, the Group has created jobs for 2,200 youths, and is currently Investment Insurance Capital Shinhan Card Shinhan Investment ■FY09 ■FY10 carrying out a variety of activities, including job fairs, to increase the number of youth employment to Shinhan Life Insurance Shinhan Capital 5,000. Furthermore, Shinhan Life Insurance introduced a wide variety of new products, including the industry’s first insurance programs that cover bicycling accidents and environmental diseases, as well as products that expand insurance coverage for children to elderly, and providing discounts for families with Excellent Credit Rating through Preemptive Risk Management disabled members and households with many children. Additionally, the Group’s subsidiaries are actively Credit ratings of the Group’s major subsidiaries, including Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Card, Shinhan launching new businesses to secure new growth engines in the future. Investment, Shinhan Life Insurance and Shinhan Capital, are evaluated by domestic and global credit rating agencies. By leveraging on its preemptive risk management, the Group’s substandard & below BPR Performance of Shinhan Bank in 2010 ratio recorded 1.48% in 2010, an improvement from 1.35% in 2009. In terms of capital adequacy, the BPR Performance Analysis holding company’s consolidated equity ratio stood at 12.77%, a 0.17%p improvement from the previous Results from periodic survey shows that through the BPR project, SFG reduced sales year. All five subsidiaries’ credit ratings have remained stable according to their sound financial personnel FTE by 334, recorded employee satisfaction rate of 95%, reduced working times by 2 hours and 8 minutes, and increased marketing opportunity for the staffs at branches conditions and sales network. 1. Reduction of Sales Personnel FTE 2. Improvement of Employee Satisfaction ● Overseas Credit Ratings in 2010 Reduced 334 FTE annually unsatisfactory satisfactory Reduced labor 1% Moody's Corporation Standard & Poor’s Fitch Ratings costs by utilizing 92% low cost Results from survey manpower on September 2010 (retail department) average A1 Long-term, Shinhan Bank ALong-term, Shinhan Bank A Long-term, Shinhan Bank Reduced Workload Actual Manpower Input 7% P-1 Short-term, Shinhan Bank A-2 Short-term, Shinhan Bank, F1 Short-term, Shinhan Bank 3. Reduction of Working Time 4. Customer Value Creation Shinhan Card Reduced Time per Person Reduced Time per Person •Increased marketing opportunities ALong-term, 2 hours and 8 minutes 1 hour and 30 minutes Increased marketing opportunities with BBB+ Long-term, Shinhan Card Shinhan Card customers by reducing back office works Short-term, F2 Shinhan Card •Customer Value Creation Improved customer convenience through Sentimental Reduction Actual Reduction process integration *FTE(Full Time Equivalent) : The number of total hours worked divided by the maximum number of compensable hours in a work year as defined by law 12 13 Green Management Green Management Integrated Green Management System ❷＋❸ SFG has set three roles for the Group’s green management practices: (1) greenhouse gas reduction, (2) In line with the efforts for green management, SFG established the integrated green management environmental monitoring, and (3) promotion of green management practices. To this end, SFG is system, the first of its kind among the financial institutions in Korea. The system measures and controls promoting six strategic tasks, such as achieving carbon neutrality. the greenhouse gas emissions from over 1,300 buildings of the Group and its subsidiaries, including Each subsidiary of the Group is vigorously promoting six strategic tasks, and focuses on reducing head offices, IT centers, branches, and training centers. Besides measuring greenhouse gas emission, greenhouse gas emissions and developing eco-friendly products. the system is carrying out a wide variety of activities, including green building, energy efficiency, green IT, new and renewable energy investment, to attain the first “Carbon Neutrality” among financial ● SFG ‘s Green Management Strategy and Six Strategic Tasks institutions in Korea. In addition, SFG is providing support for each subsidiary on their new and SFG Role Strategy Strategic Task renewable energy and green SOC businesses, as well as developing environment-friendly financial ① Reducing greenhouse gas emissions products – green deposits, green installment savings, green funds, and green insurances – to enhance through energy conservation green management for the entire Group. Targeting the realization of “Carbon Neutrality” in the long Greenhouse Minimization of environmental ② Introducing a group-wide management run, SFG is proactively managing and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Gas Reduction impact from business operation system to control greenhouse gas emissions ③ Achieving carbon neutrality through a long-term carbon offsetting process Establishment of Inventory System Environmental Monetary support for low carbon, ④ Developing tax-exempt green deposit/ To achieve carbon neutrality for the long-term, SFG has established a greenhouse gas inventory system Monitoring green growth loan products to systematically manage and reduce greenhouse gas emissions of the whole Group. (November 2010) ⑤ Preferential treatment in credit The organizational scope of inventory system encompasses six subsidiaries: Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Promotion of Contribution to the reorganization review for eco-friendly businesses Card, Shinhan Investment, Shinhan Life Insurance, Shinhan Capital, and Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Green Manageof green industry ⑥ Carbon emission-rights trading and CDM ment Practices Management. Meanwhile, the operational scope of inventory system measures direct greenhouse gas business emissions included in the organizational scope (Scope 1), and the greenhouse gas emissions from purchased electricity and steam uses (Scope 2). The establishment of greenhouse gas inventory system Green Management Executive Council not only lays a foundation for carbon neutrality in a long-term, but also saves energy costs in a shortTo systematically and efficiently ensure the realization of green management, SFG has organized the term by identifying inefficient businesses. In addition, the system boots the public image of the Group “Green Management Executive Council”. The council consists of the members in charge of green as a concerned corporate citizen by disclosing objective information regarding climate change. As a management from each subsidiary, as well as from the Shinhan FSB Research Institute. result of the establishment of inventory system, SFG in November 2010 became the first financial group in Korea to be awarded an international certification for greenhouse gas inventory, from Det Norske Energy Usage ❶ Veritas (DNV), the internationally certified agency for green management evaluation. In addition, by SFG’s subsidiaries have their own energy-saving action plans and efforts for high efficiency. Due to the participating in the carbon disclosure project (CDP), SFG is disclosing information regarding the nature of financial industry, most energy is consumed for our office buildings. Thus, to reduce energy greenhouse gas emissions of the Group, as well as the status and impact of climate change. consumption at offices, SFG is carrying out various campaigns such as installing LED lightings and Development of Green Product ❹ purchasing electronics with high efficiency. Additionally, SFG recommends its employees to use public SFG is engaged in eco-friendly campaigns to protect the environment, focusing its efforts on transportation, while putting efforts into saving fuel expenses for company vehicles, in order to save introducing green product and making green investment, and sharing awareness of the importance of energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the environment with customers. To this end, each subsidiary is developing and operating a variety of Strategic Direction of Green Management of the Group eco-friendly products that fit with the characteristics of subsidiaries and local communities which the companies operate in. ① Reducing greenhouse gas emissions through energy Expected Effect 1 conservation 4 5 Support for Green Business ❺ 3 2 ② Introducing a group-wide management system to control greenhouse gas emissions SFG practices green financing by providing supports for eco-friendly businesses and green energy Short-term Task ③ Achieving carbon neutrality through a long-term industry. As a first initiative, the Group offers prime rates to companies engaged in green energy carbon offsetting process industry, and also funds companies exploring new growth engines and developing more efficient, lower 6 ④ Developing tax-exempt green deposit/loan products carbon energy sources, as well as companies that have earned environmental certification. ⑤ Preferential treatment in credit review for ecoMid-/Long-term Task friendly businesses ⑥ Carbon emission-rights trading and CDM business Relative Easiness 14 15 Customer Promotion of Premium Customer Service and information security Management of Customer Complaints and Customer Satisfaction Education Promotion of Differentiated Customer Services Discretionary Authority for Compensation in Public Disputes As a leading financial institution in Korea, Shinhan Financial Group is building a group-wide system for As part of its effort to enhance customer service, SFG applies “Discretionary Authority for management of customer relations by taking advantage of the comprehensive services that a financial Compensation in Public Disputes,” a scheme to curb financial losses incurred by customers from group provides. Our goal is to raise the level of customer satisfaction by sharing and analyzing mishandling or systemic errors in its business processes. The scheme effectively facilitates reasonable customer information throughout the group and by providing professional financial services based on and swift resolution of disputes to prevent controversy and customer defection. When compensation is the results of the analyses. Furthermore, to ensure higher customer loyalty, the Group provides “Top requested, the persons in authority examine the case at hand and, together with the Deliberation Club” incentives for premium customers through special services including waiver of annual Committee, reach a decision on whether to compensate. If applicable, compensation is then granted membership fees and service charges. and follow-up measures are taken. Operation of the Voice of Customer Customer Satisfaction Education Acknowledging customer opinions as valuable assets in business development, SFG operates a VOC SFG holds education programs to help employees better understand how to render services and (Voice of Customer) desk, an upgrade from the VOC system, to collect feedback and then to promptly, maintain contact with customers. Looking ahead, SFG will continue to foster professionalism, quality, fully resolve customer issues. and integrity in its customer service culture. ● No. of VOC Complaints Continuous Improvement in Customer Satisfaction (Unit: Cases) Shinhan Financial Group conducts regular customer satisfaction evaluations and to determine the 5,000 strengths and weaknesses of services. The Group also collects survey results from external institutions 4,876 4,621 4,805 for comparison. SFG is able to continually upgrade the quality of its service at every level of customer 4,503 4,547 contact. 4,315 3,824 3,418 ● Customer Satisfaction Survey (Self-Survey) 94.2 269 90.9 91.9 230 88.5 90.2 90.2 90.1 84.9 211 80.7 79.6 85.1 84.7 68.6 66.1 67.6 Shinhan Bank Shinhan Card Shinhan Investment Shinhan Life Insurance ■2008 ■2009 ■2010 Provision of More Accurate Information SFG provides its customers with accurate information on its financial products and services through leaflets, posters, handouts and electronic promotional material. These documents clearly convey key features of financial products and are carefully screened by the Compliance Department to avoid Shinhan Bank Shinhan Card Shinhan Investment Shinhan Life Insurance Jeju Bank overselling or misleading statements. At the same time, SFG has established and is operating a ■2008 ■2009 ■2010 complaint management program to resolve complaints as early as possible. To improve the efficiency of the program, the Group provides an evaluation system for the Office of Customer Complaint Management and guideline on pre-deliberation of complaints during the early stage of product development cycle, particularly in product design and marketing strategies, thereby reducing the risk of customer complaints. Customer Information Security SFG provides guidelines for exchange and utilization of personal credit information between subsidiaries, thereby strictly managing such information inside the Group. In addition, as the number of e-banking customers grows, the Group develops its information protection technology. Furthermore, SFG’s customer protection and management system has obtained globally renowned certificates, including ISO27001 for information protection, and ISO20000 for IT services. 16 17 Employee Fair Employment and Safeguarding Employee Rights Great and Healthy Work Place SFG promotes the balance between work and personal life and conducts “Great Work Place” campaign Fair Employment to boost the trust and respect of employees toward the Group. As a result of these initiatives, Shinhan In observance with the Labor Contract Act and Work-Family Balance Practices, SFG prohibits Bank won the grand prize in the financial institution category of the “Great Work Place” (GWP) award discrimination against sex, age, religion, and academic or regional background, and provides equal for seven consecutive years, and Shinhan Card won the grand prize of the “2010 Fortune Great Work opportunities to veterans and the disabled in its recruitment process. The entire recruitment process Place in Korea” award for two consecutive years. utilizes fair screening criteria and those who are hired are subject to equal payment schemes as well as gaining fair opportunities for promotions and compensations. In terms of job security, the number of Family-friendly Management full-time employees has grown due to the Group’s intension on rehiring irregular workers as regular SFG promotes the balance between work and personal life, and conducts “Great Work Place” campaign employees. to boost the trust and respect of employees toward the Group. To this end, SFG is operating a variety of family-friendly campaigns, including “Going Home Early on Every Wednesday” campaign. Safeguarding Employee Rights Abiding by the labor and human rights principles of the UN Global Compact with its workforce, SFG Practical Employee Benefit Program prohibits forced labor and child labor. As the collective agreement and ethics regulations prohibit SFG operates an optional employee benefits program by accumulating mileages and issuing cards, sexual harassment, abusive language and assault at the workplace, the Group prevents them by allowing employees and their family to choose the benefits according to their needs. In addition, SFG holding seminars for all employees. has introduced “Refresh Leaves” program to provide employees refresh time and promote long-term leaves. Strengthening Competence of Human Resources SFG provides supporting system for in-house education programs, employee’s club activities, online Employee Health education facilities, and training sessions. To nurture global talents, SFG established Hong Kong By putting first priority on employees’ health, every year SFG requires securitized health exams to all Finance Education Center, while supporting employees for full tuition for overseas MBA programs, employees short-term training at Shinhan Hong Kong Campus, and other overseas training sessions. SFG implements multi-dimensional evaluation system to secure objectivity and fairness through diverse evaluators, strengthen core competence through feedbacks for suggestion about improvement, and build transparent and fair HR management based on performance and capability. Employee Communications Shinhan Bank holds varied programs to raise employees’ morale. The programs include a divisional program for better understanding of other team members, 7ST Heart-to-Heart Program for newly recruited personnel, a forum for the communication between CEO and employees, an online campaign for posting of good comments and replies, and a campaign for encouraging reading habits. ● Investments in Education by the Group (As of the end of 2010) Classification Shinhan Shinhan Shinhan Shinhan Shinhan Shinhan Jeju Bank Shinhan Financial Bank Card Investment Life Capital BNP Group Insurance Paribas Asset Management Education Expenses per Employee 2.1 1.57 1.45 1.45 1.07 1.73 0.57 2.16 (KRW in millions) Education Time per 175 122 45.4 110 100 170 25 Employee(Hours) * The calculation of education time per employee of Shinhan Financial Group is difficult as the employee educations are carried out on individual or team level basis. 18 19 Local Community Direction of Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution through Culture and Sports Based on the Group’s full range of communication channels with various stakeholders, SFG assesses SFG is committed to conducting a variety of cultural preservation activities in order to revive the the needs and issues of local communities, and then sets the Group’s mid-/long-term strategy and interest in traditional culture of Korea. SFG’s efforts include campaigns to educate the public about our direction for its social contribution activities. SFG currently has set three core tasks – “Coexistence for history and culture, as well as providing sponsorship and supports for diverse cultural and artistic Welfare”, “Sympathy for Culture”, and “Symbiosis for Environment” – as its main CSR strategies, activities. Also, the Bank holds the “Shinhan Music Award” event, identifying and fostering striving to provide fundamental and long-term solutions for social issues of local communities. outstanding talents in classic music to grow Korean music industry into another level. In addition to providing support for cultural and artistic activities, the Group sponsors various sports events. Coexistence Social Contribution through Education and a Scholarship Program Coexistence means being or living together. Under the strategy of “Coexistence for The importance of financial education is being emphasized, thus increasing the needs for systematic Welfare”, SFG strives to uphold its corporate social responsibility for social minorities by promoting various supportive campaigns, including job creation and proving support finance education at early age. Each subsidiary of the Group offers unique financial education courses, for social enterprises. such as basic finance, basic financial transaction, and balanced financial operations, with special education teams to improve the overall quality of programs. In addition to offering education for Sympathy Sympathy means stimulation of feelings. Under the strategy of “Sympathy for Culture”, children and students, SFG also conducts financial education for other various stakeholders, including SFG seeks to restore the feeling of togetherness in the society by preserving our multi-cultural families, North Korean defectors and lower classes households, as well as immigrant traditions and cultural values. The Group’s concern for cultural preservations encompasses both tangible and intangible cultural heritage. women from multi-cultural families. Through the Shinhan Scholarship Foundation, SFG is operating a variety of fellowships programs such as a general scholarship program and a mentoring system, as well Symbiosis as providing support for academic research organizations and educational institutions. Symbiosis means living together in union. Under the strategy of “Symbiosis for Environment”, SFG extends investments into environment-friendly energy businesses, and aims to expand green campaigns to raise environmental awareness. Supports for Financially Marginalized People To help financially marginalized people achieve greater social and financial independence, SFG founded the Shinhan Smile Microcredit Bank. For next five years from 2009 to 2013, the entire Group will contribute KRW 70.0 billion to the Shinhan Smile Microcredit Bank and KRW 37.6 billion to the Smile Microcredit Bank, totaling KRW 107.6 billion, to underprivileged groups for supporting their business Social Contribution Activity startups and operation without collaterals and guarantees. As of April 2011, the Group has contributed SFG continues on a group-wide supports to meet the needs of society via employees’ participation in KRW 30 billion to the Shinhan Smile Microcredit Bank and KRW 34.1 billion to the Smile Microcredit the Shinhan Volunteer Service Group. Each subsidiary is also carrying out highly customized social Bank. SFG will continue its efforts to reflect the needs of communities in the development of financial contribution activities that fit with the needs of local communities that they operate in. In 2010, SFG products, and plans to expand its branches, as well as the borrowing limit of its loans. spent a total of KRW 133,403 million into its social contribution activities, a KRW 34,514 million increase from the previous year. The number of participants in social contribution activities is also on a Investment for the Society rise, recording 52,135 persons in 2010. Looking ahead, SFG will strengthen a systematic approach for In consideration of social impact and responsibility as a financial institution, SFG is making communityits social contribution activities, and each subsidiary will endeavor to continue to better serve local centered investments, such as investing in CSR-centered companies through SRI Fund as well as communities via customized social contribution activities. investing in SOC and providing loans. In particular, the Group organized various funds, which will help resolve liquidity problems among SMEs, as well as revitalize local economy. Communication with Local Community As a responsible corporate citizen, SFG strives to fulfill its role in social contribution by maintaining a communication channel with local community, as well as striving for further economic growth into the future. To effectively carry out social contribution activities, SFG is working together with local civic groups and public organizations to identify the needs within local communities.
