annual Communication on Progress MicroBio Environmental Biotechnology Solutions Implementing UN global compact principles 2017 MicroBio Dear reader, We are pleased to present our first Global Compact report. Our mission is to deliver safe environmental solutions, contributing to quality of life and sustainable development. We have consciously aimed to exceed minimum compliance requirements to protect the environment. We have worked hard to reduce the impact of our own operations and promoted our products and services which contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of natural environments. We still in progress of growing and we are committed to design the best way to include sustainability in our core business model. I am pleased to confirm that MicroBio reaffirms its support for the ten principles of the Global Compact of United Nations on human rights, labour, environment and the fight against corruption. In this Annual Progress Communication, we describe our actions to continuously improve the Global Compact and its principles in our business strategy, culture and daily operations. I would like “The things we do not see are to thank you the people of MicroBio for their persistent pursuit of excellence dedication to our far more powerful than what values and vision. we see. What is beneath the Lastly, I would like to confirm that MicroBio will continue to play an integral role in creating a safer ground begets what is on top and more sustainable future for all. of it, what is invisible creates Sincerely the visible. As humans we are Carine Lima not above nature, we are part of it. Therefore, when we respect its laws and care for its roots, life flows. ” T. Harv Eker WE SUPPORT Network Brazil WE SUPPORT HUMAN RIGHTS We want to build trust and engage our stakeholders to a better We aim to identify and manage human well-being through our code of rights-related risks in all our activities. The most relevant human rights issues for our industry conduct and values: include occupational health and safety, labour conditions and activities of security forces. Our Code of Conduct outlines the human rights commitments applicable to our people, as well to our suppliers. We set mandatory requirements for all our suppliers, including zero tolerance in relation to child labour, forced or compulsory labour, freedom of association, Ethics Excellence living wage, non-discrimination and diversity, workplace health and safety, community interaction and treatment of employees. The Code of Conduct is available online and attached on our blackboard at the firm. Responsability Sustainability labour We believe that our employees are the key of our business. We are a small team of 6 employees in total. We had zero employee turnover in 2017. In 2017 we have started every morning at 7h00 our English lessons to our team and we have conducted with our partners 4 technical trainings to improve their analytical capabilities. Additionally, our team visited 3 national conferences. We are committed to give a competitive wage From left to the right: Bruna Guebara, Jacob Kratzsch, Carine and comply all labour laws of Brazil. Lima, Flávia Tineli, Antônio Dias and Zilda Machado. We have a flat organization structure where our workers have an active voice in our daily On the left, our laboratory decision makings which lead us to a greater of Microbiology and our level of communication and innovation. magic formula! We believe that our employees are the key of our business. We celebrate each achievement together, as well as their birthdays. Gender distribution: Average age: 30 33% 67% ENVIRONMENT Environmental Stewardship is in our core business. We develop solutions Since 2016 we have implemented 3 indicators 100% natural to contribute to a to manage our environment impact. sustainable environment. Our energy consumption has been increased due our expansion. However, we have UN SDGs 13, 14 and 15 are part of our mission. repaired and bought new air conditioning to Our products act mitigating the negative use efficiently the energy in our capacity. environmental impacts and promoting a safety and healthy environment. Our water consumption has been decreased due our new way process to re-filter the water. Currently, 50% of our packing is recyclable plastic. However, we are committed to design to be reusable, recyclable or compostable by 2025. Energy Consumption has increased by 16% Vs 2016. Since our operations relies on 100% raw material and enzymes we do not generate hazardous waste. We follow all production protocols of production according to the Water use has decreased by Ministry of Agriculture in Brazil and IBD 24% Vs 2016. (Certification of Organic Fertilizers in Brazil). By 2020 we want to have clear performance We have reached 50% recyclabe indicators of sustainability in our entire plastic packing. operation. Anti-Corruption MicroBio has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery in any form. We are committed to being we are already fighting against a no-bribe business and eradicating any practices or behaviors in this regard. Our policy less pesticides in our table, extends to through all our stakeholders or with whom we do business. promoting our 100% natural Our commitment to anti-corruption compliance organic products and we will not is reflected in our Code of Conduct and operating with our core value Ethics and tolerate any bribery approach. Responsability. By 2018 we will actively participate in conferences to share, learn and adopt best practices. MOVING FORWARD MicroBio is in the stage of development. Our goal is to grow to meet the demand of farmers, which will lead us to a better comprehensiveness in the field, benefiting our stakeholders, such as our employees: improving their benefits and gender equality; farmers: best quality and practices in agriculture; society: healthy and safety food and our environment: maintaining the balance and mitigating the negative impacts. Our R&D department has a great challenge to bring innovative solutions in new areas. For instance: Animal Health and Bioremediation of Water. Additionally, by 2020 we are committed to have better sustainability indicators, by managing risk, enhancing performance and transparency, leveraging technology and collaborating with others, we will deliver productivity, long-term business resilience and enduring social and environmental outcomes. “There is only one institution on earth large enough, powerful enough, pervasive enough, and influential enough to really lead humankind in a different direction. And that is the institution of business and industry.” Paul Hawken MicroBio Soluções Ambientais LTDA R. Profº José de de Assis Sáes, 359 Santa Bárbara d’Oeste SP, Brazil telephone: +55 19 2222-2955 MZE MicroControl contato@microbio.ind.br BIORGANIC www.microbio.ind.br MicroBio
