OP Year 2017 On a journey of change lead by our customers OP OP OP Year 2017 Contents Year 2017 3 Review by the Supervisory Board 3 2017 in brief 5 Highlights 7 OP Financial Group 9 OP Financial Group in brief 9 Owner-customer interests guide our operations 11 Supporting corporate customers’ fundamentals 12 Local impact of cooperate banks 13 Employing top professionals 15 Stakeholders 17 Strategy 19 Financial sector in the face of major transformation 19 OP Financial Group’s strategy reinventing business for benefit of customers 21 Value creation 24 Value chain – OP as part of society 25 Business Segments 26 OP’s main business segments 26 Product and service development at OP Financial Group 28 Banking 30 Non-life Insurance 32 Wealth Management 34 Governance 36 Corporate Governance 36 Supervisory Board 37 Executive Board 42 Risk Management 46 Corporate Social Responsibility 49 Review by the director in charge of corporate social responsibility 49 Corporate social responsibility highlights 2017 50 Tax footprint 53 Corporate social responsibility management at OP 54 Corporate social responsibility programme 56 GRI 58 Economic impacts 58 Environmental impacts 63 Social impacts 65 GRI content index 76 Independent Assurance Report 80 https://op-year2017.fi/en 2 OP Year 2017 OP Year 2017 Vuosi 2017 Review by the Supervisory Board In 2017, OP continued its journey of transformation with customers at the core. We took several major steps forward in the implementation of our strategy that was published in 2016. The strong financial performance and capital adequacy made it possible to invest in service development as planned. Customers at the core several new products, both in traditional and new business lines. Our development work aims for a better customer experience, so we Our journey of change with customers at the core started as early as involved our customers in a more versatile, comprehensive manner in 1902, when the first cooperatives were established to provide services the development of services. for their community. Since then the justification for our existence has been based on customer needs. We have implemented our mission Our customer satisfaction and company image improved during 2017. by promoting the prosperity and wellbeing of our customers and our The number of our owner-customers increased to over 1.8 million. The operating region. implementation of the efficiency-enhancement programme, as laid out in the strategy, did not entirely proceed according to the schedule, so The financial sector is undergoing a transformation where customers the cost target of the programme was revised during 2017. Reaching have more options, their expectations are changing and boundaries our goal will still require active measures. between industries are blurring. The change in customer behaviour that is underway guides OP Financial Group’s transformation. OP’s Changes in the operating environment and the substantial reinvention service packages under construction are a response to this change. of our business require new competencies, while digitalisation Product and service ranges are being revamped and improved based and robotisation are transforming existing duties. In addition to on customer needs. developing systems, we are making heavy investments in modernising competencies. This modernisation is a challenge that not only applies to the financial sector but to society as a whole. We respond to this Investments in implementing the strategy challenge with an operating model for competence reform, which we are building together with our personnel. 2017 was a good year in terms of financial performance, and as it met our expectations, it was possible to resource the transformation of our business operations. The implementation of our strategy proceeded as Economic growth as a source of delight planned. We invested a record amount in the development of services, over 450 million euros. The majority of investments was targeted 2017 brought with it an optimistic outlook and stronger, extensive towards developing our traditional business operations. We launched growth in the Finnish economy. Exports picked up at a fast pace and https://op-year2017.fi/en 3 OP Year 2017 OP Year 2017 companies increased their fixed investments, as consumer confidence from digitalisation. In 2017 we updated this future vision and we are boosted consumer spending. Favourable economic development is continuously monitoring the changes in customer behaviour and our expected to continue, both in Finland and the rest of the euro area. In operating environment. spite of increased economic activity, we must ensure the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of our functions now and in the coming years. We want to be a forerunner in our sector. For that we will need continuous and intense dialogue and co-operation with our customers, administration and personnel. Changes in the operating environment, Common good competitive field and customer behaviour are also going to challenge us in the future. We need to make sure that we are heading in the The year 2017 was also historical, because it was the centennial year right direction. At OP, customers lead the way, which means we are of Finland’s independence. OP’s gift to the 100-year-old Finland – going to monitor our customers’ wishes even more closely. Our goal is altogether 274 person years of volunteering together with personnel, to further improve customer experience and grow at above the market customers, administration and partners – reflects our values and our average rate. mission as part of the Finnish society. Hiiop100.fi, a meeting place for volunteering, will continue to combine tasks and their performers During Executive Chairman Reijo Karhinen’s term of office, we took this year too. We are active in promoting prosperity in our operating several bold steps of reinvention. In 2018 we will continue our journey region, sense of community, responsibility and cooperation based on a of transformation, led by our new President and Group Executive people-first approach throughout Finland, through different actions and Chairman Timo Ritakallio. It gives me great pleasure to thank our initiatives. former President and Group Executive Chairman for his exceptionally extensive career for the benefit of OP and I wish the new Executive Chairman all the best and success – together with the entire OP Boldly onwards together Financial Group! OP’s strategy, published in 2016, is based on a future vision where the Jaakko Pehkonen key driver of change is the change in customer behaviour that stems Supervisory Board Chair https://op-year2017.fi/en 4 OP Year 2017 OP Year 2017 2017 in brief Earnings before tax over one billion euros for the • Other Operations: Earnings were weakened by higher investments in third year in a row, strong growth in business the development of services and other strategy implementation. • Earnings before tax for 2018 are expected to be at about the same • Earnings before tax amounted to 1,077 million euros (1,138), being level as or lower than in 2017. 5% lower than the record earnings a year ago. • Income increased by a total of 4%. Net interest income increased by Business development and sense of community for 3%, net commissions and fees by 8% and net investment income by the benefit of owner-customers 27%. Net insurance income decreased by 14%. • Expenses rose by 13%. The rise in expenses stemmed mainly from • In 2017, development investments worth around 450 million higher development investments related to the modernisation of euros focused on ensuring compliance with requirements set by the present-day business and from an increase in other expenses the authorities and legislative requirements, improving operational related to strategy implementation. efficiency and smoothness as well as developing business. • Impairment loss on receivables, 48 million euros (77), were low, • In 2017, OP Financial Group opened Pohjola Hospitals in Oulu and accounting only for 0.06% of loans and receivables. Kuopio. The construction of a hospital in Turku is progressing as • CET1 ratio was 20.1%, or at the previous year-end level. planned. • Banking: The loan portfolio increased by 5% and deposits by 6%. • In the financial year, the number of OP cooperative banks’ ownerBoth net interest income and net commissions and fees increased customers increased by 86,000 to over 1.8 million and that of OP by 4%. Supported by strong growth in income, earnings before tax Financial Group’s joint banking and insurance customers by 40,000 increased by 16%. to almost 1.8 million. • Non-life insurance: Insurance premiums from private customers • In November, OP held the biggest electronic voting in Finland. Almost increased by 2%, while those from corporate customers decreased 2,400 owner-customers were elected to Representative Assemblies slightly. Earnings before tax decreased by 14%. The earnings were in 81 OP cooperative banks for the next four years. eroded by a reduction of the discount rate to 1.5% in September and • OP Financial Group had the objective of donating 100 person-years more unfavourable claims development than a year ago. of volunteering in honour of the centenary of Finland’s independence. • Wealth Management: Assets under management increased by 5%. Volunteer work performed with partners totalled 274 years. Earnings before tax increased by 9%, aided by strong improvement in • OP bonuses increased by 6% to 220 million euros (208). net commissions and fees. Earnings before tax, Common Equity Tier 1 ratio € million (CET1), % 1,200 20 19.5 20.1 20.1 1,101 1,138 1,077 17.1 1,000 915 15 15.1 800 701 600 10 400 5 200 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1.1.2014 2014 2015 2016 2017 > Download OP Financial Group’s Report by the Executive Board and Financial Statements 2017 here. > Information about non-financial indicators can be found under Corporate Social Responsibility and GRI. https://op-year2017.fi/en 5 OP Year 2017 OP Year 2017 OP Financial Group’s key figures and ratios Q1–4/2017 Q1–4/2016 Change, % EBT, € million 1,077 1,138 -5.4 Banking 666 574 16.0 Non-life Insurance 210 244 -13.9 Wealth Management 247 226 9.2 Other Operations -45 95 New OP bonuses accrued to owner-customers 220 208 5.7 31 Dec. 2017 31 Dec. 2016 Change, % CET1 ratio, % 20.1 20.1 0.0* Return on economic capital, % ** 21.3 22.7 -1.4* Ratio of capital base to minimum amount of capital base (under the Act on the Supervision of Financial and Insurance Conglomerates), % *** 148 170 -22* Ratio of impairment loss on receivables to loan and guarantee portfolio, % 0.06 0.09 0.0* Owner-customers (1,000) 1,833 1,747 4.9 Comparatives deriving from the income statement are based on figures reported for the corresponding period in 2016. Unless otherwise specified, balance sheet and other cross-sectional figures on 31 December 2016 are used as comparatives. * Change in ratio ** 12-month rolling *** The FiCo ratio has been calculated for insurance companies using transition provisions included in solvency regulation. https://op-year2017.fi/en 6 OP Year 2017 OP Year 2017 Highlights Redesign of OP eServices together with customers Tampere hospital opened in 2016 were complemented by the Oulu hospital in May and the Kuopio hospital in August. All four Pohjola First opened as a beta version to customers in autumn 2016, the Hospitals provide basic healthcare and special healthcare services, redesigned OP eServices and online bank op.fi was then further examinations, surgery and rehabilitation on an extensive basis. developed based on customer feedback. In 2017, the new op.fi began providing banking and insurance services on a large scale for private and corporate customers. OP is among the rare financial industry The biggest electronic voting in Finland players to have opened up an early beta access to its service. From the very beginning, OP has developed the new service together with In November, OP Financial Group’s 81 cooperative banks held the its customers and is still collecting customer feedback that will guide election of the Representative Assemblies electronically, where ownerfurther development. customers elected from among them the Representative Assembly for their own bank for four years. A total of almost 2,400 members were elected to the Assemblies. The number of candidates totalled over Easier payments and more options 5,600. In April, we adopted the Siirto service developed by Automatia, jointly owned by Finnish banks. Siirto enables its user to make a real-time Motor Liability Insurance Act gives rise payment to a friend simply with a phone number. Online and mobile to a new type of motor liability insurance payments became easier with our Pivo app’s new feature which enables the user to pay purchases conveniently with Pivo, without Together with its customers, OP developed a new motor liability key codes. OP also developed and launched its first payment bots for insurance offering the market’s highest initial bonus for new drivers, Facebook Messenger. quicker bonus accumulation for drivers without claims, high maximum bonus and bonus cover for those driving a long time without claims. Already almost one-third of OP’s motor liability insurance policies, or OP’s Mobility Services diversify over 250,000, are currently compliant with new legislation. OP Kulku, OP’s first mobility service launched in 2016, offers electric cars as a service. In 2017, OP also introduced DriveNow car sharing Strong IPO year charged by the minute in Helsinki and OP Flexible Car providing rental cars for a month or a longer period offered nationwide. In May, OP also OP was involved in arranging initial public offerings of Finnish announced it will build with Fortum almost 100 charging stations in companies and was the only party to take part in all IPOs on the main Finland. list this year – Kamux, Silmäasema, Rovio and Terveystalo. In Finland, 2017 marks the best IPO year so far in terms of euros, as the total value of IPOs attained some 1.7 billion euros. Hiiop: OP Financial Group’s gift to the 100-year-old Finland Success for OP’s first crowdfunding project To join Finland’s 100-year celebrations, OP Financial Group wanted to lower the threshold for participating in voluntary work. Inviting OP Crowdfunding’s first investment project involved the ice cream everyone in Finland to do voluntary work together, OP created a factory Suominen’s Milk Ltd which sought capital for growth and volunteer work exchange site at Hiiop100.fi. The website enables both to start exporting its organic ice cream, Jymy. The crowdfunding announcing and searching for volunteer opportunities. During the round was a success, as its minimum target of 200,000 euros was jubilee year, OP Financial Group’s personnel and administration did over raised in two weeks and Jymy received the targeted number of new 274 person years of volunteering work together with partners and shareholders. The final amount raised was over 400,000 euros. OP’s other people. second crowdfunding project began in December, with the Nokia-based clothing manufacturer Papu Design, reaching the target already by the end of the year. Pohjola Hospital network expands In 2017, the Pohjola Hospital network was expanded by two new hospitals as the first Pohjola Hospital, located in Helsinki, and the https://op-year2017.fi/en 7 OP Year 2017 OP Year 2017 Updated CSR programme targets becoming carbon positive OP’s updated corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme sets ambitious targets for the future. One of them is to make OP carbon positive by 2025. The main themes of OP’s CSR programme are promoting sustainable economy, supporting regional vitality, peoplefirst and participative approach and the promotion of health, safety and wellbeing. https://op-year2017.fi/en 8 OP OP Financial Group OP Year 2017 OP Ryhmä OP Financial Group in brief OP Financial Group is Finland’s largest financial services group and fully owned by its customers. OP has three main business segments: Banking, Non-life Insurance community at both local and national level – digitally and physically. and Wealth Management. We provide our customers with the most The combination of these two roles makes us particularly capable of extensive and diversified range of banking, investment and insurance developing new services and reinventing ourselves as our owners and services and the best loyalty benefits in the country. operating environment change. Succeeding in both roles is a measure of OP Financial Group’s success. OP’s strategic aim is to gradually change from a plain financial services provider to a diversified services company of the digital era. In accordance with social principles based on the cooperative system, While financial expertise remains our cornerstone, we are gradually we always act in the best interests of our broader-based community expanding our business into new areas, including Health and Wellbeing and will therefore refrain from pursuing any targets of OP or individual Services, Housing-related Services and Mobility Services. players that conflict with the long-term targets of our operating region. OP employs over 12,000 people. We have some 1.8 million ownercustomers and 445,000 corporate customers. The number of our private customers is around 4 million. Our cooperative corporate form enables our dual role, which is also Performance determined by success in two roles the foundation for our unique identity OP’s operations are based on the cooperative principle: cooperation and sharing the fruits of success with our customers. Based on our mission, we create sustainable prosperity, security and wellbeing for our ownercustomers and in our operating region by means of our strong capital base and efficiency. Business role Social role Responsibility for financial Responsibility for the We follow our mission through a dual role typical of a cooperative standing and efficiency wellbeing of owner-customers and operating environment society. In our business role, we see to our efficiency and capital base. In our social role, we promote the long-term success and prosperity of the community by representing a positive driver in the operating region. The social role involves impactful actions for the benefit of the https://op-year2017.fi/en 9 OP OP Financial Group OP Year 2017 OP Financial Group structure OP Financial Group is made up of some 170 independent OP cooperative banks and OP Cooperative which they own, including its subsidiaries and closely related companies. 1.8 million owner-customers Some 170 group member cooperative banks Banking Non-life Insurance Wealth Management Health and wellbeing services Central cooperative https://op-year2017.fi/en 10 OP OP Financial Group OP Year 2017 Owner-customer interests guide our operations OP is owned by some 1.8 million owner-customers. In accordance with our mission we, owned by our customers, create prosperity and wellbeing for our owner-customers and our operating region. Owner-customers are therefore at the core of our business. Everyone can become an owner-customer by paying a cooperative Owner-customers influence in various ways contribution to one’s own OP cooperative bank. Such contribution entitles owner-customers to a diverse range of benefits and gives them In accordance with cooperative principles, owner-customers can, the right to vote in the election of the bank’s Representative Assembly. if they so wish, have an impact on the bank’s decision-making and It is a one-time contribution – no other payments or charges exist. development of operations. Through their representatives in the Since 2014, our owner-customers have been able to make additional bank’s governing body, owner-customers can promote business and investments in their own OP cooperative banks by means of Profit prosperity in the region. Shares. An OP cooperative bank will pay annual interest on Profit Shares on the basis of its financial performance, thus channelling part Owner-customers can have an influence on the bank’s activities, for of its good performance for the benefit of its owner-customers. OP example, in the following ways: anticipates paying interest of 3.25% (3.25) on Profit Shares for 2017. • In the OP cooperative bank’s governing body: The Representative Owner-customers, Assembly is the highest decision-making body of the bank with million customers owner-customers acting as its members. An owner-customer 2.0 can run as a candidate for the Representative Assembly election 1.83 and if elected, he/she can contribute to the bank’s activities. Every 1.75 owner-customer has the opportunity to vote in the election of the 1.5 1.43 1.49 1.40 Representative Assembly of the bank he/she owns. • In digital communities: As a new channel of influence, many banks 1.0 have introduced an owner-customer community, a digital forum where the bank regularly requests owner-customer opinions and 0.5 feedback on various matters. Through the community, ownercustomers can influence, for example, where the bank donates funds for charitable purposes. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 • In product and service development: Customers can participate in OP’s product and service development in OP Helsinki’s Vallila branch and online on our OP Lab website and our customer community Paja. Benefits and OP bonuses for owner-customers The biggest electronic voting in Finland thus far A significant part of business performance is returned to ownercustomers in terms of OP bonuses that come from banking, non-life In the autumn of 2017, OP Financial Group’s 81 OP cooperative and wealth management services and that are used to pay service banks held an electronic election of the Representative Assembly. The charges and insurance bills. Owner-customers also get discounts on nomination of candidates, using the voting advice application and the their insurance policies. act of voting itself was possible online. Owner-customers elected from among them a Representative Assembly to their bank for the next four Moreover, owner-customers have access to specific owner-customer years. The election results were published in early December 2017. service packages, such as daily banking services, a new long-term fixed rate home loan and the OP investment partner service. OwnerElection of Representative Assemblies at OP: customers can also buy, sell and switch the majority of OP funds’ units with no transaction costs. • 81 OP cooperative banks organising their election simultaneously • 1.5 million electors, of which 1.2 million had the opportunity to vote A total of 103 million euros (101) of bonuses were used to pay for electronically banking and wealth management services and 114 million euros (107) • 5,600 candidates, with almost 2,400 elected to a Representative to pay non-life insurance premiums in 2017. Since 1999, we have Assembly granted over 1.9 billion euros in OP bonuses. In 2017, our owner• Over 300,000 voters, with a 26% turnout customers earned a total of 220 million euros (208) in OP bonuses. • 66% of votes cast electronically, 34% by postal voting. Non-life Insurance loyalty discounts granted totalled 70 million euros (67). Not having to pay most transaction charges related to mutual funds saved our owner-customers 5 million euros. https://op-year2017.fi/en 11 OP OP Financial Group OP Year 2017 Supporting corporate customers’ fundamentals OP provides its corporate customers with versatile banking, non-life being high on the agenda, we establish, for example, well-thought-out insurance and wealth management services and health and wellbeing international partnerships based on the needs of our customers. In late services. These include, for example, financing, payment transaction 2017, we opened a representative office in Shanghai, China in a bid to and cash management services, investment services, expert services support Finnish companies’ growth and internationalisation in the Asian related to business development, risk management, employee market. wellbeing and internationalisation. We aim at creating total customer relationships on a long-term basis, by tailoring solutions according to OP Financial Group also has branches in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. the customer’s needs. Baltic Banking offers a comprehensive range of banking services for corporate customers. In December 2017, OP announced it would sell A variety of choices and options are involved in the establishment of all share capital of its Baltic-based non-life insurance company Seesam a business and the various stages of growth. OP provides support for Insurance As (Seesam), including its Latvian and Lithuanian branches, all business stages. In 2017, OP began piloting of OP Self-employed, to Vienna Insurance Group (VIG). Established in 1991, Seesam became a service designed to make starting a business easier for beginner part of OP Financial Group in 2006. The completion of the sale is entrepreneurs. conditional on obtaining the regulatory approval of the authorities. Alongside our own branches and representative offices, we provide International operations backed by our broad-based international services in cooperation with our global partner network. partner network and Baltic branches OP cooperates with foreign banks which have established a firm foothold in their markets, boast the best expertise in local business We support companies’ business not only in Finland but also abroad and banking and have the best opportunities to provide corporate through our extensive range of international services and a network of customers with services meeting the market needs. This cooperation trusted partners. ranges from payment transfers all the way to strategic partnerships. In non-life insurance, OP cooperates with RSA, a leading global non-life As a corporate partner, we wish to promote the success and insurer operating in over 100 countries through its network. internationalisation of Finnish business. International service capabilities https://op-year2017.fi/en 12 OP OP Financial Group OP Year 2017 Local impact of cooperate banks A cooperative business form and the cooperative ideology add to In 2017, 40 cooperative banks around Finland offered a total of over continuity and community spirit in OP’s operating environment. 1,000 summer jobs to young people aged from 15 to 17 in local nonprofit organisations. This “Kesäduuni OPn piikkiin” campaign aimed at OP is strongly committed to its customers and operating environment. helping young people gain work experience by offering local non-profit Thanks to our long-term knowledge of our local operating organisations and clubs the opportunity to employ a young person for environment, we can finance households and companies – even during two weeks while an OP cooperative bank would pay their wages. challenging times. Financing of local businesses is, indeed, one of the key prerequisites of regional prosperity in the long term. OP has a local In honour of the Finland 100 jubilee year, OP wanted to lower the impact across Finland, since OP Financial Group’s branch and service threshold for participating in voluntary work. Inviting everyone in network including some 400 branches is the most extensive and has Finland to do voluntary work together to attain 100 person years the best coverage in the country. of volunteering, OP created a volunteer work exchange site at Hiiop100.fi. During the jubilee year, OP Financial Group’s personnel and administration did over 274 person years of volunteering work together Support to local communities with partners and other people. OP pursues its mission not only through its business role but also In the Taloustaito project for improving young people’s financial literacy, through its social role. This means fostering the livelihood and OP cooperative banks’ and OP Financial Group’s employees participate prosperity of the operating environment as well as support to nonby giving financial skills training to a group of young people reached profit organisations, donations and sponsorship. OP cooperative banks through youth work. Some bank volunteers also act as personal can make independent decisions to support, for instance, local cultural financial mentors to individual young people. The project coordinated life and the physical education of children and young people provided by Helsinki Deaconess Institute aims to reach particularly young people by local sports clubs. struggling with their personal finance. In 2017, a total of 130 OP employees volunteered in the project. Employment support for young The employment impact people through NGOs of corporate financing the youngsters In 2016–2017, the bank annually supported the employment of on average 46 adolescents scored the usefulness of the project OP Pohjois-Karjala 300 The bank finances companies in its operating region, thereby promoting the region’s economic 4.7/5 of the age 15–17 in local organisations for three million euros in vitality. Regional companies play a significant role as weeks, adding up to 700 person-days. OP cooperative bank paid salaries employers and engines for the regional economy. The bank’s it was the market share first job for of corporate loans is The bank’s support to half of the youngsters approximately two the organisations was thirds 8,000 500 euros person-years per youngster in its operating region Remote meetings Supporting local sports, culture and volunteering OP’s target is to develop the best remote meeting services in the world and to be there for its In 2017, the bank offered financial support to local customers in the digital revolution. In 2017, sports clubs, culture, entertainment and recreational managing banking affairs online or over the phone saved time and reduced greenhouse emissions. 15 acitivities. The supported organisations provide activities especially for children and adolescents. 13,000 tonnes less greenhouse emissions members in these 45% 7,000 NGOs of the NGOs would be forced to stop saved working all or some of their hours operations without the support. https://op-year2017.fi/en 13 OP OP Financial Group OP Year 2017 OP also supported Finnish universities with large-scale donations. In several municipalities, OP cooperative banks are among the largest During the 2015–2017 donation period, OP cooperative banks and OP taxpayers, and at Group level, OP is one of the biggest taxpayers in Cooperative donated a total of 6.3 million euros to Finnish universities. Finland. OP Financial Group’s current tax for the financial year 2017 These donations to universities represent our contribution to safeguard totalled 223 million euros (223). the long-term success of university-level education and research and Finland as a whole. See our tax footprint. In 2017, three OP cooperative banks – OP Helsinki, OP Lounaismaa OP cooperative banks are major and OP Pohjois-Karjala – conducted surveys measuring the banks’ employers and taxpayers regional and social impacts. The surveys aimed at identifying the key regional impacts of the OP cooperative banks and expressing the A large part of OP’s economic impacts also involves indirect impacts operations’ impacts using tangible indicators. Based on the survey on local and regional economic vitality. For example, OP is a major results, the banks will be able to describe their operations’ effectiveness employer in many municipalities. At the end of 2017, the Group had to outsiders, including owner-customers and other stakeholders. These 12,269 employees (12,227). Of these, 94 (93) % were permanently surveys provide banks with a tool they can use to better develop their employed and 6 (7) per cent were fixed-term employees. Of Group regional and social effectiveness. employees, 11,847 were based in Finland, 180 in Estonia, 111 in Latvia, and 131 in Lithuania. OP had a total of 439 (492) summer employees and trainees during 2017. https://op-year2017.fi/en 14 OP OP Financial Group OP Year 2017 Employing top professionals OP Financial Group’s journey towards becoming a diversified services company, as defined in our strategy, means a major change process also for the personnel. In HR matters, we focus on the renewal and development of our competencies, management and corporate culture. The industry disruption challenges the organisation’s reinvention OP Financial Group’s strategy and annual plan are being put into ability and tightens skill requirements in terms of administration, practice through annual performance and career development reviews management and personnel. Cooperation, efficiency, reinvention and covering all OP employees in Finland and abroad. The number of hours excellent change management capacity are at the core of management used for education and training totalled 15 h per employee in OP and leadership. OP’s culture is based on strong values and the spirit Financial Group in 2017. of continuous reinvention and reform. Highly skilled and motivated employees are a success factor, enabling OP to meet the challenges of In order to develop the competencies of the members of OP the changing operating environment and digitalisation. cooperative banks’ Boards of Directors and Supervisory Boards, we have created comprehensive competence development packages consisting of online courses and training days. Board work and Various ways to develop and enhance competencies competence development aim to help the members successfully perform their duties in OP cooperative banks’ governance, thereby OP Financial Group offers all employee groups a variety of ways to supporting the reinvention of the entire OP Financial Group. develop their competencies. The basis for development is to understand OP’s strategy and how OP’s strategic transformation will affect one’s own work, activities and competence needs. Contributing to work ability with personnel surveys and wellbeing questionnaire During 2017, OP Financial Group has been building an operating model to update employee competencies. Such a model is being built OP Financial Group has two types of organisation-wide personnel since digitisation and automation will destroy some of the existing surveys: an extensive Personnel Survey and a more fast-paced jobs in the financial sector. Meanwhile, digitisation and automation Personnel Pulse. The results of the 2017 Personnel Survey were good. also create new jobs which require new competencies. The operating According to the survey, OP’s key success factors are customer focus, model aims to encourage and steer employees to keep their own confidence in the future and value-based performance. labour market value up to date. OP seeks to provide support, in terms of education, training and in finding a new type of job, for those The operating models of employee wellbeing, occupational employees whose job will either cease to exist or drastically change in healthcare and occupational safety practices increasingly contribute the future. The first actions within this model will be started in 2018, to safeguarding employees’ work ability throughout their careers. The and some have already been piloted. health and wellbeing questionnaire annually sent to employees enables us to identify priorities and needs for our employee wellbeing activities from the employee perspective. Workforce by personnel group and gender, % 100 OP is an attractive employer 23 80 In employer image surveys conducted by Universum in 2017, among 52 59 business/commerce or IT professionals OP was the most attractive 70 60 84 employer in the financial sector, ranking 7th among all sectors. In the corresponding survey for students, OP improved its rank among 40 77 business students from 4th to 3rd with all employer sectors included. In the IT sector, OP was awarded as the year’s highest climber as its 20 48 41 30 rank rose from 31st to 15th. 16 Management Experts All We seek to constantly develop OP’s national employer image among Supervisors Salaried students and professionals through versatile cooperation, visibility and team leaders employees and diversified career opportunities. Our cooperation with educational Men Women institutions included, for instance, various projects, recruitment events, expert lectures and student visits. https://op-year2017.fi/en 15 OP OP Financial Group OP Year 2017 In the summer of 2017, OP Financial Group provided jobs for 439 interest among university students. Based on the excellent results and summer employees. In addition, the OP Kiitorata trainee programme experience from the pilot, the trainee programme was extended into launched within Development and Technologies, aroused intense other organisational units, too. https://op-year2017.fi/en 16 OP OP Financial Group OP Year 2017 Stakeholders Stakeholder engagement forms a key part of OP’s cooperative business model. Dialogue with stakeholders is a prerequisite for OP to succeed in its social role. By listening to our stakeholders, we can understand their expectations and then find ways to promote wellbeing in our operating environment. Through listening and discussion, we want to learn and understand how we, as a company, could take our efforts in seeking solutions to social challenges and contributing to our country’s reform to the next level. Stakeholder engagement aims to identify development targets in We assess stakeholder views and engagement through various OP’s corporate social responsibility, describe OP’s transformation into surveys and feedback requests. OP’s own media channels, such as a diversified services company of the digital era to stakeholders and our Chydenius publication with a strong voice and mission, have been make our dialogue with stakeholders even more effective. These efforts revamped to strengthen our dialogue with stakeholders, particularly are underpinned by our Public Affairs unit created in 2017. The OP among decision-makers. forum for stakeholders continued its regular meetings. The members of the forum include representatives of labour market organisations, think tanks, political parties, universities and non-governmental organisations. OP’sstakeholder OP’s stakeholder groupsgroups and channels Schools, universities and the scientific and channels Owner-customers and customers Non-governmental organisations Decision-makers and authorities Industry associations and labour Local and regional communities Representative Assembly and administration community market organisations Personnel Investors Media Channel / stakeholder group Customer contacts x Meetings, in person or virtual x x x x x x x x x x Task groups, lobbying x x x x x Stakeholder and partner forums x x x x x x Surveys, studies and interviews x x x x x x x x x Cooperative Meeting x x Meetings of governing bodies x x OP’s events x x x x x x x x x x Participation in events organised by stakeholders x x x x x x OP’s website and media x x x x x x x x x x Intranet x x Social media x x x x x x x x x x https://op-year2017.fi/en 17 OP OP Financial Group OP Year 2017 Stakeholder groups Examples of our cooperation and meeting of stakeholder expectations OP Financial Group’s entire personnel in Finland and abroad is covered by performance and career development Personnel reviews. The Group wants to provide equal working opportunities for everyone. We listen to our employees with regular personnel surveys. OP Financial Group, owned by its customers, aims not to maximise profits for its owners but to provide, as efficiently as possible, the services which the cooperative’s owner-customers need. We want to offer the Owner-customers and customers sector’s best loyalty benefits. Through participation in governing bodies, our owner-customers have a strong representation in OP Financial Group’s decision-making. In addition, our customers are at the core of all our product and service development. Investors OP Financial Group’s investors include holders of Profit Shares issued by OP cooperative banks and Investors holders of debt instruments issued by Group companies. OP conducts its financial reporting to the same extent as listed companies, while the IR function is responsible for maintaining relations with debt investors. In November 2017, OP Financial Group’s 81 cooperative banks held the election of the Representative Assembly Representative Assembly where owner-customers elected from among them the Representative Assembly for their own bank for four and administration years. A total of almost 2,400 members were elected to the Assemblies. The number of candidates totalled over 5,600. OP cooperative banks organise a variety of events for different stakeholder groups, including school visits to promote financial literacy, lectures, customer events and traditional Hippo sports competitions for children. Many OP cooperative banks also support local sports clubs, cultural events, charity causes and entrepreneurship. OP Local and regional communities is taking part in banks’ joint project to improve young people’s financial literacy. In honour of the 100-year-old Finland, OP Financial Group’s personnel and administration did over 274 person years of volunteering work together with partners and other people. OP executives and experts meet media representatives, answer questions and initiate discussions in various channels. OP has an active social media presence. Mainly present on Facebook and Twitter, OP also continues to Media develop its own media, including op.media launched in 2017 and Chydenius, OP’s revamped publication with a strong voice and mission. OP participates in several cooperation and recruitment events of universities and universities of applied sciences throughout Finland. In 2017, we provided numerous practical training and summer job positions and thesis Schools, universities and the scientific community opportunities for students. OP supports educational innovations through the HundrED project as one of its main partners. Moreover, OP cooperative banks and OP Cooperative donated a total of 6.3 million euros to Finnish universities during the 2015–2017 donation period. OP is seeking to maintain active CSR communications and to respond to information and discussion requests. Non-governmental OP’s Customer Experience and Communications function reports stakeholder concerns, if necessary, to the senior organisations management. OP offers NGOs a new volunteer work exchange site at Hiiop100.fi In line with its strategy, OP is transforming from a financial services group into a diversified services company Industry associations and and is, as an employer, a member of Service Sector Employees Palta. OP also has an active role in international labour market organisations industry associations, such as the European Association of Co-operative Banks (EACB). OP Financial Group actively conducts dialogues and cooperates with Finnish authorities, ministries and government officials regarding topical legislative projects. OP Financial Group’s Legal Services and Public Affairs Decision-makers and unit is responsible for supervising the Group’s interests in legislative projects and it meets and informs members authorities of the European and Finnish Parliaments concerning the effect of legislative projects on the Finnish financial sector. In its social role, OP aims to identify influencing methods generating positive effects on Finnish society and economy, too. https://op-year2017.fi/en 18 OP Strategy OP Year 2017 Strategia Financial sector in the face of major transformation The financial sector is facing a major and fast digital transformation. In 2018, regulation will result in ever-increasing competition and open up banks’ customer data to third parties. New competitors from non-financial industries are entering the sector. With intensifying and globalising competition, customers are The financial sector is also challenged by large-scale social changes demanding from Finnish players as smooth and easy service in the operating environment, which involves, for example, ageing experience as they are accustomed when using the services provided population and transformation in the employment landscape. by the best-of-breed international firms. OP no longer competes with Transition from ownership to the right of possession is challenging traditional banks and insurance companies; financial services are also a number of traditional practices in the financial sector.The financial being provided by international technology giants and new players in sector has potential in finding new sources of growth in a role of the sector. safeguarding prosperity, providing healthcare services and creating new economic activity. As customers are faced with a growing number of options and switching a service provider is easy, they require financially smarter The underlying megatrends and phenomena are intertwined in and more proactive service – 24/7. Customers and other stakeholder a diverse way. OP monitors proactively changes in the operating groups also expect companies to demonstrate more transparency and environment and seeks growth opportunities in the transforming responsibility by emphasising their own values in making choices. financial landscape according to its strategy. We aim to rise to the challenges presented by the operating environment and to seize the opportunities it provides. https://op-year2017.fi/en 19 OP Strategy OP Year 2017 Megatrends and phenomena Transformation in rules governing the economy Acceleration of technological Economic Demographic environment uncertainty changes advances Political Greater power uncertainty of customers Transformation in Platform economy employment New regulation Robotisation Sharing economy Globalisation Blurring industry Sustainable of competition Cloud services boundaries development Blockchain From ownership to usership Rapid cycles Global interdependence IoT of consumer trends Big data My data Increasing cyber risks Immediacy From products Social inequality to service packages Health and wellbeing Artificial intelligence Global ecosystems Greater requirement Importance of Biometric identifiers for transparency community spirit Free movement of goods, Open APIs services and people Ethical business Climate change https://op-year2017.fi/en 20 OP Strategy OP Year 2017 OP Financial Group’s strategy – reinventing business for the benefit of customers OP Financial Group’s strategy is based on utilising the potential provided by the transformation in the operating environment to boldly modernise business and services for the benefit of our owners and customers. Our aim is to gradually change from a financial services group to a diversified services company of a digital era with strong financial services expertise. We create value for our owners by modernising our existing businesses branch network in Finland, flexible telephone services, advanced online and by developing brand new customer-focused service packages and and mobile services and an extensive network of external partners. In new innovative services. We will branch out into businesses that we addition, we are also building completely new digital business models find natural and where it enhances customer experience while creating and services for Banking, Non-life Insurance and Wealth Management significant synergies relative to our existing businesses. to respond to greater demand and the threat of new competition. We will innovate and develop services together with our customers and OP Financial Group annually invests more than 400 million euros the best partners in the world. We will exploit the latest technologies, in the development of new products and services and in technology customer insight based on extensive research data and close interaction modernisation. Currently, roughly 95% of this goes to the further as well as the best development and design expertise in the sector. At development of the existing businesses, or financial services, and about the same time, we will in an exemplary manner bear responsibility for 5% to new businesses. the reliability of our basic services and their nationwide availability as well as for the stability of the financing system and the functioning of The 2017 highlights in financial services modernisation included the insurance system. developing digital services, digitising and automating business processes, making service processes faster and smoother as well as upgrading a number of key technology platforms and basic systems. Customer ownership guides our operations Based on our mission, we create sustainable prosperity, security Customer-focused service packages represent a and wellbeing for our owner-customers and in our operating region breakaway from the conventional approach by means of our strong capital base and efficiency. A People-first Approach, Responsibility, and Prospering Together form the basis of As customer behaviour changes at an accelerating pace, financialour operations. Based on our customer promise “We exist to serve our sector solutions do not meet customers’ true needs in all respects. customers”, customer interests guide all we do. Our customers own This means that the risk of losing customer trust and loyalty is us and can have their say in our decisions and the development of apparent. Transition from a traditional product-focused philosophy to our activities. Moreover, a considerable part of business earnings are a customer-focused design approach is at the core of OP Financial returned to our owner-customers. Group’s strategic renewal, where in-depth customer insight and ongoing operational improvement in close dialogue with customers In our development activities, we specifically focus on areas that create form the basis for all development work. significant, new customer value and benefit for the society around us. We can also flexibly move from a producer to a service integrator if this The new philosophy at the strategic level is crystallised in customeris how we can reach the targeted benefits for customers faster and focused service packages that the Group has defined to be four thus more securely. far: Housing-related Services, Mobility Services, Health and Wellbeing, and Management of Finances. The purpose of the service packages is to help identify new potential growth areas while directing the Financial services to be modernised through largedevelopment of the existing businesses that pleases customers and scale projects coordinating development to enable synergies. Among the above service concepts involving areas new to OP, the most advanced are We provide our customers with the most diversified package of service Health and Wellbeing, and Mobility Services. channels available in the market that involves the most extensive https://op-year2017.fi/en 21 OP Strategy OP Year 2017 We are transforming from a financial services group towards a diversified services company Customer needs and customer experience at the core of our strategy Housing-related Services Banking Management of Health and Mobility Wellbeing Services Finances Bank Non-life Insurance Wealth Management Financial services group Diversified services company Good strategy implementation on a wide front The greatest achievements made so far during the strategy period and productivity, as well as competence update required for business include strong financial performance, strongly improved corporate transformation. image and customer experience, numerous new and significant initiatives by businesses and the early-stage success of hospital When reviewing strategy implementation through strategic indicators business, strong growth in the use of mobile services and success of (see table below), OP Financial Group has lagged behind several back-office centralisation. key strategic targets but strategic achievements have proved good considering the wide scope of the strategy. The greatest deviations Meanwhile, the greatest challenges are associated with the relate to the strategy period targets set for cost development and the implementation of the efficiency programme schedule, delays in number of owner-customers. some major basic information projects, development work agility OP Financial Group’s strategic targets 31 Dec. 2017 Target 2019 Customer experience, NPS (-100–+100) Brand 21.5 25 Service 58 70, over time 90 CET1 ratio, % 20.1 22 Return on economic capital, % (12-month rolling) 21.3 22 Expenses of present-day business (12-month rolling), € million 1,661 Expenses for 2020 at 2015 level (1,500) Owner-customers, million 1.8 2.1 (2019) https://op-year2017.fi/en 22 OP Strategy OP Year 2017 Dedicated and proactive efforts to update competencies OP Financial Group has recognised that the financial sector now amid market value of an individual employee and to find new, unconventional transformation and the Group’s own business reinvention will require models for creating job opportunities and updating competencies. The enormous competence updates promptly in the next few years. In model will particularly be used to support employees whose job will response to this, the Group has started to create an unparalleled change considerably or be automated. Through personal support, we proactive Competence update model with a view to preparing for aim to find training opportunities and new jobs for people either within transformation in employment ahead of us. With the operating model, the Group or outside of the Group. we want to act responsibly based on our values, to enhance the labour Core values People-first approach Responsibility Prospering together OP Financial Group is for people. We operate locally, regionally and Prospering together with our A genuine concern for people – both nationally as an exemplary and customers: this idea both points customers and co-workers – is the ethically responsible company. the way and sets the pace for the basis of our operations. We are easy We build long-term customer development of our operations and and agreeable to approach. Each relationships based on mutual trust. services. Operating as a unified person is treated as a dignified and Bolstered by our strong professional group gives our customers greater equal individual. Human respect is skills, we bear responsibility for the security and improves our service visible in all of our operations. high quality, expertise and reliability capabilities. The winning spirit, of our services. shared by our administration and employees, creates continuous success – the basis of our strong reputation. https://op-year2017.fi/en 23 OP Strategy OP Year 2017 Value creation As a cooperative Group, our operations have a wide effect on various role. Our overall success is measured against how we stakeholder groups in Finland, both on a local and nationwide basis. succeed in both roles. Our operations are guided by our dual role – business role and social OP’s mission By means of our strong capital base and efficiency, we create sustainable prosperity, security and wellbeing for our owner-customers and in our operating region. Our key resources Outputs and impacts As a financial services provider owned by Economic resources its customers, OP has not only its business role but also another significant role, • Owner-customers’ Profit Shares and cooperative contributions a social role. 1.8 million owner-customers • Deposits, mutual fund assets and insurance savings Successful performance • Issued debt instrument Some 170 member cooperative banks in the business role, e.g... • Customer experience: Service NPS 58, Productive resources Brand NPS 21.5 • CET1 ratio 20.1% • Multichannel services • Return on economic capital 21.3% • ICT systems • Number of owner-customers 1.8 million Intellectual resources Banking Non-life Wealth • New OP bonuses accrued to owner• Brands and reputation Insurance Management customers EUR 220 million • Participatory development of • Interest on owner-customer new businesses Health and wellbeing services investments paid in 2017 • Customer-focused and EUR 90 million efficient processes • Loan portfolio growth 4.6% • Good credit ratings Human resources • Product and service development • Skilled personnel Central cooperative expenditures EUR 454 million • Community-based practices Group Services Risk Management Customer Experience based on the cooperative principle Group Steering and Finance and and Communications ...enables the Group • Code of Business Ethics Customer Relationships Group Treasury Legal Services to lead its social role Digital Business and HR Internal Audit • User-friendly and innovative new Social resources and networks New Businesses products and services • Purchases from suppliers and service • Core values: People-first approach, Responsibility and Prospering together providers EUR 1,100 million • Stakeholder relations • Taxes EUR 223 million • Partnerships • Charity and donations EUR 2.3 million • Local impacts • #Suominousuun initiatives https://op-year2017.fi/en 24 OP Strategy OP Year 2017 Value chain – OP as part of society OP influences society on a wide front through its operations. The financial sector plays a key role in economic prosperity both directly and indirectly. We provide necessary basic services and business opportunities for citizens, companies and organisations. In the social role, we promote the long-term success and prosperity is in charge of procuring the most important products and services of the community by representing a positive driver in the operating within the Group. We expect product suppliers and service providers region. The social role involves impactful actions for the benefit of the to conform with OP’s Corporate Social Responsibility supplier community at both local and national level. requirements, OP Financial Group’s General Procurement Terms and Conditions, Code of Business Ethics and any applicable legislation and We seek superior customer experience that we provide in all service international agreements. encounters – in both face to face and digitally. Customer experience and its ongoing improvement is one of our most important targets, which OP is strongly committed to its customers and operating environment. is measured using a customer experience indicator. We seek to provide We foster a sustainable economy, for example, by providing local the best multichannel customer experience in the sector by creating business with financing. OP has a local impact across Finland, as the ongoing and relevant encounters in all channels. Group’s branch and service network is the most extensive and has the best coverage in Finland. Moreover, OP’s economic impacts also We take account of risk management, data security and responsibility involves indirect impacts on local and regional economic vitality. aspects at all stages of our value chain. OP’s centralised procurement Customer-engaging design of products and services Use of products Funding and and services securing the Data security capital base Risk management Corporate social Investing responsibility Product assets and and service lending production Sales and marketing of products and services https://op-year2017.fi/en 25 OP Business Segments OP Year 2017 Business segments OP’s main business segments OP has three main business segments: Banking, Non-life Insurance and Wealth Management. We provide our customers with the most extensive and diversified range of banking, investment and insurance services and the best loyalty benefits in the country. Banking is OP’s biggest business segment, and OP is Finland’s leading Towards customer-focused service concepts provider of home and corporate loans. For private customers, OP’s Banking services and products include daily banking and payment OP’s strategic aim is to gradually change from a plain financial services services, loans, savings and investments. We provide corporate provider to a diversified services company of the digital era. Increasing customers with financing, payment transaction and cash management customer expectations and change in customer behaviour encourage services, investment services, and expert services related to business us to create comprehensive solutions beyond industry boundaries. development. We will gradually shift the development focus from individual products towards customer-driven service concepts, which thus far number four: OP is also Finland’s leading non-life insurer. We provide our private Housing-related Services, Mobility Services, Health and Wellbeing, and customers and corporate and institutional customers with a diverse Management of Finances. Among the above service concepts involving range of comprehensive insurance solutions. Through our new type areas new to OP, the most advanced are Health and Wellbeing, and of service concepts, digital solutions, high-quality network of partners Mobility Services. and process efficiency, we are continuously enhancing our claims services’ customer experience while creating competitive advantage. OP took its first step in branching out into health and wellbeing services Non-life Insurance consists of OP Insurance Ltd, A-Insurance Ltd and already in 2013 when the first Pohjola Hospital was established in Eurooppalainen Insurance Company Ltd. Helsinki. By now, OP also has hospitals in Tampere, Oulu and Kuopio. The hospital network will be completed in May 2018 when the OP’s Wealth Management has Finland’s most extensive service Turku hospital opens its doors. All Pohjola Hospitals provide basic network for saving and investing. We provide the best digital wealth healthcare and special healthcare services, examinations, surgery management services for the saving and investing needs of private and rehabilitation on an extensive basis. The range of specialties has and corporate clients with a client-driven approach, and a unique been gradually broadened and, in the next phase, OP will establish Private Banking experience. We provide a diverse range of services and a nationwide network of medical centres and grow its occupational products in unit-linked insurance, mutual funds, and discretionary and healthcare business. advisory mandates. https://op-year2017.fi/en 26 OP Business Segments OP Year 2017 OP Kulku, OP’s first mobility service launched in 2016, offers electric stations for electric cars in Finland. Continuing the active development cars as a service. In 2017, we also introduced DriveNow car sharing of Mobility Services, we are determined to introduce new concepts charged by the minute in Helsinki and OP Flexible Car providing revolutionising the mobility field in Finland. rental cars for a month or a longer period offered nationwide. We also announced that we would build with Fortum almost 100 charging https://op-year2017.fi/en 27 OP Business Segments OP Year 2017 Product and service development at OP Financial Group OP’s product and service development aims to create products and services which are innovative, user-friendly and relevant to customers and which offer a smooth customer experience. Despite the rapid digitisation of services, OP is also further developing investments will be allocated to the modernisation of basic financial face-to-face encounters to better meet future needs. For private services and the creation of new product and service packages. customers, OP’s development seeks to pay heed to the needs of customers of different ages living in different areas and to ensure that OP engages in product and service development based on the agile products are understandable in particular. For corporate customers, development model. Agile development at OP means an iterative the development of products and services aims at promoting a development model that gathers ongoing customer feedback. OP has company’s success, for example, by improving operational flexibility and stepwise switched to the agile development model, which has required productivity. the creation of new types of operating models and roles and employee training on a long-term basis. The model is characterised by the launch of products and services with limited functionality (beta) and their Major investments in development improvement based on testing and customer feedback. Intense and fast digital disruption in the financial sector is continuously attracting new market entrants and speeding up product and service Enhanced customer focus through development. Succeeding in the changing operating environment service design pioneership necessitates offering the best possible customer experience irrespective of time, place and service channel. In OP’s view, the winning customer Customer needs form the bedrock of all development at OP and, thus, experience will be increasingly founded on a collaboration effort customer engagement is a natural and important part of product between humans and technology – personalised service will be and service development. For several years now, OP has enhanced enriched through the introduction of data, analytics and artificial customer focus in product and service development by means intelligence. of service design methods. Today OP can be counted among the pioneering service design companies in Finland, and its unit of over Following its strategy, OP has increased its development expenditure to 45 service designers is comparable with a design agency in terms of some 400 million euros. During the strategy period, the development expertise and size. expenditure will total up to 2 billion euros. These development Service design means the innovation, development and design of services using design methodologies – in cooperation with Product and service development customers. Service design starts from understanding user needs and expenditures, € million troubles identified in user experience and finishes with the tangible implementation of user experience, with a view to creating products 500 and services that are simpler, easier to use and better meeting customer needs and thereby improving customer experience. 450 454 Our customers have the opportunity to participate in the development 400 of OP’s products and services by various means. OP Helsinki’s Vallila 350 branch acts as OP’s test laboratory for new operating models and tools. 315 At the branch, customers can test and explore existing and prospective 300 products and services by various means: touchscreens, videos, 250 animation and demos. 201 200 On the web, customers may openly participate in product development 150 on the OP Lab website, where the digital services of the future are demonstrated, customer feedback is collected, and services piloted 109 111 100 jointly with the customers. In addition to the OP Lab, customers can register for the Paja customer community on the web. On Paja, quick 50 surveys are implemented, ideas assessed and feedback collected both online and at various events. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 https://op-year2017.fi/en 28 OP Business Segments OP Year 2017 Service designers also annually hold a significant number of face-toMobility Services face interviews with customers across Finland and generate ideas with customers in various workshops. • New motor liability insurance • OP Flexible Car Read more on the OP Lab site • DriveNow car sharing Housing-related Services Redesign of OP eServices together with customers • OP Home website OP’s redesigned online service and online bank op.fi is one example of • Interest rate protection for a housing company loan applying the method of agile development and customer engagement to product and service development. The beta version of the new Companies service was opened for all customers in the autumn of 2016 and, at the moment, the new op.fi provides both private and corporate • OP Self-employed customers with banking and insurance services. • New billing features in OP Business mobile • Cyber-insurance for SMEs From the very beginning, customers of different ages have contributed • OP Cash Pool Account to the planning and development of the new service through, for example, interviews, group discussions and usability tests as well as by Health and Wellbeing testing the service. We are still collecting customer feedback to guide the development. • Smart Cast pilot to support rehabilitation Read more about products and services launched in 2017: Channels • The Hiiop100.fi volunteering portal Management of Finances • Broad-based adoption of electronic signature • Introducing online meeting into OP-mobile and OP Business mobile • Using our Pivo app to pay online or pay your friend • First version of developer site for external developers • Use Siirto payment with our apps OP-mobile or Pivo • New voting advice application and voting system in the election of • OP Crowdfunding Representative Assemblies at OP • OP Public Services Real Estate Fund • OP Nano Insurance • Smart Order Routing (SOR) for equity brokerage https://op-year2017.fi/en 29 OP Business Segments OP Year 2017 Banking OP is Finland’s leading provider of home and corporate loans. OP’s market share of home loans stood at 39.3% at the end of 2017. The market share of corporate loans rose to 38.9% as the corporate loan portfolio grew strongly. Banking is OP’s largest business segment providing customers with First crowdfunding, support for large caps, security an extensive and comprehensive range of products and services. for loan repayment and new payment solutions For private customers, OP’s Banking services and products include daily banking and payment services, loans, savings, investments and OP Crowdfunding’s first investment project involved the small ice housing-related services – not to mention the versatile benefits offered cream factory Suominen’s Milk Ltd which sought capital for growth to our owner-customers. We seek to secure prosperity for our private and to start exporting its organic ice cream, Jymy. The crowdfunding customers and to promote their personal financial management and round was a success, as its minimum target of 200,000 euros was success. We want to offer our customers comprehensive banking raised in two weeks and Jymy received the targeted number of new services that are flexible and accommodating their various life shareholders. The final amount raised was over 400,000 euros. OP’s situations. second crowdfunding project began in December, with the Nokia-based clothing manufacturer Papu Design, reaching the target already by the We provide corporate customers with financing, payment transaction end of the year. and cash management services, investment services, and expert services related to business development. OP’s corporate customers With the European Investment Bank (EIB), we signed an agreement range from SMEs to large corporations and institutions. We aim for on a risk-sharing guarantee facility for large and mid-sized companies. long-term and total customer relationships across the board. When we Following the agreement, we made a 300-million euro financing know customers well and are in close interaction with them, we can package available to mid-sized Finnish companies. This risk-sharing customise solutions for them. guarantee will be allocated to OP Corporate Bank’s eligible mid-cap financing projects. Within two other ongoing guarantee programmes, As a corporate partner, we wish to promote the success and SME InnovFin and SME Initiative, OP has already provided a total internationalisation of Finnish business. International service capabilities of over 180 million euros of financing for SMEs. Thanks to these being high on the agenda, we establish, for example, well-thought-out programmes, we are in a strong position to support our customers’ international partnerships based on the needs of our customers. In late investments and growth. 2017, we opened a representative office in Shanghai, China in a bid to support Finnish companies’ growth and internationalisation in the Asian Expectations of rising interest rates and concerns about securing one’s market. finances made many of our private and corporate customers take action. Indeed, the number of interest rate protection products relative Read more about Banking products and services at op.fi. to home loans almost quadrupled from a year ago. Based on its strategy, OP is making heavy investments in the Additionally, 2017 was a brisk year for payment services. In the spring, development of digital Banking services. Our aim is to create the best we introduced the Siirto service in our OP-mobile and Pivo apps, financial planning and management services in the market in terms which markedly increased phone number based payments among of user experience. As part of its drive to become a diversified services our customers. By now over 333,000 OP customers have registered company, OP is developing new digital service for living too. OP’s vision for Siirto payments. Online and mobile payments became easier is to provide a comprehensive housing-related ecosystem that will with Pivo’s new feature which enables the user to pay purchases serve customers in housing-related needs from buying and selling a conveniently with Pivo, without key codes. In the same vein, we began home to renovation and daily life. In the summer of 2017, we took the a phased introduction of the Mobile key into OP-mobile. first step towards this ecosystem by launching the OP Home website. During the year, we earned many recognitions for our products and Take a look at the service at op-koti.fi. services and were selected number one in Finland by Global Finance in its awards for the World’s Best Banks. https://op-year2017.fi/en 30 OP Business Segments OP Year 2017 Responsibility assessment in lending is part of risk management OP always assesses lending to customers on a holistic basis. Financing customer in an intelligible manner. In corporate customer financing, is guided by ethical principles and guidelines for lending. Regulations recognising and analysing the environmental impacts of financed related to good lending practices and the recommendations of the projects is also important from the perspective of risk management, Financial Supervisory Authority are observed in lending and related and forms part of the normal creditworthiness analysis, in addition instructions. to the assessment of financial matters. In addition to its own analysis, OP may consult an independent analyst that assesses environmental When it comes to private customers, responsible lending is based risks associated with an individual customer or a project in need for on a thorough analysis of the customer’s debt-servicing capacity, financing. determining the appropriate loan size and explaining the risks to the https://op-year2017.fi/en 31 OP Business Segments OP Year 2017 Non-life Insurance OP is Finland’s leading non-life insurer. OP provides its private customers and corporate and institutional customers with a diverse range of comprehensive insurance solutions. Through our new type of service concepts, digital solutions, high-quality network of partners and process efficiency, we are continuously enhancing our claims services’ customer experience while creating competitive advantage. OP’s health and wellbeing services are, for the time being, included in According to OP’s strategy, Non-life Insurance will be redesigned, for Non-life Insurance, but the aim is to make the health and wellbeing example, through development of claims services and product range. business an independent business segment. We want to ensure that Non-life Insurance aims to be the most innovative player in the sector our customers have a versatile and comprehensive insurance cover. The and modernise the Finnish non-life business. key insurance lines for private customers include motor vehicle, home and other property policies as well as personal insurance, such as accident, health and travel policies, both for home life and travelling. Management models for vehicle and mobile device claims represent novel service concepts For corporate customers, we seek to safeguard their business continuity, support employees’ work ability and help to create a safe According to its strategy, OP aims to shift the development focus from working environment. We provide our customers with extensive and individual products towards customer-driven service concepts. Nondiversified risk management services, which enable them to better life Insurance has already taken steps toward this aim, for example, in ensure trouble-free and secure business operations in the case the service models for vehicle and mobile device claims that seek to of problems. The entrepreneur himself/herself, company staff, the facilitate a customer’s daily life and thus provide a superior customer company’s fixed and current assets, cargo, vehicles and the business experience. itself are the key insured objects or persons in the field of business insurance. OP also offers cyber-insurance against data damage and Our new type of vehicle claim service model launched in 2015, the occupational healthcare service that can be included in the personnel’s Repair coordinator service, was extended into a nationwide service personal insurance contracts. during 2017 and it is now available in 12 localities and 22 outlets. In claims services, OP has partnership agreements with firms In this service, the customer suffering motor vehicle damage is directed representing over 20 industries, such as healthcare services providers, straight to the partner repair shop where OP’s repair coordinator is car repair shops, building renovation firms and household appliance on the spot. The purpose of the model is to facilitate vehicle damage retailers. Through partnerships, OP ensures excellent customer management and claims in such a way that the customer can have his/ experience, cost-efficient and even-quality claims settlement services her car repaired and manage claims at the same time and thus get and their easy availability. New digital services, such as vahinkoapu.op.fi back to normal faster. (Claim Help) and OP-mobile’s Insurances section provide customers with a smooth way of managing claims. The Claim Help service Correspondingly, our new service model for mobile device claims offers instructions for customers in the case of loss or damage and enables the customer to have their mobile device repaired quickly at information on what each insurance covers. Claim Help is also available an OP partner repair shop with no separate loss report. The service is on OP-mobile and OP Business mobile. On OP-mobile for private available in 30 outlets and by post in the whole country. OP annually customers, a policyholder can then also file a loss report. Personal compensates for damage to some 30,000 mobile devices. Thanks to customers file approximately 68% and corporate customers 43% of their the new service model, our customers can manage the claims related loss reports either online or through mobile. to their mobile device damage considerably more easily than before. Read more about Non-life Insurance products and services at op.fi. For both services, customer satisfaction is excellent. https://op-year2017.fi/en 32 OP Business Segments OP Year 2017 Responsibility in Non-life Insurance means Stepwise expansion of health and wellbeing services protecting customers against risks and encouraging pro-environmental action In 2017, Pohjola Health Ltd expanded its hospital network by two new Pohjola Hospitals as the first Pohjola Hospital located in Helsinki In terms of responsibility, OP is in charge of promoting the customer’s and the Tampere hospital opened in 2016 were complemented by the risk management and safety and loss prevention. Mapping potential Oulu hospital in May and the Kuopio hospital in August. All four Pohjola risks and security issues together with the customer, we optimise Hospitals provide basic healthcare and special healthcare services, insurance solutions individually for each customer. We ensure that our examinations, surgery and rehabilitation on an extensive basis. customer is sufficiently aware of his/her risks and the loss or damage that he/she may suffer will not cause insuperable financial difficulties to The hospital network will be completed in May 2018 when the Turku him/her. hospital opens its doors. In the coming years, the business is to be expanded through, for instance, the construction of a nationwide In 2017, OP Insurance took part in the traffic safety promotion project medical centre network. Another priority is to focus on the development Vuosisadan liikenneteko (Traffic act of the century). Among its project of digital health and wellbeing services. activities, OP organised a virtual reality tour in 40 localities challenging people to look at traffic as a small child sees it. Each Pohjola Hospital collects feedback from its customers through the NPS (Net Promoter Score). The NPS among surgery patients has been Climate change is affecting the lives of our policyholders and the high since the first hospital’s opening, attaining 97 in 2017 (NPS range business environment of our corporate customers. OP wants to make -100-+100). its insurance business even more sustainable. Our aim is that our insurance solutions cover all policy-eligible risks as extensively as Expanding health and wellbeing services is well-suited to OP’s possible in changing circumstances as well. OP requires that its claims responsible mission of promoting the success and prosperity of partners pay attention to the principles of sustainable development and its owner-customers and operating region. Pohjola Hospital has act accordingly. succeeded in shortening a patient’s stay on the clinical pathway significantly, which benefits all parties involved: employees, employers, We promote sustainable development not only by developing our society and non-life and pension insurers through shorter absences own business but also by encouraging others to perform on a more and lower costs, claims paid and loss of income. environmentally sound basis. We provide support for our customers and partners on operations curbing climate change. We offer information about the risks of climate change and help in adapting to it. Our goal is to foster responsibility among people and corporations while contributing to developments in legislation and official regulations on climate change. https://op-year2017.fi/en 33 OP Business Segments OP Year 2017 Wealth Management OP ranks among the top wealth management services providers in Finland. Wealth Management responds to the saving and investing needs of private and corporate clients with a client-driven approach and offers the best digital wealth management services and a unique Private Banking experience. OP provides private clients with an extensive range of savings and for the changes caused by this regulation through changes in its investment services. The range of mutual funds covers funds that services and contract terms. invest in various asset classes and market areas. Responsibility for the portfolio management of these funds rests partly with OP Financial Our passive investment offering was also expanded. We lowered all Group’s own investment organisation and partly with its international our index fund management fees to 0.39% and launched the new partners. The product range of life policies consists of pension policies, OP-World Index Fund. Through our set of index fund products, our endowment and unit-linked policies and pure risk policies. customers have the opportunity to make cost-efficient investments in various global markets. For institutional and corporate clients, OP provides not only discretionary investment management and advisory investment We also launched the new OP Public Services Real Estate Fund (nonmanagement but also modern risk reporting, portfolio analyses and UCITS) in parallel with the existing OP-Rental Yield. The story behind liquidity management solutions for corporate customers. The service OP Public Services Real Estate is based on the provision of services range for institutional investors includes an opportunity to invest vital to society and needed by Finnish citizens in the course of their in alternative investments alongside OP’s pension and insurance lives. The fund spreads its investments widely across real estate utilised companies. in education, social services, physical culture and sports, and healthcare services provided by society. OP boasts Finland’s largest Private Banking network which provides both private individuals and corporate and institutional clients with In equity brokerage, in April we adopted Smart Order Routing (SOR) contractual, personalised and comprehensive investment management enabling the use of alternative trading facilities for equity orders beside services. Private Banking service involves the range of products and traditional stock exchanges. SOR gives investors the opportunity to services offered by OP and external partners. The service models always seek the best possible liquidity and price for their equity trades. include discretionary investment management and advisory investment management. Read more about the SOR-service. Moreover, an extensive range of securities brokerage, custody and Strongly involved as an arranger of initial public offerings of Finnish analysis services is available to private, corporate and institutional companies, OP was the only party to take part in all IPOs on the clients. OP’s award-winning equity analyst team tracks over 80 listed Nasdaq Helsinki main list this year: Kamux, Silmäasema, Rovio Finnish companies, prepares forecasts and recommendations on a and Terveystalo. In Finland, 2017 marks the best IPO year of the companyand sector-specific basis and produces diverse analysis millennium so far in terms of euros, as the total value of IPOs attained reports on macroeconomics, stock markets and industries. some 1.7 billion euros. Read more about Wealth Management products and services at op.fi. Morningstar selected OP-Finland Small Cap Fund as the best equity fund in Finland. The selection was based on a comparison of return and risk over the past five calendar years. OP-Finland Small Cap invests Extended product range and improved services in the equities of small and medium-sized enterprises (usually with a market capitalisation below 1.5 billion euros) operating in Finland. As a services provider owned by its customers, OP promotes the success and prosperity of its customers. In 2017, we extended our OP aims to talk about investing and asset management with customers product range and improved our services in various ways. in an understandable way and to lower threshold for investment. In 2017, we increased the number of our customer webinars dealing with Enhancing our savings and investment services, we adopted an various types of investments in plain Finnish. entirely new operating model and tools for investment sales. We also carried out an extensive reform of our saver and investor customers’ agreements leading to savings and investments service packages Sustainable investment with a transparent structure and clear pricing. The EU-wide MiFID II regulation in force from the beginning of 2018 that improves investor OP aims to lead the way in sustainable investment in the sector on a protection was behind making the new agreements. OP has prepared global basis. OP’s responsible investment involves the consideration https://op-year2017.fi/en 34 OP Business Segments OP Year 2017 of environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues in investment which produces AGM analyses to us and is in charge of delivering our decision-making, compliance with international standards, active voting guidelines to the AGMs. ownership and engagement, negative screening and positive thematic investment. Read more in the RI Transparency Report. OP Wealth Management’s investment operations comply with the OP Property Management is also committed to the principles UN Principles for Responsible Investment. We expect our investment of responsible investment and observes responsible investment vehicles to conform with international standards such as the Global principles in its real estate asset management. It manages property Compact and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. investments of the real estate funds it administers and direct property In keeping up with international standards, we make use of an investments made by its customers. In the maintenance of its directly independent partner (GES Investment Service) which produces owned properties and in its new investments, the company places continuous analyses of the fulfilment of international standards by an emphasis on energy efficiency, lower consumption and waste investment vehicles, for use by investors. The partner checks all of OP’s management. When it comes to indirect property investments, the asset management and fund management companies’ investments company is active in exercising influence on the underlying funds’ and twice a year for violations. Screening includes direct and active investee companies’ boards of directors and investment committees so equity and corporate bond investments and all OP funds making the that sustainability issues are taken into consideration. abovementioned investments, but excludes, for example, index-linked products and mutual funds managed by external portfolio managers. OP Property Management is developing sustainable activities in the real estate sector on an ongoing basis. The company has signed a During 2017, we made more ESG information of funds available to our national energy efficiency agreement and is involved in developing CSR customers. Published quarterly, our fund-specific ESG reports include reporting in the real estate sector. Moreover, the company has created information about each fund’s carbon footprint, its portfolio companies’ its own environmental programme aimed at continuing to reduce ESG ratings and positive environmental impacts. We also began environmental impacts caused by operations. attending AGMs of investee companies outside of Finland in 2017. Going forward, OP funds will attend a considerable number of investee Read more in OP Property Management’s environmental report. company AGMs abroad. To help us in this, we use a service provider https://op-year2017.fi/en 35 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Governance Corporate Governance In their decision-making and corporate governance, OP Financial Group and its central cooperative, OP Cooperative, comply with the laws of Finland and standards issued by virtue of them. OP Financial Group’s operations are specifically governed by the The Corporate Governance principles describe the structure and tasks Act on the Amalgamation of Deposit Banks (Laki talletuspankkien of OP Financial Group and its key functions and units, the duties and yhteenliittymästä), the Act on Cooperative Banks and Other Cooperative responsibilities of key administrative bodies, Group and corporate Institutions, the Act on Credit Institutions, the Insurance Companies Act steering principles, as well as internal control and financial reporting. and the Co-operatives Act. Corporate Governance enables OP Financial Group to ensure that its operations are open and transparent. Taking into account the specific characteristics of the cooperative system, OP Financial Group’s Corporate Governance conforms, Corporate Governance is available on OP’s website. whenever applicable, with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code approved by the Securities Market Association in October 2015. Download OP Financial Group’s Corporate Governance Statement 2017 here. In addition, OP Financial Group follows the Code of Business Ethics in its operations. https://op-year2017.fi/en 36 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Supervisory Board OP Cooperative supervisory Board Members by Federation of Cooperative Banks as of 21 March 2017 (members elected on the basis of capital adequacy and whose term is marked with parentheses) * All managerial duties in OP Financial Group and its entities are counted in the number of managerial positions, including those listed in this table and the tables below. **The column with the person’s full-time position lists the number of managerial positions outside OP Financial Group. Position on OP Cooperative’s Federation of Supervisory Board Full-time position, job title, Position of the person with Name, year of Cooperative Banks (number of managerial education/degree(s) an administrative staff birth and place of and member’s term of positions within the Group (number of managerial positions background at a cooperative residence office in parentheses) * outside the Group in parentheses)** bank Managing Director, Ruukin Osuuspankki, Diploma in Business and Administration, MBA, LKV Arvio Kalle, Pohjois-Pohjanmaa, (authorised real estate agent), 1964,Siikajoki 2015–(2018) Member (3) APV1 degree (-) Other member (elected without following the Bäckman Tiina, regional principle) Rautaruukki Pension Fund, Chair 1959, Oulu 2017–2020 Member (2) of the Board of Directors (3) Eklund Ola, Managing Director, WintemChair of the Board of Directors, 1952, Raasepori Sydkusten, 2016–2019 Member (3) Agency Oy, M. Eng.(1) Andelsbanken Raseborg Enberg Leif, Österbotten, Entrepreneur, Mapromec Ab, M. Chair of the Board of Directors, 1954, Korsnäs 2016–2019 Member (5) Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) (1) Korsnäs Andelsbank Eskola Tapani, Kaakkois-Suomi, Chair of the Board of Directors, 1953, Kotka 2015–(2018) Member (3) M.Sc. (Tech.) (1) Kymmenlaakson Osuuspankki Managing Director, Sallan Osuus, Harju Anne, M.Sc. (Agriculture and Forestry) 1969, Salla Lappi, 2016–(2018) Member (3) (-) Professor in Entrepreneurship, Turku School of Economics, Heinonen Jarna, Varsinais-Suomi, University of Turku, D.Sc. (Econ. & Chair of the Board of Directors, 1965, Kaarina 2015–(2018) Member (3) Bus. Adm.) (-) Turun Seudun Osuuspankki Coordinator, Karelia University Hinkkanen Mervi, Pohjois-Karjala of Applied Sciences, Bachelor of Chair of the Board of Directors, 1954, Kontiolahti 2017–2020 Member (2) Hospitality Management, MBA (-) Pohjois-Karjalan Osuuspankki Hyrskyluoto Chair of the Board of Jorma, Pirkanmaa, Directors, Tampereen Seudun 1950, Tampere 2015–(2018) Member (3) M.Sc. (Econ.) (-) Osuuspankki Hällfors Terttu, Health Centre Physician, Ulvila Chair of the Board of Directors, 1955, Ulvila Satakunta, 2017–2020 Member (2) Health Centre, Lic. Med. (-) Länsi-Suomen Osuuspankki Lawyer, Asianajotoimisto Jurmu, Jurmu Taija, Master of Laws, Degree of Bar, Vice Chair of the Board of 1976, Rovaniemi Lappi, 2016–2019 Member (4) ABM Chair (-) Directors, Pohjolan Osuuspankki Järvi Ulla, Keski-Pohjanmaa, Certified public accountant, M.Sc. Supervisory Board Chair, 1952, Kokkola 2015–(2018) Member (2) (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) (-) Kokkolan Osuuspankki Kaakko Senior Lecturer, Centria University Marja-Liisa, Keski-Pohjanmaa, of Applied Sciences, M.Sc. (Econ.), Member of the Board of 1965, Kalajoki 2016–2019 Member (2) M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) (-) Directors, Kalajoen Osuuspankki Other member (elected without following the Kiander Jaakko, regional principle) Director, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension 1963, Helsinki 2015-2018 Member (2) Insurance Company, Dr.Soc.Sc. (1) https://op-year2017.fi/en 37 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Position on OP Cooperative’s Federation of Supervisory Board Full-time position, job title, Position of the person with Name, year of Cooperative Banks (number of managerial education/degree(s) an administrative staff birth and place of and member’s term of positions within the Group (number of managerial positions background at a cooperative residence office in parentheses) * outside the Group in parentheses)** bank Kietäväinen Chair of the Board of Directors, Seppo, 1959, Juva Suur-Savo, 2015–2018 Member (3) M.Sc.(Agric.) Suur-Savon Osuuspankki Kiiskinen Juha, Suur-Savo, Chair of the Board of Directors, 1956, Sulkava 2015–(2018) Member (2) BA (-) Sulkavan Osuuspankki Managing Director, Kiteen Seudun Koivula Olli, 1955, Pohjois-Karjala, Osuuspankki, M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Kitee 2017–(2018) Member (2) Adm.), M.Sc.(Agric.) (-) Lecturer, Seinäjoki Joint Municipal Authority for Education / Vocational Adult Education Sedu, Korkonen Jaakko, Etelä-Pohjanmaa, M. Eng., certificate in educational Chair of the Board of Directors, 1966, Seinäjoki 2015–2018 Member (2) administration (-) Peräseinäjoen Osuuspankki Krohns Petri, Managing Director Etelä-Karjalan 1964, Kaakkois-Suomi, Osuuspankki, LL.M, Trained on the Hallituksen puheenjohtaja, Lappeenranta 2015–2018 Member (3) bench, MBA (-) Orimattilan Osuuspankki Kuosa-Kaartti Authorised public accountant, Katja-Riina, 1973, Etelä-Suomi, Tilintarkastus Kuosa-Kaartti Oy, Chair of the Board of Directors, Orimattila 2016–(2018) Member (3) M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) (1) Orimattilan Osuuspankki Managing Director, Korpilahden Kupsala Tuomas, Keski-Suomi, Osuuspankki, M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. 1967, Korpilahti 2015–(2018) Member (3) Adm.), eMBA (-) Kääriäinen Jukka, Pohjois–Savo, Planner, Social Insurance Supervisory Board Chair, 1953, Iisalmi 2015–2018 Member (2) Institution of Finland, M.Soc.Sc. (-) Pohjois-Savon Osuuspankki Managing Director, kauppaneuvos (Finnish honorary title) PäijätLaine Timo, 1959, Etelä-Suomi, Hämeen Osuuspankki, LL.M, Lahti 2017–2020 Member (4) Trained on the bench, eMBA (-) Managing Director, Valkeakosken Osuuspankki, M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Luomala Juha, Adm.), LKV (authorised real estate 1963, Valkeakoski Pirkanmaa, 2017–2020 Member (3) agent) (-) Unit Director, Häme University of Vice Chair of the Board of Mikkola Ari, 1955, Varsinais-Suomi, Applied Sciences Oy, Bachelor of Directors, Lounaismaan Tammela 2015–(2018) Member (2) Agriculture (-) Osuuspankki Mäkelä Anssi, Pirkanmaa, Senior Manager, Valmet Chair of the Board of Directors, 1961, Urjala 2017–(2018) Member (2) Technologies Oy, M.Sc. (Tech.) (1) Urjalan Osuuspankki Nikola Annukka, Director, Administration, 1960, Etelä-Suomi, Konehuone Oy, M.Sc. (Econ. & Chair of the Supervisory Board, Kirkkonummi 2015–(2018) Member (4) Bus. Adm.), M.Sc. (Econ.) (1) Länsi-Uudenmaan Osuuspankki Managing Director, Näsi Olli, 1963, Satakunnan Osuuspankki, LL.M, Huittinen Satakunta, 2016–(2018) Member (3) Trained on the bench, eMBA (1) Other member (elected without following the Palomäki Riitta, regional principle) 1957, Helsinki 2017–2020 Member (2) M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) (-) Professor of Economics, University Pehkonen Jaakko, Keski-Suomi, Chair of the Supervisory of Jyväskylä, D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Chair of the Board of Directors, 1960, Jyväskylä 2017–2020 Board (5) Adm.) (-) Keski-Suomen Osuuspankki Managing Director, Loimaan Seudun Osuuspankki, M.Sc. Pullinen Juha, Varsinais-Suomi, (Agriculture & Forestry), M.Sc. 1963, Pöytyä 2015–2018 Member (3) (Forestry) (-) https://op-year2017.fi/en 38 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Position on OP Cooperative’s Federation of Supervisory Board Full-time position, job title, Position of the person with Name, year of Cooperative Banks (number of managerial education/degree(s) an administrative staff birth and place of and member’s term of positions within the Group (number of managerial positions background at a cooperative residence office in parentheses) * outside the Group in parentheses)** bank Dean, University of Oulu, Oulu Sahlström Petri, Pohjois-Pohjanmaa, Business School, D.Sc. (Econ. & Vice Chair of the Board of 1971, Oulu 2016–2019 Member (3) Bus. Adm.) (-) Directors, Oulun Osuuspankki Managing Director, EteläTarkkanen Olli, Etelä-Pohjanmaa, Second Vice Chair of the Pohjanmaan Osuuspankki, LL.M, 1962, Seinäjoki 2015–(2018) Supervisory Board (4) Trained on the bench, eMBA (-) Lecturer, marketing, Kajaani Väisänen Mervi, First Vice Chair of the University of Applied Sciences, Vice Chair of the Board of 1963, Sotkamo Kainuu, 2016–2019 Supervisory Board (7) M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) (-) Directors, Kainuun Osuuspankki Managing Director, Maaningan Väänänen Ari, Pohjois-Savo, Osuuspankki, LL.M, Trained on the 1973, Maaninka 2015–(2018) Member (3) bench (-) Other member (elected Proventia Group Oy, Chair of the without following the Board Ylimartimo Arto, regional principle) M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), 1959, Oulunsalo 2017–2020 Member (2) Authorised public accountant (2) https://op-year2017.fi/en 39 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Members of Supervisory Board Working Committee: Name and year of birth Role Education/degree(s) Full-time position, job title Jaakko Pehkonen, 1960 Chair D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Professor of Economics, University of Jyväskylä Senior lecturer in marketing, Kajaani University of Mervi Väisänen, 1963 Vice Chair M.SC. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) M.Sc. (Econ.) Applied Sciences Olli Tarkkanen, 1962 Member LL.M, Trained on the bench, eMBA Managing Director, Etelä-Pohjanmaan Osuuspankki Diploma in Business and Administration, MBA, LKV (authorised real estate agent), Kalle Arvio, 1964 Member APV1 degree Managing Director, Ruukin Osuuspankki Leif Enberg, 1954 Member M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Entrepreneur, Oy Mapromec Ab Tapani Eskola, 1953 Member M.Sc. (Tech.) Jorma Hyrskyluoto, 1950 Member M.Sc. (Econ.) Managing Director, kauppaneuvos (Finnish honorary Timo Laine, 1959 Member LL.M, Trained on the bench, eMBA title), Päijät-Hämeen Osuuspankki M.Sc. (Agriculture & Forestry), M.Sc. Juha Pullinen, 1963 Member (Forestry) Managing Director, Loimaan Seudun Osuuspankki Members are annually elected at the regrouping meeting of the Supervisory Board following the Annual Cooperative Meeting. Members of Supervisory Board Audit Committee: Name and year of birth Role Education/degree(s) Full-time position, job title Professor in Entrepreneurship, Turku School of Jarna Heinonen, 1965 Chair D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Economics, University of Turku Riitta Palomäki, 1957 Vice Chair M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Director, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Jaakko Kiander, 1963 Member Dr.Soc.Sc. Company Authorised public accountant, Tilintarkastus KuosaKatja Kuosa-Kaartti, 1973 Member M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Kaartti Oy Expert member Anne Harju, 1969 (2017–2018) M.Sc. (Agriculture and Forestry) Managing Director, Sallan Osuuspankki Expert member Petri Krohns, 1964 (2017–2018) LL.M, Trained on the bench, MBA Managing Director, Etelä-Karjalan Osuuspankki Expert member Ari Väänänen, 1973 (2016–2018) LL.M, Trained on the bench Managing Director, Maaningan Osuuspankki Members are annually elected at the regrouping meeting of the Supervisory Board following the Annual Cooperative Meeting; the term of the expert member is three years or until the end of the term of the Supervisory Board (term in parentheses). https://op-year2017.fi/en 40 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Members of Supervisory Board Risk Management Committee: Name and year of birth Role Education/degree(s) Full-time position, job title Ola Eklund, 1952 Chair M. Eng. Managing Director, Wintem-Agency Oy M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), Authorised Arto Ylimartimo, 1959 Vice Chair public accountant Proventia Group Oy, Chair of the Board Tiina Bäckman, 1959 Member Senior Lawyer Rautaruukki Pension Fund, Chair of the Board of Directors D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Petri Sahlström, 1971 Member Adm.) Dean, University of Oulu, Oulu Business School Expert member (2017– M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Tuomas Kupsala, 1967 2018) Adm.), eMBA Managing Director, Korpilahden Osuuspankki M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Expert member (2017– Adm.), LKV (authorised Juha Luomala, 1963 2020) real estate agent) Managing Director, Valkeakosken Osuuspankki Expert member (2017– LL.M, Trained on the Olli Näsi, 1963 2018) bench, eMBA Managing Director, Satakunnan Osuuspankki Members are annually elected at the regrouping meeting of the Supervisory Board following the Annual Cooperative Meeting; the term of the expert member is three years or until the end of the term of the Supervisory Board (term in parentheses). Members of OP Financial Group Remuneration Committee: Name and year of birth Role Education/degree(s) Full-time position, job title D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Jaakko Pehkonen, 1960 Chair Adm.) Professor of Economics, University of Jyväskylä M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Senior lecturer in marketing, Kajaani University of Applied Mervi Väisänen, 1963 Vice Chair Adm.) Sciences Master of Laws, Taija Jurmu, 1976 Member Degree of Bar Deputy Director, Lapland Chamber of Commerce M.SC. (Econ. & Bus. Annukka Nikola, 1960 Member Adm.), M.Sc. (Econ.) Director, Administration, Konehuone Oy Seppo Kietäväinen, 1959 Member M.Sc.(Agric.) Members are annually elected at the regrouping meeting of the Supervisory Board following the Annual Cooperative Meeting. Members of the central cooperative consolidated management Nomination Committee: Name and year of birth Role Education/degree(s) Full-time position, job title D.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Jaakko Pehkonen, 1960 Chair Adm.) Professor of Economics, University of Jyväskylä M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Senior lecturer in marketing, Kajaani University of Applied Mervi Väisänen, 1963 Vice Chair Adm.) Sciences Master of Laws, Taija Jurmu, 1976 Member Degree of Bar Deputy Director, Lapland Chamber of Commerce M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Annukka Nikola, 1960 Member Adm.), M.Sc. (Econ.) Director, Administration, Konehuone Oy Members are annually elected at the regrouping meeting of the Supervisory Board following the Annual Cooperative Meeting. https://op-year2017.fi/en 41 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Executive Board Reijo Karhinen, OP Financial Group’s President and Executive Chairman since 2007, retired at the end of January 2018, based on his executive contract. On 20 September 2017, the Supervisory Board of OP Financial Group’s central cooperative appointed Timo Ritakallio, 55, OP Financial Group’s new President and Group Executive Chairman. He will take up his new duties on 1 March 2018. Tony Vepsäläinen, Deputy to President and Group Executive Chairman and Chair of the Executive Board, will act as President and Group Executive Chairman between the time when Karhinen retires and the time when Timo Ritakallio takes up his duties as the new President and Group Executive Chairman. Tony Vepsäläinen, b. 1959 OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Managing Director 2007–2010 Executive Vice President, Operations, deputy to President and Group Tampereen Seudun Osuuspankki: Managing Director 1998–2006 Executive Chairman Turun Seudun Osuuspankki: Deputy Managing Director 1996–1998 Chair Kuopion Osuuspankki: Bank Manager 1993–1996 Member of the Executive Board since 2006 Suomen Säästöpankki SSP Oy, Deputy to Area Manager 1992–1993 LL.M, eMBA Pohjois-Savon Säästöpankki: managerial duties 1985–1992 Relevant previous experience: Other relevant positions: OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Chief Business Development Service Sector Employers Palta: Member of the Board and its Executive Officer 2011–2014 Committee Automatia Pankkiautomaatit Oy: Chair of the Board of Directors Housing Fair Finland Co-op: Member of the Supervisory Board Karri Alameri, b. 1963 OP Life Assurance Company Ltd: Deputy CEO, Chief Investment Officer Executive Vice President, Wealth Management 2009–2012 Member of the Executive Board since 2015 Danske Capital, Sampo Bank plc: Deputy CEO 2007–2008 M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), CEFA Mandatum Asset Management Ltd: Deputy CEO 2004–2006 Carnegie Asset Management Finland Ltd: Chief Investment Officer Relevant previous experience: 1997–2003 OP Cooperative: Executive Vice President, Wealth Management, Investment Other relevant positions: Pohjola Asset Management Ltd: President 2012-2014 Access Capital Partners Group SA: Board member OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Executive Vice President, Wealth Cinia Group Ltd: Member of the Board of Directors Management 2013–2014 https://op-year2017.fi/en 42 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Carina Geber-Teir, b. 1972 Relevant previous experience: Executive Vice President, Customer Experience and Communications Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company: Communications Director Member of the Executive Board since 2009 2002–2009 M.Soc.Sc. Other relevant positions: Yle, Finnish Broadcasting Company: Member of the Board of Directors Unico Banking Group: Member of the Communication Committee Jari Himanen, b. 1962 OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Bank Manager, Member bank Executive Vice President, Group Steering and Customer Relationships steering 2002–2006 Member of the Executive Board since 2014 Kuusamon Osuuspankki: Managing Director 1997–2001 Diploma in Business and Administration, eMBA Pohjolan Osuuspankki: Bank Manager 1994–1997 Iisalmen Osuuspankki: Bank Manager 1989–1994 Relevant previous experience: Etelä-Savon Osuuspankki: Bank Manager 1986–1989 Etelä-Karjalan Osuuspankki: Managing Director 2009–2014 Koillis-Savon Osuuspankki: Credit Manager 1985–1986 OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Bank Manager, Sales channels and sales support 2007–2009 Other relevant positions: – Olli Lehtilä, b. 1962 Postipankki Oy: various managerial and expert duties 1993–1997 Executive Vice President, Non-life Insurance Suomen Säästöpankki SSP Oy: various managerial duties 1992– Member of the Executive Board since 2014 1993 M.Sc. (Agr. & For.), eMBA Sp-Palvelu Oy: Management Trainee 1990–1992 Relevant previous experience: Other relevant positions: Helsinki OP Bank Plc: Managing Director 2011–2014 Helsinki Region Chamber of Commerce: Member of the Delegation Tampereen Seudun Osuuspankki: Managing Director 2006–2010, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company: Member of the Board deputy Managing Director 1999–2006 of Directors Päijät-Hämeen Osuuspankki: Bank Manager, Corporate Banking Pellervo Economic Research PTT: Member of the Board of Directors 1997–1998 Unico Banking Group: Member of the Bancassurance Committee https://op-year2017.fi/en 43 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Harri Luhtala, b. 1965 Other relevant positions: Chief Financial Officer VTS Fund: Chair of the Board of Directors Member of the Executive Board since 2007 Financial Stability Fund: Member of the Board of Directors M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK): Member of Finance and Tax Commission Relevant previous experience: OP-Pohjola Group: various expert and managerial duties 1989–2007 Harri Nummela, b. 1968 OP-Services Ltd: Chief Executive Officer 2011–2014 Executive Vice President, Digital Business and New Businesses OP-Pohjola Group Central Cooperative: Member of the Executive Member of the Executive Board since 2014, and previously between Board; Executive Vice President, Banking and Investment Business 2007 and 2010 2007–2010; Department Manager 1998–2006 LL.M, eMBA OP Fund Management Company Ltd: Managing Director 1997–2006 Tampereen Seudun Osuuspankki: Department Manager 1992–1997 Relevant previous experience: OP Cooperative: Executive Vice President, Wealth Management 2014– Other relevant positions: 2015 Service Sector Employers Palta: Member of the Economic Policy Committee Finnish Ice Hockey Association: Chair Erik Palmén, b. 1959 Other relevant positions: Chief Risk Officer VTS Fund: Vice Chair of the Delegation Member of the Executive Board since 2010 Investors’ Compensation Fund: Chair M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), M.Sc. (Eng.) Unico Banking Group: Member of the Country Risks Managers Committee Relevant previous experience: Nordea Bank Finland Plc: various expert and managerial duties 1987– 2009 https://op-year2017.fi/en 44 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Jouko Pölönen, b. 1970 OP Corporate Bank plc (formerly Pohjola Bank plc): President and CEO Executive Vice President, Banking since 2013 Member of the Executive Board since 2014 Pohjola Insurance Ltd: President 2010–2014 M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.), eMBA CFO 2009–2010 and CRO 2001–2008 PricewaterhouseCoopers: Authorised Public Accountant 1999–2001 OP Yrityspankki Oyj (ent. Pohjola Pankki Oyj): toimitusjohtaja 2013– and auditor 1993–1999 Helsinki Area Cooperative Bank (formerly Helsinki OP Bank plc): Managing Director since 2014 Other relevant positions: Outi Taivainen, b. 1968 Nokia Corporation: Various executive and expert duties 1993–2008 Executive Vice President, Human Resources Member of the Executive Board since 2015 Other relevant positions: M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: Member of the Skilled Workforce Committee Relevant previous experience: Service Sector Employers Palta: Member of the Labour Market Kone Corporation: Head of HR, Central and North Europe 2012-2015 Committee HR House Oy: Managing Director 2009-2011 Unico Banking Group: Member of the HR Committee Leena Kallasvuo, b. 1956 Aktia Savings Bank: Head of Department 1997–2000 Chief Audit Executive Säästöpankkien Keskus-Osake-Pankki: various expert and managerial Attending Executive Board meetings since 2010 duties 1983–1996 M.Sc. (Econ. & Bus. Adm.) Other relevant positions: Relevant previous experience: Financial Supervisory Authority (Financial Supervision Authority), various expert and managerial duties 2005–2010 Trema Finland Oy: Project Manager 2000–2005 https://op-year2017.fi/en 45 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Risk Management OP Financial Group’s operations are based on cooperative values, a strong capital base and capable risk management. OP Financial Group’s mission and core values as well as strategic and financial targets form the basis for risk management. Risk management helps to achieve the targets set in the strategy by and funding liquidity risks play a major role in Banking. Meanwhile, controlling that risks are proportional to risk capacity. In the long term interest rate and other market risks are highlighted in Non-life within moderate risk-taking, the Group seeks above-market-average Insurance and life insurance market risks in Wealth Management. growth. This requires controlled risk-taking relying on strong risk As services go digital, operational risks and the resulting escalating management. reputational risks are highlighted in all businesses, including new businesses. With regulation becoming more complex and supervision tightening, compliance risk management is highlighted in all business Integral part of daily business and corporate culture segments. Risk management is part and parcel of daily business and its The extent of OP Financial Group provides significant risk diversification management. Risk awareness and a moderate risk-taking approach benefits. Meanwhile, however, the role of various concentration risks are reflected in every business decision and form an integral part of will increase. corporate culture. OP manages customer relationships on a long-term basis and responsibly from the perspective of risk management. According to its strategy, OP will invest in creating new types of service packages and business models in the years to come. Before the An example of the role of risk management in Banking is that a company launches any products or services or adopts new operating borrower’s repayment capacity is a key prerequisite for loan approval. models or systems, it assesses their risks using procedures as laid Robust risk management is in the interests of both customers and OP down by the central cooperative’s Risk Management. OP Financial Financial Group. Group offers only products to customers and applies business models that have been approved at Group level. A major player faces a variety of risks The significant business risks affecting OP Financial Group and their most common management tools are detailed in the table below. Risks associated with OP Financial Group’s business segments differ in terms of weight. Credit risks, structural interest rate and funding risks Risk description Risk management tool Strategic risks Risk caused by changes in the competitive The Group assesses strategic risks as part of the strategy process while environment, slow reaction to changes in the identifying related control measures and assessing their effects, for business environment or customer behaviour, example, on the Group’s overall risk exposure and economic capital poor choice of strategy or poor strategy requirement. The Group takes account of risks associated with its implementation. operating environment by implementing proactive risk management and systematically monitoring its operating and competitive environment. Strategic risk is reduced by regular planning, based on analyses and forecasts of customer future needs, developments in different sectors and market areas, and of competition. Operational risks Risk of financial loss or other detrimental The key area of operational risk management involves identifying consequences caused by inadequate or failed and assessing risks and assessing the effectiveness and adequacy of processes, inadequate or flawed procedures or risk control and management tools. Risks that may disrupt business systems or some external factor. Operational continuity are prepared against by means of business continuity risks also include ICT, security, data security, planning in key business divisions. procedural and model risks. https://op-year2017.fi/en 46 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Risk description Risk management tool Compliance risk Risks caused by non-compliance with external Managing compliance risks forms part of internal control and good regulation, internal policies, appropriate corporate governance practices and, as such, an integral part of procedures or ethical principles governing business management duties and the corporate culture. Compliance customer relationships. risk management tools include monitoring legislative developments, providing the organisation concerned with guidelines, training and consultation in respect of observing practices based on regulation as well as supervising the regulatory compliance with procedures applied within the organisation. Reputational risk Risk of deterioration of reputation or trust The Group manages reputational risk proactively and on a long-term caused by negative publicity or realisation of basis by complying with regulation, good practices in the financial some other risk. sector and OP’s principles of good business practice and by highlighting the transparency of operations and communication. OP adheres to international financial, social and environmental responsibility principles and international commitments. Credit risks The Group manages reputational risk proactively Credit risk management in banking is based on active customer and on a long-term basis by complying with relationship management, good knowledge of customers, strong regulation, good practices in the financial professional skills and comprehensive documentation. The day-tosector and OP’s principles of good business day credit approval process and its effectiveness play a key role in the practice and by highlighting the transparency of management of credit risks. OP Financial Group mitigates credit risks operations and communication. by using collateral, financial covenants, central counterparty clearing, netting agreements and exchange-traded products. Market risks Risk of loss resulting from interest rate, Banking interest rate risk is managed by reducing the difference price, volatility and market liquidity changes between floating rate receivables and liabilities as well as through in the financial market. Market risks consist limits and control limits. Moreover, derivatives may be used for hedging of structural market risk associated with the purposes. balance sheet (market risks associated with the banking book and insurance liabilities) and Managing investment risks is based on diversification through effective market risks associated with trading and longallocation. Risks are managed through limits (e.g. VaR limits, allocation, term investment. credit rating and country risk limits) and investment plans. Insurance companies manage market risks associated with investment and insurance liabilities by means of various investment instruments and derivative contracts. Liquidity risks Liquidity risk comprises funding liquidity risk, OP Financial Group manages its liquidity position through the proactive structural funding risk and funding concentration planning of the funding structure, target levels, the monitoring of risk. Funding liquidity risk refers to the risk that the liquidity status and a well-balanced liquidity buffer, planning and OP Financial Group will not be able to meet management of daily liquidity, the business continuity and contingency its current and future cash flows and collateral plan based on emergency preparedness, as well as the effective and needs, both expected and unexpected, without ongoing control of the Group’s liquidity status. affecting its daily operations or overall financial position. Structural funding risk refers to uncertainty related to long-term lending, arising from the refinancing risk due to the structure of funding. Funding concentration risk refers to the risk that funding becomes more difficult due, for example, to a transaction related to an individual counterparty, currency, instrument or maturity band. Non-life Insurance Non-life Insurance risks comprise risk of Risk selection and pricing, the acquisition of reinsurance cover, the risks loss or damage, and provision risk. Risk of monitoring of claims expenditure and the analysis of insurance loss or damage occurs when there are an liabilities are highlighted in underwriting risk management. above-average number of losses or they are exceptionally large. Provision risk arises when the claims incurred due to already-occurred losses are higher than anticipated on the balance sheet date. https://op-year2017.fi/en 47 OP Governance OP Year 2017 Risk description Risk management tool Life Insurance risks Life Insurance risks comprise biometric risks, Life Insurance underwriting risk management tools include prudent cost risk and customer behaviour risks. premium rating, careful selection of exposure and reinsurance. Biometric risks occur when claims paid out are Diversifying insurance between different insurance types also reduces higher than expected or for a longer period than risks. Life Insurance reinsures, when necessary, any major individual expected. Customer behaviour risk means early risks and risk concentrations. termination of insurance premium payment or Customer behaviour risk is managed by means of a competitive the insurance contract or its change on the basis product range, suitable product structures and incentives and sanctions of the option included in the contract. Expense in the insurance terms and conditions risk refers to a situation in which incurred insurance contract management expenses differ from those estimated in rating. Concentration risks Risks that may arise of a business’s excessive The management of concentration risks is closely integrated with other concentration on individual customers, risk management, with the related tools including limits, maximum products, lines of business, maturity periods or allocations, diversification and economic capital requirement. geographical areas. In-depth customer knowledge as the core of risk management OP Financial Group’s risk management is based on three lines of management conditions within OP Financial Group, it controls, supports defence. The first line consists of risk management integrated into and supervises the implementation of the risk management principles, business and other operations. It controls risk decisions and monitors confirmed by the Supervisory Board, at OP Financial Group and its risk exposure. Customer knowledge acquired through active customer entities. relationship management ensures that risk-taking is moderate and guarantees the prerequisites for successful risk management. The third line of defence involves centralised Internal Audit, which audits and assesses risk management performed by both the central The second line of defence consists of risk management independent cooperative and member entities. of operational business organisations. In charge of general risks Three defence lines of risk management I Operational risk management Applies the risk management framework Responsibility for risk • Risk management integrated as part of exposure and its monitoring the operational units • Risk decisions and operational monitoring II Independent risk management ”Owns” the risk management framework Responsible for conditions for good risk management • Group’s independent risk management function and control • Steering the risk decision process and managing consolidated risk exposure III Internal Audit Inspects and assesses the risk management framework Responsibility for and its application independent assessment of risk management • Internal Audit • Independent audit function https://op-year2017.fi/en 48 OP Corporate Social Responsibility OP Year 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Review by the director in charge of corporate social responsibility A sustainable society requires companies to take action OP’s aim to operate in a sustainable manner is based on our cooperative values and our mission that obliges us to promote sustainable prosperity, security and wellbeing for our owner-customers and operating regions. This mission has remained almost unchanged throughout our history that goes back over 100 years. Alongside our Crowdfunding platform enables participation in financing the growth of business role, our social role guides us to operate for the benefit of our Finnish companies. Fund-specific responsibility analyses (ESG analyses) owner-customers and operating regions and set an example for others. support our customers’ decision-making by providing information on Sustainability is not limited to our social role – it encompasses all our the funds’ carbon footprint and positive environmental impact. operations. Our aim is to be a pioneer in corporate social responsibility in the financial sector. Responsibility is not measured by words, but by In honour of the centenary of Finland’s independence, we launched actions. Hiiop.fi, a new volunteer work exchange site, and challenged people in Finland to engage in 100 person years of voluntary activities. During In 2017, we revised our CSR Programme – Positive driver of change the jubilee year, OP Financial Group’s personnel and administration through responsibility – which is based on four main themes: We did over 274 person years of volunteering together with partners foster a sustainable economy, We support local vitality, We act with a and other people. This involved, for example, helping families and people-first approach and through engagement and We foster health, schoolchildren living on limited means, contributing to prevention of security and wellbeing. In this Programme, we set ambitious targets loneliness among elderly people, improving young people’s financial for the future. With regard to our own operations, we want to be literacy, promoting nature values and participating in various carbon positive by 2025. We have already taken the first steps towards fundraising projects. We believe that voluntary activities will increase this goal in the Vallila campus by transferring to electricity that has teamwork in general. This will in turn build trust among people in been generated entirely by wind power, and by building a solar power Finland and increase their wellbeing. station on the roof of the Vallila campus. We have also built solar power stations on the roofs of Pohjola Hospitals and in connection with several Responsibility ultimately comes down to daily actions in our business. property investments. In support of these actions, we also prepared You can learn more about other aspects of CSR in our business OP’s climate principles – the first in our history – that are binding on the operations in the annual report. Take part in discussion on social media whole OP Financial Group. with hashtag #OPVuosi2017. We also want to encourage sustainable choices among our customers. Tuuli Kousa OP’s mobility services provide and alternative for owning a car. The OP https://op-year2017.fi/en 49 OP Corporate Social Responsibility OP Year 2017 Corporate social responsibility highlights 2017 We updated our corporate social responsibility programme The main themes of OP’s corporate social responsibility programme are fostering sustainable economy, supporting regional vitality, peoplefirst and participative approach and the foster of health, safety and wellbeing. The programme defines goals and targets for a broad range of activities and for all areas. One of them is to make OP carbon positive by 2025. Read more from our corporate social responsibility programme. OP joined the FIBS Diversity Network OP joined the FIBS Diversity Network in autumn 2017. On joining, members sign a Diversity Charter by which they engage themselves in developing their management and service practices through diversity principles of the Charter. Read more about the FIBS Diversity Network. Hiiop – 100 years of volunteering OP Financial Group’s gift to the 100-year-old Finland: 274 personyears of volunteering. In honour of the Finland 100 jubilee year, OP wanted to lower the threshold for participating in voluntary work. Inviting everyone in Finland to do voluntary work together to attain 100 person years of volunteering, OP created a volunteer work exchange site at Hiiop100.fi. The website enables both announcing and searching for volunteer opportunities. During the jubilee year, OP Financial Group’s personnel and administration did over 274 person years of volunteering together with partners and other people. This involved, for example, helping families Solar power from rooftops and schoolchildren living on limited means, contributing to prevention of loneliness among elderly people, improving young people’s The building of solar power stations is a concrete example of OP’s financial literacy, promoting nature values and participating in various corporate social responsibility programme updated this year. OP will fundraising projects. build on the roof of the Vallila campus a solar power station, which will probably also be the largest installed into an office property in Finland. During 2017, more than 3,000 voluntary tasks around Finland Solar panels are already creating energy in Kuopio and Oulu on the were posted on Hiiop100.fi, an exchange service for volunteer work. roofs of Pohjola Hospitals. The hospital under construction in Turku will Volunteer work during the jubilee year has deepened OP’s social role also have solar panels. Solar power has also been used in buildings and substantially expanded our relations with the third sector. developed by OP Property Management Ltd. OP is currently looking into the viability of having solar power stations installed in the roofs of As part of its corporate social responsibility, OP will continue to member cooperative banks around Finland. maintain and further develop the Hiiop100.fi service and enable its employees to do voluntary work during working hours also after the jubilee year. Read more about opportunities for volunteer work at Hiiop100.fi. https://op-year2017.fi/en 50 OP Corporate Social Responsibility OP Year 2017 The biggest electronic voting in Finland OP joined the Commitment 2050 programme In November, OP Financial Group’s 81 cooperative banks held the OP joined the national commitment on sustainable development, election of the Representative Assembly where owner-customers ”The Finland We Want by 2050”. The purpose of this commitment is elected from among them the Representative Assembly for their own to promote sustainable development everywhere in our society. OP is bank for four years. A total of almost 2,400 members were elected to committed to promoting competence development in Finland as the the Assemblies. The number of candidates totalled over 5,600. country is undergoing a transformation of employment. OP launched the OP Crowdfunding service New ownership policy and engagement OP Crowdfunding’s first investment project involved the small ice cream OP Fund Management Company revised its ownership policy factory Suominen’s Milk Ltd which sought capital for growth and to concerning Finnish and foreign companies in autumn 2017. The new start exporting its organic ice cream, Jymy. OP’s second crowdfunding policy will take better into account responsibility viewpoints, such as project with the Nokia-based clothing manufacturer Papu Design began preparation for climate change and sustainability. As a result of the in December 2017. new policy, OP funds will also attend the AGMs of global companies. The first OP funds began to vote in AGMs outside Finland in autumn 2017. OP funds are committed to increasing their voting activity within three years with the aim of participating in thousands of AGMs abroad every year. OP Fund Management Company’s ownership policy defines how OP funds exercise influence in AGMs. New mobility services Mobility services increased as OP introduced DriveNow car sharing charged by the minute, in Helsinki, and OP Flexible Car providing rental cars for a month or a longer period, offered nationwide. In May 2017, OP also announced it will build with Fortum almost 100 charging stations for electric cars in Finland. https://op-year2017.fi/en 51 OP Corporate Social Responsibility OP Year 2017 Thematic engagement projects on carbon, water The first fund-specific ESG analyses were published and tax risks In July 2017, we began to publish fund-specific environmental, social In the first half of 2017, OP launched thematic engagement projects on and governance (ESG) analyses. In future, we will publish these carbon, water and tax risks. Furthermore, in the second half of the year, analyses on a quarterly basis. The analyses include responsibility we joined Climate Action 100+, a global five-year engagement initiative ratings for companies in the funds’ portfolios. The analyses comprise for investors. OP Wealth Management joined three thematic corporate environmental (E), social (S) and governance-related (G) issues. The engagement projects. fund-specific analyses also include information on the companies’ carbon footprints and positive environmental impact. https://op-year2017.fi/en 52 OP Corporate Social Responsibility OP Year 2017 Tax footprint OP’s taxes consist of indirect and direct taxes and taxes collected. Indirect taxes include income tax, real estate tax and fiscal charges paid directly by OP. Indirect taxes include the value added tax and the insurance premium tax. Taxes collected include taxes collected by OP as the remittance payer and forwarded to the state, such as tax withheld from payroll and tax at source withheld from interests. The mediation and sales of financial services is free of VAT. Thus, it does not generate the obligation to pay VAT, nor does it entitle to make VAT deductions on purchases. However, OP Financial Group member cooperative banks and other companies are liable to pay VAT on their other business. Taxes included in the tax footprint were calculated on an accrual basis. Tax footprint Taxes collected Direct taxes Indirect taxes Indirect taxes treated as expenses Direct taxes Indirect taxes Social security and pension contributions 160 million euro Insurance premium tax 226 million euros Income tax/FPM 188 million euros Value added tax 21 million euros Real estate tax 4 million euros Taxes collected Indirect taxes treated as expenses PAYE tax 181 million euros Value added tax 158 million euros Tax at source 29 million euros https://op-year2017.fi/en 53 OP Corporate Social Responsibility OP Year 2017 Corporate social responsibility management at OP Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an integral part of OP’s business and strategy. CSR is based on our mission and joint values, supported by our customer-owned business model. Our business must promote the prosperity of our customers and our International commitments and participation in operating environment. Our social role directs us to set an example organisations for others. We develop products and services which encourage our customers to act in a responsible and environment-friendly manner. ”We support the UN Global Compact initiative and promote human OP aims to be a pioneer in CSR in the financial sector. The Code of rights, labour standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption.” Business Ethics, which was updated in December 2017, contains Jaakko Pehkonen, Chair of the Supervisory Board OP Financial Group’s CSR principles which all those employed by OP Financial Group, whatever their role, position or location, must observe. The Code of Business Ethics also includes the Group’s environmental principles. The Code is supplemented by more detailed rules and guidelines. OP Financial Group’s corporate governance practices mostly cover actions related to CSR management. The main management approaches are defined in OP Financial Group’s Corporate Governance Principles. Our operations are guided by good banking and insurance practices. We comply with laws, standards and regulations and adhere to the principles of honest and fair operations. The Operational Risk and Compliance function oversees risks and compliance related to CSR, and In addition to laws and regulations, OP undertakes to comply with it also bears overall responsibility for providing advice on CSR principles. international commitments that guide operations. OP signed the Global The function operates independently of the business areas. Compact initiative in 2011, becoming committed to the Initiative’s ten principles on human rights, labour standards, environment and antiOP’s CSR actions and targets are guided and coordinated by the corruption. The Global Compact principles have been integrated into Corporate Social Responsibility Programme, which was updated in OP’s new supplier contracts. The principles of Global Compact have also 2017. been taken into account in online training for personnel concerning the Code of Business Ethics and corporate social responsibility. As reporting principles, OP follows the GRI Standards and the UN Global Compact and is developing its reporting in the direction of OP was among Finland’s first asset management companies to sign the IIRC framework. OP Financial Group’s sustainability reporting is the UN Principles for Responsible Investment in 2009. Since then, mainly performed within the same boundaries as the Group’s financial the Group has developed responsible investment practices with even reporting. Any deviations or limitations in the boundary are reported greater determination, and participated in wider development efforts next to the applicable data. in the sector. OP is also one of the founding members of Finland’s Sustainable Investment Forum (FINSIF). OP is also involved in the Global Compact Nordic Network, the corporate responsibility network Organisation of responsibility issues Finnish Business & Society (FIBS), the Corporate Social Responsibility and Co-operative Affairs Working Group of the European Association CSR policies and guidelines are approved by the Supervisory Board. of Co-operative Banks (EACB) and the CSR working group of the Strategic CSR management is the responsibility of the Executive Association of Mutual Insurers and Insurance Cooperatives in Europe Board of OP Cooperative, which also makes strategic decisions on (AMICE). CSR matters. On the OP Cooperative Executive Board, CSR comes under the Chief Communications Officer’s remit. CSR issues are We actively follow the development of guidelines intended for the discussed regularly, not only in the Executive Board but also in business financial sector as part of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational divisions’ executive boards. Day-to-day work concerning CSR and the Enterprises. The OECD guidelines comprise voluntary CSR principles implementation of the CSR Programme is carried out by CSR working and standards, as well as instructions for applying legislation to groups in the business divisions. international business operations. OP has signed the Equator Principles initiative in order to ensure the Assessment of management responsibility of its project financing. Leadership methods will be assessed as part of general leadership As in previous years, OP responded to the CDP survey, which gathers practices. Targets and operating principles will be updated should there information from large corporations on the effect of climate change be any changes in the operating environment, for example. https://op-year2017.fi/en 54 OP Corporate Social Responsibility OP Year 2017 on their business and any actions they have taken to combat climate • Code of Business Ethics change and reduce greenhouse gases. In 2017, OP achieved score B+ • OP Financial Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility Programme on a four-step scale from A to D. Score B means that the Company has taken actions to address environmental issues beyond initial screenings Materiality or assessments. The purpose of the CSR materiality analysis is to identify the aspects of In its role as an investor, OP Wealth Management has signed CDP’s CSR that are the most central to OP and its stakeholders. climate change and water initiatives and the deforestation initiative. The CSR materiality analysis was carried out in late 2016. Stakeholders’ opinions were collected with two stakeholder surveys Key CSR guidelines and principles in which the respondents were asked to evaluate, for example, the materiality of responsibility-related aspects and OP’s role in this work. • OP Financial Group’s Corporate Governance This materiality analysis guides the updating of and goal setting for the • OP Financial Group’s CSR Policies CSR programme. • UN Global Compact principles Materiality matrix Promotion of the Materiality for OP Privacy protection vitality of local communities Capital adequacy Responsible Promotion of tax payment Fair treatment of employees wellbeing Promotion of employment Responsible development Diversity and of products and services equal opportunity Transparency Supporting customers’ of operations Climate responsible choices awareness Logic of ownership Responsibility of the supply chain Materiality for OP’s stakeholders Font size and darkness describe impact and the opportunities to influence Risks and control No products, services, business models and systems will be introduced form primarily takes place at the operational level, characterised by before they have been assessed for potential risks and changes. Major continuous processes and forming part of daily routines. Internal new products, services and operating models or significant changes control is complemented by the opportunity of anyone employed by to existing ones are, when necessary, assessed by OP Cooperative’s OP Financial Group to report through an independent channel if they Executive Board, which ultimately decides on whether they should suspect that rules or regulations have been violated (whistle blowing). be adopted. The Executive Board is informed of significant realised risks as a part of monthly risk reviews. Risk maps, updated annually, OP Financial Group as a credit institution is supervised by the European are used to identify the critical risks affecting operations, including Central Bank (ECB). The Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) risks. These oversees OP Financial Group’s investment firms and insurance maps are used to conduct an analysis on the basis of which the companies in Finland as prescribed in legislation governing financial executive management are informed of critical phenomena. The and insurance markets. OP Financial Group’s operations in Estonia, effectiveness of the risk and solvency management efforts of OP and Latvia and Lithuania are supervised to an applicable extent by the its organisations is evaluated on an annual basis. Internal audits are national regulators. conducted each year to examine the state of internal controls and capital adequacy management. OP’s suppliers are mainly based in Finland, and they produce services mainly in Finland. Therefore, OP can manage the CSR risk level Internal controls cover all operations, involving all OP Financial Group related to procurement through transparent and well-managed entities and sites. The nature and extent of operations and, whenever supplier cooperation. OP’s CSR requirements for suppliers have been necessary, special characteristics related to international operations are incorporated in purchase agreements. Suppliers’ CSR performance is taken into consideration in specifying internal controls. Internal control monitored as part of OP’s supplier management model. covers all organisational levels. Internal control in its most extensive https://op-year2017.fi/en 55 OP Corporate Social Responsibility OP Year 2017 Corporate social responsibility programme OP’s CSR targets are guided and coordinated by the Corporate We foster a sustainable economy, 2) We support local vitality, 3) We act Social Responsibility Programme. The programme was updated in with a people-first approach and through engagement and 4) We foster 2017 under the umbrella theme “Positive driver of change through health, security and wellbeing. responsibility”. The programme is built around four main themes: 1) OP’s CSR Programme We seek to be CO2-positive We publish our tax by 2025 footprint every year We blaze a trail #suominousuun in sustainable investment We foster a We aim to sustainable We support improve financial economy local vitality literacy among youngsters We act with a We foster people-first health, security We promote approach and We promote and wellbeing employee through physical activity wellbeing engagement among kids We promote diversity: At least 40% of both genders for We are active in loss defined management positions prevention KPIs of the CSR Programme 2017 2016 (if available) Own CO2 emission, tn CO2e 20,964 18,559 Renewable energy, % 13 Charitable donations, € million 2.3 6 Diversity objective, % 21 Recommendation / NPS 58 53 https://op-year2017.fi/en 56 OP Corporate Social Responsibility OP Year 2017 Promotion of the CSR Programme targets in 2017 1. We foster a sustainable economy • We revised our Code of Business Ethics by adding our key 3. We act with a people-first approach and through environmental and climate principles in it. engagement • We increased the use of renewable energy in our offices. For example, we built a solar power station at the OP Vallila campus in • We organised the biggest electronic voting in Finland in which a Helsinki and at the Pohjola Hospitals in Kuopio and Oulu. new Representative Assembly was elected for 81 Group cooperative • The new Pohjola Hospitals were LEED certified: The Kuopio unit banks. reached the LEED Platinum level, which means that the building is • Each employee was allowed to do one day of paid volunteer work as excellent in terms of the environment and energy efficiency. a gift to the 100-year-old Finland. OP employees donated a total of • We revised our principles for responsible investment and ownership 100 years of volunteering as part of the Hiiop 100 project. policy and began to vote also in the general meetings of foreign • We performed a wide range of work with stakeholders and invited companies. customers to join the various stages of our product development • We published the first fund-specific responsibility analyses (ESG efforts. analyses) that cover areas such as the funds’ positive environmental • Through the ”Summer jobs paid for by OP” project, more than 1,000 impacts. your persons got a summer job with a non-profit organisation, paid • We joined the Climate Action 100+ initiative in which investors for by the local OP Group cooperative bank. engage together in projects under shared themes. 4. We foster health, security and wellbeing 2. We support local vitality • Our sports masters provided training to sports clubs’ coaches in • We donated a total of EUR 6.3 million to Finnish universities during order to prevent sports accidents. the 2015–2017 donation period. In 2017, we donated approximately • We promoted traffic safety through the ”Traffic act of the century” EUR 800,000. project. • We continued to calculate our tax footprint. • We introduced new services that make our customers’ daily lives • Hiiop: In the ”100 years of volunteering” project, we cooperated with easier, such as the OP Flexible Car, the Siirto payments and the fully more than 100 third-sector partners. digital travel insurance. • In 2017, 130 OP employees were involved in a financial literacy project by giving financial advice to young people at risk of becoming marginalised. More CSR actions Corporate social responsibility highlights. • We participated in the HundrED project as one of the main partners. https://op-year2017.fi/en 57 OP GRI OP Year 2017 GRI Economic impacts OP as a whole has major direct and indirect economic impacts on Targets both Finnish society as a whole and on local households. OP Financial Group’s operations are based on cooperative values, a strong capital OP Financial Group, with a cooperative foundation, aims not to base, capable risk management and customer respect. Based on its maximise profits for its owners but to provide, as efficiently as mission, OP Financial Group creates sustainable prosperity, security and possible, the services which the cooperative’s owner-customers need. wellbeing for its owner-customers and in its operating region by means A considerable part of business earnings are returned to the ownerof its strong capital base and efficiency. In its business role, the Group customers. What remains of the earnings is used to strengthen the provides its customers with competitive products and services while Group’s balance sheet and to ensure our ability to provide credit. ensuring its profitability. We must operate efficiently and competitively while being profitable and having a strong capital base. We must produce the services our Such indirect financial impacts are created through contributions to customers need at a competitive price. local and regional economic vitality, as well as social contributions. Examples of indirect financial impacts include hiring of new employees, Financial targets. purchases, investments, financing and tax payments. The role as a financier and insurer and responsibility for customers are emphasised during difficult economic times in particular. Policies and commitments OP Financial Group is one the largest tax payers in Finland measured External reporting is based, for example, on the International Financial by tax on profits. All of the 167 independent OP cooperative banks pay Reporting Standards, the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, their corporate tax locally in their operating region. By paying taxes in the Act on Credit Institutions, the Insurance Companies Act, the Finland, the Group is contributing to prosperity in the whole of Finland. Accounting Act, and the standards and regulations issued by the Financial Supervisory Authority. OP Financial Group’s shared principles In the financial sector, the major social impacts are related to active are applied in the accounting, financial statements and consolidated fighting of financial crime and abuses, including corruption, and financial statements of OP Financial Group companies. Responsibility removal of anti-competitive behaviour. We are strictly against any antifor the interpretation of, guidelines on and advice on standards, other competitive behaviour. OP is very serious about conformance to laws laws governing the preparation of financial statements and official and the Code of Business Ethics. OP Financial Group does not support accounting requirements as well as the preparation of and compliance political parties or contribute to the electoral campaigns of individual with common accounting policies rests with OP Cooperative, OP candidates. Financial Group’s central cooperative. Whenever necessary, OP Cooperative turns to auditors who give a statement of the selected principles and interpretations. https://op-year2017.fi/en 58 OP GRI OP Year 2017 We are strictly against any corruption and bribery. OP is very serious having ultimate responsibility. The guidelines concerning conflicts of about conformance to laws and the Code of Business Ethics. OP interests must be handled by each organisation and its employees on Financial Group does not support political parties or contribute to the a regular basis, and whenever a new person receives job orientation. electoral campaigns of individual candidates. The Code of Business OP has a security staff designated for the prevention of abuses, dealing Ethics document ratified by the Supervisory Board of OP Cooperative with abuses originating from both within the Group and from outside specifies that employees shall avoid any situation that may put them or it. Incidents that fulfil the criteria for crime are always reported to OP Financial Group under suspicion of bribery. Our fight against money the authorities, to be investigated, and any abuses are reported to laundering and terrorism is guided by national legislation, official the relevant authority, such as the Financial Supervisory Authority, regulations, national practices and the anti-money laundering and and internally to OP’s Executive Board. As prescribed in the Act on prevention of financing of terrorism operating model approved by the Preventing and Clearing Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, we senior management. have put in place customer due diligence systems, ongoing customer due diligence methods and staff training, guidelines and protection. Any suspicious incidents will be reported to the Money Laundering Clearing Management approach House as required by law. OP Financial Group uses Group-wide financial reporting and risk reporting to monitor the achievement of its business goals and Programmes, projects and initiatives financial targets, and these reports are regularly reviewed at executive management and OP Cooperative’s Executive Board meetings. The very Our approaches are guided by the UN Global Compact initiative and the same principles apply to the monthly financial performance and risk OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, among others. report prepared by the management. When preparing and examining the report, the management ascertains the accuracy and correctness of the financial results and reporting by analysing the performance and Appeal systems risk exposure and any deviations from targets. Any grievances should be discussed primarily with the supervisor. OP Cooperative’s Executive Board is the highest decision-making body Incidents that fulfil the criteria for crime are always reported to the in matters associated with business control. The Executive Board must policy to be investigated, and any abuses are reported to the relevant ensure that supervision of accounting and treasury is duly organised. authority. It decides on reporting, procedures and qualitative and quantitative indicators used to assess operational efficiency and performance, 201 Economic Performance discusses and approves the consolidated financial statements and interim reports. GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee is tasked with assisting the It follows naturally from OP Financial Group’s dual role, brought about Supervisory Board to ensure firstly that the central cooperative and OP by customer ownership, that business profits and added value are Financial Group have in place an adequate and well-functioning control channelled, via customer relationships, to its members and customers. system to cover all operations and secondly that the OP Cooperative’s Member cooperative banks use their profits for the benefit of their accounting and treasury control is organised appropriately. customers by providing loyalty benefits and other financial benefits and by maintaining and developing their service capabilities. In 2017, As provided by law, auditors shall assess the accuracy of financial new OP bonuses totalled over EUR 220 million, up by 6% year on year. reporting. Furthermore a significant part of OP’s economic impacts also involves indirect impacts on local and regional economic vitality. Examples of A compulsory online course for all employees of the Group was indirect economic impacts are: implemented to ensure familiarisation with the Code at all levels. The guideline for Handling Conflicts of Interest in OP Financial Group is • Employment (creation of new jobs, work placements, summer jobs) intended to prevent cases of corruption. All of the Group’s member • Procurement (purchases from local suppliers and service providers) organisations are responsible for applying the guidelines internally. Each • Investments (properties, maintenance, local infrastructure and and every executive and employee within the institutions must know building projects) the guidelines. Every manager is in charge of supervising compliance • Financing (financing for start-ups, local financing, ethical lending with the guidelines, with the CEO and board of each organisation criteria by sector) https://op-year2017.fi/en 59 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Economic value generated and distributed by stakeholder groups: Finland 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Direct economic added value created 77,716 73,400 72,050 70,635 a) Income 2,450 2,657 2,808 2,910 3,062 Breakdown of economic value added 6,946 7,060 3,780 4,700 b) Operating expenses 619 661 574 640 767 c) Personnel costs 791 741 781 762 758 d) Returns to owner-customers 193 195 195 206 217 e) Income tax 36 308 249 223 223 f) Donations and other community investments 3 4 3 6 2,3 For strengthening capital base and developing business 807 749 1,007 1,073 1,095 The member banks are often some of the largest taxpayers in their local municipalities, and OP as a whole is one of the biggest taxpayers possible, also in constantly changing circumstances. OP assesses the in Finland. OP Financial Group’s income taxes for the financial year financial implications of climate change risks in its annual response to 2017 totalled 223 million euros (223). The effective tax rate was 20.7% the CDP survey. (19.6). 203 Indirect economic impacts Tax footprint. GRI 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change OP’s nationwide network of banking and non-life insurance services seeks to ensure that customers have equal opportunities to carry out Climate change has extensive effects and it causes notable uncertainty transactions. The service network covers both digital service channels for society. Together with our customers, we will build sustainable (op.fi, OP-mobile and Pivo), telephone services and the network of economy and support mitigating climate change and adapting to it. branch offices. We are further developing our services by listening to OP’s direct impact on climate change is minor. Environmental risks, on our customers and their changing needs. the other hand, including climate risks, can have direct impacts on OP’s operations, as well as indirect impacts through effects on customers Pohjola Health Ltd has four Pohjola Hospitals that provide basic and stakeholders. In emissions and energy intensive sectors, climate healthcare and special healthcare services, examinations, surgery change and related regulation may have significant financial effects. and rehabilitation on an extensive basis. The hospital network will be Indirect effects on climate change are created through OP financing and completed in May 2018 when a Pohjola Hospital unit opens its doors investments. in Turku. Extreme weather is also an operational risk included in OP’s own GRI 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts contingency planning. Concerns related to climate change may pose reputation risks if any conflicts with climate change prevention efforts To read more about indirect economic impacts and assessment of should be identified in the operations of OP or even those of its social and local impacts, go to the Local impact of cooperate banks partners or customers. section. On the other hand, the general improvement in environmental In 2017, the combined purchase volume of products, services, rights awareness is bringing new business opportunities, for example in and the claims service partner network was approximately 1,700 the form of investment products that emphasise environmental million euros, provided by over 20,000 suppliers. Apart from this, the responsibility, and diverse property insurances. Our non-life insurance Group’s functions look after their own fundraising and investmentbusiness continuously monitors the development of risks posed by related acquisitions. OP is also a significant purchaser of goods and climate change from the viewpoint of our existing and future insurance services. products. Our aim is to cover all insurable risks as extensively as https://op-year2017.fi/en 60 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Employment support for young The employment impact people through NGOs of corporate financing the youngsters In 2016–2017, the bank annually supported the employment of on average 46 adolescents scored the usefulness of the project OP Pohjois-Karjala 300 The bank finances companies in its operating region, thereby promoting the region’s economic 4.7/5 of the age 15–17 in local organisations for three million euros in vitality. Regional companies play a significant role as weeks, adding up to 700 person-days. OP cooperative bank paid salaries employers and engines for the regional economy. The bank’s it was the market share first job for of corporate loans is The bank’s support to half of the youngsters approximately two the organisations was thirds 8,000 500 euros person-years per youngster in its operating region Remote meetings Supporting local sports, culture and volunteering OP’s target is to develop the best remote meeting services in the world and to be there for its In 2017, the bank offered financial support to local customers in the digital revolution. In 2017, sports clubs, culture, entertainment and recreational managing banking affairs online or over the phone saved time and reduced greenhouse emissions. 15 acitivities. The supported organisations provide activities especially for children and adolescents. 13,000 tonnes less greenhouse emissions members in these 45% 7,000 NGOs of the NGOs would be forced to stop saved working all or some of their hours operations without the support. 205 Anti-corruption situation that may put them or OP Financial Group under suspicion of 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption bribery. A compulsory online course for all employees of the Group was The organisations of OP Financial Group apply a guideline entitled implemented to ensure familiarisation with the Code at all levels. By the Procedures for Managing Operational Risk. In 2017, the central end of 2017, the course had been taken by 89% (100) of the personnel cooperative drew up a risk assessment plan by process. If necessary, in Finland. the entities to be analysed can be agreed with the Group’s member organisations. OP Financial Group annually carries out risk assessments The guideline for Handling Conflicts of Interest in OP Financial Group which also cover risks related to corruption. is intended to prevent cases of corruption. All of the Group’s member organisations are responsible for applying the guidelines internally. Each The Group’s member organisations update their operational risk and every executive and employee within the institutions must know analyses annually based on the procedural guidelines. The risk analyses the guidelines. Every manager is in charge of supervising compliance are based on the organisations’ self-evaluations concerning operational with the guidelines, with the CEO and board of each organisation risks and their management. In line with the analysis process, each having ultimate responsibility. The guidelines concerning conflicts of organisation identifies and evaluates the most important risks affecting interests must be handled by each organisation and its employees on a its operations. To assist in identification, the Group has a shared risk regular basis, and whenever a new person receives job orientation. library which lists diverse risks subdivided into seven risk categories. The Internal Abuse category includes the risk ‘Giving and Receiving In supplying services or goods to OP Financial Group, suppliers must Bribes’. Bribery has not been a significant risk in any of the risk comply with CSR supplier requirements, OP Financial Group’s General assessments. Procurement Terms and Conditions and Code of Business Ethics as well as applicable laws and international agreements. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures The Code of Business Ethics document ratified by the Supervisory Board of OP Cooperative specifies that employees shall avoid any https://op-year2017.fi/en 61 OP GRI OP Year 2017 206 Anti-competitive behaviour that suppliers comply not only with OP’s CSR requirements for suppliers but also with OP’s Code of Business Ethics and with the Global Compact 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, initiative, as well as with all the applicable laws and regulations. and monopoly practices On 7 March 2017, the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority issued Management approach a public warning to, and imposed a penalty payment of 400,000 euros on OP Helsinki due to shortcomings in investment advice related to Suppliers evaluate themselves in terms of corporate social responsibility the obligation to obtain information. The reason for sanctions was that for the first time when they take part in competitive tendering, and OP Helsinki’s investment advice service had not made any adequate thereafter during cooperation with OP on a regular basis in accordance analysis of customers’ investment objectives, financial standing and with the operating model agreed with OP Procurement. OP audits investment experience before providing customers with investment suppliers in accordance the annual CSR auditing plan. advice. Furthermore, the bank had not documented and stored information on the investment advice given to customers so that such Continuous follow-up of CSR audits forms part of OP’s supplier information could have been used to verify the courses of events and CSR management model. This includes regular meetings with afterwards. Corrective measures have been implemented at Group designated purchasing managers. OP’s CSR requirements for suppliers level: systems used in selling investment products have been further have been incorporated in purchase agreements since 2015. OP’s developed to ensure documentation and procedures complying with suppliers are mainly based in Finland, and they produce services regulation. Furthermore, the Group’s investment advice guidelines were mainly in Finland. Therefore, OP can manage the CSR risk level related updated and additional training was provided to personnel. to procurement through transparent and well-managed supplier cooperation. Late in 2015, OP was requested to respond to allegations that it was engaged in monopoly practices. According to a competitor, OP has a Programmes, projects and initiatives monopoly position in retail banking services and is abusing this position by combining retail banking services with non-life insurance services. UN Global Compact OP has also been claimed to offer non-life insurance services below production costs. This case is still under investigation, and OP wants to Appeal systems cooperate with the Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority and provide them with any information they may need. Any suspected breach of rules or regulations by suppliers can be reported to the Vice President responsible for purchasing or to the responsible procurement manager. Such a report may also concern Procurement actions that are against OP Financial Group’s core values. Target 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers The goal of OP’s procurement function is to ensure that any products, OP Financial Groups´s most significant locations of operation are in services or rights that are acquired are on the whole cost-effective, of Finland. In 2017, about 90 % of procurement is spent locally in Finland. high quality and reliable and ethical and that suppliers are managed professionally to the benefit of OP Financial Group and its customers. Policies and commitments OP’s purchases and orders are based on Group-level framework agreements negotiated by OP Procurement or on OP Financial Group’s General Procurement Terms and Conditions. These agreements require https://op-year2017.fi/en 62 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Environmental impacts Climate change has extensive effects and it causes notable uncertainty Policies and commitments for society. Together with our customers, we will build sustainable economy and support mitigating climate change and adapting to it. We The Code of Business Ethics defines OP’s key environmental will develop products and services which will encourage our customers commitments. OP reports on its greenhouse gas emissions as CO2 to act in a responsible and environment-friendly manner and take into equivalents in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG). account the effects of our operations on the diversity of nature. We will OP’s operations are not involved in emissions trading. OP Wealth reduce our climatic stress and help our customers carry out actions to Management is committed to the Montreal Pledge. support the environment. We wish to reduce the risk caused by climate change to our customers. We will provide information on climate change and offer solutions to its negative effects. Management approach We take environmental and climatic effects into account in our OP has in place the WWF’s Green Office system. Green Office is operations. We promote a circular economy as well as resource and applied at the Vallila campus and three banks. Our target is to expand energy efficiency in our business. We develop low-emission premises, Green Office into more banks. Green Office is one way of increasing generate and utilise renewable energy and promote low-emission our employees’ environmental consciousness. As practical tools, mobility. We take environmental aspects into account when making our operating premises are also equipped with energy monitoring purchases. OP’s own operations result in greenhouse gas emissions. system, waste reporting, and environmental certification for buildings (LEED). OP has carried out an energy audit, recommended for large OP also has indirect impacts through its operating environment, causing enterprises, in accordance with the Energy Efficiency Directive. greenhouse gas emissions. OP provides investors with a carbon risk indicator to support them in selecting a mutual fund by publishing the carbon intensity figures of OP equity funds. Furthermore, OP Programmes, projects and initiatives equity funds publish quarterly fund-specific ESG analyses that cover areas such as the fund’s positive environmental impact. OP Wealth The UN Global Compact, the Montreal Pledge, the Climate Action 100+ Management provides three environmentally themed mutual funds: engagement programme. OP-Low-carbon World, OP-Clean Water and OP-Climate. With respect to waste, OP’s primary objectives are to prevent waste Appeal systems creation, recycle waste, convert waste into energy by burning it, and only if no other alternative is available, take waste to a landfill site. We welcome feedback through our customer service channels. 302 Energy Targets 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation and The mitigation of climate change requires personal commitment and 302-3 Energy intensity actions from each and every one of us. We will reduce our climatic stress and help our customers carry out actions to support the The total energy consumption covers OP Financial Group’s heat, environment. We wish to reduce the risk caused by climate change to electricity and fuel consumption in all countries where the Group our customers. We will provide information on climate change and offer operates. In 2017, the total energy consumption was 142 585 solutions to its negative effects. (138,230) MWh, up by 3.1 % from the previous year. Consumption on sites not covered by consumption monitoring has been calculated We take environmental and climatic effects into account in our on the basis of specific consumption by type of real property. These operations. Our aim is to make the central cooperative carbon positive sites account for approximately half of the consumption. The electrical by 2025. energy for the Vallila campus and the data centres is generated entirely through wind power. In 2017, the energy intensity, or total energy consumption per employee, of OP Financial Group offices increased to 11.6 (11.3) MWh/ year/person. https://op-year2017.fi/en 63 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Energy consumption 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2014 2015 2016 2017 Scope 3 emissions (tonnes CO2e) District heating 77,716 73,400 72,050 70,635 2014 2015 2016 2017 District cooling 2,868 2,670 5,360 5,140 Purchased products Fuels (Heating and and services 2,266 2,508 2,612 2,034 reserve power) 6,946 7,060 3,780 4,700 Waste from operations 598 609 129 298 Electricity 80,311 59,230 57,040 62,110 Business travel 2,408 2,622 3,841 3,712 Total (MWh) 167,841 142,360 138,230 142,585 Employee commuting 951 1,142 In 2017, renewable electricity consumption accounted for 18,800 Purchased products and services include emissions generated by office MWh, or 13%, of all energy consumption. Fuel conversion is based on stationery, mail transport services, external data centres and customer the Ecoinvent 3.3 multipliers. magazines. With respect to indirect emissions, we also calculate emissions 305 Emissions generated by equity funds. 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions, 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions and 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Read more Direct (scope 1) greenhouse gas emissions are created by fuel 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions consumed by standby generators for OP’s own premises. Energy indirect (scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions are the result of electricity According to OP’s Corporate Social Responsibility Programme, our and heating energy consumption in the premises. In 2017, electricity aim is to become carbon positive by 2025. The direct greenhouse for the Vallila campus was generated entirely by renewable energy gas emissions from OP’s own operations (Scopes 1 + 2) totalled forms. 20,964 CO2e-tonnes (18,559), or 1.7 tonnes (1.52) per person. These emissions (Scopes 1 + 2) have decreased by approximately 40% The energy emission factors used in emission calculations are based on from 2011 (comparative 2011: 34,847 tonnes of CO2e). The main the 2016 Electricity generation statistics by Statistics Finland, the 2016 reason for this was the removal to new, energy-efficient offices and District Heating Statistics, the IEA district heating and electricity data for the increase in the use of renewable energy. In 2017, the electricity 2015 (excluding Finland), the Ecoinvent 3.3 database and, with respect consumed by the Vallila premises was generated entirely by wind to green electricity, data provided by the Finnish Green Building Council power. (FIGBC). The CO2 emission limit for the OP central cooperative’s company cars is Scope 1 and 2 emissions tonnes CO2e 120 g/km. At the end of 2017, the average CO2 emissions of company cars equalled 122 g/km (125). Business travel in 2017 resulted in 2014 2015 2016 2017 3,712 tons of CO2 emissions (3,841). OP uses video and online Scope 1 1,800 5 3 48 conferencing technology to reduce business travel. Its travel guidelines Scope 2, state that trains or buses must be favoured for travel within Finland. market-based 37,114 23,446 18,556 20,918 OP Cooperative employees have access to travel cards to encourage the Scope 2, use of public transport for commuting. location-based 27,178 26,088 25,259 Intensity, CO2eOP is an indirect opinion leader in encouraging customers to take tonnes/person 3 1.93 1.52 1.70 environmental impacts into account when making financing, insurance and investment decisions, and in recommending the use of e-services Intensity = Scope 1 + Scope 2 (market-based) / OP Financial Group and electronic documents. employees. 306 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method In 2017, the OP offices managed by OP-Services in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area generated a total of 713 tonnes waste (289). With respect to non-hazardous waste (708 tn), 94 tons was reused as raw material, 575 tons was recycled and 39 tons was converted into energy by burning it. The amount of hazardous waste was 4.3 tons, 3.2 tons of which was recycled and the remaining 1.1 tons was disposed in accordance with the requirements concerning hazardous waste. https://op-year2017.fi/en 64 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Social impacts Impacts on labour practices and decent work are considerable because Customer service personnel must go through the procedures as part of OP Financial Group is a major employer in Finland. the induction, with annual refresher training. Realised threat situations are entered in the operational risk management system and reported to the Executive Board at regular intervals. The staff’s experiences of Target threatening customer service situations are also monitored by means of personnel surveys. Serious threats are reported to the police. Bank OP aims to be the most attractive employer in the financial sector robberies are reported to the Executive Board in real time and entered and among the most highly regarded large employers in Finland. in the operational risk management system. In HR matters, we focus on the renewal and development of our competencies, management and corporate culture. Highly skilled and motivated employees are a success factor, enabling OP to meet the Programmes, projects and initiatives challenges of the changing operating environment and digitalisation. OP considers diversity as an asset and guarantees equal opportunities, Global Compact, Diversity Charter Finland and its Charter. rights and treatment to all. Appeal systems Policies and commitments Any grievances should be discussed primarily with the supervisor, HR, Impacts related to labour practices and decent work are led through the shop steward or the occupational health and safety officer. strategic HR alignments and OP Financial Group’s HR Policy. Cooperation between personnel and the employer is based on local 102-8 Information on employees and other workers legislation. Responsibility for occupational safety lies specifically with the employer. Occupational safety is based on prevention and planned ways OP Financial Group has 11,847 (11,787) employees in Finland, of of working. whom 5,998 (5,319) work in the central cooperative consolidated, 5,120 (5,755) at member cooperative banks and 729 (713) at OP-Kiinteistökeskus. In addition, the OP Financial Group has 422 Management approach (440) employees outside Finland, in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. In addition to its own staff, OP Financial Group had 1,511 (1,089) Employees are treated equally in areas such as remuneration, temporary agency workers at the end of 2017. As a result of business recruitment and career advancement. We monitor on an annual basis transfers related to consolidation arrangements, a total of 314 persons the distribution of personnel in various task groups by factors such as transferred from member cooperative banks to the central cooperative. gender, pay and age. We take safety and security into account in all of These worked in the Central Cooperative Consolidated, mainly in our operations related to personnel and working conditions. development and service provision tasks. During the summer of 2017, OP Financial Group employed a total of 439 (492) summer employees The Group’s practical management tools include OP Financial Group’s and trainees whose average age was 25.4 (24.4) years. 55% (56) of the Good Business Practices, OP Financial Group’s Principles of Good summer employees were women. Leadership, the remuneration system and policy, OP Financial Group’s Equality and Non-discrimination Framework Plan, competence OP Financial Group maintains its personnel data in a centralised development models, personnel surveys, and the Procurement Policy information system. This provides data that supports our human and Supplier Requirements for OP Financial Group’s suppliers. resources management. The system covers the companies included in the Group’s consolidated financial statements, excluding five companies Group-level procedures have been agreed for threatening situations, that have a total of 160 employees. The data is combined into to be applied locally. Procedures and reporting procedures have been comprehensive personnel statistics for the Group’s CSR Report. agreed for bank robberies. Procedures have been agreed for serious threats in terms of aftercare arrangements and protecting personnel. https://op-year2017.fi/en 65 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Employees Number of personnel by type of employment Men Women Total Permanent full-time employees 3,351 7,392 10,743 Permanent part-time employees 67 691 758 Fixed-term full-time employees 167 384 551 Fixed-term part-time employees 82 135 217 Total 3,667 8,602 12,269 Permanently Employed for fixed Number of employees by country Men Women Total employed term Finland 3,549 8,298 11,098 749 11,847 Estonia 44 136 178 2 180 Latvia 28 83 108 3 111 Lithuania 46 85 117 14 131 Total 3,667 8,602 11,501 768 12,269 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover VIn 2017, OP Financial Group recruited 1,345 new employees of 357 (388) employees retired at an average age of 62.1 years (61.7). (1,236). The annual turnover of permanent employees was 8.7% (7.9). As a result of business transfers related to consolidation arrangements, Voluntary staff turnover was 4.8% (3.7). During the year, a total of 59 a total of 314 persons transferred from member cooperative banks to (42) employment relationships ended, 21 (14) for production-related the central cooperative. Business transfers resulted in the transfer of 5 reasons and 38 (28) through voluntary arrangements. In 2017, a total employees to non-Group companies. New first-time employment relationships by age group, gender and country. Finland Men Women Total Men Women Total Under 30 years 287 377 664 56% 37% 44% 30–39 years 143 159 302 13% 7% 9% 40–49 years 107 131 238 13% 8% 10% Yli 49 years 42 50 92 4% 1% 2% Total 579 717 1,296 16% 9% 11% Estonia Men Women Total Men Women Total Under 30 years 1 4 5 25% 27% 26% 30–39 years 0 0 0 0% 0% 0% 40–49 years 0 0 0 0% 0% 0% Yli 49 years 0 1 1 0% 2% 2% Total 1 5 6 2% 4% 3% https://op-year2017.fi/en 66 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Latvia Men Women Total Men Women Totla Under 30 years 3 7 10 75% 30% 37% 30–39 years 2 1 3 15% 3% 6% 40–49 years 0 1 1 0% 5% 4% Yli 49 years 0 0 0 0% 0% 0% Total 5 9 14 18% 11% 13% Lithuania Men Women Totla Men Women Total Under 30 years 7 12 19 54% 52% 53% 30–39 years 0 6 6 0% 14% 9% 40–49 years 1 1 2 25% 13% 17% Yli 49 years 2 0 2 67% 0% 14% Total 10 19 29 22% 22% 22% Terminated employment contracts by age group, gender and country. Finland Men Women Total Men Women Total Under 30 years 333 442 775 66% 44% 51% 30–39 years 114 183 297 10% 8% 9% 40–49 years 52 117 169 6% 7% 7% Yli 49 years 145 416 561 13% 12% 13% Total 644 1,158 1,802 18% 14% 15% Estonia Men Women Total Men Women Total Under 30 years 2 5 7 50% 33% 37% 30–39 years 0 3 3 0% 7% 6% 40–49 years 0 4 4 0% 12% 8% Yli 49 years 1 2 3 11% 4% 5% Total 3 14 17 7% 10% 9% Latvia Men Women Total Men Women Total Under 30 years 4 3 7 100% 13% 26% 30–39 years 1 6 7 8% 17% 14% 40–49 years 0 3 3 0% 15% 11% Yli 49 years 0 1 1 0% 25% 13% Total 5 13 18 18% 16% 16% https://op-year2017.fi/en 67 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Lithuania Men Women Total Men Women Total Under 30 years 4 15 19 31% 65% 53% 30–39 years 5 7 12 19% 16% 17% 40–49 years 1 1 2 25% 13% 17% Yli 49 years 1 0 1 33% 0% 7% Total 11 23 34 24% 27% 26% Workforce by personnel group and gender, % 100 23 80 52 59 60 70 84 40 77 20 48 41 30 16 Management Experts All Supervisors Salaried and team leaders employees Men Women https://op-year2017.fi/en 68 OP GRI OP Year 2017 401-3 Parental leave In 2017, a total of 1,018 (1,089) people were on family leave, 718 older employees and those at risk of work disability. Key employee (793) of whom were women and 300 (296) men. 279 of the men wellbeing elements include the early support model, occupational (275) and 315 of the women (354) whose family leave ended in 2017 health care, rehabilitation, flexibility at work and diversity management, returned to work. The return rate was 100% (99) for men and 90% (93) among others. The health and wellbeing questionnaire annually sent to for women. Of those who had returned to work from family leave in employees enables us to identify priorities and needs for our employee 2016, 247 (257) men and 333 (299) women continued to work after wellbeing activities from the employee perspective. 12 months from their return. The retention rate was 90% (92) for men and 94% (94) for women. The figures are for Finland, excluding the In 2017, OP Financial Group recorded 10 occupational accidents personnel of OP-Kiinteistökeskus. causing a sick leave. These led to a total of 237 lost calendar days. The accident rate (LTA1) was 0.6. There were no work-related deaths or accidents leading to disability. OP applies a systematic procedure 402 Labour/management relations for the reporting of occupational accidents and hazardous situations. 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes Any occupational accidents are reported to the immediate supervisor without delay. After immediate corrective measures, the supervisor files OP Financial Group abides by local legislation in all its operations. In an accident report. Based on the accident reports, the occupational Finland, the main regulations concerning corporate reorganisations health and safety committee monitors the number and type of are found in the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings. According occupational accidents and the resulting costs on a regular basis. to the Act, in cases of business transfer, staff representatives must be given one week’s notice. Written proposals for personnel negotiations In 2017, sickness absences accounted for 3.3% of regular working must be submitted to staff representatives five days prior to the start of hours (3.5). For men, the proportion of sick leaves was 1.8% (1.8) and negotiations. for women 4.0% (4.1). Sickness absences have remained at the same level throughout the 2010s. The figures are for Finland, excluding the personnel of OP-Kiinteistökeskus. 403 Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management– Group-level procedures have been agreed for threatening situations, worker health and safety committees to be applied locally. Procedures and reporting procedures have been agreed for bank robberies. Procedures have been agreed for serious The following cooperation groups operate at OP Financial Group level threats in terms of aftercare arrangements and protecting personnel. and in OP’s central cooperative: OP Financial Group’s cooperation Customer service personnel must go through the procedures as part of team, OP central cooperative’s cooperation committee, and OP central the induction, with annual refresher training. Realised threat situations cooperative’s empolyer/employee cooperation team. The purpose of are entered in the operational risk management system and reported these teams and committees is to develop the companies’ operations to the Executive Board at regular intervals. The staff’s experiences of and working conditions and to improve the opportunities of personnel threatening customer service situations are also monitored by means to contribute to the decision-making that affects them, in accordance of personnel surveys. Serious threats are reported to the police. Bank with the Finnish Act on Co-operation within Undertakings. robberies are reported to the Executive Board in real time and entered in the operational risk management system. At OP Financial Group, the percentage of the total workforce represented in health and safety committees is 89% (88) of the entire Group personnel. The central cooperative has its own health and safety committee, and so do all banks with more than 20 employees. Governing bodies by age group, % At OP Financial Group, staff representation in the administrative bodies 2 10 of companies that belong to the central cooperative has been arranged by nominating staff representatives to OP Cooperative’s Supervisory Board, each for a term of three years. 20 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 68 Under 30 yrs 40–49 yrs The aim of OP Financial Group’s operating model for the management 30–39 yrs Over 49 yrs of employee wellbeing is to increasingly ensure, through close and well-organised management of occupational safety and health and wellbeing at work, the work ability and labour market competency of https://op-year2017.fi/en 69 OP GRI OP Year 2017 404 Training and education OP Financial Group has two types of organisation-wide personnel surveys: an extensive Personnel Survey and a more fast-paced 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Personnel Pulse. The Personnel Survey is carried out every two years; assistance programs and the next survey will take place in 2019. The results of the 2017 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Personnel Survey were good. According to the survey, OP’s key success and career development reviews factors are customer focus, confidence in the future and value-based OP offers all employee groups a variety of ways to develop their performance. competencies. The basis for development is to understand OP’s strategy and how OP’s strategic transformation will affect one’s own work, 405 Diversity and equal opportunity activities and competence needs. During 2017, OP Financial Group has been building an operating model to update employee competencies. 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Such a model is being built since digitisation and automation will destroy some of the existing jobs in the financial sector. Meanwhile, OP wants to provide equal opportunities to all employees. At the end digitisation and automation also create new jobs which require new of 2017, 70% (71) of personnel was women and 30% (29) men. The competencies. The operating model for updating competencies aims to average age of personnel was 43.4 years (43.6) with an average encourage and steer employees to keep their own labour market value employment time of 13.4 years (14). Of the members of OP Financial up to date. Group’s governing bodies, 63% (64) were men and 37% (36) women. At the end of 2017, the average age of these persons was 53.8 years OP Financial Group implements its strategy and annual plan through (52.8). 32% (31) of the members of the governing bodies were under annual employee performance reviews. They are an integral part 50 years old. of performance management and include the goal-setting review, performance review and competence and follow-up review. The OP Financial Group by personnel group and gender first review of the year includes an assessment of the employee’s Personnel group Men Women performance during the past period and setting targets for the coming period. The second review focuses on competencies and Management 77% 23% includes the drawing up of a development plan on the key areas in Supervisor 4% 59% need of improvement. Furthermore, the realisation of targets in the Expert 48% 52% current period is discussed. The entire OP personnel in Finland and Employee 16% 84% abroad have annual performance and career development reviews. Furthermore, in accordance with the Finnish Act on Co-operation Total 30% 70% within Undertakings, personnel and training plans are drawn up in those companies of OP Financial Group that regularly have more than 20 employees. The training plan must include an estimate of the professional competencies of the whole personnel, any changes in OP Financial Group by personnel group and age group the competence requirements and the background for this and, based Under 30 30–49 Over 49 on these estimates, an annual plan by employee group or in another years years years appropriate manner. Management 0% 34% 57% Supervisor 2% 56% 42% In 2017, OP Financial Group used an average of 15 hours per person for training. Expert 7% 59% 34% Employee 19% 44% 38% OP Financial Group implements its strategy and annual plan through Total 13% 50% 37% regular employee performance reviews. They are an integral part of performance management and include the goal-setting review, performance review and competence and follow-up review. The first review of the year includes an assessment of the employee’s OP Financial Group’s administrative bodies by age group and performance during the past period and setting targets for the coming gender period. The second review deals with competencies and the realisation Men Women of targets in the current period. The purpose of the competence review is to draw up a development plan on the key areas in need of Under 30 years 48% 52% improvement. 30–49 years 55% 45% Over 49 years 66% 34% According to the OP Financial Group’s remuneration principles, all Total 63% 37% employees are covered by a performance-based bonus system, and each employee has performance and goal-setting reviews. https://op-year2017.fi/en 70 OP GRI OP Year 2017 In June 2017, OP Financial Group set a diversity target based on the principles of good corporate governance. According to the said Policies and commitments target, persons in the Group’s executive positions have a wide range of knowledge, skills and experience. A balanced representation of genders OP’s operations are controlled by good banking and insurance practices and age groups is required in such a manner that both genders and financial sector regulations as well as OP’s Code of Business Ethics. are represented in proportion of 60/40. The indicator applied is the OP Procurement’s supplier requirements define the CSR requirements proportion of each gender in executive positions. In 2017, the share for suppliers. Prevention of discrimination and protection of human of women in executive positions was 21% and that of men 79%. The rights are referred to in, for example, the UN Global Compact, UN PRI gender distribution in executive positions in the central cooperative is and ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. 30% women and 70% men, in member cooperative banks 14% women and 86% men. Furthermore, we aim and monitor that OP Financial Group personnel’s knowledge, skills and experience in each gender Management approach and age group is sufficiently diverse to meet the strategic goals and requirements of business operations. The Group’s practical management tools include OP Financial Group’s Good Business Practices, OP Financial Group’s Principles of Good 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Leadership, the remuneration system and policy, OP Financial Group’s Equality and Non-discrimination Framework Plan, the Procurement We aim and monitor that OP Financial Group administration, Policy, and Supplier Requirements for OP Financial Group’s suppliers. management and personnel’s knowledge, skills and experience in each According to the supplier requirements, suppliers have to manage gender and age group are sufficiently diverse to meet the strategic the issues described in OP Financial Group’s CSR requirements for goals and requirements of business operations. Diversity is taken into suppliers in an active and goal-oriented manner and to ensure that account in HR planning, and its materialisation is monitored through their own suppliers also comply with these requirements. OP audits HR reporting. suppliers in accordance with the annual CSR auditing plan. Suppliers must report the practical realisation of the ethical principles they apply OP Financial Group has drawn up an equality and non-discrimination to OP. Continuous follow-up of CSR audits forms part of OP’s supplier plan in collaboration with employee representatives. The plan is revised and CSR management model. This includes regular meetings with every two years, and the implementation of measures based on the designated purchasing managers. plan is monitored regularly through various indicators and statistics. The Group monitors areas such as the equality of remuneration between age groups and gender, on the basis of job grades. For Programmes, projects and initiatives example, within comparable job grades, the average pay of women is 90–105% of the average pay of men. However, the purpose of Global Compact, Diversity Charter Finland monitoring and measures taken is not only remuneration, but also management, leadership, employee wellbeing, career development and training opportunities, which all contribute to the achievement of OP Appeal systems Financial Group’s diversity and non-discrimination targets. Personnel may report any suspected cases of discrimination to the Audit function. Any deviations from the Code of Business Ethics Non-discrimination, Freedom of association and should be raised with HR, your immediate supervisor or Compliance. collective agreements, Child and forced labour You can also make an anonymous report on a suspected breach of rules and regulations to OP Financial Group’s Chief Audit Executive These principles, which apply to the whole OP Financial Group and its through the so-called whistle blowing channel. Such a report may administration, are firmly based on our basic mission and values and also concern actions that are against OP Financial Group’s core values. form an important part of the responsibility of our operations. OP’s own Any suspected breach of rules or regulations by suppliers can also be operations do not involve any direct human rights risks or impacts of reported to the Vice President responsible for purchasing or to the significance. Indirectly, such impacts may arise from the supply chain or responsible procurement manager. Any cases of discrimination reported from the operations of investees and financed parties. by customers reach us primarily through requests for clarification sent to us by the authorities. OP expects product suppliers and service providers to conform with OP’s Corporate Social Responsibility supplier Target requirements, Code of Business Ethics and any applicable legislation and international agreements. OP aims to prevent discrimination in all its activities. OP seeks to prevent human rights violations and support the elimination of child labour and forced labour throughout its business operations and supply chain. https://op-year2017.fi/en 71 OP GRI OP Year 2017 406 Non-discrimination Management approach OP manages its social role alongside its business role. A compulsory 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken online course for all employees of the Group has been implemented to One notification of gender discrimination was filed with OP Financial ensure familiarisation with the Code of Business Ethics at all levels. Group in 2017. The case was investigated in accordance with the Act on Equality Between Women and Men and a report was drawn up and Programmes, projects and initiatives submitted to the Ombudsman for Equality. Our approaches are guided by the UN Global Compact initiative and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, among others. 407 Freedom of association and collective agreements OP Financial Group is a unionised employer. The Group companies Appeal systems apply three collective labour agreements: the collective agreement for the finance industry in banking operations, the collective agreement Customer feedback channels and customer communities. for the insurance industry in insurance operations, and the collective agreement for the medical services industry at Pohjola Hospital. These agreements contain regulations on, for example, the implementation Local communities of cooperation in occupational safety and health matters and the status of industrial safety delegates and ensuring their operating conditions. FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically As a large-scale employer, OP Financial Group plays a major role in disadvantaged areas by type developing the industry. OP Financial Group’s service network comprises branch, online, telephone and mobile services. The Group provides personal customer OP Financial Group performs all cooperation procedures in compliance service both at branches and digitally. OP has Finland’s largest with the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings and other local network of banking and non-life insurance services. This network legislation governing such procedures. OP Financial Group has seeks to ensure that customers have equal opportunities to carry out arranged cooperation with employees through a cooperation group transactions. Our cooperative banks and their offices across Finland that convenes on a quarterly basis. The group discusses OP Financial enable effective interaction with customers and the local community. At Group’s finances and performance, along with other current matters the end of 2017, the Group’s member banks had approximately 407 concerning the entire Group. All Group companies have arranged their (469) branches as well as some 1,340 Otto ATMs (shared between own cooperation procedures in accordance with legislation. Finland’s banks) around the country. OP-mobile is the main channel for customers’ daily banking, with visits totalling over 18 million during one month. The number of visits to op.fi amounted to almost 9 million. Society FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for OP carries out its mission in two roles: business role and social role. disadvantaged people In our business role, we bear responsibility for our capital adequacy and operational efficiency. In our social role, we have responsibility We provide comprehensive services in Finnish and Swedish, but among for the long-term wellbeing of our owner-customers and operating corporate customers as well as in growth centres and the Helsinki environment. We have a wide-ranging presence in Finland both digitally Metropolitan Area in particular, there is a great demand for services and physically and we participate in promoting local success, welfare in English. For our English-speaking customers, we provide electronic and security wherever we operate. services (op.fi, OP-mobile and Pivo) for carrying out their daily transactions for banking and insurance. With respect to other services, we develop our service capabilities in English in line with customer Target needs. Some OP-Kiinteistökeskus branches also offer service in OP promotes regional vitality in line with its mission and its Corporate Russian. In the Baltic countries, our branches serve customers in local Social Responsibility Programme. languages, while our electronic services are available in English. The text version of op.fi website (pda.op.fi) is widely used by people with Policies and commitments vision impairments, enabling the use of disability aids such as a speech OP Financial Group does not support political parties or contribute to synthesizer. Customers can log in to OP-mobile using fingerprint the electoral campaigns of individual candidates. The Code of Business authentication. Furthermore, OP provides key code lists in Braille, Ethics document ratified by the Supervisory Board of OP Cooperative enabling the use of the eService. guides all our operations. https://op-year2017.fi/en 72 OP GRI OP Year 2017 415 Public policy defines obligations regarding bank secrecy, encompassing the secrecy obligation concerning a Group customer or personal data in 415-1 Political contributions connection with other activities. OP’s salaried employees and members OP Financial Group does not support political parties or contribute to of governance bodies are bound to confidentiality by law; bank the electoral campaigns of individual candidates. and insurance secrecy guarantees the confidential processing of all customer data. Employees may process customer information only to the extent required by their duties. Product liability OP Financial Group does not support political parties or contribute to OP’s salaried employees and members of governance bodies are bound the electoral campaigns of individual candidates. to confidentiality by law in terms of all customer data. We respect bank and insurance secrecy, the confidentiality of customer and patient data, Management approach and secrecy obligations of agreements in all of our operations. Our practices guide us to take data protection comprehensively into account OP complies with industry regulations, good banking and insurance in all personal data processing. Through our data protection practices, practices, good stock market practices and good data processing we protect the personal data of our customers, personnel, partners practices. In addition, OP adheres to several acts, as well as regulations and other parties interacting with OP. OP is committed to responsible and guidelines issued by supervisory authorities. The Code of Business marketing and advertising. By law, customers have to be told certain Ethics provides an ethical foundation for all those employed by OP, conditions, properties or risks related to a product or service. whatever their role, position or location. Principles are followed as part of normal processes. The principles are updated whenever necessary. OP Financial Group’s risk and capital adequacy principles are confirmed Target by the Supervisory Board. Customer-related information is processed with due care as required by the relevant legislation. We ensure data protection proactively and OP is taking part in a nationwide project to improve young people’s comprehensively in all our business processes, information systems and financial literacy. The purpose of this is to prevent serious financial product and service development throughout the life cycle of a piece of problems among young people and to support their financial personal data. We maintain the customer’s rights by communicating in management. In 2016, the number of payment default entries reached an open and intelligible manner. a record-high level. The right kind of support helps to prevent financial problems and payment defaults. Local banks give lessons at schools to OP aims to provide all information on products and services that may teach financial skills. be of importance to customers when making decisions. OP encourages its customers to improve their financial literacy. Marketing directed at Programmes, projects and initiatives children and young people is highly restricted. OP takes account of this group’s general inexperience and limited capacity to act. UN Global Compact; the EU General Data Protection Regulation whose application will be begin on 25 May 2018. The regulation will apply to the processing of personal data in all EU member states. Its aim is to Policies and commitments create a uniform level of protection of personal data throughout the In accordance with the obligation to disclose information, our European Union. The regulation will bring openness and transparency communications are governed by legislation, decrees and other to the processing of personal data and give private individuals more binding regulations as well as guidelines issued by authorities and control over their personal data. A data protection project is underway marketplaces. In this respect, we provide the market with a true, at OP to ensure that we will meet the requirements of the new reliable and fair view of OP Financial Group’s status and operations. regulation and, in this way, to further improve our services. We will not use incorrect or misleading information in our marketing communications. We follow the marketing guidelines defined by the Appeal systems International Chamber of Commerce, the good marketing practice and marketing guidelines within our sectors. We take pride in the quality In 2017, OP Financial Group appointed a Group-level data protection of health care and patient security and we process patient data with officer whose role is in line with the EU Data Protection Regulation. absolute confidentiality. Data subjects may contact the data protection officer with regard to all issues related to processing of their personal data and to the exercise Instructions have been provided for conflicts of interest in the Code of of their rights under the regulation. Employees should discuss any Business Ethics and in the Group-level guidelines ”Managing Conflicts grievances primarily with their immediate supervisor. Furthermore, OP of Interest at OP Financial Group”. The Act on Credit Institutions Financial Group has an electronic notification channel for internal use, through which any suspected breaches can be reported. https://op-year2017.fi/en 73 OP GRI OP Year 2017 417 Marketing and labelling conform with generally accepted international standards such as the 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and Global Compact and OECD’s guidelines for multinational companies. labelling OP Fund Management Company exercises the voting rights of the OP Financial Group complies with legislation which requires that mutual funds managed by it, in accordance with the ownership customers be informed of certain terms, properties or risks related to a policy approved by the company’s Board of Directors. With respect product or service. to companies listed in Finland, the Group does its best to discuss grievances directly with the companies prior to AGMs, so that, as a 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing general rule, it will be possible to support the Board’s proposal if it communications comes to voting. OP Fund Management Company increasingly exercises voting rights in the AGMs of companies listed outside Finland through On 7 March 2017, the Finnish Financial Supervisory Authority issued a proxy voting. public warning to, and imposed a penalty payment of EUR 400,000 on OP Helsinki due to shortcomings in investment advice. Management approach The main policies of responsible investment are approved by the 418 Customer privacy executive committee of OP Wealth Management. Decisions in line 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of with these policies are made by the ESG unit and the Committee for customer privacy and losses of customer data Responsible Investment, which is chaired by the head of the security investment department. The actual implementation of the ESG In 2017, OP Financial Group received 26 substantiated customer strategies is carried out on a case-by-case basis by fixed-income complaints concerning the processing of personal data or breaches of investments, equity investments, real estate investments or the ESG customer privacy. In calculating the total amount of complaints, the unit or, alternatively, through collaboration between the ESG unit and complaints related to one and the same event (for example, a mailing the said functions. error), were considered as one complaint. In two individual cases, the data protection authority issued written instructions to OP Financial Sustainable investment activities are carried out through various Group. In 2017, OP Financial Group identified in its operations a total strategies for sustainable investment. These strategies include the of 72 cases in which customers’ privacy was compromised in some consideration of sustainability issues in investment decision-making, way (e.g. leakage, theft or loss of personal data, or accidental or illegal keeping up with international standards, active ownership and access to personal data). engagement, negative screening and positive thematic investment. OP Fund Management implements its ownership policy by actively participating in the general meetings of companies listed in Finland. 419 Socioeconomic compliance One of the most important ways for OP to obtain information on and 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social assess the responsibility of companies to invest in, are meetings with and economic area the companies’ executives. Systematic monitoring and supervision of ESG criteria of potential and existing investments is carried out through Sustainable investment and ownership an international partner. If their active investments include companies with violations of international standards or other operations which are OP manages customers’ assets worth in excess of EUR 78.0 (74.5) not responsible or in line with the investor’s long-term interests, we will billion. OP follows the principles for responsible investment in its asset address the situation to correct it. If this does not produce the desired management. effect, the Committee for Responsible Investment may decide to sell the investment. Targets Programmes, projects and initiatives OP observes the principles for responsible investment by taking into account relevant responsibility issues in its investment decisions and OP has signed the Montreal Pledge initiative that encourages operations. OP also takes the role of active owner, encourages its target investors to report the carbon footprint of their investments. OP companies and cooperation partners to do business responsibly, and Wealth Management is involved in CDP’s climate change, water and promotes responsible investment in the sector. deforestation initiatives. OP Wealth Management has also signed the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI). At the end of 2017, OP Wealth Management joined the international Climate Action 100+ Policies and commitments initiative. The signatories to this initiative engage with the world’s OP Wealth Management has signed the UN Principles for Responsible largest corporate greenhouse gas emitters. Investment (UNPRI). We expect our active investment targets to https://op-year2017.fi/en 74 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Appeal systems Opinions on OP’s principles for responsible investment and ownership Company. Unitholders may also give their opinions at the unitholder policy may be given at branches and to OP Fund Management meeting of OP Fund Management Company. Process description: Monitoring international standards and engagement INDICATION Monitoring OF BREACH th Management – Enga Weal RESOLUTION OF BREACH Collecting OECD information from OR SALE OF gem INVESTMENT new sources ILO YK OP External service provider ent Environmental Controversial The company agreements weapons Analysing will improve its breach practices Dialogue with company representatives VERIFIED BREACH FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the Low-carbon World Fund invests in companies which stand out from the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has competition on the basis of lower carbon intensity. At the end of 2017, interacted on environmental or social issues the total value of these funds was EUR 368.4 million or 4.5% of OP OP Fund Management implements its ownership policy by actively Fund Management’s equity fund capital. participating in the general meetings of companies listed in Finland, in particular. One of the most important ways for OP to obtain information on and assess the responsibility of companies to invest Negative screening in, are meetings with the companies’ executives. At year-end 2017, the OP funds managed by OP Asset Management contained shares OP actively monitors the fulfilment of international standards by from 67 companies listed in Finland. OP Asset Management discussed investment targets in line with OP Asset Management’s Principles for environmental and social responsibility issues with 21% of these during Responsible Investment, both when making the investment decision the year. and during the time of ownership. Investment vehicles are screened for violations of international standards. Furthermore, OP ensures OP also has other ways of influencing companies. If their active that its portfolios do not include manufacturers, sellers or marketers investments include companies with violations of international of weapons (anti-personnel mines, cluster and nuclear weapons) standards or other operations which are not responsible or in line with banned by certain treaties. This screening is performed biannually by the investor’s long-term interests, OP will influence them to address an external analysis company. The screening applies to all active OP the situation. If this does not produce the desired effect, the Committee equity funds and corporate bond funds that make direct investments as for Responsible Investment may decide to sell the investment. well as discretionary client portfolios that make the above-mentioned investments. Furthermore, OP has excluded dozens of high-carbon FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative companies from the above-mentioned funds and client portfolios. This environmental or social screening applies to, for example, coal mining companies that make more than 25% or their net sales from energy coal production, and to electricity Positive screening producers that use plenty of coal to produce electricity. A high-carbon company can avoid exclusion if it takes measures or has a plan in OP Financial Group encourages its investees and partners to operate place to considerably reduce its coal dependency. A list of the excluded responsibly and in line with international standards. Primarily, the most companies is available on OP’s website. attractive investment targets in any fund are issuers whose operations are irreproachable in relation to international ethical standards. Positive In 2016, OP Fund Management introduced the OP-Sustainable World screening is particularly visible in the OP Climate, OP Clean Water and balanced fund. The fund applies negative screening to various products OP Low-carbon World funds. The OP Climate Fund portfolio includes and functions. For example, the fund does not invest in tobacco or companies whose business benefits from preparedness to climate alcohol manufacturers. At the end of 2017, capital invested in the fund change. OP Clean Water, in turn, invests particularly in companies totalled EUR 43.6 million. that focus on solutions safeguarding the sufficiency of clean water. OP https://op-year2017.fi/en 75 OP GRI OP Year 2017 GRI content index All standards: version 2016 Disclosure Global Number Disclosure Title Location Omissions Compact Yleinen sisältö 102-1 Name of the organization Financial Statements, Note 1: General 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services OP Year 2017: OP business segments 102-3 Location of headquarters Helsinki 102-4 Location of operations Financial Statements, Note 49 102-5 Ownership and legal form Financial Statements, Note 49 102-6 Markets served OP Year 2017: OP business segments 102-7 Scale of the organization OP Year 2017: Key figures and ratios; OP Year 2017: Personnel 102-8 Information on employees and other workers GRI information, Social impacts X 102-9 Supply chain OP Year 2017: Value chain; GRI: Economic impacts 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and Financial Statements, Report by the its supply chain Executive Board: Changes in OP Financial Group’s structure 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Financial Statements, Note 2: OP Financial Group’s risk and capital adequacy management principles 102-12 External initiatives GRI information, Corporate social responsibility management 102-13 Membership of associations GRI information, Corporate social responsibility management 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker OP Year 2017: Review by the Supervisory Board; OP Year2017: Review by the director in charge of corporate social responsibility 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of OP Year 2017: Strategy X behavior 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance: Supervisory Board and its committees 102-40 List of stakeholder groups OP Year 2017: Stakeholders 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements In Finland, 91% of OP Financial Group X personnel are covered by universally binding collective labour agreements. No binding collective agreements exist in the sector in the Baltic region. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Corporate social responsibility management at OP, OP Year 2017: Stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement OP Year 2017: Stakeholders 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised OP Year 2017: Stakeholders 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Financial Statements, Note 49 statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries GRI information, Corporate social responsibility management 102-47 List of material topics GRI information, Materiality 102-48 Restatements of information No restatements 102-49 Changes in reporting No restatements 102-50 Reporting period 1 Jan 2017–31 Dec 2017 https://op-year2017.fi/en 76 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Disclosure Global Number Disclosure Title Location Omissions Compact 102-51 Date of most recent report 28 Feb 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the https://uusi.op.fi/op-financial-group/ report corporate-responsibility/contact-information 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI information, GRI content index GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI information, GRI content index 102-56 External assurance Independent assurance report Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Corporate social responsibility management Boundary at OP, GRI 103-2 The management approach and its Corporate social responsibility management X components at OP, GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate social responsibility management at OP, GRI Topic specific content Topic specific content is reported regarding aspects identified as material. Economic impacts 201 Economic Performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and Economic impacts distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Economic impacts Information unavailable X opportunities due to climate change about economic impacts or costs. OP investigates the possibility to report it in the future. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other Financial Statements, Note 33 retirement plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from OP Financial Group received no significant government financial assistance from the government in 2017. 203 Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Economic impacts supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Economic impacts, OP Year 2017: Local impact of cooperate banks, Tax footprint 204 Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Economic impacts 205 Korruptionvastaisuus 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to Economic impacts X corruption 05-2 Communication and training about antiEconomic impacts Information unavailable X corruption policies and procedures in part. OP investigates the possibility to report it in the future. 206 Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Economic impacts anti-trust, and monopoly practices https://op-year2017.fi/en 77 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Disclosure Global Number Disclosure Title Location Omissions Compact Environmental impacts 302 Enegy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental impacts X 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental impacts X 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental impacts X 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental impacts X 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental impacts X 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental impacts X 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environmental impacts X 306 Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental impacts Data available only on X the Helsinki premises. Social impacts 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Social impacts X 401-3 Parental leave Social impacts Information unavailable X about the number of men entitled to parental leave. OP investigates the possibility to report it in the future. 402 Labor/Management Relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding Social impacts X operational changes 403 Occupational Health and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Social impacts management–worker health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, Social impacts Information unavailable occupational diseases, lost days, and about more detailed absenteeism, and number of work-related breakdown. OP fatalities investigates the possibility to report it in the future. 404 Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Social impacts X transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Social impacts X performance and career development reviews 405 Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and Social impacts employees 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of Social impacts Information unavailable X women to men about more detailed breakdown. OP investigates the possibility to report it in the future. https://op-year2017.fi/en 78 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Disclosure Global Number Disclosure Title Location Omissions Compact 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective Social impacts X actions taken Local communities FS13 Access points in low-populated or Social impacts Reported at Finland’s economically disadvantaged areas by type level only. FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial Social impacts services for disadvantaged people 415 Public Policy 415-1 Political contributions Social impacts X 417 Marketing and labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning No cases in 2017. product and service information and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning Social impacts marketing communications 418 Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning Social impacts breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 419 Socioeconomic Compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in No cases in 2017. the social and economic area Active ownership FS10 Percentage and number of companies held Social impacts in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and Social impacts negative environmental or social screening https://op-year2017.fi/en 79 OP GRI OP Year 2017 Independent Assurance Report This document is an English translation of the Finnish report To the Management of OP Cooperative material respects. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the We have been engaged by the Management of OP Cooperative to Corporate Social Responsibility Information, and applying analytical and provide limited assurance on the OP Financial Group’s corporate social other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. responsibility information from the reporting period 1.1.–31.12.2017. Corporate social responsibility information has been presented in the In our engagement we have performed the following procedures: OP Financial Group’s annual report OP Year 2017, in the “Corporate Social Responsibility and GRI” section’s GRI Index (hereafter Corporate • Interviews with members of the Management of OP Cooperative to Social Responsibility Information). reassert our understanding of the connection between OP Financial Group’s corporate social responsibility procedures and OP Financial The Management of OP Cooperative is responsible for the preparation Group’s business strategy and operations as well as corporate social and presentation of the Corporate Social Responsibility Information in responsibility objectives; accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards. • An assessment of the Corporate Social Responsibility Information’s conformity with the principles of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Our responsibility is to carry out an engagement to express an Standards for defining content and reporting quality; independent conclusion on the information subject to the assurance • An assessment of coverage of the material aspects selected for the based on the work performed. We conducted our engagement in Corporate Social Responsibility Information and the definition of accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements reporting boundaries in the context of OP Financial Group’s business ISAE 3000 (Revised). We are independent from the corporation operations and sector; according to the ethical requirements in Finland and we have complied • An assessment of data management processes, information systems with other ethical requirements, which apply to the engagement and working methods used to gather and consolidate the presented conducted. We apply the International Standard on Quality Control 1 Corporate Social Responsibility Information, and a review of OP (ISQC 1) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality Financial Group’s related internal documents; control including documented policies and procedures regarding • Comparison of the presented Corporate Social Responsibility compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and Information to underlying rules of procedure, management and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.We do not accept or reporting systems as well as documentation; assume responsibility to anyone other than OP Cooperative for our • A review of the performance data and assertions presented in the work, for this assurance report, or for the conclusions we have reached. Corporate Social Responsibility Information, and an assessment of information quality and reporting boundary definitions; The evaluation criteria used for our assurance are the GRI Sustainability • Testing of data accuracy and completeness through samples from Reporting Standards. OP Financial Group’s information systems and original numerical information received from the Group’s member institutions; Limitations of the engagement Based on the assurance procedures performed, nothing has come to Data and information related to corporate responsibility are subject our attention that causes us to believe that the information subject to inherent limitations applying to data accuracy and completeness, to the limited assurance engagement is not, in all material respects, which are to be taken into account when reading our assurance report. prepared in accordance with the reporting criteria GRI Sustainability The presented Corporate Social Responsibility Information is to be Reporting Standards. considered in connection with the explanatory information on data collection, consolidation and assessments provided by OP Financial Helsinki, 23 February 2018 Group. Our assurance report is not intended for use on its own in evaluating OP Financial Group’s performance in executing the corporate KPMG OY AB social responsibility principles OP Financial Group has defined. To assess the financial state and performance of OP Financial Group, OP’s audited Financial Statement for the year ended 31 December 2017 is to be consulted. (signed) Raija-Leena Hankonen APA The work performed in the engagement and our conclusion Our assurance procedures are designed to obtain limited assurance on (signed) whether the Corporate Social Responsibility Information is presented Niina Turri in accordance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards in all Senior Manager, Advisory https://op-year2017.fi/en 80
