HEINEKEN Hrvatska – Our efforts towards Brewing a Better World Dear Thank you for finding this letter. We believe that sustainability and business can work in harmony. Here are some of the ways we Brewed a Better World in 2017. Supporting Croatian farmers At HEINEKEN, we’re great supporters of local producers. Our belief in Croatian agriculture has resulted in a successful cooperation with local producers and farmers for a third year in a row. It’s been one of the factors behind the growth of national barley production; 2017 was a record year for Croatia in terms of number of barley producers and Promoting total hectares sown. We are incredibly proud that 100% of the barley sustainability used for our Karlovačko is locally grown. in construction In 2017, we invested €2.5 million in new warehouse facilities at our Karlovac brewery. The 5,100 m2 warehouse follows sustainable building design principles which helped minimise environmental impacts both during construction and while the building is in use. The project focused on promoting energy efficiency, using high quality environmentallyfriendly materials, and reducing waste. Our building has been awarded an Energy Efficiency Class A+ rating. Investing in our local communities In 2017, we chose to support the KAkvart project which contributes to the social wellbeing of local communities. Launched by the City of Karlovac, the goal is to improve the quality of life of citizens in the whole Karlovac area by encouraging both local councils and citizens to identify and support community projects. HEINEKEN was proud to donate over €50,000 to help get a number of new initiatives off the ground and improve quality of life in the region. In 2017 we were recognized for sustainability efforts, which confirms we are doing the right things. Thank you for your continued support. Boris Miloushev Managing Director, HEINEKEN Hrvatska For more on our local sustainability initiatives: www.heineken.hr Our global commitment Sustainability has been fundamental to HEINEKEN for many years. Today, our Every drop: Protecting protecting water resources water resources global ambition is to Brew a Better World from barley to bar. It's this commitment Drop the Reducing COC: reducing CO2 emissions 2 emissions that unites our global brands in respecting people, planet and prosperity. Sourcing Sourcing sustainably sustainably We focus on the six areas where we can make the biggest difference. This shapes our contribution towards delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals for 2030. Advocating Advocating responsible responsible consumption consumption Overall we’re making good progress, putting us on track to reach most of our Brewing a Promoting Promoting health health and safety and safety Better World 2020 commitments with more to do in some areas. Growing Growing with with communities communities HEINEKEN Hrvatska – Our contribution towards Brewing a Better World In 2017 As announced last year, in 2017 we used only green electric energy (ZelEn certified), obtained exclusively from renewable sources 11% more 94% fewer monthly notifications for speeding; of our beer was sold in returnable our ‘Thank you for not speeding’ glass bottles compared to 2016 campaign won a HEINEKEN award 4.1 hl/hl Our water consumption increased by 3% compared to 2016 due to higher number 100% of innovations; however, we reached an of the malt for our Karlovačko beer overall reduction of 40% since 2008 and 100% of the mandarins for our €131,000 Karlovačko Natur Radler mandarin invested in projects and social initiatives were locally sourced in our local community CO2 In 2018, we will start to use solar energy 6.2 kg CO2-eq/hl in beer production We have slightly decreased our CO2 emissions, down from 6.3 kg in 2016 10% of Heineken® media spend dedicated to responsible consumption campaign #Herowanted 86% cut in non-recycled industrial waste compared with 2008 For more on our global Brewing a Better World journey: www.theheinekencompany.com/sustainability
