HASCOL PETROLEUM LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 May 2018 HASCOL Petroleum Limited MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The last twelve months have been phenomenal for HASCOL in all respects. The Company has not only surpassed its Sales and Profitability Targets but has also expanded its Retail Network, constructed new Plants, Depots and Installations, expanded its Fleet, enhanced Employment by 20%, and diversified into New Products and Businesses. Today, HASCOL is the largest private sector Oil Marketing Company in Pakistan in terms of volume. We are proud of our Management Team and our People who have brought this success. As HASCOL builds and grows, it also contributes in a Socially Responsible and Sustainable manner benefiting our Stakeholders, the Underprivileged and Society at large. Our Corporate Strategy is to create Shared Value by investing in Education, Health, Sports, Infrastructure Development, Road Safety, Environment and other areas. Also, we are continuously making efforts to attract, motivate, and reward Human Resource for the Company from the Community, while developing them both. It is in continuation of this spirit that HASCOL has become a member of UNGC, and I am pleased to reaffirm HASCOL’s support of UNGC’s Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. These Principles are, by and large, already present in HASCOL. In this first Communication on Progress Report, we have mentioned the specific actions and initiatives we are taking to integrate UNGC’s Principles in our Organizational Culture, Business Strategy and Operations. This is just the beginning of a long term commitment. ____________________ Saleem Butt Chief Executive Officer HASCOL Petroleum Limited MANAGEMENT TEAM Mr. Muhammad Ali Ansari (Chief Operational Mr. Aamir Butt (Chief Logistics), has 21 years Mr. Aqeel Ahmed Khan (Chief Retail Sales & Finance & Commercial), has been associated with diversified experience in Fuel Supply Chain. He Marketing), has 16 years’ experience in Petroleum HASCOL since 2009 and has 8 years of experience. started his professional career with Chevron Pakistan Supply Chain, Sales and Marketing, Operations, He is heading the Finance, IT and Commercial Limited (formerly Caltex Oil (Pakistan) Limited) in Commercial and Business Development. Before functions of the Company and plays and important 1996 and served in both domestic and international joining HASCOL, he was associated with Attock role in the financial packaging of projects. assignments. Before joining HASCOL, he was also the Petroleum Limited where he was instrumental in Secretary General of Oil Companies Advisory Council. the strategic development of the organization through securing various Commercial contracts, development of Storages, Retail Network and strengthening the Supply Chain function. At HASCOL, he is looking after the Retail Sales and Marketing. Mr. Pervez Yusoof (Chief Supply and Imports), has Dr. S. Nazir Zaidi (Chief Operations and New Mr. Sarwat Hasan (Chief Engineering), has 33 years’ been involved for more than 39 years in the Business), is a senior Petroleum professional with experience in construction and development of downstream sector of Petroleum industry in over 32 years’ experience in the Petroleum Depots, Oil Installations and Retail Outlets all over various capacities. Prior to joining HASCOL, he was Industry. He has a PhD from Sheffield University. Pakistan. He has been with HASCOL since Secretary General at Oil Companies Advisory Before joining HASCOL, he was Senior General November 2006 and is playing a vital role in the Committee (OCAC). At HASCOL, he is responsible Manager (International Marketing) at PSO. He also successful completion of HASCOL’s major projects for planning and procuring fuel for the company held the position of Secretary General, Oil including the installations at Shikarpur, Machike, through imports and local refineries. Companies and Advisory Committee. Daulatpur and Keamari. Mr. Shah M. Saad Husain (Chief HR, Corporate Mr. Shameem Raza Naqvi (Chief Joint Ventures Mr. Syed Yasin Haider Rizvi (Chief Operating Officer Planning, HSSE & Procurement), has an illustrious and New Projects), has over 37 years’ experience Lubricants), has 42 years’ experience in the career spanning 40 years in leading companies. in the Petroleum industry. Before joining HASCOL, Lubricants industry and has worked in senior Prior to joining HASCOL he was GM HR & he was associated with PRL for 30 years in various positions in Caltex/ Chevron in the country and in Corporate Affairs in PARCO, GM in British capacities overseeing Plant Operations overseas assignments. He played a vital role in Petroleum, GM in BHP and Director optimization, Procurement, Supply Chain and bringing profitable and sustainable business growth Marketing/HR/ Corporate Planning in Toyota Indus Commercial. At HASCOL, he is responsible for the of Chevron in Saudi Arabia and as Vice President for Motors Co. At HASCOL, he is looking after Human Resource, execution of new Projects. TotalLubricants in Pakistan. He was elected Chairman of Corporate Planning, HSSE, CSR and Procurement function. Lubricant Business Society of Pakistan and remained Chairman from 2010-2014. Mr. Taimur Khan (Chief LNG, LPG and Chemicals), has done his MBA from INSEAD, Mr. Zafar ul Haq Munshi (Chief Retail Development), holds the position of Chief Retail MEngg from MIT, and BA in Economics and Engineering Sciences (Electrical) from Development and is amongst the senior most employees in the Company having been Yale. He has 19 years’ experience and was employed in senior positions in Royal associated with HASCOL for over 11 years. He worked in the oil industry for around 24 years Dutch Shell in its LNG, Gas Exploration, Production and Supply, Lubricants and Fuels. with extensive experience in the development of Retail Outlets, Sales and Marketing. He has also worked with Sempra Energy as Project Development Manager – LNG, in Previously, he was employed in the Retail function at Shell Pakistan Limited. Citigroup as Vice President Strategic Initiatives and in consulting firms in the US. Our PEOPLE – THE HASCOL TEAM Our Irreplaceable, Irreversible and Sustainable Competitive Advantage. HASCOL Petroleum Limited HASCOL PETROLEUM LIMITED HASCOL Petroleum Limited is currently engaged in the purchase, storage and sale of petroleum products including High Speed Diesel, Gasoline, Fuel Oil, Lubricants, LPG, Chemicals, Aviation Fuel and Automobile accessories. The Company is also diversifying into other fuels and business streams. In 2005, HASCOL was granted an Oil Marketing License by the Government of Pakistan. Since then, HASCOL has developed depots, terminals and installations, and a network of 512 Retail Outlets all across Pakistan including Azad Kashmir. HASCOL has extensive links with domestic and international oil trading companies and today, it is the second largest importer of petroleum products in Pakistan. In 2014, HASCOL became a listed company on the Pakistan Stock Exchange, and within 3 years, its share price rose 337%, reflecting the Company’s phenomenal performance and potential. This massive growth has been made possible due to the strategic Vision of the Board, an aggressive Corporate Plan, the untiring efforts of its Human Capital, the focus on Customer Satisfaction, and the Company’s Reputation as a Good Corporate Citizen. HASCOL has made major headway in constructing storage installations at Keamari, Daulatpur, Shikarpur, Mehmood Kot, Machike, Amangarh and Sahiwal. New storage facilities are being constructed at Port Qasim, Kotlajam, Thalian, Machike (expansion), Hub and Gatti. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Existing Depots/Installations Capacity (M.Tons) Upcoming Depots/Installations Capacity (M.Tons) 1 Port Qasim Terminal 56,000 10 HASCOL Terminals (Vtti JV) 250,000 2 ZY-Oil Storage Terminal 23,500 11 Thallian 65,800 3 Al Abbas Storage Terminal 21,000 12 Hub 50,500 4 Shikarpur installation 18,350 13 Machike-B 50,200 5 Mehmoodkot installation 13,500 14 Kotlajam 15,000 6 Sahiwal Depot 9,500 7 Machike-A installation 9,370 8 Daulatpur Depot 6,200 9 Amangarh Depot 2,500 Total Capacity = 591,420 M.Tons In 2016, VITOL, the largest independent oil trading entity in the world, acquired 15% equity in HASCOL which was later increased to 25% making VITOL the single largest shareholder in the Company. In joint venture with VITOL, HASCOL has also set up an LNG marketing company, VAS LNG (PVT) LTD. HASCOL will have a 30% stake in this company and VITOL 70%. HASCOL has also signed a Technical Services Agreement with VITOL Aviation enabling HASCOL to start fueling aircrafts at Karachi, Lahore and Islamabad airports. Additionally, a separate joint venture company with VITOL, HASCOL Terminals Limited (HTL) is constructing the largest Petroleum Terminal in Pakistan at Port Qasim, having a capacity of 250,000 Metric Tons. Phase I of this terminal is expected to be commissioned in the third quarter of 2018. A Lubricants Plant to manufacture lubricants is also being constructed at Port Qasim which will commence production in 2018. In 2017, in recognition of its performance, growth momentum and corporate reputation, JCR-VIS Credit Rating Company Limited upgraded the ratings of HASCOL from A+/A-1’ (Single A Plus/A-One) to ‘AA-/A-1’ (Double A Minus/A-One). HASCOL also received the Recognition Shield at the Living the Global Compact Best Practices Sustainability Award from the United Nations Global Compact Pakistan/Employers’ Federation of Pakistan. HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Commitment Statement: HASCOL respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights including Equal Employment Opportunity without any discrimination of religion, sex, race, color, ethnicity, origin, nationality, marital status or social class. This commitment is embedded in the Company’s Values, Code of Conduct, HR Policy Manual, HSSE Manual and CSR Policy approved by the Board of Directors. Management Systems 1.3 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR 1.1 HR Management and Administration Human Resource Policy Manual 1.2 HSSE Integrated HSSE Manual Policy Actions 1.1.1 Education 1.1.2 Health Facilities 1.2.1 Work and Road Safety 1.3.1 Corporate Philanthropy Results  Employee Development Policy which provides employees Basic Health Facilities  The Company is committed to providing its  CSR Committee is a high level forum comprising with specific knowledge, skills and competencies to  Health Insurance Policy according to which employees a Healthy, of the Company’s Directors and Chief HR maximize performance for employees are entitled for Out Patient Safe and Secure Work Officer. professional development Medical facilities, Hospitalization and Environment. Each  In consonance with its Vision, Mission, Core and for meeting Maternity expenses. work location has Values and the UNGC Principles, HASCOL aims to organizational needs.  All permanent employees on joining the Safety Rules that demonstrate responsible corporate conduct Company are entitled to 48 basic salaries as must be followed. throughout the entire spectrum of its activities,  Training Needs Assessment Group Life Insurance  All employees, contractors, suppliers, service Operations, Plants and Retail Outlets. (TNA) is conducted to identify the specific needs of each  Female employees are entitled to 60 days of employee. In addition to this, providers and  HASCOL contributes in a Socially Responsible Maternity Leaves and Male employees are organizations working Personal Development Plan and Sustainable manner providing resources, provided with 3 days of Paternity Leaves at the Company’s sites and Career Plans are also knowledge and skills to the communities in  Employees are or locations or using the which we live and work, while also benefiting made for all the High entitled to the Company’s assets or Potential employees. other stakeholders in society. best quality transporting, handling  Education Improvement Policy assists employees to health care or selling Company’s improve their education by obtaining a Professional through preproducts are required to comply with applicable Qualification/Certification/Diploma. For example, approved Health and Safety standards, as well as the employees were provided Hospitals, Pharmacies, Laboratories, etc. Company’s HSSE Manual, policies and procedures, Financial Assistance for  For betterment of staff members, the which often go beyond what the law requires. completing programs like Company has a Pay Continuation Policy to  HASCOL ensures that support families of employees in case of  During 2017, HASCOL contributed to the Certified Supply Chain workers of the death or total permanent disability due to following organizations: Professional course, Diploma Company and its on topics such as Industrial Relations and Labour Laws, accident or illness. To save families from Contractors at all its Pakistan Red Crescent The leading humanitarian Human Resource Management, Supply Chain financial hardship, the employee’s last drawn Installations and organization of Pakistan, in their project for Management etc. monthly basic salary will be paid for 24 Depots use Personal improving the quality of life and productivity of months (2 years) after such death or Protective Equipment (PPE) and comply with HSSE individuals who are deprived of their limbs in disability. requirements. accidents, by providing prosthetic services. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Management Systems 1.3 Corporate Social Responsibility CSR 1.1 HR Management and Administration Human Resource Policy Manual 1.2 HSSE Integrated HSSE Manual Policy Actions 1.1.1 Education 1.1.2 Health Facilities 1.2.1 Work and Road Safety 1.3.1 Corporate Philanthropy Results  Management Development Program comprising of HASCOL Ambulance  Road Safety Program is an ongoing feature of our Fatimid Foundation Pakistan’s largest Not-for-Profit Managerial, Core Professional and HSSE training for HASCOL Terminals/Logistics Operations. In this program, Organization in the field of Blood Banking and employees belonging to different Management Cadres. provides its trainings are organized by the Company, by Haematological Services, for the treatment cost of own 24 hrs The MDP provides a structured framework through external trainers and in coordination with 100 sick children suffering from genetic blood Ambulance which competencies Service for any Motorway Police. disorders. of our employees can accident Layton Rahmatullah Benevolent Trust (LRBT), The be enhanced taking place at largest NGO of Pakistan devoted to the prevention continuously, enabling Motorway and of curable blindness and impaired vision in us to develop a in Karachi underprivileged people workforce capable of HASCOL Pharmacy meeting the  HASCOL is offering pharmacy services to its Company’s growth challenges and targets. customers at its retail outlets, where  Training and Development: Quarterly Training Report is medicines are easily available. also published specifying the Trainings conducted, Training Man-Hours, Number of Employees Trained as well as feedback from the Participants.  Work Safety Trainings are regularly provided to the employees and workers at all the Training Man-hours Installations/Depots related to Safe Work 2800 Practices. 3000 2320 2000 We have also made contributions to: Marie 610 540 510 1000 420 Adelaide Leprosy Centre, Bait-ul-Sukoon Cancer 0 Centre, SOS Childrens Village, Family Education Managerial Core HSSE Operations Logistics Retail Professional Services Foundation, Pakistan Association of the Blind, Family Welfare Association, Lahore Hospital  During the year 2017, a total of 360 employees were Eye Camps Welfare Society, Noor Fatima Rehabilitation Centre, trained leading to 7200 Training Man-hours. This  Free Eye-sight check-up camps are organized Welfare Aid Trust. includes Managerial, Technical/Professional, HSSE, every year for providing basic guidance and Logistics as well as Operations trainings medication to the retail outlets’ staff as well as people from adjoining communities. Department Training Man-hours 2700 3000 2500 2000 1500 1140 775 660 810 1000 310 500 100 115 210 70 60 70 130 50 0 HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment Statement: HASCOL, through its policies and practices, makes all efforts to avoid Human Right abuses, ensuring compliance with the Laws of the Land. Management Systems 2.1 HR Management, Operations, Contract Management Actions 2.1.1 Code of Conduct 2.1.2 Equal Opportunity Employer 2.1.3 Workplace Harassment Results  HASCOL’s Code of Conduct specifies that employees are  At HASCOL, the Recruitment Process  HASCOL’s Code of Conduct defines harassment as any action or required to observe ensures fair and competitive matching behaviour or attitude that creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive highest ethical of candidates with job specifications work environment. Such actions include, but are not limited to, sexual standards in the  Factors such as gender, religion, harassment, disparaging comments based on gender, religion, colour, conduct of its nationality, etc. are not considered in race, language, origin or business activities. recruitment and selection. ethnicity.  We provide Equal Growth  The Code of Opportunities for both male and  The Company, in Conduct advises accordance with Pakistan’s female staff. Despite being a male employees about the Ethical Standards and Practices Workplace Act 2010, dominated industry, all departments required by the Company. strictly prohibits any of HASCOL have female employees, including some managers also. inappropriate misconduct  It is necessary for employees to follow this Code in its true  Benefits, Facilities and Allowances, as or unwelcome sexual advances. The Company expects all employees, letter and spirit and comply with Standards of Professional specified in the HR Policy Manual, are provided to all employees and regardless of their seniority or work relationship, to maintain an and Personal Integrity. their families without any discrimination environment that is free from harassment and in which all employees are respected.  Trainee Program was introduced to induct high quality young talent for our Talent Pipeline. Through a comprehensive process of assessments and group interviews, 65 Trainees from the top universities of Pakistan were selected to work at our locations throughout Pakistan. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Management Systems 2.1 HR Management, Operations, Contract Management Actions 2.1.1 Code of Conduct 2.1.2 Equal Opportunity Employer 2.1.3 Workplace Harassment Results  Employees are responsible at all times to protect and  Trainees and New Entrants are given Orientation and initial briefings at  Since the time of its inception, Zero Harassment Cases have been safeguard the reputation of the Company. Any Head Office and through visits to different Installations. reported in the Company. contravention of the Code of Conduct which is part of the Company policy will be regarded as misconduct by the employee. HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Commitment Statement: HASCOL ensures that employees’ salaries, benefits and facilities are in the top 20th percentile of the Industry and comply with Industrial Relations and Labor laws. Employee Satisfaction is gauged and Employee Rights ensured through Surveys, good Employee Relations and Initiatives. Management Systems 3.1 HR OD and Administration Actions 3.1.1 Proactive focus and redressal of Employee Grievances to 3.1.2 Sports and Employee Activities 3.1.3 Benefits ensure a good Organizational Climate Results  While HASCOL takes care of its employees through its policies, procedures  Apart from professional development, a good Work-Life Balance is  HASCOL’s Vision, Mission and Values are all employee centric and systems approved by its Management and Board of Directors in both very important for the wellbeing of our employees. In this and promote Talent Management, High Quality Human professional and personal spheres, the context, HR has established a Sports Committee which is actively Capital, Professionalism, Commitment and Teamwork. Company also has a Grievance Policy in organizing Cricket, Football, Volley Ball and other indoor and place, to ensure that employee issues outdoor sports activities while also enabling Company employees  Company has initiated a new unique scheme for and problems are resolved. to participate in various tournaments. Sports play a vital role in giving Shares to  Grievances are handled as far as maintaining employees’ health, building bonds, and enhancing Outstanding Employees, possible within the confines of the employee morale. which is not done by any relevant management structure.  Our Cricket Team other company in the Resolution of grievances occur as quickly as possible to avoid the negative performed well in Petroleum Sector in Pakistan. effects of on-going problems at the workplace. 2017. Despite being  Employee Salary and Benefits Surveys are done every two years to make sure a new team, it has that the Company’s Compensation Structure and terms of Employment are won several matches equitable, both internally and externally. against teams like  Apart from the usual routes of employee feedback and communication, the IBA, Bank Islami CEO, CHRO and the Management Team personally visit each office, location, Pakistan Limited and Pak-Arab Refinery (PARCO). installation, depot, terminal and project site to meet staff, listen to employees,  In addition to this, HASCOL sponsors various Sports events redress their grievances, note suggestions and encourage Best Practices. including national tournaments organized by the Pakistan Tennis  An in-house magazine, INFINITY, is published bi-annually which highlights the Federation, Golf and Cricket Clubs and other organizations for the achievements of employees and the Company. promotion of sports in the country.  HASCOL also recognizes the accomplishments of its employees and is committed to honouring and encouraging individuals’ contributions towards the success of the organization.  In recognition of the valuable contribution of our Employees and to honour their dedicated service to the company, an Annual Conference is HASCOL Petroleum Limited Management Systems 3.1 HR OD and Administration Actions 3.1.1 Proactive focus and redressal of Employee Grievances 3.1.2 Sports and Employee Activities 3.1.3 Benefits to ensure a good Organizational Climate Results organized. High performing employees are rewarded with Outstanding  Because the Company provides benefits which are Market Employee Awards and Long Service Awards. This is a huge recognition and Competitive, determined through surveys, there is no Labour motivation for the employees. Union and employees’ suggestions, demands, enquiries and complaints are handled expeditiously at the Department, HR and Corporate level.  Picnics, Outing, Dinners, etc. are arranged by  In the Annual Conference, which is held abroad, a cross section of the departments to build Company’s employees from all functions, the Management Team, Teamwork and Bonding. Chairman and CEO deliberate interactively on the Corporate Goals, The CEO holds various Strategies and Plans. receptions and events at his residence and other locations.  Employee Portal and Intranet is available to Employees so that they are aware of their Rights, Benefits and Facilities as well as their obligations. An Employee Help Line and 24x7 access to CHRO provides instantaneous communication to employees to address their grievances and to attend to emergencies. There are also Management and Departmental  Company also celebrates important national events like Pakistan Whatsapp Groups for continuous, real time communication. Independence Day, Eid-eMilad un Nabi, Ramadan Iftar Parties etc. HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Commitment Statement: At HASCOL, under its HR Manual and Corporate Policies, any form of forced or compulsory labor at any of its locations, is strictly prohibited. Management Systems 4.1 HR Organization Development Actions 4.1.1 Industry Competitive Compensation and 4.1.2 Compliance by Suppliers, Contractors, Vendors, etc. 4.1.3 Terms of Employment Benefits Results  The Company’s Compensation Philosophy is to reward  Suppliers are selected after they confirm the legitimacy of their labour  HASCOL’s employment contracts make sure that there is no violation of employees in accordance with their performance, practices and assure that they in compliance with the Laws of the Land, Human Rights or Labour Laws. market competitiveness and including Labour Laws, Industrial Relations, etc. Vendor and Contractor  The Company does not believe in hiring potential for growth. The Visits are also done to ensure compliance. people on Temporary Basis or Daily Wages objective is to establish a  HASCOL conducts Open Bidding for different jobs to provide equal or through Manpower Contractors, for its performance driven work opportunity to all qualified suppliers and vendors. Core Operations. All such staff are Regular culture.  Non-discriminatory Procurement Procedures and Procurement Contract Employees of the Company and  The Company utilizes Committee are utilized for projects and services at Company locations. are entitled to full benefits. external independent consultants to conduct Salary  Employees have complete Freedom of Surveys and advise industry competitive salaries. Choice of Employment. All employment  HASCOL is providing its contracts can be terminated by giving workers’ salaries and wages notice of 30 days by either side. above the Minimum Wage  Exit Interviews and other surveys are fixed by the Government. conducted to obtain useful insights and Both Sindh Employees direct feedback from separating employees. This is used to take Social Security Institution appropriate remedial measures for enhancing Employee Satisfaction. (SESSI), Punjab Employees Social Security Institution  Payments of Benefits, Claims and Outstanding Dues are made as early as (PESSI), standards are met. possible. Both Induction as well as Separation procedures are smooth and  There is no discrimination in wages or benefits, on the graceful. basis of gender, religion, nationality or any external job  As the opposite of Forced Labour, the factor. Company provides several forms of  Benefits like Employees’ Old Employee Assistance for example; Loan Age Benefits, Gratuity Fund Facilities, Group Life and Health and Provident Fund are also Insurance for self and family, Education provided to the employees. Improvement and Career Development as well as Emergency Assistance is provided to Employees for their personal and family needs. HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Commitment Statement: HASCOL does not allow any Child Labor at any of its Operations, Sales and Marketing Locations, or by any of its Contractors, Suppliers and Service Partners. Management Systems 5.1 HR Organization Development and Administration Actions 5.1.1 Inclusion of labour laws that abolish child labour 5.1.2 Educational Assistance to the children to reduce Child Labour in adjoining communities Results  HASCOL contributes to the Education of the Younger Generation so that they are gainfully employed  The Company’s HR Manual and Recruitment Policy strictly disallows Child Labour, specifying the minimum professionally and do not have to resort to Child Labour. Consequently, the Company participates in hiring age as 18 years. There is Zero Tolerance for this regulation. several initiatives, some of which are mentioned below:  New entrants, rural site workers, fresh technicians, trainees, etc. are all above 18 years of age.  HASCOL has contributed to the construction of Aligarh Boys School & College at Manga near Lahore.  Suppliers and Service Providers are required to adhere to the laws of the country, comply with all labour  The Company supports the Family Educational Services laws, meet security and human rights requirements as well as eliminate employment of under-age Foundation (FESF) for their Deaf Reach Program aimed at workers. providing academic and vocational education to deaf children.  HASCOL is constructing a Children’s Family Home in SOS Village Khairpur, to provide shelter to orphans and abandoned children of/ nearby communities.  Many HASCOL’s employees and Senior Management serve as Visiting Faculties in renowned Educational Institutions and Universities, contributing towards the Learning and Development of students and children. HASCOL Petroleum Limited PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment Statement: HASCOL is an Equal Opportunity Employer with the target of Zero Discrimination. This is practiced through its HR Policies, Systems and Procedures at all levels and at all locations Management Systems 6.1 HR Organization Development and Administration Actions 6.1.1 Performance Management 6.1.2 Equal Employment Opportunity 6.1.3 Code of Conduct 6.1.4 Interaction with Educational Institutions and Employee Development and Professional Bodies Process Results  HASCOL recognizes that motivating  HASCOL offers Equal Opportunities to all qualified  HASCOL ensures that employees abide by the  Interaction with the Labour Market and professional people to achieve high levels of applicants, including women and minorities Code of Conduct. At the time of induction, every manpower keeps HASCOL abreast with employment and performance as well as business goals is belonging to any religion, colour, caste or employee is required to read and sign the Code occupational requirements so that there is parity and essential for gaining competitive nationality. of Conduct as well as the Disciplinary Policy. This discrimination is avoided. advantage. It is of prime importance to  The is the basic requirement for avoiding  HASCOL is involved the Company that every employee is Recruitment discrimination and focusing on merit and with Teaching and provided with opportunities for Process is employee rights. Professional personal challenge, development, designed in Institutions, advising on growth and recognition. This is done by such a way curriculum, industry – ensuring that all employees contribute that there is academic projects, to their highest level and to the best of no training interventions, their capabilities. discrimination amongst applicants. participating in the Career Fairs, etc. Through the  Male and Female Minorities are employed at Company’s Trainee Program, in which it invites fresh different levels, with some women holding graduates from the top universities of Pakistan to Management Positions. Women Managers are undertake trainings in different departments and heading departments or key functions, e.g. HR locations. Selected Administration, Organizational Development, Trainees are given an Retail Marketing, Orientation through Logistics. briefings at Head  Minorities are Office and posted at given extra different Installations holidays in and offices. accordance with  HASCOL employees are also serving as Visiting Faculties, their Religious Guest Speakers and Mentors in various professional Customs. institutions. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Management Systems 6.1 HR Organization Development and Administration Actions 6.1.1 Performance Management 6.1.2 Equal Employment Opportunity 6.1.3 Code of Conduct 6.1.4 Interaction with Educational Institutions and Employee Development and Professional Bodies Process Results  Company has professional Training and  Given the cultural, social, religious and traditional  Code of Conduct is a declaration by the  Employees are also members of Professional Development, Talent Management, requirements for women, suitable arrangements employee to avoid discrimination in all activities, Organizations like Pakistan Engineering Council, ACCA, Career and Succession Planning and are made for ensuring ethical dealings with all internal and ICMA, Marketing and Management Association of Promotion practices to make sure that them at all work external stakeholders. Pakistan, Pakistan Society for Human Resource opportunity for career growth and locations so that Management (PSHRM), American Production and mobility is provided to all deserving they can pursue Inventory Control Society (APICS), United Nations employees. their Department of Safety and Security (UNDSS), American professional Society for Industrial Security (ASIS), etc. occupations and employment without hindrances or discrimination. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Commitment Statement: HASCOL, as a Petroleum and Energy Company, is cognizant of the possible Risks and Hazards to the Environment because of its Operations, and is committed to comply with International Standards and Regulatory requirements, the Environmental Protection Agency, National Environmental Quality Standards, etc. Management Systems 7.1 Health, Safety and Environment Actions 7.1.1 Environment Friendly Supply Chain 7.1.2 Waste Management 7.1.3 COCO (Company Owned and Company 7.1.4 Precautionary HSSE Initiatives Operated) Fleet Management Results  The Fuel Supply Chain is an integral and critical  Waste Management  COCO Fleet Management is done by an  Apart from the procedures outlined in the part of our business. From the Sea Port to is an integral part of independent professional third party. Preventive Company’s Integrated HSSE Management Terminals to our HSSE Maintenance Manual, several Depots to management Schedules are precautionary Retail outlets system. Waste is implemented in true initiatives have or categorized as letter and spirit. been Customer’s Hazardous and non-hazardous waste. For nonCOCO fleet is ADR undertaken. plants to the nozzle and point of usage, the hazardous waste, waste bins are provided at each compliant and is  HPL has introduced 12 Life Saving Rules. A Company takes all possible precautions to operational sites and more campaign was launched to place signages at all meet the environmental challenges and for Hazardous waste environmentally friendly than other Tanker Lorries locations and trainings were conducted. These mitigate negative impact. the disposal is made which are usually non-compliant to ADR. Life Saving Rules are the adapted from Oil and  Major portion of our Supply Chain is safely by an Gas Producers (OGP) guidelines. dependent on road transport done through independent third  Developed Incident Investigation and Reporting ADR/OGRA compliant Tanker Lorries. HPL over party. System (IRIS) which time, instead of external transport contractors,  Safety Signage with an environment has clear definitions intends to have a fully ADR compliant fleet to slogan/message are placed at offices and of incident types save the environment with less VOC emissions, operational sites to including Controls on spill and prevention of fire serve as a constant environmental incidents. reminder. incidents.  Our piping system at operational sites and  Effluent is  Environmental Assessment Studies are conducted installations have an inspection mechanism, discharged after to record the baseline Physical, Biological and which ensures Leak Free Operations. meeting NEQS and is Socioeconomic Conditions and Suggest  Provision of inter Floating Roof Tanks for routed through Oil mitigation measures. gasoline has also been done to decrease VOC Water Separator  HSSE Assessment of Engineering Designs before emissions. execution of Depots, Terminals, Installations and  Environmental Friendly provisions such as Retail Outlets. periphery drains, bunded areas to contain spill,  Risk Assessment of all tasks covering construction sumps etc. to avoid soil and groundwater and operational activities is conducted at all sites contamination. The drainage network is routed along with the enforcement of Permit to Work through oil water separator. System. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Commitment Statement: HASCOL, through its policies, systems, operating practices and employee behavior, mitigates harm to the Environment. Management Systems 8.1 All Corporate Functions Actions 8.1.1 Integrated HSSE Manual 8.1.2 HSSE Trainings and Drills 8.1.3 Environmental Stewardship 8.1.4 HSSE Reporting and Awards Results  We have developed an Integrated HSSE  HSSE Trainings help us to ensure employees accept  Breather Valves are installed on PMG storage HSSE Management Walkabout Manual with 14 elements including environmental responsibility and are not injured or made tanks to comply with best industrial practices  Quarterly Management Walkabouts are being Security. We believe Security is an equal ill at work, and controlled release of hydrocarbon to the conducted to ensure HSSE compliance, stakeholder for Safe Operations. leading to a atmosphere. Commitment  As per our operational requirement, two positive Health of Senior and Safety Management Culture. Responsibility  Based on and obtaining Training Needs suggestions Assessment, an HSSE Training Matrix has been developed for containing mandatory trainings which are conducted at Improvements which are included in a elements of Process Safety Management all locations and Depots/Installations. consolidated Action Point Register (APR) with are part of Management System.  HASCOL also uses external Specialist Trainers e.g. Rescue target dates and delegation of responsibilities.  A Horticulture Campaign was run for all The APR is reviewed monthly by Senior Integrated Management Manual fully 1122 and Civil Defence for relevant Trainings. Last year, operational sites in 2017 to reduce our more than 3000 Training Man-Hours were achieved by Management. environmental footprints. For office buildings, Monthly HSSE Dashboard imparting in-house trainings. specialized in-house plants are placed as well.  Monthly HSSE Dashboard with Leading and Lagging Indicators is circulated to all concerned including the CEO.  A stringent Check Listing Mechanism is in place with the provision of environmental checks.  complies with National as well as International standards, such as ISO, OSHA, NEQs, NFPA, EPAs, API and ASTM. Manual also contains Checklists and Standard  Oil Water Separators are installed at all Operating operational sites to avoid soil and Procedures groundwater contamination. ensuring HSSE preparedness. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Management Systems 8.1 All Corporate Functions Actions 8.1.1 Integrated HSSE Manual 8.1.2 HSSE Trainings and Drills 8.1.3 Environmental Stewardship 8.1.4 HSSE Reporting and Awards Results Development of HSSE Policies  Emergency Response Drills are conducted regularly.  Environmental Bulletins are shared time to time  Following three policies are developed: and are communicated to all through email and 1) Health, Safety, Security and are posted on notice boards and other locations. Environmental Policy At operational sites, Environmental Signages are 2) Smoking Policy placed at prominent positions. 3) PPEs (Personal Protective Equipment) Policy  Policies are signed by the CEO, Employees have been trained on these policies and the HSSE Manual and these are visibly displayed at all locations as reminders. HASCOL Petroleum Limited Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Commitment Statement: HASCOL adopts environmentally friendly technologies at all stages of its business from the Port to the Terminal, to the Depot, and to the nozzle at the Petrol Pump Management Systems 9.1 All Corporate Functions and Operational Locations Actions 9.1.1 Environmentally Friendly Technologies Results  Compliance Monitoring of all depots, installations and terminals is being done by On-Line CCTV Camera, digital nationwide connectivity, enabling 24x7 Visual, Audio and Test data available for HSE, Security, Operations, Logistics, etc.  A range of Technologies that are Environment Friendly have been inducted. On line Communication and Instrumentation Technologies are also being used for Monitoring and Control. This is in keeping with our HSSE policy statement, “Promote Pollution Prevention, Resource Conservation, GHG Emissions Management, and Horticulture.”  Horticulture campaign is part of our Best Installation Award System, which motivates and creates a sense of positive competition amongst Installations. A Plantation Drive was also done on 11th April,2017 at Islamabad, the Capital. Guests of Honour included the Mayor of Islamabad and Chairman, Capital Development Authority. Over 1700 plants were planted during this activity, showing HASCOL’s commitment to a Green Environment.  In order to conserve electricity HPL is planning Green Retail Outlets using Solar Power Supply which will reduce GHG Emissions, a Practical Execution of Policy Statement.  Oil Water Separators are installed at all operational sites to avoid soil and groundwater contamination.  Emissions and Air Quality Monitoring of NEQS is being done at Operational Sites  Dispensers at Retail Sites are spill free and have the provisions to absorb static charge with accurate measurement of the amount of fuel pumped. The Dispensers are also provided with Auto Cut Off Valve to immediately stop the flow during an emergency  Depot and Terminal Metering System are connected with the bonding system  Modern 24x7 Pressurised Firefighting Network Systems at all locations  Intrinsically Safe Communication Systems at all Depots and Installations HASCOL Petroleum Limited Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Statement: HASCOL prohibits bribery, extortion, corruption and other unethical practices, in all its operations and business transactions. Management Systems 10.1 All Corporate Functions Actions 10.1.1 Corporate Governance 10.1.2 HASCOL Values Results  Prohibition of unethical practices, compliance with laws and responsible behaviour is embedded in  The Core Values of HASCOL provide a guideline for acceptable behaviour that needs to be demonstrated by HASCOL’s Values, Code of Conduct, Undertakings signed by employees. Below are the seven values which every employee has to adhere to, including “Integrity and employees, HR Manual, HSSE Manual, Procurement Policy, Honesty”. Agreements, etc. Deviation by any employee is tantamount to misconduct leading to disciplinary action.  In 2017, HASCOL became a member of UNGC and signed the UNGC Charter in support of the Ten Principles. Communication and compliance is being done throughout the Company.  Corruption and malpractices are also avoided by compliance with all legal, financial, tax, operational, labour, HSSE, government and industry regulations including: Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority (OGRA), Oil Companies Advisory Council (OCAC), Securities & Exchange Commission of Pakistan (SECP), Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX), Overseas Investors Chamber of Commerce and Industry (OICCI), Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FPCCI), Karachi Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI), Competition Commission of Pakistan (CCP), Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP).  HASCOL has also become a member of the Employers’ Federation of Pakistan and abides by its policies  Awards. In recognition of HASCOL’s responsible conduct: HASCOL has received Recognition Award from UNGC Pakistan  The JCR-VIS Credit Rating Company Limited upgraded the ratings of HASCOL from A+/A-1’ (Single A Plus/A-One) to ‘AA-/A-1’ (Double A Minus/A-One).  Reports as required by the regulatory bodies are also submitted.
