Shaping a Sustainable World Together Novelis Sustainability Report 2018 | 1 To Our Partners This year at Novelis, we took another important step on our sustainability journey by defining our company’s purpose. We understood at the outset of this process that everyone wants purpose in their lives. Increasingly, they want companies to have purpose, too. Beyond the bottom-line. That means ensuring that what we’re doing every day is meaningful and making a positive impact – on society, the environment and our communities. As we sought to define the Novelis Purpose, we learned that purpose is not something you simply declare. Instead, it is something you must uncover from within. Purpose has to be authentic to who you are as a company – including where you came from and where you’re headed. It has to ring true for everyone – both inside and outside the walls of our many operations worldwide. So, after many months of discovery, discussion and deliberation, we arrived at our purpose – Shaping a Sustainable World Together – which had really been there all along in the decisions we’ve made and the values we hold dear. This is truly our purpose at Novelis. To work with our colleagues, our customers and our communities to shape a sustainable world together. Aluminum is a unique material, able to preserve its unique properties as an infinitely recyclable element. And, it is the trust that our customers place in us and our metal that makes Novelis the preferred lightweight and recycling partner of choice. We collaborate with our customers around the world to develop innovative solutions to lightweight vehicles, improve packaging to better protect beverages, and construct buildings that are more energy efficient and beautiful to enjoy. But purpose extends beyond just our products. It carries through to our people and the care we have for each other. At Novelis, we hire for generations. We are an organization where people can stay for their entire careers and whose children – and even grandchildren – will join the company, contributing to the sustainability of the workforce and driving Novelis forward. It’s also about making our business more sustainable and efficient. By reducing our dependence on a depleting resource, our business can prosper far into the future. As we do, our communities will flourish along with us. Through all of Novelis’ work with our products, our people and our communities, we are improving our world. By reducing pollution, lessening the dependency on limited natural resources and promoting social and economic mobility, we help sustain the world. As we continue on this important journey, it’s our purpose that will guide our strategy and deliver our promise and true competitive advantage. We look forward to working with you and all of our partners to continue to shape a sustainable world together. Sincerely, Steve Fisher 2President and ChiefReport | Novelis Sustainability Executive 2018 Officer Novelis Sustainability Report 2018 | 3 What Is Purpose? Novelis’ Purpose, Shaping a Sustainable It is the reason we do what we do and the core of who World Together, is the timeless North we are. At Novelis, it’s what gets us rolling and energized Star to which we align our strategic to come to work each and every day. Our Purpose is and business decisions, creating a true built from our history, and it also reflects our experiences positive impact on the world. today. As we look to our future, Purpose will align everything we do – the way we work, the decisions we make and the partnerships we pursue. Everywhere you look, you can find examples of our Purpose in action. We also create sustainable partnerships with our customers, building decades-long relationships, which allow us to better appreciate and understand Shaping a Sustainable World Together As the world’s largest recycler of aluminum, we their needs. Innovation occurs when we listen to our are reducing our dependence on energy-intensive customers’ needs and partner with them to solve their primary aluminum and creating a more efficient and challenges. Collaborations to create lighter vehicles, sustainable business model. food containers made completely from recycled content or building facades that better withstand For our employees, we are investing in their corrosion and use less energy. These are all examples Shaping Sustainability World Together professional development, offering a place where of how we help our customers serve their customers Shaping means to form, make Sustainability is core to who we World Together represents the they can build their careers for the long-term. – ultimately shaping a sustainable world together. or model. From cans to cars to are at Novelis. It’s not just about possibilities of collaboration. When This helps us attract and retain highly skilled, talented consumer electronics, when Novelis our products, but also about we work together and build on individuals and makes us an employer of choice. Lastly, our volunteering and charitable giving efforts shapes aluminum, we shape our business, partnerships and our collective intelligence, we are Because of this, it’s common to find generations of leverage our unique strengths to deliver a meaningful innovations that move us toward employees. That’s why everything at capable of shaping a world that families working at our plants – parents, children what’s next. Novelis is made to last – into sustains us all. impact on the many communities we serve around the future and beyond. and even grandchildren. the world. Investing where we work, live and play contributes to the economy and sustains our communities for generations to come. 4 | Novelis Sustainability Report 2018 Novelis Sustainability Report 2018 | 5 Care is at Our Core At Novelis, care is at our core. We stick together through thick and thin, and we want every employee to share a sense of belonging and purpose, knowing that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. As we grow and evolve, our passion will remain not only for what we do but for who we do it with – because forming sustainable bonds and ensuring the health and well-being of our people and our communities is our top priority. Safety Everything we do at Novelis starts with safety. It is this commitment to protecting our people and our communities that has led us to industryleading safety performance. Helping us achieve this distinction is our Novelis Safety System, which provides a systematic approach to identifying, managing and mitigating risks in our operations. With this system, all Novelis team members are charged with looking out for their own safety, as well as that of their colleagues, by following three basic safety obligations: I will work safe, I will intervene if I see somebody working unsafe and I will stop any unsafe behavior if intervened upon. In FY18, Novelis‘ facility In addition to the Novelis Safety System, the company in Yeongju, South Korea also ensures the health and safety of its employees reached 4 million hours by providing them with opportunities to participate without a recordable in ongoing initiatives to make the workplace and our communities safer. One such initiative is Novelis safety incident. Prepared, an enterprise-wide initiative aimed at having 100 percent of our colleagues trained in CPR, AED and basic first aid. This training provides colleagues with the ability and life-saving skills required to respond to medical emergencies should they arise at work or elsewhere. 6 7 Building the Workforce of the Future Diversity and Inclusion Our world-class workforce is our greatest asset, Women in Novelis (WiN) is an employee-led program aimed at and we are committed to sustaining it by helping supporting the professional contributions and career advancement employees continue to develop their talents of female employees. This grassroots effort provides an opportunity throughout their careers by providing a diverse for both men and women to share ideas, network and help accelerate offering of training programs and learning the recruitment, retention and advancement of women at all levels opportunities. One such program is our Engineering of the organization. Creating new opportunities and making positive Development Program (EDP) aimed at recruiting changes in policies and operations, Novelis remains dedicated to and retaining rising engineers. furthering its commitment to ensure that all employees have the right tools, resources and opportunities to grow, thrive and develop Through classroom coursework, coaching, throughout their Novelis careers. on-the-job projects and other development opportunities, this program has proven to accelerate the development of an early-career engineer as it In FY18, Novelis South America launched EquAl, an innovative program provides them with knowledge of the end-to-end to increase diversity in the workplace. By leveraging the region’s rich manufacturing process and an understanding of differences in backgrounds, expertise, points of view and work styles, how their role aligns to it. In the six years that the this program has helped enrich the decision-making process and add EDP program has existed, 350 early-career engineers value to the business. have graduated. This year, the EDP initiative was recognized by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce as a model program for how a company can effectively identify and close its skills gap and establish a sustainable talent pipeline. The program is currently being featured in a year-long lobby exhibit at the Chamber as well as a complementary Chamber-sponsored website: forwardontalent.org/stories/novelis. 8 9 Safety In addition to the safety of our Recycling colleagues, we are committed to the safety of our local Recycle for Good is a unique communities. Novelis has strong partnership between Novelis, PRESENTED BY partnerships with the Red Cross around the Atlanta Habitat for Humanity, world. Recently, colleagues across North the Arthur M. Blank Family Foundation and America participated in the Red Cross’ national Mercedes-Benz Stadium focused on collecting Sound the Alarm, Save a Life Campaign. aluminum bottles and cans consumed during stadium and sporting events. After being With more lives lost annually to home fires collected and sorted, the bottles and cans are than all other major disasters, the Red Cross then recycled, with the proceeds being donated had a goal of installing 100,000 smoke alarms to buy the necessary materials to build a house in the homes of families across the country for a working family in the Atlanta area through that might not otherwise be able to afford Habitat for Humanity. The first Recycle for them. With Novelis’ help, the Red Cross Good home was built in July 2017, and we are surpassed its goal by installing 122,259 smoke committed to sustaining this partnership into alarms nationwide. the future. Life of a Can STEM Education Life of a Can educates Novelis supports over future generations 45 FIRST Robotics teams worldwide with on key recycling facts the aim to inspire young people to become while encouraging science and technology leaders. Through this the development of multidisciplinary program, teams of high school students‘ critical-thinking skills and informing students build their own individual robots to behaviors. Created by Discovery Education‘s compete against one another, performing a curriculum experts, this multi-year variety of tasks and challenges. The program engagement offers digital resources designed spurs innovation, collaboration and teamwork. to stimulate insightful conversations in the Not only does Novelis provide the aluminum classroom around STEM and the importance for the robots, our engineers provide teams of recycling. with supplementary technical, programming and engineering support. By exposing young people to STEM at an early age, we are investing in the next generation of innovation and a talent pipeline for future leaders. Communities Novelis is committed to promoting sustainable communities worldwide and has built key partnerships with global organizations to grow impact and increase colleague engagement. This year, Novelis hit new records with the greatest number of community projects, the largest levels of community investment and more Novelis volunteer engagement than ever before. As part of our global corporate social responsibility program, Novelis Neighbor, Novelis colleagues supported more than 250 community projects at 30 sites in 10 countries. These projects focused on three pillars of importance to Novelis and our communities: Safety; Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematic (STEM) Education; and Recycling. 10 10 | Novelis Sustainability Report 2018 11 Trust Shines Through The pursuit of trust is an endless one. At Novelis, we are committed to promoting and fostering trust among our many stakeholders through openness and transparency, delivering on our promises and living up to our core values. Our success is not only determined by our business performance, but how we conduct ourselves and by the company we keep. With a vision to lead the aluminum industry as the partner of choice for aluminum solutions, trust remains paramount to meeting the needs of our customers, our colleagues and our communities. Quality Service and Expertise With more than 40 years of experience supplying In addition, the new 2018 Jeep® Wrangler is now The Company That We Keep lightweight, high-strength aluminum solutions to equipped with lightweight, high-strength Novelis the automotive industry, Novelis has earned the trust aluminum closures, including doors, fenders, hoods of the world’s most celebrated automotive brands. and lift-gates. By reducing weight and boosting fuel By continuing to be the partner of choice from economy, aluminum has helped construct the most development to launch, Novelis aluminum is featured capable and fuel efficient Wrangler ever produced in more than 225 vehicle models on the road today. by Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. The all-new model is 200 pounds lighter than the previous steel version, Novelis is also proud to supply aluminum to two and gas mileage is expected to rise by three miles per of this year’s big winners at the North American gallon, according to the automaker. Offering a safe, International Auto Show (NAIAS) – the aluminumsustainable and cost-effective way to lightweight intensive 2018 Lincoln Navigator which won Truck of vehicles, automotive aluminum applications result the Year, as well as the 2018 Honda Accord which won in better performance and agility, increased fuel Car of the Year. Both vehicles were recognized for economy and reduced carbon emissions. their application of lightweight aluminum. In addition, Novelis earned the coveted Strategy Cooperation award at the fifth annual Cherry Jaguar Land Rover (CJLR) Supplier Conference. This is the first time that Novelis has received the award, which reflects Novelis’ significant role in the successful launch of the all-new Jaguar XFL – the first model in the segment to apply innovative aluminum architecture in the Chinese market. The XFL features a body frame made from roughly 75 percent aluminum – the highest aluminum content achieved by an automaker to date in the Chinese marketplace. 12 13 State-of-the-Art Production Cutting-edge Innovation With state-of-the-art can sheet production lines and Aluminum building and construction materials Whether our customers seek sleek lines, rolling recycling centers on four continents: North America, have become the material of choice for countless surfaces, brilliant colors or a clean metallic sheen South America, Europe and Asia, Novelis serves the iconic buildings around the world that have captured from their aluminum architecture, Novelis provides a most recognizable brands including Coca-Cola, the hearts and minds of architects and passersby, variety of specialized architectural products designed Crown, Ball Corporation, Ardagh Group, Can Pack alike. Aluminum can be seen in the most cuttingto meet the exact requirements of the construction and AB InBev. Beverage cans are, and will remain, the edge public structures, as well as the most practical industry. Having achieved the highest A1 rating in core of Novelis’ product portfolio. Working alongside residences due to its unique material qualities and accordance with non-combustibility standards DIN our customers, we innovate to meet the ever-evolving benefits. EN 13501, DIN 4102 and 96/603/EG, these specialty preferences of consumers, whether for new shapes aluminum products also enable architects to bring and sizes, alternative coatings or more. Decades of innovation with new coatings and their most innovative and ambitious designs to life in treatments have made Novelis’ architectural products an eco-friendly and cost-effective way. incomparable in their aesthetics, versatility and efficiency. The material’s quality, cost-effectiveness, protective properties, environmental friendliness With an unmatched commitment to sustainability, and strength are key to its popularity in aluminum Novelis is the leading buyer and recycler of used architecture worldwide, satisfying high standards for beverage cans (UBC’s) globally. Aluminum beverage both aesthetics and structural soundness. cans and bottles are the model of sustainable packaging, and with an average “can-to-can” lifecycle of just a couple of months, a can that is recycled today can be back on store shelves in just 60 days. Making can sheet from recycled materials is better for our environment, better for our customers and better for our business. Aluminum is the packaging of choice for many beverage brands, because of its unique benefits. Infinitely Lightweight, Provide an A perfect 360° Fast to chill recyclable strong and exceptional barrier canvas affordable against air, light and for product moisture, thereby branding extending product shelf life 14 | Novelis Sustainability Report 2018 15 Innovation Forges Our Future As the leading producer of flat-rolled aluminum products and the world’s largest recycler of aluminum, Novelis has successfully balanced bold innovation and practical application, supporting numerous products for today while seeking new opportunities for tomorrow. Competing in a Global Economy There is no question that we are competing in a global economy. Enabled by technology and advances in digitalization and automation, organizations that are able to adapt to the rapid pace of change will enjoy a competitive advantage in the marketplace. The factors contributing to globalization are only growing, which is why Novelis is significantly investing in research and development to remain competitive in a globalized marketplace. By defining our purpose, as well as engineering new processes and protocols, we are shaping a sustainable world together in an effort to bring lightweight, state-of-theart technologies, alloys and customer service to our partners. 16 Novelis Sustainability Report 2018 | 17 Advancing Innovation The growing market for consumer electronics is made possible by advances in integrated circuitry, new software applications and the exceptional properties of industrial aluminum. Aluminum provides light weight solutions that effectively contribute to high formability, superior heat dissipation, electrical conductivity, high corrosion resistance and attractive surface properties. Whether it’s smartphones, tablets, laptops or flat screen TVs, aluminum is an integral component in the design, development and production of the latest personal devices and in-home entertainment systems. Novelis scientists recently developed a brand new aluminum application, which was chosen by LG Electronics for the outer casing of the new smartphone being produced for Japan’s leading mobile phone operator Novelis continues to see strong demand for NTT DOCOMO. This material has proven ideal for making the outer cases aluminum in the automotive vehicle market, of electronic devices because it retains the superb surface quality of led by Trucks, SUVs and Electric Vehicles. anodized aluminum while being approximately 40 percent stronger. Novelis has also been a long-time partner of Samsung, developing multiple aluminum parts for its consumer electronics portfolio. Recently, Samsung took 120 years of film presentation technology to the next 675 kt 1120 kt 530 kt 830 kt 130 kt 490 kt level by introducing the world‘s first Cinema LED Screen delivering 2017 2021 2017 2021 2017 2021 exceptional visual quality, technical performance, and reliability. North America Europe Asia This hallmark achievement was reached using Novelis aluminum to effectively emit excess heat, protect the screen’s internal parts and extend its lifecycle. Enhancing Performance The electric vehicle (EV) market is growing at an their “swapping stations” in just three minutes. This unprecedented pace. Automakers are making reduces consumers’ anxiety about lack of range significant investments in this rapidly growing and the need to wait for a battery to charge – while market, adopting aluminum to lightweight vehicles to preserving natural resources and the environment. improve range and enhance performance. Leading Technical Expertise Europe is also making great strides to increase electric In China, the world’s largest car market, we are seeing vehicle adoption. In fact, Novelis recently announced When it comes to research and technology, aluminum cans and immense investment from traditional automakers its partnership with the London Electric Vehicle bottles are the subject of ongoing technical refinement and innovation as well as EV start-ups seeking to capitalize on Company to provide aluminum for their all-new, at Novelis, from highly formable alloys, to safe and sustainable can projected demand. In December 2017, NIO, a nextzero-emissions capable taxi, which has a lightweight sheet coating technologies, to greater manufacturing efficiencies and generation electric vehicle company, introduced its aluminum frame helping to reduce CO2 emissions process capabilities. first production passenger vehicle, the seven seat ES8 and increase electric battery range. SUV. Supported by Novelis’ state-of-the-art aluminum Our team delivers industry-leading technical expertise and innovative alloys, the fully electric, aluminum-intensive ES8 is Together we are making cities like London cleaner, solutions via our applied technology labs around the world. Novelis’ being sold and manufactured exclusively in China greener and healthier by incorporating more infinitely Global Research and Technology Center in Kennesaw, Georgia offers using Novelis aluminum sourced locally from our recyclable and lightweight aluminum into vehicle customers cutting edge resources, including a true-to-scale beverage Changzhou plant. design. can pilot line, for testing customized packaging solutions and more efficient manufacturing processes. In addition, NIO has developed battery swap technology where owners can swap out their used battery with one that is fully charged at one of 18 19 Sustainability Targets 6 4 2 0 30% 53% 55% 57% 21.0 16.5 15.8 10.5 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY20 Baseline FY16 FY17 FY18 Baseline FY17 FY18 FY20 Target Target Safety Recycled Content GHG Emissions Zero Injuries or Fatalities percent million metric tons CO2e 8.3 7.5 5.3 5.8 3.7 2.7 2.6 2.7 9.46 9.63 9.38 8.7 Baseline FY17 FY18 FY20 Baseline FY17 FY18 FY20 Baseline FY17 FY18 FY20 Target Target Target Waste to Landfill Water Usage Energy Intensity kilogram/metric ton m3/mt FRP Sales GJ/mt FRP Sales Community Code of Conduct Key 100% of global operations are actively Employees and suppliers are holding each Kg = kilogram m3 = cubic meters executing local community service other accountable to achieve processes for Mio. = million GJ = gigajoules initiatives noncompliance t = metric tons GHG = greenhouse gas Global Novelis Charitable Spend Company + Employee Donations Employees $3,820,889.37 By redefining our process for employee feedback, we are working toward 100% Total Company Only Contributions of eligible employees receiving annual $3,538,415.53 performance feedback. Total Employee Donations $282,473.84 Total Number of Projects Funded in FY18 323 We welcome your feedback or partnership on sustainability. Jessica Sanderson Novelis Inc. Director of Sustainability Global Headquarters Tel: +1 404 760 4129 3560 Lenox Road NE, Suite 2000 jessica.sanderson@novelis.adityabirla.com Atlanta, Georgia, 30326 USA Follow us at: facebook.com/NovelisInc twitter.com/Novelis linkedin.com/company/Novelis novelis.com/sustainability 20 | Novelis Sustainability Report 2018 © 2018 Novelis Inc. All Rights Reserved.
