CONTENTS 02 17 44 A Welcome from Environment Philanthropy Our Chairman and Our Approach and Community Chief Executive FY18 Targets and Progress Investment Officer Environment Data Our Approach Key Highlights FY18 Targets and Progress 05 Key Highlights Corporate 27 Responsible Responsibility at Bacardi Limited Sourcing 51 Our Approach About this Report UN Sustainable Development Goals FY18 Targets and Progress GRI Content Index UN Global Compact Principles Key Highlights 11 33 Marketplace People Our Approach Our Approach FY18 Targets and Progress FY18 Targets and Progress Key Highlights Key Highlights People Data Safety WELCOME MESSAGE A welcome from our Chairman and our Chief Executive Officer Fiscal year 2018 (April 1, 2017 – March 31, 2018) was an exciting year for Bacardi. We welcomed a new global CEO with Mahesh Madhavan taking over after twenty years managing many markets in Europe, Asia-Pacific, the Middle East, and Africa. Along with a new CEO, Bacardi embarked on developing a ten-year business strategy, keeping corporate responsibility (CR) principles at the core. This year we also launched our new culture pillars of Some FY18 CR highlights include: Fearless, Family, and Founders. The pillars stand for our • For the sixth consecutive year, Bacardi Limited was belief that being fearless means being empowered to named among the most reputable companies in the challenge the norm and innovate; as a family company world, ranked at #89, according to the annual Global we will take care of each other and our communities; and RepTrak® 100 list released by Reputation Institute and our employees will act with a founder’s mentality, always published in Forbes. In addition, Bacardi in the United doing what is right and taking accountability to ensure States was also certified as a Great Place to Work. ® the sustainability of our company. In addition, we recently announced our expanded Good Spirited global goals to encompass all the company’s CR pillars with a target date of 2025. We reviewed the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and aligned with the ones we feel we can have the most impact on moving forward. Our long-term Good Spirited global goals address what Bacardi Limited is doing, often in partnership with others, to help achieve many of the targets. Furthermore, we are proud to be a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and this report • 2017 represents the last year for reporting on the constitutes our annual communication of progress. Producers’ Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking. Comprehensive information on our Good Spirited CR While the five-year initiative has concluded, we program can be found within remain committed to continuing the spirit of the five www.BacardiLimited.com. commitments and the 10 action areas, including finalizing new, responsible, and robust industry standards to ensure our digital advertising only reaches adults of legal drinking age who choose to drink. 2 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report WELCOME MESSAGE • At the end of 2017 we calculated the results of the first • Our Women in Leadership program has expanded into round of our Good Spirited environmental sustainability all regions of our global operations with a mentoring initiative our achievements in operations, sourcing and program kicking off in Eastern Europe, expansion of our packaging. While we are proud of our efforts in reducing support for S.H.E. Summit, Women Empowerment Series greenhouse gas emissions intensity (down by 59%), in North America, and kick-off of our Spirit Forward water usage (down 50%), waste (less than 1% sent to program to support women in the hospitality industry. landfill), and sourcing our sugarcane-derived products in At the end of FY18 36% of leadership positions were a responsible way (86% Bonsucro-certified), we learned held by women. from some of the challenges we faced in packaging weight reduction and the increasing importance on • Last September, Hurricane Maria hit our Puerto Rico improving our water consumption. These learnings have community causing significant damage to many areas informed the next round of overall Good Spirited goals, where our colleagues live and work. Along with the including taking the supply chain into account. Bacardi family, we were proud to commit US$3 million to disaster relief there and in other areas affected by natural • This past December, we launched our nutrition pages disasters. The charitable gifts were used to provide on www.BacardiLimited.com to provide consumers immediate relief to hard hit communities through our nutritional information about our premium products. “Emergency Stop & Go” centers and mobile caravans, While only currently available in four priority countries, providing distribution of food, water and supplies, and we will continue to add to this site with additional access to medical services and cell phone charging markets and products. stations. We are committed to continuing our rebuilding efforts with our new partner Mercy Corps on a tourism recovery program for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and St. Martin, consisting of support to small and medium enterprises and natural area rehabilitation. 3 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report WELCOME MESSAGE In FY18, we announced our intention to fully acquire Patrón Spirits International AG, with the acquisition completing in April 2018. While we are delighted to welcome Patrón into our family and have included some of its CR highlights in this report, we will spend the next fiscal year working with the Patrón team to measure and establish data baselines regarding CR reporting, including our environmental and safety targets. Patrón has developed strong CR initiatives in recent years and we look forward to continuing these great efforts. On behalf of the more than 7,000 employees of Bacardi, we are pleased to share our 2018 Corporate Responsibility report with you. We are proud of our efforts this past year and look forward to what the future holds in our Good Spirited endeavors. Facundo L. Bacardi Mahesh Madhavan Chairman CEO 4 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Being Good Spirited means being corporately responsible in every aspect of our business. This extends across all our offices and operating sites, from how we source our ingredients and the quality of materials used to make our premium products, to the ways we market our brands only to adults who choose to drink, to our commitment to support and care for our employees and the communities in which we live and work. Our founder, Don Facundo Bacardí Massó was Good Spirited when he repurposed old whisky barrels to age his rum. He also took the lead in relief efforts after a devastating earthquake struck Santiago de Cuba in 1852. Over the years, other examples of our company’s Good Spirited efforts include creating awareness against excessive consumption with the wording “Desea vender, pero no quiere el dinero que debe comprar pan” (“Bacardi wants to sell, but it does not want the money you should use to buy bread”) in the early 1930s in Mexico, and developing the advertising campaign “Bacardi mixes with everything. Not driving,” in the 1970’s. This ad is an example of a heritage responsibility campaign. The image contains trademarks not owned by Bacardi. Bacardi The company was built with a sense of being fearless, recognizes the rights of their respective owners and thanks them. with a founder’s mentality of running the business, coupled with family and heritage at its core. Moving forward, these values will guide our continued We recognize the risks associated in our business and commitment to be a responsible business by the challenges we face moving forward. As a beverage empowering our employees to question, challenge, alcohol producer, we know some people can misuse and innovate our business and the way we work. our products in a harmful way. Alone, we cannot solve We want them to be Good Spirited and to see the the problem of harmful use, but we know we must do organization as if it was their own, to do what’s right our part. As an industry and in partnership with others for the business, take accountability for their work, and we believe we will be most effective and provide a to treat each other and our communities as family. larger impact. 5 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED In addition, as a global corporate citizen we Moving forward, Bacardi is evolving its CR strategy acknowledge our role in reducing our environmental by committing to new, more encompassing Good impact and supporting the people who source and Spirited goals globally, aligning with relevant United manufacture our products. We also know we have a Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) responsibility to protect the safety of our people every and reinforcing the impact the private sector can make, day. We look to global benchmarks and standards to often through partnerships, on many of the goals. ensure our Corporate Responsibility (CR) programs are among the best in the industry and that they will have To support 10 of the UN SDGs that we can impact, we a positive impact in our communities. have set five new goals with multiple corresponding targets with an end date of 2025. The new Good There are challenges we face in implementing many Spirited global goals build on past successes and look of our CR programs. We recognize we only have holistically at our product value chain. When setting direct control within the four walls of our operations, these goals, we looked to international standards and but we need to work with our entire supply chain to benchmarks to ensure our targets were ambitious and create further positive impact. We also believe we meaningful. can influence our partners, suppliers, distributors, and others who we work with to find improved solutions Our aim is to deliver Corporate Responsibility programs to the challenges we face in all CR pillars. that are Good Spirited, make a difference, and are responsive to stakeholder expectations. These new global goals will progress to support future corporate and commercial strategies. 6 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED By living our cultural values of fearless, with a founder’s mentality and treating others like family every day, we commit ourselves to contributing to a more sustainable future for all our stakeholders. By caring deeply and passionately about our business and the world around us, we excel in creating brands consumers can trust. Our Core Pillars: Through stakeholder research and a materiality assessment, we have identified priority areas which have been grouped under five pillars. These broad themes are where our business impacts society and where we are focusing our Good Spirited Corporate Responsibility efforts. These are: • Marketplace (Responsible Marketing & Promotion and Alcohol Responsibility) • Environment • Responsible Sourcing • People • Philanthropy & Community Investment Our Approach in Context We are proud of the quality and heritage of our Our Good Spirited Corporate Responsibility approach company and our brands, and Corporate Responsibility is guided by the world in which we live and work. is an integral component of our business. We invite you As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we to learn more about our work in each of our priority commit to their principles and communicate on our areas and our goals for the future. progress every year. We are also mindful of other global standards and work in partnership with other For information on Bacardi CR Governance, companies, governments, and civil society to align Stakeholders and Materiality, and Our Impacts, please our targets with their goals to make a larger impact, visit the “Corporate Responsibility” section on including: www.BacardiLimited.com. • UN Sustainable Development Goals • The Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code • The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The Fundamental Conventions of the International Labor Organization • UN Convention on Biological Diversity • World Health Organization’s Global Strategy to Reduce Harmful Use of Alcohol • United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change 7 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The 2015 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) were adopted by countries to address social, economic, and environmental issues, with each goal having specific targets to be achieved by 2030. These targets provide benchmarks for measurement, and we believe that through partnerships with governments, other companies in the private sector, and civil society, we can have a positive impact on many of the goals. To support 10 of the UN SDGs that Bacardi can impact, we have set five new goals with multiple corresponding targets with an end date of 2025. The new Good Spirited global goals build on past successes and look holistically at our product value chain. When setting these goals, we looked to international standards and benchmarks to ensure our targets were ambitious and meaningful. GOAL LONG TERM TARGETS ALIGNED SDGS Support the global strategy to • Increase support of responsible drinking initiatives and reduce the harmful use of alcohol partnerships in the top 80% of Bacardi markets • Carry responsible drinking messaging and website designation on 100% of brand labels • Make available to the consumer nutrition information for all brands • Lead efforts, along with other industry members and partners, to put in place measures and standards to ensure digital marketing messages are targeted to adults of legal drinking age only Care for and support our people, • Less than 1 Lost Time Accident per 1,000,000 worked and reflect the diversity of our hours (previously set to achieve by 2023) global operations. • Support equal opportunity and leadership for women at all levels by having at least 45% female workforce and an increase in women in leadership positions • 90% of employees participate in Bacardi’s innovative training and development programs 8 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED GOAL LONG TERM TARGETS ALIGNED SDGS Return to the environment at least • 25% reduction of water consumed (focusing on water not as much as we take away returned to original source) at our operations* • 50% replenishment of water incorporated into final product* • Reduce absolute Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 50% and reduce absolute value chain GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3) 20% (approved by the Science Based Targets initiative)* • Zero Waste-to-Landfill at all manufacturing sites (previously set to achieve by 2022) • Eliminate one billion single-use plastic straws in collaboration with others (by 2020) • Analyze and develop single-use plastic reduction initiatives across operations and supply chain • 100% of key raw materials sourced from sustainablySource our materials responsibly certified suppliers • 100% paper and board used for shipping and labels sustainably-certified • 100% of product packaging to be recyclable • 40% recycled content of product packaging materials Take care of our communities • 95% of Bacardi offices and manufacturing sites participate in at least one CR activity annually in partnership with local organizations • 90% of employees volunteer one work day to a personal cause or organization (My InSpirit Day) *As compared to 2015 baseline (using earliest operations and supply chain data available) 9 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AT BACARDI LIMITED United Nations Global Compact Principles UNGC PRINCIPLE BACARDI CR STRATEGY Human Rights (Principles 1 & 2) Our suppliers have to meet our Responsible Sourcing Standards, which were developed Businesses should support in line with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which commit our suppliers to and respect the protection of complying with human rights principles. Through our Responsible Sourcing process, internationally proclaimed human in connection with Sedex, suppliers undergo self-assessments and on-site audits. In addition, our Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement is in compliance with the rights; and make sure that they UK Modern Slavery Act. are not complicit in human rights abuses.. Labor (Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6) Through our People Strategy and Responsible Sourcing Standards, we respect the right Businesses should uphold the to freedom of association among all of our employees, require our suppliers to respect freedom of association and the freedom of association, and the right to collective bargaining. In addition, we do not use effective recognition of the right to forced or child labor in any of our operations. Our company Code of Conduct, which collective bargaining; the elimination applies to all our employees and third parties approved to do business with Bacardi, of all forms of forced and compulsory includes a commitment to equal opportunity and non-discrimination. labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination Our Responsible Sourcing Standards, Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking statement, and Sedex self-assessments and audits set out the same requirements for our suppliers. of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment (Principles 7, 8, & 9) Our group-wide environmental strategy and policy supports a precautionary approach.. Businesses should support a We aim to drive continuous improvement in our facilities’ performance through a precautionary approach to management systems approach. environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater Bacardi’s commitment to environmental sustainability is reflected in our goals in environmental responsibility; and sourcing, packaging and operations with a focus on energy, greenhouse gas emissions, encourage the development and water, and waste. diffusion of environmentally friendly Through our Vendor Qualification Process and Responsible Sourcing Standards, our technologies. suppliers are required to protect the environment as part of business practice. Anti-Corruption (Principle 10) Our company Code of Conduct details the behaviors we expect from our people and it Businesses should work against addresses issues of conflicts of interest and bribery and corruption. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Responsible Sourcing Standards state that bribery and corruption are not tolerated. 10 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Marketplace at Bacardi Limited Many people drink moderately and as part of a healthy lifestyle. However, we recognize that alcohol, if abused or misused, can cause harm. As a producer of beverage alcohol, we recognize we In FY18, we enhanced our Slow Drinking campaign have a responsibility to market our brands in such a website to be more robust with responsible drinking way as to ensure we do not target those under the information, linking back to resources found at legal drinking age and to encourage all those who ResponsibleDrinking.org. In addition, we launched the choose to drink, to do so responsibly. Bacardi Limited nutrition site which includes nutritional information for products available in four countries in For more than 25 years, Bacardi, along with our their local language. More products and countries will industry partners, has supported social aspect continue to be added to this site throughout FY19. organizations that promote responsible consumption in the countries where we operate, implementing responsible drinking initiatives at the local level. Today, we remain committed to prioritizing our Marketplace pillar and our commitment to responsible marketing and responsible drinking. More information on the industry’s commitment to alcohol responsibility can be found on the International Alliance for Responsible Drinking website at ResponsibleDrinking.org. 2017 represented the last year of the Producers’ Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking. Over the last five years, Bacardi, along with 10 other industry members, has invested in education, partnerships, and other programs to combat harmful drinking. While we have achieved much during this time, we remain committed to continuing to work together on the five commitments and ten action areas. 546 Million 347 We (as an industry) collectively reached more We (as an industry) operated an average of 347 than half a billion people with underage drinking drink driving prevention programs each year prevention education between 2014 and 2017, between 2014 and 2017. through channels including websites, social media, TV and radio broadcasts, and newspapers 11 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE In 2017, Bacardi, often in partnership with other industry members and through local social aspect organizations: • Implemented 44 education programs operating in 16 countries • Reached nearly 4 million underage individuals with underage drinking prevention education • Operated 54 don’t drink and drive programs across 19 markets Bacardi continued to have 100% compliance with ensuring all advertising contracts include accordance to responsible alcohol advertising codes. In FY18, through our Producers’ Commitments iLife reporting, Bacardi reported on our efforts to provide #Bacard consumers responsible drinking information on our product labels. Of our total volume of products produced for our priority markets, 100% contain a When it comes to responsible drinking, most can agree that it has to start with each one of us. We can make responsible drinking message, logo, or website on its the right decisions and use our spirit of responsibility to change opinion and culture. label, and 66% of total volume contain both responsible Here’s how you can start: + Enjoy responsibly and know when to stop. drinking messaging and a website. + Make a plan before going out, and be or use a designated driver. + Respect the choice/decision of others not to drink. + Respect the legal drinking age. In FY18, the Bacardi Global Marketing Principles were LOOK OUT FOR OUR PRIMOS. LEAVE A GOOD IMPRESSION. updated to reflect changes in digital marketing and ResponsibleDrinking.org MAKE RESPONSIBLE DRINKING CHOICES. social media platforms, including ensuring we are transparent with influencer partnerships. Moving and Well-Being) target 3.5 addresses “strengthening forward, all relevant marketing employees, along with prevention…. to reduce the harmful use of alcohol.” our third-party agencies will be trained yearly with Bacardi, along with our industry partners, believe we our new online module to ensure compliance to our have a role to play in reducing the harmful use of alcohol principles. and our first Good Spirited global goal was developed with this target in mind. We have also reviewed the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and believe we can make an Moving forward, we will report on the activities to help impact on many of the targets. Goal 3 (Good Health us achieve this goal in future CR Reports. Good Spirited global goal: Support the global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol Increase support of Carry responsible Make available to the Lead efforts, along with other responsible drinking drinking messaging and consumer nutrition industry members and partners, initiatives and website designation on information for all to put in place measures and partnerships in the top 100% of brand labels brands standards to ensure digital 80% of Bacardi markets marketing messages are targeted to adults of legal drinking age only 12 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Targets and Progress FY18 MARKETPLACE TARGETS FY18 MARKETPLACE PROGRESS Update Bacardi responsible drinking website Bacardi’s Slow Drinking website was updated to include information to incorporate International Alliance for relevant International Alliance for Responsible Drinking info. Responsible Drinking (IARD) facts and other global and In addition, the Bacardi Limited nutrition site was launched local alcohol responsibility resources and link to www. which includes nutritional information for products available BacardiLimited.com. Include nutritional information on in four countries in their local language. www. BacardiLimited.com. Increase percentage of active priority country Bacardi is active in 86% of priority markets on responsible responsible drinking initiatives, whether in partnership drinking initiatives. (Examples of these markets include: with other industry members or Company led, including United States, France, Russia, Spain, United Kingdom, enhancing Slow Drinking. Canada, Mexico) Launch updated marketing compliance training module The training module was delayed due to updates to the globally for relevant marketing, creative excellence, Global Marketing Principles. Now finalized, the module will sales and agency staff to use for new hires and as a be housed on the global Human Resources training site to yearly refresher for existing employees, with translation be used by all relevant staff and agencies. In addition, we will available in at least eight languages. work to translate the module into additional languages over the next two years. Design and launch updated responsible marketing New Global Marketing Principles were drafted and although principles for all company staff. the launch was delayed due to internal review and management changes, the Principles will be communicated out to all Company employees in FY19. 100% use of new digital legal compliance system Bacardi underwent a change in marketing leadership in (Creative Approval Hub) by global marketing, creative FY18 resulting in the development of a new Digital Asset excellence, legal teams, and advertising agency Management system. The new system will incorporate legal personnel to track global marketing campaign compliance and approval workflows when launched in FY19. compliance approval. Through partnerships with IARD and local Social Aspect Bacardi reached more than 9.7 million underage individuals Organizations (SAOs) and Trade Associations (TA), and influencers in 2017 with educational materials to prevent increase under the legal drinking age and influencer underage drinking and promote responsible drinking as reach by 20% through responsible drinking initiatives, measured through the Producers’ Commitment reporting; an as measured through the Producers’ Commitment increase of 250% from 2016. reporting. 100% of marketing agency contracts in compliance with 100% of marketing agency contracts are in compliance with the Producers’ Commitments. the Producers’ Commitments. 13 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Targets and Progress FY18 MARKETPLACE TARGETS FY18 MARKETPLACE PROGRESS 100% of traditional and digital media placements by As calculated by our media agency partner, we continue to company with at least a 70% minimum legal drinking place 100% of traditional and digital advertising in mediums age audience. with at least a 70% minimum legal drinking age audience. Often, these numbers are more than 90% for both traditional and digital advertising. All company products to have at least one responsible All products sold in our priority markets have labels which drinking website, messaging, or logo on label. include a responsible drinking message, logo or website address. 66% of total volume sold contain both responsible drinking messaging and a website address. Pilot company employee responsible drinking pledge The responsible drinking pledge was piloted in a few priority in select countries to ascertain value and viability for markets, including our largest market of the U.S., and made potential global roll-out. available to all offices/sites through our CR Month activities. We will continue to share the pledge principles to employees through internal communications. Ensure all six safeguards of the Producers’ Commitments An audit, sanctioned by the International Alliance for Digital Guiding Principles are in place for all countryResponsible Drinking, found that of the countries audited, level brand social media platforms and websites. Bacardi branded social media platforms and websites had a 79% full compliance rate for all safeguards and an average compliance rate of 91%. 14 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Key Highlights Beer, Wine & Spirits Producers’ Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking Digital Guiding Principles The Digital Guiding Principles were developed as part of the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers’ Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking. The Commitments address targeted actions in five key areas, one of which involves work dedicated to strengthening and expanding marketing codes of practice. In September 2017, the CEOs of the signatory companies came together to reflect on the five years of the Producers’ Commitments and further commit to develop, in collaboration with others, new robust responsible marketing standards for digital channels that represent best-practice in this rapidly-changing field. Over the last few years, Bacardi brand marketing teams have worked to implement the safeguards of the Digital Guiding Principles. The guidelines require the content of any online marketing and social media advertising to meet the same high standards that apply to traditional We are also transparent about the purpose of our marketing activities. commercial marketing communications and have secured “official” status authenticating our accounts from the social The Digital Guiding Principles cover the following areas: media platforms. • Include an age-affirmation mechanism for all social media sites to ensure marketing communications only Moving forward, our industry will work with others, engage adults over the legal drinking age including the social media platforms, to put in place • Implement a Forward Advice Notice, stating that all measures and standards to ensure our advertising and content should not be forwarded to anyone under the marketing messages target adults of legal drinking age legal drinking age who choose to drink. Together we are committed to • Promote responsible consumption, including a doing our part to help reduce the harmful use of alcohol. responsible drinking message • Ensure user generated content (UGC) also complies by making available our UGC community policy on all brand sites 15 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report MARKETPLACE Nutrition Site As part of the Bacardi commitment to alcohol responsibility we are now providing consumers nutritional information about our products. In FY18 we launched the Bacardi nutrition website. The first phase is available now on www.BacardiLimited.com with information about products available in four of our largest selling markets (USA, UK, France, Spain). The site will continue to evolve with additional countries and products included over the next fiscal year. Nutrition details for products include calories, fat, carbohydrates, sugar, protein, and salt, and if the product includes any caffeine or allergens. Details are listed by recommended serving size for each product, according to country standards. Responsible Drinking Initiatives in Spain Through Bacardi and other industry member support in Spain, the national trade and social aspect organizations FAS (Fundacion Alcohol y Sociedad) and FEBE (Federacion Espanola de Bebidas Espirituosas) implemented responsible drinking initiatives to prevent underage drinking and drink driving and promote responsible consumption. The FAS program, “MENORES NI UNA GOTA” (Minors not a single drop), informs underage individuals of the risks related to early drinking to their physical and mental health. The goal is to change perception around underage drinking to make it socially unacceptable, and help parents set clear boundaries for their children. Through workshops with parents and making resources available on their website, the campaign reached more than 750 families in six months, with 2,000 guides downloaded, and more than 1 million watching instructive videos. In 2018, the campaign will be rolled out in agreement with the National Pharmaceutical Society to raise awareness about underage drinking risks in all pharmacies in the Spanish territory. More information on the program can be found at www.menoresniunagota.es FEBE’s “Los Noc-turnos. Designated Driver” campaign raises awareness of the dangers of drink-driving among young drivers and promotes the designated driver concept as normal behavior. Twenty events were held in multiple locations, often in partnership with local municipals and police. Individuals were tested for their blood alcohol concentration and those with 0.0 level received prizes, and additional resources on alcohol responsibility was shared with everyone. FEBE also provides lectures and trainings to university students to promote positive peer influence and provides retail training to promote responsible serving in the trade. More than 500 have been trained in both programs in the first few months of 2018. 16 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Environment at Bacardi Limited For Bacardi, environmental sustainability is good business – an approach that dates back to the very beginning of the company more than 155 years ago. When Bacardi founder Don Facundo Bacardí Massó Climate change: the fossil fuels we consume started his business in 1862, he accepted the Spanish in our value chain process to operate our facilities, government’s challenge to reduce surplus amounts of manufacture our products, and transport them to our molasses in Cuba, leading to the crafting of BACARDÍ® customers, creates greenhouse gases that contribute to rum. Repurposing old whisky barrels to age his rum climate change. was also part of his original plan, a practice still in use today. Waste: effluents and waste from our operations need to be kept to a minimum as well as the use Our environmental sustainability commitment has of our materials in bottling and packaging to reduce the grown over the past 155 years and we are proud overall impact on the environment. of the voluntary actions we have taken to be an industry leader in environmental performance in our Announced in early 2014, Good Spirited was an ambitious operations. Our goal is to return to the environment environmental sustainability initiative with specific goals at least as much as we take away. We recognize the in sourcing, packaging, and operations to be achieved environmental impact of producing our products and by 2017 and 2022 -under the vision to return to the have implemented procedures to continually improve environment at least as much as we take away. Significant efficiency. Key potential areas of impact include: reductions have been achieved in greenhouse gas emission (GHG) intensity (59%) and water usage (50%), as Water: clean water is fundamental to our well as Zero Waste-to-Landfill targets. business and we recognize the importance of water conservation. 17 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT GHG Emissions Waste Bacardi cut GHG intensity from manufacturing A target of achieving Zero Waste-to-Landfill from our operations in half more than a year earlier than its 2017 manufacturing sites by 2022, was also set in 2014. As of the target. At the end of December 2017, the reduction end of December 2017, 99.6% of the waste generated from was at 59%, compared to 2006 baseline. This reduction Bacardi operations was diverted from landfills (only 0.4% is equivalent to taking 15,000 cars off the road each sent to landfill), with one third of sites already achieving year or reducing oil use by 165,000 barrels annually. Zero Waste-to-Landfill status. Further initiatives focusing Hundreds of initiatives implemented globally at on reduction, reuse, and recycling are in place for the Bacardi distilleries, bottling lines, visitor centers, and remaining sites to achieve this status by 2022. offices for energy reduction were part of achieving this reduction. Among the many energy-focused Packaging initiatives, Bacardi focused on renewable energy from Despite efforts to reduce GHG through glass weight biogas, heat recovery systems, and wind turbines. reduction, Bacardi was not able to achieve the 10% Additionally, new biomass boilers installed at the Tequila packaging weight reduction goal between 2008 and CAZADORES® facility in Mexico and ABERFELDY® and 2017. As of the end of December 2017, the reduction ROYAL BRACKLA® Scotch whisky distilleries in Scotland was at 4%. This missed target was mainly driven by two reduced the amount of fuel needed for reliable, cleaner factors: new packaging design implications and a refocus energy. Instead of oil, renewable organic material such to overall greenhouse gas impact (understanding the as botanicals, wood pellets, wood chips, and agave implications of the full chain from supplier to distributor) fibers leftover from production was used as fuel for the instead of only weight reduction. For example, Bacardi biomass boilers. Green electricity – including hydro, identified contributors to GHG beyond glass weight, solar, and wind – contracts in the United Kingdom, Italy, including furnace efficiency and transportation logistics. and Germany were also important tools to reduce the This learning has been key in developing new goals that carbon footprint. focus on supplier collaboration and glass weight reduction, including production efficiency, recycled content, weight, Water Usage and transportation. The 50% reduction of water use target by the end of December 2017 compared to 2017 RESULTS PACKAGING the 2006 baseline was achieved. A Long-term target: Return to the environment at least as much as we take away 2017 Target 2017 Actual combined effort by more than 25 manufacturing sites was fundamental to GREENHOUSE GAS 10% 4% Total weight reduction 2017 Target 2017 Actual How? reach this milestone. From water reduction 59% Renewable energy Challenges: packaging design initiatives to water reuse, projects were 50% from biogas, heat recovery and wind turbines implications and a refocus on overall GHG impact, not just weight Reduction in greenhouse gas implemented across operations to ensure emissions (GHG) intensity* New biomass boilers We learned so much! New targets will focus on value better efficiency on the way each drop is Equivalent to taking 15,000 chain GHG reduction – including Used renewable organic material leftover production efficiency, recycled cars off the road each year used. (Note: a revision was made in 2016 from production as fuel; such as botanicals, wood pellets and chips, and agave fibers content, weight, and transportation  from 55% to 50% to focus on the more environmentally effective “consumptive” WATER SOURCING water use reduction, which measures 2017 Target 2017 Actual 2016 revision to original 2017 Target of the total sugarcane-derived The Bonsucro 50% 55% target – why? 50% 40% products used to make BACARDÍ standard covers water that is not returned to the original to follow a more effective approach on minimizing rums from certified, sustainable sources human rights and labor conditions, environmental impact biodiversity, water source.) reduction of water usage* reduction* focusing on consumptive environmental and water use 2017 Actual economic viability 86% are sourced from of sugarcane How? Water reduction and reuse initiatives to ensure better Bonsucro-certified producers efficiency on the way we use each drop suppliers *As compared to 2006 baseline For additional information on Bacardi Corporate Responsibility please visit: https://www.bacardilimited.com/corporate-responsibility 18 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Building on the success of the first round of Good Bacardi was recently approved Spirited and the complimentary learnings in by the SBTi for our targets accomplishing our goals, we looked to the United regarding our role in reducing Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and GHG emissions. Specifically, Science-Based Targets initiative (SBTi) (a collaboration the goal is: “Bacardi commits to between the Carbon Disclosure Project, the United reduce absolute Scope 1 & 2* GHG emissions 50% by 2025 Nations Global Compact, World Resources Institute, and from a 2015 base-year. Bacardi Limited also commits to World-Wide Fund for Nature, with the goal to enable reduce absolute value chain GHG emissions (scopes 1, 2 leading companies to set ambitious and meaningful and 3*) 20% by 2025 from a 2015 base-year.” corporate GHG reduction targets, those that are in line with the level of decarbonization required to keep Our environmental Good Spirited global goal, announced global temperature increase below 2 degrees Celsius earlier this year, is our commitment to the protecting the compared to pre-industrial temperatures) to set our planet and doing what we can to ensure a sustainable long-term environmental sustainability targets. In future for the world around us. addition, we will drive our supply chain towards a zero*Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled net environmental impact performance in conjunction sources. Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation with what we will do in our own manufacturing sites. of purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions are all indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions. Our focus will continue to be on: • Sustainable water balance (water consumption vs water replenishment) • Reduction on absolute GHG emissions • Efficient use of resources and materials Good Spirited global goal: Return to the environment at least as much as we take away 25% reduction of water 50% replenishment of Reduce absolute Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 50% and Zero Waste-to-Landfill at all manufacturing Eliminate one billion single-use Analyze and develop single-use reduce absolute value chain sites (previously set to plastic straws in plastic reduction consumed (focusing water incorporated GHG emissions (scopes 1, achieve by 2022) collaboration with across operations on water not returned into final product* 2 and 3) 20% (approved by others (by 2020) and supply chain to original source) at the Science Based Targets our operations* initiative)* *By 2025, as measured against a 2015 baseline (using earliest reliable data available) To achieve these targets, we will work with partners to identify opportunities to protect watersheds and provide access to potable water in high-risk manufacturing site countries, work with our suppliers to reduce their GHG emissions and invest in renewable electricity and continue to focus on reuse and reduction of waste. In addition, as announced in our partnership with Lonely Whale to eliminate 1 billion single-use plastic straws, we are analyzing and determining the presence of single-use plastic across our entire supply chain, including point of sale materials, and establishing a baseline and plan for the elimination of these items. When not possible to eliminate we will work towards changing to either biodegradable or recyclable plastic. 19 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Targets and Progress FY18 ENVIRONMENT TARGETS FY18 ENVIRONMENT PROGRESS Implement specific action plans to reduce water At the end of FY18, we had a 50.4% reduction in overall consumption, with special focus at three of our water usage (vs. FY06). Water reduction initiatives and main distilleries located in Puerto Rico (Cataño) and water reuse projects implemented at our main distilleries Scotland (Aberfeldy and MacDuff ). Due to changes in (Cataño, Aberfeldy and MacDuff ) were key to helping the our strategy, focusing more on consumption of water, company achieve a 7.3% improvement, as measured by versus overall usage, these action plans should put us the efficiency index, versus FY17. on track to achieve a 50% reduction (vs. FY06) during the second half of this reporting period. We are still aiming to reach the original 55% reduction goal, but additional time is expected to get there. Define new targets (short and long-term) for After achieving a 59% reduction on GHG intensity water use and GHG emissions, as part of our future (vs. FY06), new targets have been developed for our sustainability strategy. The new scope will be operations and the overall supply chain. These new expanded to go beyond our four walls, with additional targets are focused on absolute reduction, following focus on the upstream portion of our value chain. The a science-based approach. For water, new long-term target for water will use a context-based approach targets were developed focusing on local watershed -focusing on local watershed conditions. A scienceconditions and consumptive water use, additional based method will be used for setting a target for reduction at our operations, and adding the “replenish” GHG reduction. dimension to continue our journey of achieving a Sustainable Water Balance. Continue with the implementation of required waste By the end of FY18, only 0.4% of the total waste from stream action plans, aiming to achieve less than production sites was sent to landfills. While we did not 0.32% of total waste from production sites to landfill, reach our original FY18 target, we believe we are still on towards our goal of Zero Waste-to-Landfill of all sites track to achieve the 2022 target of Zero Waste-to-Landfill. by 2022. Work on our transition plan to the new ISO 9001-2015 Gap assessments were completed and workstreams and ISO 140012015 management system standards created to focus on the changes required to make the at all manufacturing sites, in order to comply with the transition to the new ISO management system standards. three-year transition process, set by ISO to maintain Workstreams have completed the required tasks to allow our certification. Gap assessments to be completed the evolution of our management system, with new and action plans in place to achieve full transition by certification complete in July 2018. September 2018. 20 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Scorecard How we measure our performance Bacardi measures performance in two ways: absolute with protocols established by the World Resources totals and efficiency metrics. Absolute measures Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable are straightforward – for example, total quantity Development, and Beverage Industry Environmental of water used. Efficiency metrics normalize these Roundtable (BIER) guidance documents. In addition, absolute totals against an appropriate business emission calculation for fuel and electricity are output – for example, water used per unit of product recalculated, based on the latest emission factors (e.g. manufactured. International Energy Agency). Our targets are based on improvements in our Absolute numbers in water use, waste, and energy performance against our efficiency index. Baseline increased from FY17. This is due to a few manufacturing year (FY06) figures, and those from previous reporting sites producing more liquid, which resulted in our years, have been recalculated to reflect significant facilities operating for longer periods of time, producing changes within the company (e.g. acquisitions, more recyclable/reusable waste, and using more divestments, etc.). During FY18 we experienced water for cooling (though the water was returned to some structural changes, including the consolidation the original source with no impact). While absolute of some manufacturing operations. Twenty-five numbers increased, we were able to utilize our assets wholly owned manufacturing sites were measured more efficiently, resulting in the improvement in for this data. Recalculation was done in accordance efficiency indexes. 21 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Water Water Use Water Used Our total water used in FY18, measured by the efficiency FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 index, was 7.3% better than FY17. This represents an (per unit of production) 54.6 53.6 53.5 49.6 overall improvement on our water use efficiency index (Baseline FY06 100) of 50.4% vs. FY06. Total Water Used (000 cubic meters) 2,916 3,488 2,971 3,292 Water Discharge We manage used process water from our facilities in three ways: Water Discharge by Volume 1. Direct discharges of treated wastewater to local bodies FY17 FY18 of water following onsite treatment (73%) Direct Discharge (m ) 3 759,426 843,386 2. Indirect discharges of treated wastewater to Indirect Discharge (m3) 346,864 233,955 municipal treatment facilities (20%) Application (m3) 78,784 82,270 3. Beneficial land application, including irrigation and Total Volume Discharged (m ) 3 1,185,074 1,159,611 fertilizer to improve crop production (in countries Changes in the production mix and manufacturing consolidations where it is permitted) (7%) in FY18 affected water discharge in the same way as water use as noted earlier. Of the total water released by our production facilities, 1,077,341 cubic meters was discharged as wastewater Water Supply and 82,270 cubic meters was applied to cropland as a EN8: Total Water Withdrawal fertilizer or for irrigation. The water that is applied to land for beneficial reuse is returned to the crops that provide by Source (cubic meters) our raw feedstock to make spirits in countries where F WATER SOURCE WATER SOURCES FY17 FY18 regulatory authorities permit. Public Supplies 781,837 875,139 Groundwater 559,184 597,334 Surface Water 1,629,961 1,819,573 Harvested 0 0 TOTAL 2,970,982 3,292,046 Water used includes non contact cooling water. 22 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Waste Waste Management EN23 Total Weight of Waste by Type In FY 18: and Disposal Method (Metric Tons) • Only 0.4% of total waste was sent to landfill FY17 FY18 % CHANGE YtY (from manufacturing sites) Non-Hazardous Waste • 11 manufacturing sites have achieved Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 137,112 157,061 Zero Waste-to-Landfill status Incineration/Treatment 675 589 608 638 Subtotal (and % YtY change) 138,395 158,288 -14% Hazardous Waste Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 4.8 4.8 Incineration/Treatment 4.2 4.9 0.7 0.1 Subtotal (and % YtY change) 9.7 9.8 -1% Total Waste Recycling/Reuse/Recovery 137,117 158,293 Incineration/Treatment 679 594 609 638 Total (and % YtY change) 138,405 159,525 -15% Energy EN3: Energy Consumption within the Organization (TJ) Renewable Energy FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 In FY18, 44% of electricity was Heavy fuel oil 468 229 153 191 purchased through renewable Natural Gas 421 439 390 431 contracts and 47% of fuel was from Total fuel from non-renewable sources 889 668 543 622 Biogas 208 231 166 262 renewable sources. Biomass 64 216 193 279 Total fuel from renewable sources 272 447 359 541 Grid Electricity 212 235 203 200 Wind Electricity 1 1 1 1 Total Electricity 213 236 204 201 Total Energy Consumption within Bacardi 1,374 1,351 1,106 1,364 Wind power includes only that from dedicated contract suppliers. Grid electricity includes all forms of renewable and non-renewable energy on the national grids. 23 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Emissions We surpassed our long-term target of reducing total GHG emissions intensity by 50% versus FY06 by the end of 2017, reaching 59%! EN15: Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) EN16: Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) (Market-based) FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Direct GHG Emissions (Tonnes) 56,062 39,043 30,638 35,904 Indirect GHG Emissions (Tonnes) 25,252 26,252 18,703 17,627 (Market-based) *** Production Process 500 500 560 620 Emissions (Tonnes)* 5,600 5,600 5,600 5,600 TOTAL (Tonnes) 87,414 71,395 55,501 59,751 GHG Intensity Index (GHG Emissions per unit of production) 64.5 51.1 45.3 42.9 (Baseline FY 06 100%)** *Estimated figures. We are in the process of defining a more accurate way to track these emissions based on industry standards. ** Intensity index doesn’t include estimations for production emissions and offices ***Scope 2 emissions are calculated using market-based emission factors. Our FY18 total indirect location-based emissions were 26,872 tonnes. FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY2013 FY2014 SOx 728 302 134 163 NOx 92 55 40 47 Particulates 13 6 4 5 Total Air Emissions 833 362 178 215 24 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT Key Highlights FY18 Good Spirited Environmental Sustainability Award Winners • Our rum facility in Catano, Puerto Rico redesigned distillation columns, reconfigured the barrel conditioning process, and upped its steam recapturing process to significantly reduce water usage. The BACARDÍ® rum facility reuses 100% of its condensate within the distillery, which saves an incredible 35,000 gallons of water each day. Along the same lines, a new barrel conditioning process reduced spills and water waste, which produces a savings of 768,000 gallons of water per year. The plant also now recaptures 95% of the steam it generates during distillation (up from 60%) to produce clean energy, reducing the need for heavy oil consumption. • Over a five-year period, the single malt distilleries of John Dewar & Sons Limited – ABERFELDY®, AULTMORE®, CRAIGELLACHIE®, MACDUFF®, ROYAL BRACKLA® – reduced overall water use by 16%. The efforts include automation of cooling water systems in still houses, reduction in water used in cleaning procedures, and the installation of additional water meters. These new methods help lessen water needs from local rivers, burns, and springs. • The Tequila CAZADORES® facility in Arandas, Jalisco, Mexico, maintained its zero-waste-to-landfill status in FY18 as it continues to reuse and recycle all waste. In addition, the facility secured Procuradoria Federal Proteccion al Ambiente (PROFEPA) Clean Industry Status certification for its best-in-class legal compliance, safety, and environmental practices. • The Bacardi team in Spain moved to a new office in Barcelona that reduces environmental impacts while • During the 2017 Gin Day trade show, the Pessione, Italy addressing the health of employees. The new facility, team, which represented BOMBAY SAPPHIRE® at a booth, designed with eco-conscious materials, offers employees collected more than 50kg of discarded lemon halves a workspace that promotes well-being. In addition, each from the trade show bars, distilled them, and used the team member received their very own Fitbit® after the extracted oils to make 90 jars of BOMBAY SAPPHIRE® move to help increase health and activity awareness Recycled Lemon Eco Soap to gift to area bars and and the office launched an in-house app to educate and increase environmental awareness. promote healthy eating habits and physical activities. 25 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ENVIRONMENT • Building on the success of the 2016 launch of the Bacardi “No Straws” initiative, our Green Champions and customer partners were some of the biggest advocates in making the initiative come alive. HMS Host, the airport and travel dining concessions company, partnered with Bacardi to promote “No Straws” at 360 locations across the world. HMS Host locations serve the BACARDÍ® Wildberry Mojito and GREY GOOSE® Cucumber Mint Lemonade “strawless.” Patrón The newest brand to the Bacardi portfolio, Patrón tequila, has a firm commitment to environmental protection. At its Atotonilco, Mexico facility a unique state-of-the-art waste treatment process works through a reverse-osmosis technology to clean water and concentrate vinasses for feeding compost process. In addition, the plant supports ten fellow distilleries and farms by receiving their bagasse, and along with Patrón’s, they transform it into high quality compost used to enrich agave fields and community areas; more than 6,000 tons of compost produced a year. Patrón also is the first tequila distillery to use natural gas as source of energy, reducing GHG emissions into the atmosphere. B:120 cm (12 m) T:120 cm (12 m) S:120 cm (12 m) ATOTONILCO ES MÁS QUE EL LUGAR DONDE TR ABAJAMOS. ES NUESTRO HOGAR. ta el exceso 1833002T1A0347 MECHANICAL SPECIFICATIONS WORKFLOW COLORS IN USE LINKED GRAPHICS BLEED NONE PROJECT MANAGER NONE CYAN PATRON_2018_HACIENDAOOH_009_EXT_CMYK_R3.TIF CMYK TRIM 120 CM X 45 CM PRINT PRODUCER NONE MAGENTA 302 PPI SAFETY NONE ART DIRECTOR TBD YELLOW PATRON_TEQUILA_2016_LOGO_PRIMARY_K.EPS FOLDED SIZE NONE COPYWRITER TBD BLACK FINISHING NONE PROOFREADER KP 18-00031 MEXICO OOH MECH SCALE 10% STUDIO DESIGNER JOSH. VERSION 1 PRINT SCALE NONE USER LANMLW-DMXWD16U 18-00031_MEXICO_OOH_HAC_Q2B3_ATOTONILCO_12X4-5_ MECH’D BY TBD PRINTER NONE R05.INDD PAPER STOCK NONE OUTPUT DATE 8-3-2018 5:02 PM HACIENDA, Q1 UPLOADED BY TBD LAST MODIFIED 8-3-2018 5:02 PM SPECIAL NONE PUBLICATION/S NONE INSTRUCTIONS 26 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Responsible Sourcing at Bacardi Limited Bacardi has embedded responsible sourcing into our business through our procurement strategy. We choose suppliers who commit to the highest standards for labor and human rights, health and safety, environmental protection, and business integrity. We work with our suppliers to ensure these high standards are met and together we address the challenges faced within the supply chain, including ethical sourcing, compliance, advancing human rights and reducing environmental impacts. Our Responsible Sourcing Standards apply to all suppliers providing goods and/or services to Bacardi committed to only selecting suppliers (vendors, agents, more than 3,000 in FY18. These standards, along with and manufacturers) that strive to conduct business in a our Vendor Qualification Process (VQP), represent the professional and ethical manner. minimum requirements for our supplier partners. In addition, we work within the Sedex platform (a nonprofit To trade with Bacardi, vendors must comply with organization dedicated to improving ethical business the standards set out in these documents and practices in global supply chains) to manage our multiensure their suppliers and subcontractors do tier responsible sourcing data. This includes checking our likewise. We require the agreement to and return suppliers’ compliance to our standards, understanding of a satisfactorily completed and executed copy of challenges faced in achieving compliance, opportunities these documents for each manufacturing facility to work together to develop solutions and improve used, including principal subcontractors (i.e. where standards, and gives the supplier a platform to demonstrate main manufacturing is outsourced). Bacardi is responsible sourcing compliance to new customers. Supplier Engagement Approach Bacardi Supplier joins Bacardi engages Suppliers on audit Bacardi reviews Bacardi continuously communicates Sedex and with suppliers on schedule are asked progress on reviews progress on Responsible completes a completing a to commission a actions from overall Responsible Sourcing Standards self-assessment. self-improvement 3rd party audit. self-improvement Sourcing program to supplier. action plan based on plan and audit and with suppliers. their self-assessment. supplier shares progress. 27 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Sugarcane-derived products are our most significant Bonsucro-certified suppliers, well ahead of our original agricultural supply and we work with our suppliers 2017 target of 40%. and industry groups to ensure all suppliers achieve certification to the Bonsucro standard (a global multiAt the end of FY18, 88.5% of our global direct spend was stakeholder nonprofit organization that promotes linked to Bacardi through Sedex, with more than 50% sustainable sugarcane production, processing and of those linked audited. 100% of our global point of sale trade around the world, covering human rights and suppliers are Sedex linked to Bacardi, with up-to-date labor conditions, biodiversity, environmental, and audits. During FY18 we also worked with the Prosecco economic viability of sugarcane producers). As of the and Asti Consortiums, and Equalitas (a standard which end of 2017, 86.3% of our sugarcane-derived products focuses on the social, environmental and economic pillars used to make our BACARDÍ rums are sourced from of sustainability of the wine sector) to develop a plan to implement their standards for our grape suppliers. Moving forward we will work to define and implement sustainable agriculture sourcing strategies, with credible third-party certification for additional crops, including our botanicals, agave, and wheat. Packaging We are also working with all our board and paper packaging suppliers to ensure they are sustainably certified. As of mid2018, 90% of our corrugated packaging suppliers are Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)/ Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC)/ Forestry Sustainable Initiative (FSI) certified. We are working with our individual box and label suppliers on action plans to achieve FSC certification, currently gathering baseline data suppliers. As of mid-2018, 52% of our individual box (board) and 66% of our label (paper) suppliers are certified. As announced with the launch of the expanded Good Spirited initiative, our long-term global goal to continue to source our materials responsibly encompasses all our key raw materials, paper, and board. In addition, we will work with all new direct or point of sale suppliers to ensure they meet the highest of ethical standards for labor, human rights, and environment and economic issues. We will continue to ensure 100% of our global point of sale suppliers are linked to Bacardi through Sedex and that they have up-to-date audits that detail their compliance to minimum standards. Good Spirited global goal: Source our materials responsibly 100% of key raw materials 100% paper and board used 100% of product packaging 40% recycled content of sourced from sustainablyfor shipping and labels to be recyclable product packaging certified suppliers sustainably certified materials 28 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Targets and Progress FY18 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING TARGETS FY18 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PROGRESS Ongoing target to ensure 100% of our suppliers 100% of suppliers are assessed to our VQP assessed to our Vendor Qualification Process (VQP). 95% of Global Direct spend and 100% of Global Point At the end of FY18, 88.5% of our Global Direct spend is linked of Sale suppliers linked to Bacardi through Sedex. In to Bacardi through Sedex, with more than 50% of those linked addition, we will work with local teams to ensure local audited. 100% of our Global Point of Sale suppliers are Sedex linked POS suppliers are using Sedex and completing SAQs to Bacardi. We continue to have challenges in ensuring local POS suppliers are using Sedex and will work on an action plan on how to engage local teams to address these challenges moving forward. Raw Material Action Plans: • During FY18 we worked with the Prosecco and Asti Consortiums, •For grapes, work with Prosecco and Asti Consortiums and Equalitas (focuses on the social, environmental and economic to achieve highest level of standards with focus on pillars of sustainability of the wine sector) to develop a plan to environment, ethics, and economics; including for Asti implement their standards for our grape suppliers. In FY19 we a reduction of residual phito treatment (35%) and for will initiate a gap assessment and identify the next steps for the white table wine a carbon footprint reduction (20%). certification process. The Asti Consortium is still working towards their ongoing residual phito treatment and carbon footprint • Action plan defined for Agave suppliers to be reduction targets, hoping to achieve in crop FY19. sustainably certified. • In FY18, we worked with our Cazadores Agave suppliers to prepare • Botanicals action plan underway, our goal is for 60% for their Sedex linked audit. In addition, we are working with on-theof main botanicals sustainably certified by FY18, 100% ground partners to assess certification options for Agave moving by FY19. forward. • Continue to build on wheat supplier improvement • The botanicals action plan is defined, and we are on track to have programs. ECOCERT certification (a certification organization for sustainable development) for 50% of our main botanicals in 2018 and 100% in • LEBLON® to achieve Bonsucro certification. 2019. • Our wheat supplier improvement program is ongoing, and we are working with our supplier on sustainable farming practices. • In FY18, we were able to achieve Bonsucro certification for LEBLON® For sugarcane-derived products for rum, ensure As of end of CY17, all new suppliers have completed VQP audits VQP audits for new suppliers and work with them to and 86.3% of our sugarcane-derived products for BACARDÍ rum are achieve Bonsucro certification by end of CY17. sourced from Bonsucro-certified suppliers 29 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Targets and Progress FY18 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING TARGETS FY18 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING PROGRESS Train all new strategic raw materials and packaging • While ongoing suppliers received training on our Good Spirited suppliers on Good Spirited program goals. Work program over the last few years, all new strategic raw materials and with suppliers to achieve Forest Stewardship Council packaging suppliers were trained on our Good Spirited programs certification for labels and corrugated packaging. and long-term goals during FY18. • As of mid-2018, 90% of our corrugated packaging suppliers are Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)/Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC)/Forestry Sustainable Initiative (FSI) certified. • We are working with our individual box and label suppliers on action plans to achieve FSC certification. As of mid-2018, 52% of our individual boxes and 66% of our labels are sustainably certified.. 30 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Key Highlights Supplier Engagement through Sedex We request our suppliers to perform a Sedex Members We ask our suppliers to join Sedex to share Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) for each of their facilities information with us, and any other customers, on their that deliver products to our manufacturing sites. SMETA relevant standards; and to take a similar approach is one of the most widely used ethical audit formats in with their suppliers, as we recognize there are risks the world and is compilation of good practice in ethical further along our supply chain. audit technique. Using SMETA, a supplier can have one audit conducted and share it with multiple customers, Sedex is one of the largest collaborative platforms in rather than having a different audit conducted for each the world for buyers, suppliers and auditors to store, customer. SMETA methodology uses the Ethical Trading share and report on information quickly and easily. Initiative code and local law as the measurement tool. Members can take advantage of standardized formats and reports while collaborating by sharing common It includes four modules: information. • Health and safety • Labor standards For buyers, Sedex makes it simpler to understand how • Environment supply chains are performing and identify and act on • Business ethics opportunities for improvement. For suppliers, Sedex makes it easy to share information with multiple buyers in an agreed format. Sedex Audit Management Service Process Customer/Buyer Supplier schedules Audit is completed Supplier sends Auditor uploads communicates to audit with chosen offline and report request to auditor report with audit Supplier Audit Audit Company produced by to upload report issues and this Requirements Audit Company on to the Sedex becomes visible to System customers 31 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Meyrin-AIESEC Partnership Our botanicals team in Meyrin, Switzerland partnered with international nonprofit organization AIESEC (a platform for young people to explore and develop their leadership potential) to help a Ghana village in West Africa learn to farm Grains of Paradise responsibly and become sustainable for the long-term. The new plants are thriving, and the village is operating well with school and nutrition available. With the help of AIESEC, the village will be able to independently choose whether to organize as a cooperative or a direct supplier for BOMBAY SAPPHIRE® gin and now has the skills to farm additional botanicals and crops. 32 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE People at Bacardi Limited As announced last year, we have chosen to internally phase out the word ‘employee’ for our people, instead calling each other ‘Primo,’ (Spanish for cousin, paying homage to our Cuban roots). As a familyowned company, we believe it carries with it the family spirit of Bacardi and reflects how connected we are to each other. Since our creation in 1862, our business has been built supply chain, are our greatest asset and our Code of with a sense of being Fearless, a Founders Mentality and Conduct and Responsible Sourcing Standards exemplify with Family and heritage at its core. To unleash the this commitment. power within our organization and help us realize our full potential, we want to reignite our culture by dialing In FY18, we launched our new Applicant Tracking System up the distinctive aspects of Fearless, Founders and to increase our ability to tap into and select the right Family. internal and external talent for Bacardi. We also held the second edition of our Bacardi Ready development Moving forward, these three pillars of our culture program in India, ensuring we are empowering the will guide our long-term goals in our People pillar future leaders of our emerging markets. Building on past Corporate Responsibility strategy. In addition, we successes of our Women in Leadership (WIL) initiative, we recognize the importance of, and align our standards started the WIL mentoring program in Eastern Europe and to, the UN Global Compact, the UN Declaration for expanded our support of S.H.E. Summit. As of FY18, 36% of Human Rights, and Fundamental Conventions of the management roles were held by women; encompassing International Labor Organization (ILO). Our people, 38% of our total workforce. whether direct employees or as members of our 33 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE In addition, in FY18 we expanded Coaching to Win (a Our newly launched Good Spirited global goals include development program aimed at building fundamental one specifically about taking care of and supporting coaching skills for Bacardi leaders to unlock the our people. In our hiring strategy, we also recognize the performance and potential of their teams) with multiple importance of globally reflecting the diversity of our workshops reaching 300 employees globally. Eight operations among our employees. new coaches participated in the International Coach Federation certification program with each supporting the deployment of Leadership Insights (a series of intensive diagnostic and coaching experiences at different leadership levels). Pro-bono coaching hours for the new coaches were committed to supporting one of the projects of our NextGen development program. 34 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE The targets under this goal include references to our culture pillars: Fearless, Founders, and Family. Fearless Founders Family We help our employees We all play a role in making We treat each other, and our connect with their own values Bacardi ‘the place we want to communities, like family… and purpose; empowering be’ and we’ve earned the right always. We respond as a global them to grow, perform and to be recognized externally family and take into account bring their authentic selves to for the way we engage our local uniqueness. And like a work every day. employees. family, everyone is appreciated because of their differences. • 90% of employees will have • Engagement Index (a global participated in Bacardi’s HR measure that companies • Support equal opportunity innovative training and use to assess four key elements and leadership for women at development programs. of employee engagement: all levels by having at least satisfaction, pride, retention, 45% female workforce and and advocacy) increases to an increase in women in best-in-class level 80% as leadership positions. measured through our biennial employee survey. 35 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Targets and Progress FY18 PEOPLE TARGETS FY18 PEOPLE PROGRESS Globally embed Becoming Bacardi Mobile Application This target was not achieved as we ran into challenges in use and across all countries. 95% of new hires complete the monitoring. The Becoming Bacardi Mobile Application is available four elements of Becoming Bacardi in all countries across all countries; however, we are still under 95% completion in the first 90 days (Mixology, Development Plans, for new hires. Buddy, and Becoming Bacardi App). Pilot Applicant Tracking System to increase our ability The new Applicant Tracking System was launched with 64,647 to tap into and select internal and external talent for unique candidates in 32 countries posting 549 available roles. The Bacardi. Pilot Next Move solution (a proactive internal Next Move launch was delayed but will be integrated into talent head-hunting program to explore career interests and succession activities, including tailored job alerts available by of employees after more than two years in current country and function, in FY19. position). Maintain current Women in Leadership (WIL) ratios In FY18, 36% of management positions were held by women; and expand external presence through S.H.E. Summit 25% of executive positions; and 38% of all positions across the to Asia and Latin America. Launch of Women in organization. In addition, WIL established a global governance Leadership mentoring program in Eastern Europe and and support structure to ensure successful expansion of activities Northern Europe. across all our markets. The expansion of the S.H.E. Summit is in progress, as well as the Women’s Empowerment Series. The WIL mentoring program in Eastern Europe resulted in 67% of participating women being promoted to new roles within the company. 10% of employees globally involved in Action Teams, There were 65 Action Teams in FY18, representing 8.2% of as a follow-up to the Primos Engagement Survey, in employees globally. Pulse surveys have been deployed in line with FY15 participation. Pulse Surveys deployed multiple regions as a follow-up to the Primos Engagement Survey. on a regional basis. Continue to expand Coaching to Win (a development We expanded Coaching to Win with multiple workshops program aimed at building fundamental coaching reaching 300 Primos globally. Eight new coaches participated skills for Bacardi leaders to unlock the performance in the International Coach Federation certification program and potential of their teams) through two workshops with each supporting the deployment of Leadership per region or function. In addition, we will certify Insights. Pro-bono coaching hours for the new coaches were 13 internal talents with the International Coach committed to supporting the NextGen “Shake Your Future” Federation (coaching certification body) to ensure students in Paris. Bacardi Ready was successfully delivered high quality delivery. Build internal expertise to 25 employees in India. Volemos deployed in North extending Leadership Insights (a series of intensive America and Rising Stars (a strategic talent development diagnostic and coaching experiences at different program focused on new and innovative ideas) relaunched, leadership levels) across the organization. Roll out democratized, and rebranded as the NextGen program. Bacardi Ready in India. Pilot Volemos (a joint graduate development program for Bacardi and its North American distributor) and kick off second Rising Stars program. 36 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Key Highlights WIL Spirit Forward The Bacardi Women in Leadership (WIL) Spirit Forward program is a five-city summit that spans the United States and aims to empower women in the spirits and hospitality industry through inspiring keynotes and invaluable panelist discussions. More than 500 professional women and men in Houston, Miami, San Francisco, Chicago, and New York gathered to share personal stories and work together to tackle gender parity as well as address tough topics ranging from sexual harassment to breaking stigmas in the workplace. The one-day conference featured personal and professional educational seminars, a self-defense workshop, energizing Q&A panels, and a networking happy hour. In addition to educating, WIL partnered with Speed Rack (a national cocktail competition featuring top female bartenders in key cocktail markets) and PUNCH (an independent, online magazine) to celebrate the accomplishments of female industry leaders. Part of the proceeds from the Spirit Forward events went to Dress for Success, a nonprofit charity dedicated to helping those less fortunate find success in the workplace. There are plans to hold another tour in additional cities in FY19. Bacardi Ready India In October 2017, 26 employees from India, South East Asia, and the Middle East came together in India for the second running of the Bacardi Ready development program. Bacardi Ready is a fully immersive development experience that challenges and develops the knowledge, skills and behaviors of future emerging market leaders. The program is very experiential in nature covering the full spectrum of topics from commercial and finance, to leadership and culture, to cocktail-making and brand immersion. Throughout the 7-day experience the future leaders had the opportunity to put into practice their new knowledge and skills and each evening attended events celebrating our great brands. To ensure that the learning gets applied in the business, Bacardi Ready went a step further and established 30-60-90 days follow up sessions in Commercial, Customer Marketing, and People domains. This was a win-win as it helped us measure the impact of the program and helped the participants refresh their knowledge and clarify any operational questions they may have about the newly acquired skills. 37 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Great Place to Work Bacardi works every day to make sure coming to work for the company is a great experience for all our employees. In FY18, Bacardi in the U.S. was certified a Great Place to Work®. More than 320 employees filled out anonymous surveys with 91% saying their workplace is great. In addition, these Bacardi employees said: 97% 96% 95% 93% 92% People celebrate I’m proud to This is a fun Our facilities People care about special events tell others I place to work contribute to a each other here around here work here good working environment NextGen Shake Your Future During FY18, the Bacardi Rising Stars (now called NextGen) development program transitioned from a millennials-only learning opportunity to an idea generation lab open to all Bacardi employee-entrepreneurs aimed to drive change and continuously redesign their thinking. The new NextGen program will focus on inspiring Bacardi employees to grow and develop, instill the Founder’s Mentality, and help win the next generation of consumers. “Shake Your Future” was a pilot initiative that grew from the NexGen program. It was designed to train unemployed young adults (legal drinking age to 30 years old) as best-in-class bartenders by providing tools for long-term employment. The pilot program took place in the French suburb Saint Ouen, where the Bacardi office is located. Ten students were selected to follow a four-week bartender course from the European Bartender School in Paris, including learning about responsible drinking and resources available, followed by a four-week internship at one of Bacardi’s partner outlets. To ensure the students learned as much as possible, the program concluded with a twoweek advanced course at the European Bartender School in Barcelona. During the program each student was also provided with a trained coach (as part of our Coaching to Win program) to help develop the skills needed to ensure employment success. After evaluating the results of the pilot program, the Bacardi team will look to expand Shake Your Future into additional markets. 38 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE People Scorecard Please note this data is for Fiscal Year 2018, before the completion of the Patrón acquisition. G4-10 Total number of permanent employees by employment contract, employment type, region & gender. At the end of FY18, our total workforce was 5,801, comprising 5,470 employees and 331 supervised workers. Total Workforce Employees by Type of Employment Contract Employees Supervised Workers Full Time Part Time 331 103 5,470 4,978 Permanent Employees by Employment Type Workforce by Region North America Europe Permanent Temporary Middle East and Africa Latin America Asia Pacific 389 621 882 890 5081 3,013 64 39 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. In FY18 806 external new employees joined the business, representing a hire rate of 15%. In FY18 872 employees left the company, representing a turnover rate of 16%. 496 promotions, 301 lateral moves (for a combined promotion/ mover rate of 15%). New Hires by Gender New Hires by Region Male Female North America Europe Middle East and Africa Latin America Asia Pacific 126 134 346 460 130 410 6 Employees Turnover by Gender Employees Turnover by Region Male Female North America Europe Middle East and Africa Latin America Asia Pacific 89 147 341 178 531 458 0 Employees Turnover by Age New Hires by Age Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 25 143 205 328 453 524 40 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. In FY18, 39% of employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. 2,121 Employees Coverd by Collective Bargaining Agreements: 3,349 Covered Not Covered G4-LA12 Total Board Members Total Employees Composition of Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 Under 30 30 to 50 Over 50 governance and 0 ethics bodies and breakdown of 1 employees per 864 1,139 employee category according to gender and age group. 14 3,467 Male: 13 Female: 2 Male: 3,377 Female: 2,093 41 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Safety We have a responsibility to keep our people safe at work and our vision is an accident-free Bacardi. At our manufacturing sites and offices, the safety of our people always comes first. In FY18 we held 12 Safety Days at manufacturing sites around the world, with more than 1,400 employees engaged in learning and sharing best practices in our safety culture. Each year we work towards our global goal of less than one Lost Time Accident (LTA) per 1,000,000 worked hours (by 2023). While we have made excellent progress over the last few years, we ran into challenges in FY18. Out of 23 Total Recordable Incident Rate (Manufacturing Sites) manufacturing sites operating at end of FY18, 11 Per Million of Worked Hours were accident-free for more than one year. 9.0 8.0 This accomplishment can be attributed to one 7.0 of our core safety behaviors taking care of your 6.0 coworkers. It is up to each employee to look out 5.0 for each other and be more involved in pointing 6.4 6.6 6.9 4.0 out hazards in the working environment; 3.0 5.3 everyone is responsible for engaging in an 2.0 accident-free work environment. In FY19 we will 1.0 focus on reassessing our safety fundamentals to 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 ensure full compliance at all our operations sites Note: FY15 & FY16 worked hours have been restated for one site and on supporting our most recently acquired which resulted in a slight increase on TRIr for these two years sites in their safety culture journey. compared to previous report. Number of LTAs LTA rate Manufacturing NonManufacturing Total FY15 1.1 8 6 14 FY16 1.5 10 9 19 FY17 1.2 9 6 15 FY18 2.0 17 7 24 42 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PEOPLE Targets and Progress FY18 SAFETY TARGETS FY18 SAFETY PROGRESS Improve overall B-Safe Observations* rate by 30% vs B-Safe Observations rate was improved by 57% vs FY17. This FY17. While we started to report this rate globally in rate was achieved by getting 100% of our employees trained FY16, we believe our FY17 target was most likely set as B-Safe Observers in all our manufacturing sites. too low with activities expanding. Our FY18 target is reasonably ambitious as B-Safe Observations reinforce safe behaviors and correct unsafe behaviors through feedback. This is one of the key elements of our safety culture and is contributing to the improvement of our safety performance. This target will be supported by the training of 100% of our employees in all our manufacturing sites in conducting B-Safe Observations. Overall LTA rate of less than 1 per million of worked Overall LTA rate was 2.0 per million of worked hours. hours by 2023 Unfortunately, we ran into challenges at our manufacturing sites and had a 3.8 LTA rate (with 17 LTAs) against a target of 1.6. We are launching additional supporting programs to reach our overall safety goal of having less than 1 LTA per million worked hours by FY23. Safety First program** – achieving all Silver standards Silver level was achieved in all active Bacardi plants, with new by FY18 in all plants locations achieving Bronze level. * B-Safe Observations are behavioral based safety observations and feedback, based on best practice Behavioral Based Safety programs, to positively reinforce safe behaviors at work, started at Bacardi in 2009. All employees at our manufacturing sites can conduct B-safe Observations as long as they receive the proper training. **Safety First is our Bacardi-created program to raise our safety culture, designed with four levels: Foundation (Bacardi mandatory minimum standards), Bronze (safety practices right above mandatory), Silver (advanced safety practices), and Gold (‘best practice’ safety practices according to top external benchmarks). 43 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Philanthropy & Community Investment at Bacardi Limited Philanthropy & Community Investment has been a core foundation since the beginning of Bacardi. The company and the Bacardi family provided local disaster relief assistance, built a new city library, and supported charitable organizations from its inception in 1862 through today. Bacardi continues to be committed to the communities in which we live and work. We encourage employees to volunteer their time in programs and activities to support local organizations and we support the many worthwhile charities in our towns working to better our communities. Despite being rated as a relatively lower priority on our materiality matrix, engaging our employees in supporting local communities remains an important part of our overall Corporate Responsibility approach as it benefits our communities and organization. Our annual Corporate Responsibility Month initiative encourages all Bacardi operations to hold events important to their communities. We support local community initiatives across a range of activities in four broad areas: • Arts & Culture • Education • Environment • Health & Social Services Part of measuring our community investment is assessing the effect our charitable donations, Bacardi in the U.S. FY18 Charitable Gifts both cash and in-kind, have on the organizations Arts and Culture Education Environment Health and Social Services and communities we support. While we have continually updated our reporting system since its launch last fiscal year to make it more user-friendly, 19% we will begin training our global employees on the process to ensure accurate tracking in FY19. Bacardi 49% in the United States, with our North America headquarters located in Coral Gables, Florida, takes 26% our commitment to our South Florida community very seriously. In FY18, Bacardi in U.S. alone 6% provided $300,000 in cash grants to local charitable organizations and more than $350,000 in in-kind donations. 44 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT At our headquarters in Bermuda, we understand the importance of sharing our resources to ensure that we have a stronger, more vibrant local community that improves the quality of life for our employees, customers, and the public. We believe that Bacardi, and its employees, benefit through a greater connection with Bermuda’s worthy charities, and a sense of fulfilment in the community where we live and work. In FY18, philanthropic support in excess of $370,000 was made to Bermuda organizations that enrich the community, including: • Bermuda Hospital Charitable Trust • Bermuda National Gallery • The Bermuda National Trust • National Museum of Bermuda • The Bermuda Festival of Performing Arts Some of our offices and employees were impacted by natural disasters in FY18, including Hurricane Maria, which hit our Puerto Rico distillery in September 2017. While we were very lucky to have minimal damage to our facility and only a 10-day delay in production of our BACARDÍ rums, our people and our community were significantly affected. In addition to our community relief efforts and providing more than $3 million in charitable gifts to organizations helping with rebuilding efforts, our employees and partners from around the world contributed to an online fundraising campaign. All the money raised went to employees directly affected to help get their lives back on track. 45 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Building on these efforts, in FY18 Bacardi announced the creation of the Bacardi Disaster Relief Fund to support employees affected by future disasters and a new volunteer opportunity, called My InSpirit Day, for employees to take an additional workday to give back to a cause that has personal meaning for them. Good Spirited global goal: Take care of our communities 95% of Bacardi offices and manufacturing sites participate in at least one Corporate Responsibility 90% of employees to volunteer for one work day to a personal employee engagement activity in partnership with cause or organization local organizations 46 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Targets and Progress FY18 PCI TARGETS FY18 PCI PROGRESS Roll out Charitable Donations policy globally The new global Charitable Donations policy was rolled out through trainings, webinars, and other internal through internal communications, though full training will communications tools to all employees. not happen until FY19, as some internal finance systems need to be updated to better track accounting for monetary and in-kind donations. 80% of CR Ambassadors to record employee 48% of CR Ambassadors submitted a CR Month activity in our engagement in CR Month activities. CR Database. 95% of the 40 countries where Bacardi has employees 73% of the countries where Bacardi has employees recorded to participate in a CR Month activity. participation in a CR Month activity. Update financial systems to track all Bacardi This process has started, including an in-depth internal audit philanthropic giving. to identify the gaps and recommend best practice and next steps. The roll-out of updating the financial systems will be complete in FY19. 47 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Key Highlights Spirit for Life, Caring Together Corporate Responsibility (CR) Month took place from May June 2017. This annual corporate event is held across Bacardi sites and offices and is an opportunity for personnel to support projects in their local communities that are relevant to them. The company gives at least one day to work on an activity together. CR Ambassadors in each region are provided with a toolkit that includes examples and ideas for encouraging local staff to take part in CR Month. Local sites have the freedom, within the CR Month guidelines, to choose projects relevant to their staff and communities. In FY18, 27%* of Bacardi employees participated in a CR Month activity in 29 countries. Thirty-eight Bacardi offices and manufacturing sites reported holding at least one activity, with a total of more than 12,000 volunteer hours. from Atotonilco (where the tequila facility is located) received basic food supplies every two weeks. In addition, their volunteer group supported various activities throughout the year, including donations to local group homes, tree reforestation, painting and refurbishing local Some examples of CR Month activities include: NGO centers, serving meals to needy families, and spending • Cleaning/landscaping/planting trees at parks, river time with seniors at their residence facilities. banks, stone quarry, playgrounds, beaches, office sites • Cleaning animal sanctuaries, working with therapy animals • Food, clothing, school supplies, household items collection and donation to local charities • Organizing food bank pantries, cooking for the less fortunate • Blood drives • Fundraising for local charitable organizations • Responsible drinking programs • Building homes Our newest Patrón employees are also committed to supporting their community. Thanks to Patrón’s support over the last year, more than 1,100 families *While 27% is a low number and we hope to grow engagement moving forward, we benchmarked our data against the London Benchmarking Group’s yearly report and it is above average for employee volunteer percentages across their member companies. 48 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Disaster Relief Immediately following Hurricane Maria’s landfall, Bacardi Limited and the Bacardi family committed more than $3 million for disaster relief and recovery efforts in the impacted areas with more than $2 million being dedicated to Puerto Rico. Major grants have been provided to help Puerto Rico recover and rebuild. This includes a $1 million grant to Mercy Corps to support tourism recovery through trainings and grants to small and medium enterprises, natural area rehabilitation and an outreach campaign; and $300,000 to Unidos por Puerto Rico for organizations working on social services, food and water distribution, and health and housing for BACARDÍ rum committed $1.3 million to the TIDAL X: Brooklyn Puerto Rico citizens. benefit concert in NYC, which took place on October 17 at the Barclays Center in New York and raised $3.7 million. From Through an island-wide outreach campaign in FY19, Bacardi’s sponsorship, $717,000 was directed to the Global Bacardi and Mercy Corps will promote that businesses Giving Foundation, which provided charitable donations to and natural areas are ready to welcome tourists, with the disaster relief efforts in Puerto Rico, Mexico, Houston, Florida and goal of driving tourism and commerce. the Caribbean. In addition to our Puerto Rico relief efforts, Bacardi donated $50,000 to organizations in Mexico who provided emergency disaster relief to communities hit by the earthquakes. Bacardi in the U.S. was proud to donate $50,000 and match an additional $10,000 to Southern Glazers Wine & Spirits Employee Relief Fund, set up after the devastation of Hurricane Harvey in Houston, Texas. This money went to support employees who lost homes due to the floods. Our Bacardi staff ran and managed two Emergency Stop & Go community relief centers, one in Toa Baja (very near Cataño where the distillery is located) and one in San Juan. The Bacardi-supported Emergency Stop & Go community relief centers provided hot meals, water, cell phone charging stations, medical services, access to government agencies, and activities for families at each center. We also activated 12 mobile relief caravans to deliver food, water, and medical services to 12 of the hardest hit areas across the island. This initiative was called Bacardi Contigo. 49 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report PHILANTHROPY AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Repairing/Rehabilitating Hand Pumps in Nigeria Access to safe water and sanitation is a major challenge in Nigeria. Working in partnership with the Tulsi Chanrai Foundation, the Bacardi Middle East and Africa team were able to repair and/or rehabilitate more than 60 handpumps in Kebbi State and train private local area mechanics and WASHCOMs (Water and Sanitation Hygiene Committee) to ensure upkeep of the handpumps and safe hygiene practices. It was also important to provide the training to empower the community to take responsibility for their safe drinking water facilities. Now, more than 17,000 residents have access to safe drinking water. 50 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report ABOUT THIS REPORT About this Report This is the 11th annual Corporate Responsibility report produced by family-owned Bacardi Limited, the largest privately held spirits company in the world. It focuses on our work to manage the social and environmental impacts of our business. Reporting Content Any restatements of data are noted in the relevant This report relates to fiscal year 2018 (April 1, 2017 sections of this report. Data has been compiled to March 31, 2018). For comprehensive information following the GRI indicator protocols. Data regarding Corporate Responsibility at Bacardi Limited, measurement techniques and assumptions are cited please visit our website www.BacardiLimited.com/ in the relevant sections of the report. The WRI/WBCSD corporate-responsibility. This report contains standard Greenhouse Gas Protocol was used to compile our GHG disclosures from the GRI (G4) Sustainability Reporting emissions data. Guidelines. Boundary Data Bacardi Limited refers to the Bacardi group of There have been no significant changes in the scope or companies, including Bacardi International Limited. Any boundaries of the data we are reporting this year. reference to “Bacardi” as a company in this report refers to Bacardi Limited, one of its subsidiaries or a group of Data presented in the People and Philanthropy & Bacardi companies. For more information on Bacardi Community Investment sections, as well as Safety data Limited’s corporate structure, brand portfolio, and from the People section, cover our offices and our location of operations please visit directly-owned and managed production facilities. www.BacardiLimited.com. Data on indirect GHG emissions cover our directlyRequest for Feedback owned and managed production facilities and large We would like to hear from our stakeholders on our offices with 25 people or more. All other environmental 2018 Corporate Responsibility report. Please email us at data cover our directly-owned and managed CorporateResponsibility@Bacardi.com. production facilities. Thank you. Performance data from our suppliers, outsourced bottlers, and co-packers are not included. 51 BACARDI LIMITED | 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report
