Sustainability report 2018 Report based on facts from 2017 Our sustainability approach In the second decade of the twenty-first century, the world faces significant challenges. Population growth and climate change are driving demands for good health and wellbeing for all, decent work and economic growth and lower emissions – among many others. CONTENTS Our sustainability approach 2 CEO statement 4 About the company 8 Responsibility for our products 16 Our people 19 Minimising environmental impact 24 Health and safety 32 Corporate Social Responsibility 35 Code of Conduct 37 Anti-bribery and corruption 41 Working with suppliers 42 Managing sustainability risks 43 Our sales offices 45 2 Sustainability report 2017 In 2015, countries within the the UN adopted These priorities have also been informed by a set of 17 sustainable development goals materiality assessment reviews, the policy to be achieved by 2030; national and supraof our owners, Investor AB, requirements national regulations are also tackling these. from EU directives, legal reporting and public At the same time, companies and other tender requirements. organisations, including our customers, are driving sustainability through procurement Report aim, scope and structure practices, by ensuring that the companies The report covers Mölnlycke’s main operations they use take responsibility for their around the world and our market sites between people, suppliers, the environment and the January and December 2017. Our previous communities where they operate. Sustainability Report covered the 2016 calendar In today’s world, it’s essential for Mölnlycke year, and our report is issued annually. to have a sustainable long-term vision – and We take inspiration from the Global Reporting to constantly monitor and refine our actions Index (GRI) guidelines to structure our report. and strategies to meet the needs of all our The content for 2017 has been gathered from stakeholders. different internal specialists and approved by As a healthcare company and a significant our Executive Management Team. We have employer and user of suppliers, we have also carried out analyses of our sustainability chosen to focus on UN sustainable develop­ impact, preventative work, and the areas in ment goals ‘#3: ‘Good health and wellbeing which we need to improve. for all’ and #8: ‘Decent work and economic We have assurance processes to ensure growth’ as we believe that this is where we our sustainability reporting is transparent can create the most value. and reliable. Our Executive Management Team have We have set out to be as transparent as we can further focused on six strategic priorities, in disclosing information. This report intends to after assessing how we can create most value give readers a true picture of our sustainability from a sustainability perspective and after approach, performance and risk assessments. reviewing, together with internal specialists, While we are ahead in some areas, we rec­og­ where the company and our solutions can nise we have work to do in others. have the greatest impact: • sustainable supply chains and supply We will strive to review the scope of our chain resilience reporting over time to continuously improve our performance – while leveraging the value • anti-bribery and corruption creation opportunities that a sustainable • diversity and equality perspective gives. • product quality We encourage feedback from our stakeholders • CO² emissions to help us improve our sustainability work as • waste. well as to improve the report. If you have any comments or feedback, please email us at: corporate.communication@molnlycke.com 3 CEO statement Sustainability with customers and patients at the heart Our goal is to promote sustainable healthcare with better outcomes for customers, patients and society, while acting in a socially and environmentally responsible way, as CEO Richard Twomey explains. We're partnering with healthcare providers to Our purpose statement find new methodologies to reduce the incidence of pressure ulcers over the whole patient Mölnlycke is a world-leading medical journey, from acute to long-term, with our solutions company. Our purpose is to advance products as just one part of the solution. performance in healthcare across the world, and we aspire to equip everybody in healthcare There are also examples within our surgical with solutions to achieve the best outcomes. and wound treatment portfolios. Mölnlycke® Procedure Trays are well-known for driving operating room efficiency and reducing the We’re living in a time of great social change. risk of infection. Our next-generation wound As people live longer and enjoy higher standards care solution Mepilex® Border Flex manages of living globally, they inevitably demand more exudate better and stays on for longer so from their healthcare – increasing the pressure patients can get back to their lives faster. on already burdened systems. In a small way, we believe our work contributes to the UN’s global sustainability goal #3: As a world-leading medical solutions company, ‘Good health and wellbeing for all’. we have a key role in helping providers meet this demand, delivering better care for more people Implementing ethical standards in a way that’s sustainable over the long term. Through advances in our wound management, Sustainability is central to our whole business surgical and prevention solutions, we aim to approach. We aim to be a long-term partner increase the overall health economic value for in society. That means acting in a socially society while also reducing patient suffering. responsible and ethical way, not just with our customers and patients, but also towards the Reducing unnecessary cost environment, our people and the communities and suffering we serve. Many of our solutions demonstrate this Our Code of Conduct, page 37, sets out the high sustainable approach. Pressure ulcers make standards we expect from ourselves and our up a growing proportion of health spending – suppliers. We carry out regular audits of our preventing them will not only reduce needless performance to ensure we live up to the spirit suffering for vulnerable patients, it will and letter of the Code and follow up if we’ve also reduce the time and cost of treatment. fallen short in any area. 5 CEO statement In 2017, we also set up a new whistleblowing appropriate tools. During 2017, we started to hotline that our employees can use if they spot implement Polaris, a new quality management bad practice in any of our operations. system, to streamline, strengthen and simplify our procedures across the company. We take product responsibility very seriously. We're passionate about developing clinical We are also investing to improve our evidence to back up our solutions – so patients produc­tion facilities, create efficiencies and and customers can trust them to do what we ensure quality for customers and patients. claim they can do. This also ensures sustain­ Our Mölnlycke® Procedure Tray factory in able healthcare outcomes for our customers. Havirov, the Czech Republic, which opened When evidence about our solutions is misused, in May 2017, has set new benchmarks for we challenge it to protect patients from harm – production and quality standards, bringing as we did in October this year when one of our sterilisation in-house to create efficiencies competitors falsely claimed research about throughout the supply chain. our solutions for their own products. Efficiency is key to our business. We strive Our standards are underpinned by rigorous to become more efficient and less wasteful compliance with the laws and regulations every year. This also favours our customers, applicable to the regions where our products as the increasing demand on healthcare are sold, including the FDA Quality System organisations means they operate in a costRegulation, and the EU 93/42/EEC and constrained environment. 2007/47 EC Medical Devices Directive, with However, a growing business like ours can future transition to the EU Medical Device struggle to demonstrate our efficiencies Regulation. We also meet key industry through targets – more production tends to standards such as ISO 14001 for environmental mean greater consumption and higher costs. management, ISO 13485 for medical devices, But we are increasing our efforts to do more and Occupational Health and Safety Standard with less and achieve our goals. (OHSAS) 18001 for health and safety. Reducing our Continuously improving environmental impact what we do As a growing business, we are aware that, Our goal is to continuously improve so that to be sustainable, we need to minimise the we can create long-term value for all our impact of our activities on the environment. stake­holders. We constantly evaluate our We constantly look for ways to reduce our procedures, looking for new and better ways consumption of materials and resources, to do things. We also seek to become more avoiding waste wherever possible, as well rigorous about measuring and following up as driving down CO² emissions from our opportunities for improvement using the most transportation network. This year, we achieved 6 Sustainability report 2017 global certification with the new ISO 14001:2015 and DEBRA, which represent some of our standard for environmental management. core patient groups. During 2017, we increased our efforts, donating more than $200,000 We set targets for improvement and, where to each charity – from fundraising efforts by we miss them, we investigate the reasons, colleagues, matched by donations from the so that we can implement corrective actions. company. We also donate products and time Read more in Minimising environmental to these causes, and have provided volunteers impact, page 24. for Operation Smile’s surgical missions in developing countries over many years. A responsible employer Read more in Corporate Social Responsibility, As an employer, we aim to provide the best page 35. working environment, with safe and fair I truly believe that sustainability is a core working conditions, where we show respect part of our business approach and key to our for every individual. Our approach relates to continued success. We are committed to acting the UN’s global sustainability goal #8 ‘Decent in a socially responsible way that benefits work and economic growth’. We make sure customers, patients and society over the that everyone has the chance to develop their long term. potential and give them the pay, working conditions and support they need to improve. And we have quality procedures to ensure that suppliers treat their staff well – which is particularly important in developing countries. In 2018 and beyond, we will focus on increasing diversity throughout the orga­nisa­tion, ensuring that we don’t discriminate on the basis of race, nationality, religion, age, disability, gender, Richard Twomey marital status, sexual orientation, union Chief Executive Officer membership or political affiliation. We will place a particular focus on growing the number of female leaders. Read more in Our people, page 19. Doing more for our communities Our company and our people always strive to do better for the communities we serve. We have made long-term commitments to support our charity partners Operation Smile 7 About the company Mölnlycke is a world-leading medical products and solutions company. We aspire to equip everybody in healthcare to achieve the best clinical, patient and economic outcomes. Our solutions are used to procure our solutions. We also sell some of our wound management solutions Our medical solutions enhance performance directly to patients through pharmacies. in healthcare – from the hospital to the home. Our business model Wound management We offer around 20,000 different stock items We advance wound healing with wound care to our customers around the world. While we solutions that are backed by clinical evidence, manu­facture the large majority of them, we buy including dressings with Safetac® and negative in raw materials and components. We use more pressure wound therapy systems. We also than 550 direct suppliers and contract manu­ provide education and expert support. facturers. In 2017, there were over 600,000 deliveries to 15,000 partners worldwide. Preventing pressure ulcers We reduce the risk of pressure ulcers with Commercial prevention solutions such as prophylactic Our Commercial strategy teams map market dressings, devices that help healthcare and customer needs in order to determine professionals turn and reposition patients how we can best assist our customers to and supporting educational and consultancy deliver their objectives, and which markets services. and product segments to expand. This work is supported by our Research and Development Surgical solutions (R&D) function. Our Commercial strategy We improve safety and efficiency in and around function is based at our headquarters (HQ) in the operating room with surgical procedure Gothenburg, Sweden. trays including surgical instruments. We also Within Commercial, our sales and marketing protect staff and patients from infection with teams are responsible for identifying, target­ surgical drapes, staff clothing, antiseptics and ing and engaging with our customers around surgical gloves, and provide education and the world. Our global sales and marketing expert support. teams set strategies and are based at our HQ in Gothenburg. Our sales and marketing Our customers operations are carried out within four regions: Our surgical solutions are marketed to Asia-Pacific (APAC); Western Europe and hospitals and healthcare providers in the Canada (WeCan); the US; and emerging acute sector, while our wound management markets in Europe, the Middle East, Latin and pressure ulcer prevention solutions are America and Africa. In 2017, there were aimed at both the acute and the community 11 sales offices in APAC covering 20 countries, healthcare sectors. In many markets, tenders 17 in WeCan covering 20 countries, one in 8 Sustainability report 2017 Our main brands WOUND MANAGEMENT Mepilex®. A wide range of dressings for acute and chronic wounds. Mepitel®. A gentle, effective wound contact layer. Exufiber®. A gelling fibre dressing to manage the challenges of highly exuding wounds. Exufiber® PREVENTION Mepilex® Border. Prophylactic dressings for targeted areas of the body such as the sacrum and heel. Mölnlycke® Tortoise™ Turning and positioning system. A support surface making it easier for caregivers to reposition patients and redistribute pressure. Mölnlycke® Z-Flo™ Fluidised positioner. Positioners that conform to the body and remain in place. Mölnlycke® Z-Flex™ Heel boot. A heel boot that positions the leg while taking the load off the heel. Mepilex® Border Sacrum SURGICAL SOLUTIONS BARRIER® staff clothing. A wide range of protective clothing for the safety and comfort of healthcare professionals and patients. BARRIER® drapes. A range of drapes specifically designed for different types of surgical procedures. Biogel® surgical gloves. For protection and double-gloving, featuring a puncture indication system. Also the preferred choice for fit, feel and comfort. Mölnlycke® surgical instruments. A wide assortment of single-use instruments, including trocars, for minimally invasive surgery. Mölnlycke® Procedure Trays. All the single-use items needed for a specific surgical intervention, conveniently assembled in a sterile pack to give healthcare professionals a truly customised and complete solution. Hibi® antiseptics. Solutions for preventing infection include hand hygiene, disinfectant and pre-surgery whole body wash. Mölnlycke surgical instruments 9 About the company the US and nine in our emerging markets, Our procure­ment teams support our manu­ covering 10 countries. fac­turing team and are responsible for the identi­fi­ca­tion and selection of suppliers of Research and Development raw materials, components and services, contract negotiations and supplier Our R&D team is responsible for developing relationship management. and upgrading our solutions in consultation with our manufacturing, procurement, Operations: Distribution, logistics and regulatory and commercial teams. We also customer care collaborate with external partners to strengthen our in-house R&D resources. Our distribution and logistics teams are R&D is based at our HQ in Gothenburg. responsible for warehousing and distributing our solutions. We distribute both directly Supply Chain Management, to customers and to third parties, such as Manufacturing and Procurement distributors and logistics partners. Supply Chain Management is responsible for Our supply chain is complex. It varies depend­ the management of supply planning, inventory ing on the different products that are produced, planning and replenishment. the customers and countries delivered to, and the kind of healthcare system in the country we We have 16 manufacturing sites around are delivering to. Finished goods are usually the world: in Malaysia, Thailand, the Czech shipped to our seven distribution centres: Republic, Finland, Belgium, France, Poland, the United Kingdom and the US. We produce • two in the US: Anderson, South Carolina; some of the com­zponents for our products and Sparks, Nevada in-house, such as the hydrophilic poly­ • five in Europe: Waremme, Belgium; urethane foam for our wound treatment Lyon, France; South Normanton, UK; solutions. We also buy in from around Landskrona, Sweden; and Sosnowiec, 40 contract manufacturing suppliers. Poland. OUR BUSINESS MODEL INPUTS MANUFACTURING LOGISTICS COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER We buy in raw materials We have 16 manu­facturing Finished goods are usually Our sales and marketing Surgical solutions are sold and components from sites around the world. shipped to our distribution teams are responsible to hospitals and healthcare more than 550 direct We also buy in from around centres. We use 3rd-party for identifying, targeting, providers in the acute sector. suppliers and contract 40 contract manufacturing suppliers to move materials and engaging with our Wound management and manufacturers. suppliers. and finished goods, by sea, customers. pressure ulcer prevention air, and road. solutions are sold to both acute and community health sector. 10 Sustainability report 2017 Our five European distribution centres serve INVESTOR'S SUSTAINABILITY MODEL distributors in APAC and our distribution centres in the US as well as our WeCan customers, customers in the rest of the world INVESTOR'S SUSTAINABILITY GUIDELINES and our 14 local warehouses. Our two US Describe our ten basic expectations, applicable to all our companies distribution centres serve our US customers and also house solutions manufactured in the SO S INES PPOR US for non-US markets. BU T I COMPANY SPECIFIC REPORTING CRE A UN FOCUS AREAS TE We use third-party suppliers to move raw Long-term, TIES Our sustainability work is included in our Annual Are included in the value Report, on our website responsible and creation plan for each materials, components and finished solutions, and in the Communication active owner listed core investment and vary depending on each of progress by sea, air and road. We strive to keep the (UN Global Compact). RE UC ST S company's opportunities and challenges. CO D number of journeys our solutions take ER ISK S A ND throughout the supply chain to a minimum. CONTINUOUS FOLLOW-UP Through a sustainability questionnaire, Where possible, we move goods by sea, but we annually monitor our sustainability guidelines, and the company specific focus areas are monitored by as they near their destination, we rely more our analysts on an ongoing basis and reported annually to the Investor Board of Directors. We compile the heavily on road. Very occasionally, we use air companies' sustainability work in an internal index, to evaluate, monitor and develop our freight when customers have an urgent need companies long-term. for our solutions. Our customer care team is responsible for after-sales activities, such as order manage­ These consist of ten expectations to: ment, order processing, reverse logistics, post-sales follow-up, complaints handling and • act responsibly and in an ethical manner product recall management. They also provide • comply with all local and national legislation customer analytical support to our sales and in each country of operation marketing teams. • continuously improve social, environmental and economic impact Our sustainability model • support and invest in innovation Ownership • analyse risks, formulate objectives and have adequate processes to manage and monitor Mölnlycke Health Care AB is a limited liability sustainability risks company and was acquired by Investor AB • sign and adhere to the UN Global Compact in January 2007. Today, Investor AB owns and its 10 principles as well as the OECD 99 percent of the company, with the remaining guidelines for multinational enterprises minority share owned by management. • in an appropriate form, transparently report Our sustainability approach sustainability objectives, risks and progress • encourage and promote diversity As a long-term, responsible and active owner, Investor AB sets out sustainability guidelines • have an active dialogue with stakeholders for their holdings, which we follow. such as suppliers and trading partners • have a secure reporting channel (whistleblowing) in place. 11 About the company Our structure, history and There were no financial implications due to performance climate change activities, nor did the company receive any direct financial assistance from Core and support functions governments. Our core functions include Commercial, Our governance Operations and Research and Development. These are backed by a wide range of The board support functions including Regulatory, Quality Assurance, Environment Health and Mölnlycke has a two-tier board structure. Safety, Finance, IT, Legal, HR, Corporate In 2017 the company operated under an Communications, Corporate Strategy and eight-member board of directors, comprising Business Development. four independent members, our CEO, one member from Investor AB and two workforce Additionally, the company has three crossrepresentatives. The chairman is one of the functional franchises: Wound treatment, independent board members. In 2017 the Prevention, and Surgical solutions. Following board held nine meetings. a strategic business review in 2017, a separate unit, Operating Room (OR) Solutions, was The Executive team introduced on 1 October to give more focus to the product areas Mölnlycke® Procedure In 2017, the eight-member Executive team had Trays, staff clothing and drapes. day-to-day responsibility for the operational parts of the business: History • CEO: overall corporate responsibility Mölnlycke was founded in 1849 in Sweden • Executive Vice President (EVP) Commercial: as a textile manufacturer and pioneered the global sales and marketing, commercial industrial manufacture of wound dressings. excellence, market access and clinical Since then, the company has grown through evidence, branding innovation and acquisition into the global • EVP Operations: global end-to-end supply company we are today. chain process, Mölnlycke Business Model Our name, Mölnlycke (pronounced ‘Mon-licka’), (MBM) process, lean standardised manu­fac­ reflects the town of Mölnlycke, which grew up turing, procurement, distribution, logistics, around the company. We are now based nearby customer care, quality assurance, Environ­ in the city of Gothenburg. ment, Health and Safety (EHS) • EVP Research and Development: R&D, Financial performance portfolio management, regulatory affairs Our net sales during 2017 were EUR 1,443m. • EVP Finance and IT: finance business Operating costs amounted to EUR 431m, partners, finance expertise teams, trans­ employee compensation EUR 345m, retained actional finance teams earnings EUR 1,195m, paid interests EUR 19m • EVP Legal and General Counsel: legal affairs, and paid taxes EUR 32m. EUR 450m was intellectual property and trademarks, distributed to the owner Investor AB. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 12 Sustainability report 2017 • EVP Human Resources and Corporate the Corporate Compliance Committee, the Communications: HR business partners, CSR Panel, our local Environment, Health HR expertise teams, working environment and Safety (EHS) team and our global EHS • EVP Operating Room (OR) Solutions: full team in Gothenburg. In addition, we have a organisational responsibility for the product whistleblowing hotline that permits employees areas of Mölnlycke® Procedure Trays, staff to voice any concerns to senior management. clothing and drapes (from October 2017). Our relationships with others When determining the composition of the highest governance body and its committees, Our stakeholders an adequate mix of qualifications and nationalities are prioritised. We define a stakeholder as anyone who has an interest in, or interaction with Mölnlycke. Corporate Compliance We have conducted extensive stakeholder analysis to define our stakeholders and our The Corporate Compliance Committee consists obligations to them. of the CEO (chairman of the committee), the Executive team and the Chief Compliance We are committed to doing business in Officer. The Executive team holds mutual a sustainable manner to benefit all our respon­si­bi­lity for the company’s economic, stake­holders: our customers, consumers, social and environmental management, employees, suppliers, authorities, nonimple­men­ta­tion and performance – which govern­mental organisations (NGOs), the are defined in the Corporate Compliance media, and the local communities where Programme. we operate. We are committed to comply with applicable Corporate governance laws, regulations and standards around In terms of corporate governance, we comply the world. The safety of the people who use with Swedish company law, which includes our products is paramount and we comply detailed provisions on how to avoid conflicts of with inter alia, local laws and regulations, interest at the highest levels. It is also a part the EU 93/42/EEC and 2007/47 EC Medical of our Code of Conduct, which is mandatory for Devices Directive as well as other standards all employees to follow and mentioned in our relating to product responsibility. We also set Global Trade Policy. objectives and target our efforts to prevent harm to employees and others who come on We make sure our employees and share­ to our sites. Our community support approach holders have a say in decision-making at the is designed to benefit both communities highest level of governance in accordance worldwide and local communities in the with Swedish law. We employ staff to make places where we do business. sure that we meet all the necessary rules in areas such as employment and environmental impact. There are multiple mechanisms that allow employees (who may also be shareholders) to report items related to economic, environ­mental and social issues: 13 About the company Strategic partnerships Association (Eucomed), which promotes the medical devices industry in the EU. We are also We have always had strong relationships with a member of the following trade associations: our suppliers. As a large medtech company, the Advanced Medical Technology Association we are also in a position to strengthen our (AdvaMed) in the US, the Medical Technology innovation offer through external strategic Association of Australia, Canada’s Medical partnerships. In 2017, we signed a partnership Technology Companies and Swedish Medtech. agreement with the AstraZeneca BioVenture Hub to expand our R&D capacity. We have two In 2017, we actively engaged in Eucomedlabs within the hub: one focusing on cell biology sanctioned and -driven lobbying and public and one on analytical chemistry. policy activity. Understanding our stakeholders In several of our markets, important stakeholders – such as healthcare organisations, hospital purchasers, healthcare professionals and patients – have high expectations of the environmental, ethical and social standards of their suppliers. We conducted around 10 substantial market research projects during the year – mostly among healthcare professionals – to gain a greater understanding of their needs. At Mölnlycke, we are dedicated not only to living up to, but also to exceeding those expectations. Therefore we engage in written and oral commu­ni­ca­tion, advisory panels and surveys in order to get a better understanding of issues that are most important so that we can take appropriate action. While we still have some way to go in reaching some of our targets, we are, and always will be, transparent in our reporting. Engaging in public policy We take an active role in promoting good practice within the medical supply and health­ care industries through engagement with public policy. We develop public policy posi­ tions and take part in responsible lobbying, principally through our membership of the European Medical Technology Industry 14 Sustainability report 2017 Our global footprint Global HQ and R&D Gothenburg, Sweden 16 manufacturing sites 38 sales offices covering 42 countries 63 countries with sales through distributors 15 Responsibility for our products Mölnlycke provides medical solutions for wound treatment, prevention and for use in surgery. The quality and safety of our products is at the core of our business. Through our process-based quality management system, we constantly check, analyse and review quality throughout the product life cycle and seek to continuously improve everything we do. The systematic approach gives us a high Our policy level of transparency, allowing us to view and analyse the way we work in detail. This, in turn, We continuously strive for industry-leading provides a solid foundation for improvements reliability and quality in our products and and change management. services in the interest of patient safety, customer satisfaction and business excellence. Mölnlycke operates a global quality system and our sites have complementary local quality We will comply with all applicable laws and systems and staff who are responsible for local regulations regarding the safety and efficacy quality management and compliance. of our products and we will comply with the required and applicable standards for our Quality – How we monitor processes. performance Note: the quality policy in this report does not apply to Mölnlycke facilities in the US, which operate under a local quality policy. We To continuously deliver customer improvewill be bringing these policies in line with each other during 2018. ments and benefits, we focus on the following: Design controls Our quality management system During R&D, we follow a product development Mölnlycke has established, documented, process to ensure that our ideas not only and implemented a process-based quality meet customers’ needs but also satisfy safety manage­ment system as a means of providing standards. All ideas are thoroughly assessed, a structure for maintaining effectiveness and and those that receive positive evaluation initiating continual improvement. The quality continue to the develop­ment phase where system is defined and managed as a series of potential design hazards are identified and inter­linked processes based on: risks are eliminated or minimised. We conduct thorough clinical trials to test our wound • identifying the inputs and outputs required management solutions both in vivo and in at each step in the process vitro, and follow all applicable regulations • determining what activities are needed and standards. We restrict the use of animal to get from input to output testing in clinical trials and work actively to • defining roles and responsibilities for each develop alternative test methods. We only test step of the process. our products and materials on animals when this is required by law. 16 Sustainability report 2017 Quality control laws such as fair remuneration, minimum age of employees and working hours. We visit Mölnlycke production facilities operate an suppliers to ensure that the materials and effective quality system including quality products we purchase from them are being control (QC) processes. The quality teams produced in a way that provides dignity and operate under stringent controls, continuously respect for workers in the supply chain. monitor processes and products during the production phase to make sure our products Customer feedback meet the quality specifications, and proactively look for opportunities to improve. We consider all customer complaints related to the quality and safety of our products. Corrective action and We review, evaluate, investigate, and preventive action take corrective and preventative actions, where necessary. And we periodically We drive continuous improvements via our measure customer satisfaction through corrective and preventive action (CAPA) surveys to make sure we continue to meet process. We conduct root cause investigations customer expectations. of any process issues, followed by corrective action to resolve the issue and prevent the Post-production surveillance problem recurring. After product launch, we monitor products Audits through our post-clinical follow-up, product risk management, and post-market sur­ We verify conformance and effectiveness of veillance processes. We review product use the quality system and our ability to meet and determine if it meets customer needs and regulatory and quality requirements through quality standards. We use this feedback and internal and external audits. the insight it generates to adapt and improve the product design. Management review Mölnlycke management undertakes a Managing our products’ life cycle thorough review starting at the corporate and We take a 360-degree approach to product executive level and extending through our manufacture, considering our customers’ manufacturing sites and distribution centres. health and safety as well as our environmental We document and escalate all quality and impact at every stage of the product life cycle. process issues, as appropriate. We have internal processes that govern how we develop, manufacture and supply our Managing suppliers products to minimise risk to users and patients Our primary suppliers are thoroughly in accordance with ISO 14971. assessed to ensure they meet our quality requirements. We evaluate suppliers and use third-party auditors to conduct supplier assessments, where necessary. The suppliers’ manufacturing sites should provide a safe working environment and comply with local 17 Responsibility for our products In production Committee (made up of our Executive team and Chief Compliance Officer), are responsible for During implementation, we set up systems approving and implementing the Compliance for the supply of materials, production and Programme policies and procedures. distribution of the product, as well as how we will handle any waste generated. Promoting industry standards The steps in the product development process Mölnlycke has a strong track record of helping are documented and stored in product data to develop industry standards and awareness. management. In the 1980s, we worked to establish Eucomed, the trade association for medical device Labelling and marketing manufacturers in the EU. Mölnlycke continues The labelling of our products follows regu­ to contribute to developing and raising industry la­tions applicable to the regions where our standards, especially within wound care and products are sold. Our marketing material surgical equipment. under­goes a review process including approval by our legal and regulatory departments. Certification and compliance Our quality, environment, health and safety Professional sponsorships systems are certified to standards applicable Sponsorships and interactions with health­ to the products we manufacture. As a global care professionals are governed by our medical solutions company, Mölnlycke Compliance Programme policies and complies with the regulations applicable to procedures. The Corporate Compliance the regions where our products are sold. OUR CERTIFICATIONS INCLUDE: ISO ISO OHSAS ISO 9001 14001 18001 13485 Quality Environmental Occupational Quality Management Management Health and Safety Management System Management Medical Devices 18 People Mölnlycke ensures that all of its employees worldwide have basic human rights with regard to their employment with the company. We also strive to create an environment where our people feel empowered to develop to their full potential, wherever they work. Social conditions and human rights – Our policy Our approach It is Mölnlycke’s policy to support and respect To help make sure that human and social the protection of internationally proclaimed rights are respected, we have a whistleblowing human rights and make sure that the company hotline available to our employees in local is not complicit in human rights abuses. languages. Hotline reports are promptly To this end, Mölnlycke is committed in its investigated and appropriate corrective action global business practices to the elimination is taken. of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, Overall responsibility for setting appropriate the effective abolition of child labour, and the anti-slavery and human trafficking policies elimination of discrimination in respect of sits with the Corporate Compliance Committee employment and occupation. (CCC). The CCC (made up of our Executive team and Chief Compliance Officer), is respon­si­ble for approving and implementing Social conditions and human rights the Compliance Programme policies and procedures. Workers’ rights are set out in our Global trade policy and Modern slavery statement: Human rights – • Employment should be freely chosen and Our performance 2017 no individual should be subject to forced, None of our operations were subject to a bonded or compulsory labour. human rights review or impact assessment. • No form of child labour under 15 years We conducted human rights training in our is accepted. high-risk markets, as well as within our • Employees should not be prevented from manufacturing, legal, procurement and associating freely. regulatory teams. • Working conditions should be safe and We received two reports of wrongdoing in 2017 hygienic. through our whistleblowing hotline. We have • Wages and working hours should meet dealt with all human rights grievances in an national legal standards. appropriate way. • Discrimination is prohibited. 19 Our people Social conditions – We also identified the need for an improved Our performance 2017 review process of how we recruit new leaders, both locally and at HQ – with particular focus We follow employer regulations and local on gender diversity. laws in all countries. We act as a responsible employer and have salaries and benefits Our ambition is for women to make up that correspond to market levels. In factories 40 percent of our senior leaders (Director where there are unions, we have collective level and up) by 2022. bargaining agreements and, where unions do not operate, we have work councils. Learning and development To drive our business forward, we have four Diversity high-performance behaviours we expect of With more than 7,500 employees spread all our employees, and which we use to recruit across the world in a wide variety of jobs, we and manage them: Customer at heart; Own the are a diverse, multicultural organisation. outcome; Appropriate urgency; and Teamwork. We know a good mix of employees in a global company has different characteristics, Leadership capabilities experiences, backgrounds and mindsets. Four leadership capabilities have been We believe our diversity enables us to truly developed, applicable for all managers of understand and deliver what healthcare people. These will be used for recruitment professionals and patients need around purposes from mid 2018: the world. • Set direction When we enter new markets, we invest in • Motivate and inspire local employees on all levels, including management, to ensure full understanding. • Be authentic This is balanced with the multicultural ambition • Develop talent and capabilities. of our company to promote a mix of people of different cultures, ages, sexes, religions, Learning and development – working patterns, and abilities to facilitate Our approach innovation and out-ofthe-box thinking. Our learning philosophy is based on the In 2017, while women made up 66 percent of 70–20–10 model in which learning is generally our staff and were strongly represented in our gained: factories, they made up less than a third of • 70 percent from on-the-job training – from our senior leaders. We therefore recognised basic to special assignments that we need to take action on gender diversity, • 20 percent from coaching and feedback particularly at a senior leadership level. • 10 percent from instructor-led courses or During the year, we started to define a diversity e-learning courses. policy, which will be finalised during 2018. 20 Sustainability report 2017 Some of the learning available includes: In autumn 2017, we conducted a cultural • mandatory e-learning courses for all survey among 3,075 white-collar workers employees, covering topics such as our across the globe, and 93 percent of our quality and information security policies employees responded. The survey was made available for adaptation and local use in our • e-learning and instructor-led courses factories. The next survey will take place in offering training in generic topics, such as autumn 2018. IT knowledge and soft skills • instructor-led and e-learning courses that Net promoter score relate to employees’ specific jobs such as health and safety, sales management and In the cultural survey, we achieved a net product launch training programmes. promoter score (those who would recommend us as an employer) of 13. External bench­ We train our employees annually to ensure marking considers scores of 10–30 to be very that they are aware of our Code of Conduct, our positive, while scores of 30+ are hard to find. Global Code of Ethics and Integrity and what is required of them. We further invest in those who have the potential and willingness to do more by supporting their development through global leadership programmes. Learning and development – Our performance 2017 A total of 93 percent of our employees completed and signed the Code of Conduct training. Employee surveys We perform regular employee surveys to find out how people feel about our strategy, their work, the company, and the way they are managed. The information collected in the surveys is extremely valuable to support the sustainable development of our company, culture and employees. 21 Our people People data Globally, Gender split total 7,760 Globally Leaders (Director level and up) Male 2,639 34% Male 92 68% Female 5,121 66% Female 44 32% Total 7,760 100% Total 136 100% Americas Asia/Pacific Europe, Middle East/Africa Male 376 54% Male 1,015 28% Male 1,248 36% Female 325 46% Female 2,584 72% Female 2,212 64% Total 701 100% Total 3,599 100% Total 3,460 100% Leadership diversity Approximately 32 percent (44 of 136) of our most senior leaders below Executive level are women. Mölnlycke Board of Directors, 31 December 2017 0–30 years: 0; 30–50 years: 3; 50+ years: 5 Gunnar Brock, Swedish, M Clare Hollingworth, British, F Carolin Jakobsen*, Swedish, F Christer Eriksson, Swedish, M Johan Malmquist, Swedish, M Lars Sundqvist*, Swedish, M John Hepburn, Canadian, M Richard Twomey, British, M * Employee representative on the Board Mölnlycke Executive Management Team, 31 December 2017 0–30 years: 0; 30–50 years: 2; 50+ years: 6 Richard Twomey, British, M Eric de Kesel, Belgian, M Anders Andersson, Swedish, M Stefan Fristedt, Swedish, M Barry McBride, British, M Shawna Traynor*, American, F Staffan Ternström, Swedish, M Martin Lexa, German, M * Acting EVP Legal By employment type Blue collar/white collar Americas Asia/Pacific Europe, Middle East/Africa White collar 536 76% White collar 634 18% White collar 2,089 60% Blue collar 165 24% Blue collar 2,965 82% Blue collar 1,371 40% Total 701 100% Total 3,599 100% Total 3,460 100% Permanent/temporary employment Americas Asia/Pacific Europe, Middle East/Africa Permanent 695 99.1% Permanent 3,570 99.2% Permanent 3,033 87.7% Temporary 6 0.9% Temporary 29 0.8% Temporary 427 12.3% Total 701 100% Total 3,599 100% Total 3,460 100% 22 Sustainability report 2017 2,019 By location 1,249 872 644 525 476 402 331 209 163 128 121 89 65 38 19 58 54 28 16 27 25 25 23 23 22 16 10 36 10 11 Europe, Middle East/Africa Americas Asia Pacific Europe, Middle East/Africa Americas Czech Republic 872 Italy 65 US 644 Sweden 525 Norway 27 Brazil 38 Finland 476 Austria 25 Canada 19 Belgium 402 Switzerland 25 Total employees 701 UK 331 Netherlands 23 France 209 Hungary 23 Asia Pacific Germany 163 Denmark 22 Malaysia 2,019 Poland 121 United Arab Emirates 16 Thailand 1,249 Spain 89 Saudi Arabia 10 China 128 Other 36 Australia 58 Total employees 3,460 Japan 54 Singapore 42 India 28 Republic of Korea 10 By function Other 11 Total employees 3,599 Operations 5,282 5,282 Commercial 1,587 Quality Affairs 215 Finance 198 R&D 188 HR/Communication/Support 143 Information Technology 83 Regulatory Affairs 42 1,587 Corporate Strategy & Business Development 12 Legal/Compliance 10 215 198 188 143 83 42 12 10 Total employees 7,760 For the purpose of this report, the number of employees is our headcount: all employees, including temporary employees, with an employment contract with Mölnlycke, who are also paid through the company pay-roll. 23 Minimising environmental impact Managing the environmental impact of what we do is a high priority for Mölnlycke. We continuously work to prevent harm to the environment by adopting and implementing best practice at our operational sites. As a result of this, we have had global ISO 14001 certification for environmental management since 2002. We continuously monitor our environmental performance and comply with relevant laws and regulations wherever we operate. Environmental management – Our policy Our approach We want our business to be conducted in a Environmental management is a core part of long-term sustainable way. In the short and our corporate management system. At a global long term, we take responsibility for protection level, we develop strategies, policies and objec­ of the environment from impact and tives to ensure compliance and continuous pollution caused by our activities, products improvement. At a local level, all of our sites are and services. We contribute to sustainable responsible for complying with environmental development by: legislation, implementing the company policy and meeting our environmental objectives. • our commitment to fulfilment of compliance We have systems and procedures in place to obligations monitor performance against environmental • conducting our business activities to targets at all of our manufacturing sites. minimise our impact on the planet and its natural resources. We strive for Emissions reduction continuous reduction of the environmental impact caused by our business through We are firmly committed to reducing CO² setting and continuously monitoring emissions. To achieve this, we have set targets suitable environmental objec­tives. We use for reducing emissions from transportation. environmental resources as effectively We are actively working to reduce air freight, as possible and strive to minimise use of to optimise the fill rate of trucks and to substances and materials that are harmful optimise transport routes and deliveries to to humans and our environment our customers, so fewer product transport journeys are needed. In collaboration with • securing our company's future and business our transportation partners, we measure CO² position in the best way by taking into emissions from transport of raw materials account our stakeholders’ expectations and to factories, goods travelling between factories, requirements and finished goods going to our warehouses. • striving for continuous improvement of our environmental performance, maintaining Energy consumption and encouraging an environmental management system which promotes We measure and monitor our consumption proactive change. with the aim of reducing the amount of energy we use in our factories. Some of the processes 24 Sustainability report 2017 required to produce high-quality, sterile lead to small increases in our use of chemicals medical and surgical products are energyand electricity – but it is essential to guarantee intensive and we are constantly evaluating how patient safety. This means that we have to be we can make these more energy efficient. cautious but also curious when looking at new chemicals, materials or products. Waste management How we assess new materials We seek to use materials more efficiently to and chemicals reduce the amount of potentially harmful waste we generate. This includes reviewing the type We comply with the EU regulations and and quality of materials we source as well as the directives that apply to our products, such as way we make and package our finished goods. REACH – Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, Restriction of Since the majority of our products are singleHazardous Substances (RoHS), and the Waste use and must be burnt to prevent the spread of Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) infections and bacteria, it is often not possible for directive. During product development, we use our clients to recycle the used products. We are, a ‘traffic light’ system to classify raw materials. however, committed to good recycling practices We also consider the life cycle impact of the in our factories and have targets and actions in raw materials we use, from production to place in each of our sites to reduce waste. product use and waste handling. Any materials We also recommend that our customers classified as ‘red’ are considered hazardous to recycle packaging materials such as plastics, the environment and are only used where there cardboard and corrugated board. We take is no alternative from a technical, reasonably responsibility for waste from our electrical economic or patient safety point of view. All our products, such as negative pressure wound factories continuously monitor the amount treatments, and have systems in place of chemicals used on site to ensure that their for the collection of waste electronics and consumption is minimised. used batteries. Water consumption Materials and chemicals We continuously strive to reduce the amount We strive to remove potentially hazardous of fresh water we use. chemicals from our manufacturing processes and products, and replace them with Our environmental equally effective, but less harmful solutions. management system We systematically strive to minimise the Mölnlycke has established, documented, and environmental impact of our products. implemented a process-based environmental However, the primary purpose of our products management system which is integrated with is to heal wounds, prevent medical conditions, our quality management system. This system or enable improved results in the operating provides a structure for maintaining effective­ room. We can never endanger the health ness and continuous improvement. Mölnlycke outcomes of patients simply in order to minioperates a high-level management system at mise environmental impact. For example, the a global level and, in addition, our operational process we use to sterilise our products may sites also have local systems established. 25 Minimising environmental impact Environment – How we monitor In production performance All of our manufacturing sites have regular To continuously improve our environmental inspections, discuss environmental issues performance, we focus on the following: regularly in different forums, measure environment-related parameters and inspect Training environmental protection equipment. We have programmes of regular and ad-hoc Certification and compliance environmental training courses for employees, subcontractors and visitors at our sites. As a global company, Mölnlycke complies with local as well as relevant European and global Corrective action and preventive action regulations. Mölnlycke is globally certified to ISO 14001:2015 standard. We drive continuous improvement through our corrective and preventive action (CAPA) Reporting process. We conduct root cause investigations of any process issues, followed by corrective Our environmental performance is monitored actions to resolve the issue and prevent the systematically and measured at our manu­ problem recurring. factur­ing sites, distribution centre at Anderson in the US, our HQ and our office in Iberia. Accident investigation The results are presented in a global report. We conduct root cause investigations of all When we set our targets for 2015–2017, we had environment-related accidents at our sites, 13 manufacturing sites. Three new manu­fac­ followed by corrective actions to resolve root turing sites were added during the programme, causes and prevent them from happening which affected our performance against again. Experiences from accidents are shared targets. One new manufacturing site started between the sites in the global EHS team. production in May 2017 and consequently only reported during the second half of 2017. Audits Legal compliance We carry out internal and external audits to verify the effectiveness of our environmental As part of our performance review, we monitor management systems and our ability to fulfil any legal proceedings against us for environ­ compliance obligations. mental breaches. We did not have any legal proceedings for environment-related incidents Management review during 2017. Mölnlycke management undertakes a Environment – Our objectives thorough review of environment, starting at the corporate and executive level and To implement our policy and achieve our extending through our manufacturing sites. sustain­ability goals, we set four key objectives We document and escalate identified issues, for our environmental programme 2015–2017: as appropriate. 26 Sustainability report 2017 • Emissions – reduce the amount of CO² • Waste management – improve how we use emissions we produce per tonne of materials in manufacturing, so as to reduce finished goods. harmful waste and emissions. • Energy consumption – reduce the amount • Chemicals – reduce our use of chemicals of energy we consume at our factories per classified as hazardous to the environment. tonne of finished goods. How we performed: Emissions Target 2015–2017 CO² EMISSION REDUCTION CO² (tonnes) / produced tonne of finished product To reduce emissions of CO² from transportation by 5 percent in relation to the produced weight 0.35 0.36 0.37 0.38 0.39 0.40 0.41 of finished goods. 2015 0.3833 Our performance 2017 2016 0.3946 2017 0.3784 We reduced the amount of CO² emissions per tonne finished goods by 4 percent in 2017 Outcome compared to 2016. Total CO² emissions from transport were back down to 2015 levels. The reduction was a result of ongoing work to optimise our transportation, by increasing the utilisation rate of vehicles and containers, and minimising the number of transport routes. We also opened a new distribution centre in US, which reduced the number of journeys our products had to make within the country. Between 2015 and 2017, we reduced our CO² Measuring scope and principles: emissions by 1 percent – 4 percent less than Transport of raw material and semi-finished or finished goods. Transports are measured in tonnes per km. The CO² reporting our 5 percent target. We have engaged with coefficients are mainly based on Greenhouse gas Protocol – our logistics colleagues in order to realign Mobile Guide (03/21/05) v 1.3 and the tank-to-wheel principles. 2015 is the base year for the CO² calculations, due to the start of our t­ argets and reporting principles for the new environmental programme and the changed calculation ­future years. methodology. A recalculation policy has been established. 27 Minimising environmental impact How we performed: Energy consumption Target 2015–2017 ENERGY CONSUMED IN GIGAJOULES PER PRODUCED TONNE OF To continuously strive to reduce the amount of FINISHED PRODUCT energy we use compared to the previous year. Gigajoules Our performance 2017 15.5 16.0 16.5 17.0 17.5 18.0 18.5 19.0 Our total energy consumption increased 2015 by 1 percent during 2017 compared to 2016 2016 (104,234 GJ). But energy per produced tonne 2017 decreased by 1 percent between 2017 and 2016. However, between 2015 and 2017, total Outcome energy consumption increased by 7 percent and energy consumption per produced tonne increased by 5 percent. Energy-saving projects led to successful reductions at six of our sites between 2015 and 2017. However, due to changed production lines and increased volumes, energy consump­ tion went up at five of our sites. This impacted on the overall result. Energy consumption within the company 2017 • Fuel consumption from non-renewable sources (renewable sources were not used): light fuel oil 106,924 GJ, natural gas 482,879 GJ, propane 19,677 GJ • Electricity consumption 353,490 GJ • Heating and cooling consumption 31,446 GJ • Steam consumption 22,868 GJ • Total energy consumption 1,017,284 GJ (no energy was sold) 28 Sustainability report 2017 How we performed: Waste management Target 2015–2017 Waste reduction programmes led to successful reductions at eight of our sites during 2017, and To reduce the total amount of waste generated we are now back down to waste levels of 2015. at our sites and achieve a recycled waste rate of One reason behind our failure to meet targets 97 percent by the end of 2017. Every site should was new production lines and reconstructions have one recycling promotion event per year. at the sites. Work has been initiated in order review our waste flows at the sites and to Our performance 2017 realign our targets and reporting principles for We generated 11,147 tonnes of total waste in future years. 2017; 191 kg waste per tonne of finished goods. We follow regulations around the disposal of There was a downward trend compared to hazardous waste arising from the production of 2016: total waste was down 4 percent on 2016, our advanced wound care products. while waste per tonne of finished goods was 6 percent lower than 2016. However, compared to 2015, total waste increased by 3 percent and waste per tone of finished goods by 1 percent. We recycled 86 percent of all waste generated in our manufacturing sites in both 2016 and 2017, which is slightly lower than in 2015 (87 percent). Six of the sites where above target in 2017, but in total we are 11 percent below our target. TOTAL DISCHARGE 2017 AND METHOD USED Class Method used Tonnes Hazardous Incineration 82.0 Hazardous Landfill 470.0 Hazardous On-site storage 1.7 Hazardous Recovery, including energy recovery 4.3 Hazardous Recycling 789.9 Hazardous Other 25.2 Non-hazardous Composting 4.9 Non-hazardous Incineration (mass burn) 3,077.2 Non-hazardous Landfill 1,013.9 Non-hazardous Re-use 255.6 Non-hazardous Recovery, including energy recovery 1,398.5 Non-hazardous Recycling 3,990.6 Non-hazardous Other 32.9 29 Minimising environmental impact How we performed: Materials and chemicals Target 2015–2017 we are constantly reviewing it as it is toxic when used in significant quantities. Silver is To systematically strive to remove environ­ a well-known antimicrobial substance that mentally hazardous chemicals from our manages bioburden levels in the wound, manufacturing processes and products and thereby reducing the risk of wound infection. replace them with less hazardous ones. The use of antimicrobial wound care products also helps to reduce the risk of inappropriate Our performance 2017 use of antibiotics. We continued to keep our products free So far, no other antimicrobial agent has proven of poten­tially harmful chemicals, such as to be as effective as silver, which is why we phthalates and solvent-based adhesives, are continuing to use it in our products. We do, which we have removed from our however, offer a wide range of other advanced laboratories, production processes and wound care dressings without silver that are products over recent years. becoming increasingly popular in several parts The use of silver sulphate in some of our of the world. advanced wound care dressing products is drawing attention from stakeholders – and 30 Sustainability report 2017 How we performed: Water Target 2015–2017 TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL 2016 Source Cubic metres We do not have a specific target for reducing water consumption in our factories. Instead Surface water, including water from 958,979 wetlands, rivers, lakes and oceans we continuously strive to reduce the amount of Ground water 388,917 water we use compared to the previous year. Rainwater collected directly and 0 stored by the organisation Our performance 2017 Waste water from another 0 organisation Our total water consumption decreased by 0.5 percent in 2017 (1,913,306 m3) compared Municipal water supplies or other 565,410 water utilities to 2016. We reduced water consumption at eight of our sites in 2017. No water sources were significantly affected by withdrawal for our operations. 31 Health and safety Mölnlycke aims to provide a safe environment for our employees, suppliers and visitors at all of our sites around the world. We proactively assess health and safety risks in each of our locations and work with local teams to eliminate them. We continuously monitor our safety performance and comply with relevant laws wherever we operate. Health and safety management – Our policy Our approach We want our business to be conducted in a We work continuously to improve health and long-term sustainable way. In the short and safety by taking proactive measures to prelong term, we take responsibility for health, vent accidents at all of our operating sites and safety and wellbeing and contribute to fulfilling our compliance obligations. Each of our sustainable development by: factories has a health and safety team made up of a cross-section of employees who meet reg• our commitment to fulfilment of compliance ularly to consider health and safety issues and obligations recommend actions to help prevent accidents. • conducting our business by taking into account people's expectations and require­ments We collaborate between our sites, so that we regarding health and ­wellbeing, regard­less can share best practice and achieve improve­ of whether they are our employees, our subments across the whole company. EHS contractors' employees, customers or other representatives from each manufacturing people affected by our company's activities site meet monthly with the regional and global EHS management to discuss issues • ensuring a safe, accident-free and healthy and share experiences and ideas. The global working environment characterised by EHS team also meets at an annual global EHS respect and trust for our employees and conference, held at one of our manufacturing visitors to our premises, by setting and sites, which includes training, workshops and continuously monitoring suitable health and discussion of current topics, to improve our safety objectives skills and knowledge. • striving for continuous improvement of our health and safety performance, main­ Our health and safety taining and encouraging a health and safety management system management system which promotes proactive change. Mölnlycke has established, documented, and implemented a process-based health and safety management system which is integrated with our quality management system. This system provides a structure for maintaining effectiveness and continuous improvement. Mölnlycke operates a high-level management system at a global level. In addition, each of our operational sites has a local system in place. 32 Sustainability report 2017 How we monitor performance In production To continuously improve our health and safety All of our manufacturing sites have regular performance, we focus on the following: health and safety inspections, discuss health and safety issues daily in different forums, Training measure safety-related parameters and inspect and monitor safety equipment. We have programmes of regular and ad hoc health and safety training for employees, Certification and compliance subcontractors and visitors at our sites. As a global company, Mölnlycke complies with Corrective action and preventive action local as well as relevant European or global regulations. Our major manufacturing sites’ We drive continuous improvement through health and safety systems are certified to our corrective and preventive action (CAPA) OHSAS 18001 standard. When the new ISO 45001 process. We conduct root cause investigations standard is published, Mölnlycke plans to achieve of any process issues, followed by corrective global certification for this standard. action to resolve the issue and prevent the problem recurring. Legal compliance Accident investigation As part of our performance review, we monitor any legal proceedings against us for environ­ We conduct root cause investigations of all mental breaches. We did not have any legal accidents at our sites, followed by corrective proceedings for health and safety-related actions to resolve the root causes and prevent incidents during 2017. them from happening again. Experiences from accidents are shared between the sites Reporting in the global EHS team. Our health and safety performance is Audits monitored systematically and measured on a monthly basis at manufacturing sites, We carry out internal and external audits to distribution centre at Anderson in the US and verify the effectiveness of our health and safety our HQ. The results are presented in a global management systems and our ability to fulfil report, which also covers incidents, accidents compliance obligations. and near misses. It also includes the root cause of the accidents and lists the corrective and Management review preventative actions taken to mitigate risks. Mölnlycke management undertakes a thorMore than 60 percent of the accidents are ough review of health and safety, starting at the hand injuries and wounds related to the tasks corporate and executive level and extending performed in our factories. through our manufacturing sites. We document When we began our 2015–2017 EHS and escalate identified issues, as appropriate. programme, we had 13 manufacturing sites. Three new manufacturing sites were added during the programme. One new manufacturing site started production in 33 Health and safety May 2017 and consequently only reported The number of near-miss safety incidents during the second half of 2017. corrected within one month was 64 percent – down from 93 percent in 2016. Control of hazardous chemicals As part of our drive for constant improvement, A very small number of our workers are our EHS programme set ambitious targets to involved in occupational activities with a high be achieved by end of 2017. We did not achieve risk of injury or exposure to specific disease. our target of two LTAs and 20 LTDs per million These include use of the organic compound working hours. Although the number of LTAs toluene diisocyanate (TDI) in in the manufacture per million working hours was slightly up of negative pressure wound therapy products from 2016, it amounted to one additional LTA. and ethylene oxide (EtO) used as part of our Our performance was affected by production sterilisation processes. We did not receive any changes at our European manufacturing sites reports of health-related issues in the factories in the second and third quarters of the year. where these substances are used. These included reorganisation of production lines and production teams, changes in Health and safety – Our objectives line management and very intensive new employment periods in the Czech Republic, We set four key objectives for our health and where we opened a new factory during 2017. safety programme 2015–17, to: • by focusing on prevention, reduce the rate During 2017, we worked with an independent of Lost Time Accidents (LTA) and Lost Time external company to investigate the safety Days (LTD) performance and identify major gaps at some of our European manufacturing sites. These • set health and safety targets at each local sites started with individual corrective action site, focusing on their respective top three programmes from autumn 2017. We also set health and safety issues up a global safety excellence programme for • bring all relevant sites in line with the global all manu­facturing sites and implementation certification for ISO 45001 began in December 2017. This increased focus • have no legal proceedings for any health contributed to an LTA-free month in D ­ ecember. or safety incidents. Half (50 percent) of our manufacturing sites have been LTA-free throughout 2017. LTA: any workplace accident or injury that causes an employee to miss their next scheduled work day or shift. We did not reach our target of correcting LTD: an ordinary work day or shift lost due to an LTA. 85 percent of reported near misses. This is mainly due to an increase in reporting – up Health and safety – by 121 percent compared to 2016. Most of the Our performance 2017 reported events are observations of unsafe The number of LTAs per million working hours situations or unsafe acts but have been was 2.5, up from 2.4 in 2016. reported as near misses as we continue to develop our reporting system and criteria. The number of LTDs per million working hours We have since revised our criteria and was 71, down from 76 in 2016. established additional reporting categories to get a more accurate picture of the type of reported events. 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Mölnlycke feels a strong sense of commitment to both the medical profession and patients receiving treatment. Through our global and local charity partners, we seek to have a long-term positive impact. We also invest in the communities where we operate so we remain a trusted partner over the long term. Documentation Our policy We document our community support at a Our community support policy is designed to global level in our HQ in Gothenburg, Sweden. help us play an active role in the community. The records cover who we support and the By donating time, products and funds, we amount of time, products and funds we donate. help improve the lives of patients and support Local offices keep records of local community those who care for them. Working within support. the community in this way also enables our business and the organisations we support Global community support in 2017 to remain sustainable. In 2017, we appointed two organisations We receive many requests for donations to representing key patient groups as our official good causes at a local level and we cannot global charity partners: support all of them. We have guidelines that • DEBRA, a worldwide network of national ensure our community support is appropriate. groups that strives to improve quality of life The organisations we support should: for people with the rare genetic skin disease, • be in the medical field Epidermolysis Bullosa (EB) • work to improve patients’ lives, to improve • Operation Smile, a medical volunteer medical staff protection, or to increase the organisation that provides free recon­struc­ level of knowledge in the medical field tive surgery for children born with facial deformities such as cleft lip and cleft palate. • provide credible and measurable results. We raised around $200,000 for each of them The initiatives we support must also be in line – through funds raised by employees, and with AdvaMed or Eucomed guidelines. matched by the company. DEBRA In the US, we support a range of initiatives including DEBRA monthly Wound Care Clearinghouse, which distributes essential wound care supplies to people in financial difficulty, and the charity’s Family Crisis Fund. 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Operation Smile Local community support in 2017 Since 2004, we’ve donated nearly 1.4 million On top of this, our subsidiaries have organised pairs of Biogel® surgical gloves to Operation fundraising activities to support Operation Smile – as well as funds and the expertise and Smile and DEBRA. They have also supported time of our people. a range of local charities. Through the Mölnlycke Operation Smile In the UK, the company has raised funds Volunteer Programme, our employees can for Changing Faces, a charity which enables join Operation Smile missions – accompanying people who have a disfigurement to find a doctors and nurses for several days as they way to live the life they want. They have also provide free surgeries in developing countries. supported Facing Africa – Surviving Noma, During 2017, six employees, including a which funds surgeons to perform facial member of our Executive Team, volunteered on reconstructive surgery on Noma patients. an Operation Smile mission to the Philippines. Our factory at Mikkeli in Finland has supported HOPE, a charity which helps disadvantaged families in the local area, with funds and by donating Christmas presents. Operation Smile helps children born with a cleft palate DEBRA patient with EB 36 Code of Conduct As an international company, we have a particular duty to respect, promote and comply with the principles of ethical and social responsibility associated with human rights, the workplace, and working conditions, not to discriminate, to maintain equality and relations with the surrounding world. The Mölnlycke Code of Conduct is a set of basic No code or set of standards can cover every rules, guidelines and criteria that comply with possible business situation that may arise in established international standards and meet the complex regulatory environment in which our customers’ needs and expectations. Mölnlycke operates. However, Mölnlycke considers compliance with its Code of Conduct We also expect our suppliers to consider to be vital. The company’s reputation for quality adhering to our Code of Conduct. We have products and high standards, and our passion developed a Supplier Code which builds on our for our mission can only be maintained by Code of Conduct and specifically targets issues consistently honest and ethical dealings. and conduct that are more closely applicable to suppliers. As a large company and buyer, we Compliance with law are in a position to affect working conditions in a positive way and promote workers’ rights Mölnlycke and its employees shall comply with in our major suppliers’ factories. We work applicable laws and regulations where we are actively with our suppliers to make sure we operating. We act proactively when possible, not only have an efficient relationship, but such as with the enacted US Sunshine Act also take human rights and health and safety 2010 and the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the UK into consideration. Modern Slavery Act of 2015. Mölnlycke will not participate in any business opportunity in any Code of Conduct part of the world that does not comply with our Code of Conduct. The Board of Directors has adopted the Code of Conduct to govern the behaviour of our Employee responsibility company – Directors of the Board, permanent and temporary employees, temporary workers Managers are expected to know and follow and consultants. Everyone who represents the applicable laws of their relevant market in Mölnlycke has a responsibility to be familiar which Mölnlycke does business. Employees with and comply with this Code. The Code of are expected to comply with those laws, and Conduct also serves as a guideline in order to managers are expected to ensure compliance. avoid conflicts of interest. As a company, we provide relevant training and access to resources to assist with legal compliance. 37 Code of Conduct Corporate social child labour, minimum national salaries, and ethical responsibility working hours, leave and overtime, and the timely and accurate payment of wages. Our guidelines for this initiative are based on the principles outlined in the following Employees are free to, and entitled to, form documents: and/or join union organisations. Employees • UN Agenda 21 – Sustainable Development shall be able to report complaints about Knowledge Platform their working conditions without risking any negative consequences as a result of doing so. • ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility • UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights Relations with the world around us • UN Global Compact We must not be, either directly or indirectly, • OECD Guidelines for Multinational involved in situations that entail violations of Enterprises human rights. • Relevant International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions. Respect in the workplace • Global trade policy No employee should be subjected to verbal • Supplier Code of Conduct. or physical harassment, and such conduct will not be tolerated. Mölnlycke is committed The commitment also applies to our relations to creating a work environment that is free with business partners, suppliers and from harassment in any form, a culture that subcontractors. If any human rights abuses are recognises and appreciates the advantages of committed by our partners, then it is our duty a diverse workforce, and a decision process to assist in ensuring that such violations cease, which seeks to ensure that all employees are or if this fails, to stop working with that partner. treated with dignity and respect. At the workplace Environmental management A strong and consistent relationship with Mölnlycke is committed to doing business all employees, built on mutual respect and in an environmentally responsible manner, dignity, is a vital concern for Mölnlycke high complying with all applicable laws and performance behaviours – Customer at heart, regulations in the countries where we operate Own the outcome, Appropriate urgency and and will strive to improve its performance to Teamwork guide us in our work and conduct. benefit its employees, customers, communi­ We must work actively to promote equality in ties, shareholders and the environment. the workplace. Unlawful discrimination based on gender, age, sexual orientation, race, colour, Health and safety religion, ethnicity, social origin, disability, or Mölnlycke is committed to providing a safe, political opinion will not be tolerated. healthy work environment for employees and Child labour as defined by ILO Conventions guests to our premises that is in compliance is prohibited. Mölnlycke will comply with with applicable laws and regulations in the applicable laws relating to forced labour, countries where we are operating, and in 38 Sustainability report 2017 accordance with our global health and safety advantage of anyone through manipulation, policy. All employees are expected to develop concealment, abuse of privileged information, proactive, cooperative behaviour on issues of misrepresentation of material facts, or any health and safety throughout the company. other unfair dealing practice. Customer relationships Record keeping No benefit will be given to a customer with Mölnlycke entities will maintain accurate an explicit or implicit requirement to use or company records and accounts in order to purchase Mölnlycke products. ensure legal and ethical business practices and to prevent fraudulent activities. Donations, gifts and business courtesies Antitrust/competition laws The giving of gifts is generally prohibited. Mölnlycke fully supports antitrust laws in Donations to customers or organisations the US and competition laws outside the closely affiliated with customers must comply US to ensure free and open competition in with local laws and standards and should the market­place. Violation of these laws by promote a social benefit. Mölnlycke and its employees is prohibited. Improper payments Conflict of interest No bribes, kickbacks or other payments for Mölnlycke employees are responsible for illegal purposes, shall be made to, or for the avoiding conflicts of interest as well as the benefit of, government employees or officials, appearance of such conflicts. any customers, or others. Nor shall such payments or benefits be accepted by any Intellectual property Mölnlycke employee. and confidential information Mölnlycke invests substantial resources in Payments to customers developing intellectual property and knowMölnlycke may compensate customers for how, both of which are critical to the company’s consulting, research and other legitimate future success. Mölnlycke protects its services rendered, and reasonable costs intellectual property by seeking patent, design incurred where the services have value to right, trademark, or trade secret protection. Mölnlycke and are rendered for fair market It protects its confidential information by value. In limited circumstances, Mölnlycke taking precautions to prevent inappropriate may underwrite clinical research or continuing disclosure or loss of such information. education programmes. All employees share a responsibility to protect company intellectual property and Fair dealing confidential information. All employees should deal fairly with Mölnlycke’s customers, suppliers, competitors and employees. No one should take unfair 39 Code of Conduct Corporate opportunities People acting on behalf of Mölnlycke Employees may not take for personal use Mölnlycke expects its independent dealers, opportunities that are discovered through distributors and agents to act consistently with the use of corporate property, information or the policies set out in this Code of Conduct. position. Nor may they use corporate property, The Mölnlycke manager responsible for any information or position for their own personal such relationship must ensure that the terms gain or to compete with Mölnlycke. of the relationship are set out in a written agreement, provide a copy of the Code, and Protection and proper use require consistency with the Code of Conduct in of company assets all dealings on Mölnlycke’s behalf. All employees should protect Mölnlycke’s Government, analyst assets and promote their efficient use. Theft, and media inquiries carelessness and waste have a direct impact on Mölnlycke’s profitability. All Mölnlycke Mölnlycke must be made aware of any inquiries assets should be used for legitimate from the government, the financial/analyst business purposes. community, or the media so that it can properly and thoroughly respond. Clinical, regulatory affairs and quality affairs Mölnlycke products are heavily regulated by governmental agencies, health ministries and other regulatory authorities worldwide. Mölnlycke is 100 percent committed to ensuring that all our products and services meet the highest levels of quality and safety. To achieve this, we meticulously comply with the regulations, legislation and requirements of all the different regions in which we are present. Political activity No corporate funds, or other corporate assets, may be contributed directly to any political party, political committee, or candidate for public office at the federal level or at the state level, unless permitted by law, with the exception of funds used to administer the corporate political action committee. 40 Anti-bribery and corruption We take great care to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in every country we work in. We also strive to prevent corruption within our operations. Fighting corruption: Our approach Our policy We launched a whistleblowing hotline in It is Mölnlycke’s policy to comply with local languages which employees can use the export/import controls and sanction to report any incidents of corruption, illegal regulations of Sweden, the UN/EU, and the or unethical behaviour whenever they occur. countries where we do business. Under no The whistleblowing hotline connects to a circumstance may an export, re-export, or team consisting of the Chief Compliance import (whether a service, a commodity, Officer, the EVP Human Resources and the technical data, or technology) or any other General Counsel. This team decides on transaction be made contrary to these laws what department is most appropriate to and regulations or to Mölnlycke’s policies investigate and escalate each incident. and procedures governing international We investigate reported incidents and take transactions. This includes compliance with appropriate disciplinary action following all anti-bribery/corruption laws related to defined procedures and follow-up measures interactions with customs officials when where necessary. importing or exporting Mölnlycke product. We carry out mandatory Code of Conduct It is Mölnlycke’s policy to not bribe or training and have begun antitrust training otherwise inappropriately induce customs in 2017. We employ staff to ensure that we officials to violate any laws or regulations on comply with anti-bribery regulations and Mölnlycke’s behalf. In addition, to fulfil global laws. Employees and external partners are and local regulations, Mölnlycke will, upon encouraged to seek advice and/or report a request from the proper authority, provide incidents to us. the necessary documentation to support its international transactions. Fighting corruption: Our performance 2017 We did not receive any fines or sanctions for Fighting corruption non-compliance with laws and regulations We take a vigilant approach to preventing relating to bribery or corruption. corruption connected to any of our operations Where there was a risk of corruption, or suppliers. Our Code of Conduct sets out appropriate disciplinary actions were taken. our policies on donations, gifts, business courtesies, improper payments, fair dealing, antitrust/competition laws and conflicts of interest. 41 Working with suppliers We aim to ensure ethical practices throughout our supply chain. We ask our primary suppliers to meet our Supplier Code of Conduct and Supplier Standard and to apply similar Codes of Conduct among their own partners and suppliers. We expect our suppliers, through the Supplier system, including against risk of abuse of Code of Conduct, to demonstrate that they: human rights, health and safety incidents, • provide a safe and healthy work environment employ­ment laws or use of child labour. If we for all employees identify risks, we carry out supplier audits to check if any incidents have taken place and put • ban all forms of child labour, forced labour corrective actions in place if necessary. and compulsory labour • respect their employees’ rights to freedom We also use the support of third-party assess­ of association ments – especially for our contract manu­fac­ turers. This allows us to refer to local laws • don’t discriminate by gender, age, sexual and regulations in a stringent way, while orientation, race, colour, religion, ethnicity, continuously improving our knowledge and social origin, disability or political opinion ways of working. • comply with local laws on working hours We lead by example, building long-term • pay a living wage that meets their rela­tion­ships with our suppliers, based on employees’ basic needs. fairness, collaboration, transparency and We also expect them to follow our Supplier open communication. Standard. This sets out our basic requirements for quality, sustainability and the environment. Our performance 2017 We require them to manage their impact on None of our suppliers were subject to a human the environment in line with ISO 14001 and to rights review or impact assessment. continually work to reduce it. Our Supplier Code of Conduct assessments Our approach identified no incidents of child labour among suppliers. Where human rights concerns were Before we accept a primary supplier, we raised at our suppliers, we put a corrective carry out a detailed assessment process action plan in place. We continue to actively to ensure that their practices fit with our monitor progress to ensure timely correction. expectations. We then ask them to sign off our supplier standards. Notable changes during 2017 The procurement team is trained in the Global We brought on a number of new suppliers Trade policy and Global Code of Ethics and when we set up a new factory in Havirov, the Integrity and applies this when working with Czech Republic and a new distribution centre in suppliers and partners. Nevada, the US. No other significant changes Once a supplier has been appointed, we then took place during 2017 regarding suppliers or continue to monitor their performance as part supply chain structure in relation to suppliers. of our supplier performance management 42 Managing sustainability risks Our Executive team has overall responsibility for establishing systems to manage risk and for reviewing and measuring their effectiveness. Senior management has day-to-day responsibility for implementing the systems and for monitoring their impact. Our risk management systems Sustainability risks in focus We’ve designed our systems to identify, map Anti-bribery and corruption and manage the most material risks for our business and long-term sustainability. These We have identified bribery and corruption include the risk of material mis-statement in as our most significant sustainability risk, as our financial reporting, the risk of failing to they are common in certain of our markets. achieve our business objectives, reputational Consequently, we devote considerable risk and the risk of bribery and corruption in resources to mitigating this risk. During 2017, certain markets. we launched mandatory antitrust education to supplement our Code of Conduct training. In addition to this, we have a set of procedures, We also monitor and audit our suppliers rules and policies to help us manage risk – with a focus on anti-bribery and corruption. and we also offer training courses to educate If we find that one of our employees or people about the behaviours we expect. suppliers has failed to live up to our standards, Our ambition is to minimise the risk of nonwe take immediate action. This can include compliance by embedding a culture of risk terminating contracts. awareness and quality focus throughout our operations and the supply chain. These proce­ Sustainable supply chains and supply dures, rules, courses and policies are reviewed chain resilience on a regular basis to ensure they are current and still meet our needs. We recognise supply chain resilience as a sustainability risk. We ask our primary suppliers While we have extensive tools in place to to sign up to our Supplier Code of Conduct and manage risk, our company and our suppliers’ Supplier Standard and to set similar standards companies are made up of people. This means among their supply chains. To mitigate the risk we have a risk of human error, just like any of our suppliers falling short, we monitor, audit other company. and follow up supplier actions – and carry out To mitigate this risk, we regularly audit our unannounced spot checks. operations and those of our suppliers. We also We understand that our suppliers may be at oblige people to attend training to ensure that parti­cular risk of violating human rights in some awareness is kept alive. We have a whistle­ markets. To manage this risk, our Supplier blowing hotline where employees can report Code of Conduct specifies that suppliers must any concerns. And if we find incidents, or if protect human rights. Further­more, our CEO incidents are reported, we follow up with and Executive team have signed a statement appropriate actions. against slavery and human trafficking as a sign of our commitment. 43 Managing sustainability risks We know that ethical behaviour is about our production and avoid environmental the culture of an organisation, as well as its pollution caused by our operations. We have policies and processes. To reduce the risk an extensive programme in place to monitor of lack of resilience in our supply chain, we and reduce emissions from transportation seek to build long-term relationships with our in collaboration with our suppliers and will suppliers, based on fairness, collaboration, intensify this work during 2018. transparency and open communication. Product quality Health and safety To minimise product quality risks within our We recognise that our people are at risk of operations and those of our suppliers, we having accidents – particularly in our factories have robust policies and processes, and we – and the number of accidents is likely to go up conducted a detailed review of them during the in line with increases in production. To mitigate year. We have also started to implement a new this, 2017 saw us create a comprehensive quality management system, Polaris, in 2017 – internal programme that will be rolled out which will be fully rolled out in 2018, further from Q1 2018 in order to improve health and protecting our product quality. safety awareness and performance at all of our manufacturing sites. Strengthened capabilities to manage reputational impact People, diversity and equality During 2017, we decided to focus in depth on We have identified equality and diversity reputational risk, and how it could affect the as an important factor in our ability to long-term sustainability of our business. understand the whole of society, and thereby To minimise our reputational risk from some our sustainability as a business. To manage kind of incident occurring, we redesigned our the risk of lack of diversity and equality, we crisis management teams, processes and reviewed how we ensure a diverse workforce, scenarios during the year. In 2018, we will particularly at a leadership level, during 2017. roll out increased media monitoring and new In 2018, we will introduce a global diversity corporate and site crisis management training. policy and define KPIs to improve gender In order to manage our reputational risk, we balance in recruitment. also became more assertive in protecting our We follow regulations, local best practice reputation for high product quality. We see the and have a Code of Conduct and other Human research that supports our product efficacy Resources policies in place to manage other as fundamental to the trust customers place risks relating to people. in us, as it informs their treatment decisions and healthcare spending. In the US, we CO² emissions and waste discovered a competitor using research about our products to market their products – which We have some environmental risks but could have put patients at risk of harm, and we are working to minimise our impact. potentially damaged our reputation. We filed We monitor and measure our usage of water, a lawsuit against the competitor in the US to hazardous chemicals and CO² emissions protect our product claims, prevent harm to and strive constantly to decrease waste from patients and reduce our reputational risk. 44 Our sales offices Mölnlycke HQ Canada Estonia Mölnlycke Health Care AB Mölnlycke Health Care Inc. Mölnlycke Health Care OÜ Box 13080 2010 Winston Part Drive Vabaõhumuuseumitee 4-67 SE-402 52 Gothenburg Suite 100 EE-13522 Tallinn Sweden Oakville Ontario L6H 5R7 Estonia ADDRESS Gamlestadsvägen 3C Canada TEL +372 671 1520 TEL +46 31 722 30 00 TEL +1 905 829 1502 EMAILinfo.ee@molnlycke.com EMAILinfo.se@molnlycke.com EMAILinfo.ca@molnlycke.com WEBSITEwww.molnlycke.com Finland China Mölnlycke Health Care Oy Australia Mölnlycke Health Care Pitäjänmäentie 14, 3rd floor Mölnlycke Health Care Pty Ltd Room 301, Building H FI-00380 Helsinki Level 4 Beijing Phoenix Plaza Finland 12 Narabang Way Belrose No. 5A Shuguangxili TEL +358 201 622 300 NSW 2085 Chaoyang District EMAILinfo.fi@molnlycke.com Australia 100028 Beijing TEL +61 2 897 721 44 China France EMAILinfo.au@molnlycke.com TEL +86 10 512 88 571 Laboratoire Pharmaceutique EMAILinfo.cn@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care Austria 13 Allée du Chateau Blanc Mölnlycke Health Care GmbH Mölnlycke Health Care 59290 Wasquehal Wagenseilgasse 14 Room 407 France AT-1120 Vienna No. 108 Yuyuan Road Jing’an District TEL +33 320 122 555 Austria EMAILinfo.fr@molnlycke.com 200040 Shanghai TEL +43 1 278 85 42 China EMAILinfo.at@molnlycke.com Germany TEL +86 10 512 88 571 EMAILinfo.cn@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care GmbH Belgium Grafenberger Allee 297 Mölnlycke Health Care NV/SA DE-40237 Düsseldorf Berchemstadionstraat 72, bus 2 Czech Republic Germany B-2600 Berchem (Antwerp) Mölnlycke Health Care s.r.o Hájkova 2747 / 22 TEL +49 211 92 08 80 Belgium EMAILinfo.de@molnlycke.com 130 00 Prague 3 TEL +32 3 286 8950 CZ-Czech Republic EMAILinfo.be@molnlycke.com Hong Kong TEL +420 221 890 517 EMAILinfo.cz@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care Brazil 7/F, DCH Building Mölnlycke Health Care de 20 Kai Cheung Road Produtos Médicos Ltda. Denmark Kowloon Bay, Kowloon Rua Castilho, 392 Cj. 122 Mölnlycke Health Care ApS Hong Kong Brooklin Paulista Gydevang 33 DK-3450 Allerød TEL +852 2300 2076 04568-010 São Paulo-SP Brazil Denmark TEL +45 48 16 82 68 Hungary TEL +55 11 3016 8900 Mölnlycke Health Care Kft EMAILvendas.curativos@ EMAILinfo.dk@molnlycke.com Dévai u. 26-28 III. Em. molnlycke.com HU-1134 Budapest Hungary TEL +36 1 477 3080 EMAILinfo.hu@molnlycke.com 45 Our sales offices India Korea New Zealand Mölnlycke Health Care India Pvt Ltd Mölnlycke Health Care Korea Co. Mölnlycke Health Care Pty Ltd Universal Business Centre Ltd Level 4 2nd floor, 2nd floor, Hansol Richville 12 Narabang Way Belrose Universal Trade Tower 46 Wiryeseong-daero NSW 2085 Sector 49, Gurgaon Sohna Road Songpa-gu Australia Gurgaon 122 018 Seoul 05627 TEL +61 2 897 721 44 Haryana Korea EMAILinfo.nz@molnlycke.com India TEL +82 2 3789 1402 TEL +91 124 469 6008 EMAILinfo.kr@molnlycke.com Norway EMAILcontact.india@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care AS Latvia Postboks 6229 Etterstad Ireland Mölnlycke Health Care OÜ NO-0603 Oslo Mölnlycke Health Care Vabaõhumuuseumitee 4-67 Norway Unity House EE-13522 Tallinn TEL +47 22 70 63 70 Medlock Street Estonia EMAILinfo.no@molnlycke.com Oldham, Lancashire TEL +372 671 1520 OL1 3HS EMAILinfo.lv@molnlycke.com United Kingdom Poland Mölnlycke Health Care Polska TEL +44 161 621 3900 Lithuania Sp z.o.o EMAILinfo.uk@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care UAB ul. Przasnyska 6 B (Wejście C) J Galvydzio g. 3 II piȩtro Italy 08236 Vilnius 01-756 Warszawa Mölnlycke Health Care s.r.l Lithuania Poland Via Marsala 40/C TEL +370 5 274 5837 TEL +48 22 350 5280 I-21013 Gallarate (VA) EMAILinfo.lt@molnlycke.com EMAILbiuro@molnlycke.com Italy TEL +39 0331 714 011 Malaysia Portugal EMAILcsc.it@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care Mölnlycke Health Care LDA First Subang Rua Brito Capelo, n° 807 Japan Suite 1108, South Tower, 4450-068 Matosinhos, Oporto Mölnlycke Health Care K.K Jalan SS15/4G Portugal 4F Concieria Nishi-Shinjuku 47500 Subang Jaya TEL +351 808 919 960 Tower’s West Selangor EMAILinfo.pt@molnlycke.com 6-20-7 Nishi-Shinjuku Malaysia Shinjuku-ku TEL +60 3 5612 2926 Tokyo 160-0023 Russia EMAILinfo.my@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care Japan 10/3 B. Toulskaya Str TEL +81 3 6914 5004 Netherlands Moscow 115191 EMAILinfo.jp@molnlycke.com Mölnlycke Health Care B.V. Russia Postbus 3196 TEL +7 495 232 26 64 4800 DD Breda EMAILinfo.ru@molnlycke.com Netherlands TEL +31 76 521 9663 EMAILinfo.nl@molnlycke.com 46 Sustainability report 2017 Saudi Arabia Sweden United States Mölnlycke Health Care Mölnlycke Health Care AB Mölnlycke Health Care US LLC Jameel Square, Office 208 Box 13080 5550 Peachtree Parkway, Tahliya Street SE-402 52 Gothenburg Suite 500 Jeddah, Saudi Arabia Sweden Norcross, GA 30092 TEL+966540931409 TEL +46 31 722 30 00 US EMAILwaleed.mohamed@ EMAILinfo.se@molnlycke.com TEL +1 678 250 7900 molnlycke.com EMAILinfo.us@molnlycke.com Switzerland Singapore Mölnlycke Health Care AG Mölnlycke Health Care Brandstrasse 24 Asia-Pacific Pte Ltd CH-8952 Schlieren 298 Tiong Bahru Road Switzerland #07-03 Central Plaza TEL +41 44 744 54 00 Singapore 168730 EMAILinfo.ch@molnlycke.com TEL +65 6438 4008 EMAILinfo.ap@molnlycke.com Thailand DKSH (Thailand) Limited Slovakia Division of Mölnlycke Health Care Mölnlycke Health Care s.r.o Mezzanine Floor For product complaints or adverse events Hájkova 2747 / 22 2106 Sukhumvit Road please email vigilance@molnlycke.com 130 00 Prague 3 Bangchak, Phrakhanong or visit www.molnlycke.com for local CZ-Czech Republic Bangkok 10260 Customer services contact information. TEL +420 221 890 517 Thailand EMAILinfo.cz@molnlycke.com TEL +66 2 220 9000 South Africa United Arab Emirates Molnlycke Health Care Mölnlycke Health Care South Africa (Pty) Ltd Unit No 603 MSI Business Park Jumeirah Business Center 1 68 Rigger Road Plot No. G2 Spartan Jumeirah Lakes Towers South Africa 1619 Dubai, UAE TEL +27 11 975 0633 TEL +971 4 554 7317 EMAILlurlene.battrick@ EMAILinfo.ae@molnlycke.com molnlycke.com United Kingdom Spain Mölnlycke Health Care Ltd Mölnlycke Health Care S.L. Unity House Avda. de la Vega, Edif. 3 Medlock Street 3a Planta Oldham, Lancashire OL1 3HS ES-28108 Alcobendas (Madrid) United Kingdom Spain TEL +44 161 621 3900 TEL +34 91 484 13 20 EMAILinfo.uk@molnlycke.com EMAILinfo.spain@molnlycke.com 47 At Mölnlycke, we deliver innovative solutions for managing wounds, improving surgical safety and efficiency, and preventing pressure ulcers. Solutions that help achieve better outcomes and are backed by clinical and health-economics evidence. In everything we do, we are guided by a single purpose: to help healthcare professionals perform at their best. And we’re committed to proving it every day. Mölnlycke Health Care AB, Box 13080, Gamlestadsvägen 3C, SE-402 52 Gothenburg, Sweden. Phone +46 31 722 30 00. The Mölnlycke, Mepitel, Mepiform, Mepilex, Mepore, HiBi, Avance, BARRIER, Safetac and Biogel trademarks, names and logotypes are registered globally to one or more of the Mölnlycke Health Care Group of Companies. Z-Flex and Tortoise are trademarks of Mölnlycke Health Care. Z-Flo™ is a mark owned by EdiZONE, LLC of Alpine, Utah. © 2018 Mölnlycke Health Care AB. All rights reserved. HQCO0009 corporate.communication@molnlycke.com
