WE MAKE EVERYDAY LIFE SIMPLER AND THE WORLD SMALLER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT2017 1 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Contents 3 This is Posten Norge 5 A word from our CEO 7 Sustainability Strategy 11 Capital areas – value creation 12 Employees 28 Relationships and partnerships 44 Network and expertise 57 Ability to change 64 Financial capital 69 Market Report 73 GRI overview 89 Independent attestation report 2 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview This is Posten Norge Posten Norge is a mail and logistics group which aims to simplify and increase the value of trade and communication for people and businesses in the Nordic region. Wholly owned business in: Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Slovakia, Belgium, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Greece, Hong Kong and Italy. Head office: Oslo, Norway We have a presence in most countries through our partners. 12,853 employees in Norway Posten Norge has two brands in the marketplace 54 employees in Finland The Posten brand for the entire Norwegian population: Posten delivers mail and packages to the private market in Norway, emphasising security, flexibility and predictability. We offer a variety of delivery methods and good digital self-service solutions. 3,417 employees in Sweden The Bring brand for all businesses in the Nordic region: Bring handles 17,226 large and small consignments in the Nordic region and to the rest of the world. New technology and expertise enable Bring to develop future-oriented solutions that improve our customers' competitiveness. employees in the Group, 235 667 of whom are outside employees in Denmark the Nordic region Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I THIS IS POSTEN NORGE 3 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview New strategy In 2017 the Group developed a new strategy for the coming few years. The guideline for this work was customer-oriented, simplified and profitable . Main goals This is reflected in our new Group structure, our business strategies and our Our main goals mirror our business requirements and ambitions for strategic platform: vision, purpose and main goals. the business, and were revised in 2017 Vision Purpose We make everyday We aim to simplify and increase the value life simpler and of trade and communication for people the world smaller. and businesses in the Nordic region. Engaged and Innovative and Our values competent employees sustainable development Our values present us as a group that can be relied upon in all respects, a group for which we are proud to work. These values help build our common culture and guide us in all our decisions. Established forms of co-operation between managers, employees, governing bodies, owner and the authorities will reflect our values: • Integrity • Respect • Co-operation • Openness • Courage Future development In a world where change occurs at an ever-increasing pace, we are committed to Satisfied and loyal Cost-effectiveness innovating in multiple time frames: while we solve challenges today, we also have an customers and profitable growth eye on the needs of tomorrow and the future. Main goals Get to know us even better at postennorge.no Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I THIS IS POSTEN NORGE 4 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview A WORD FROM OUR CEO A long-term vision in changing times Change is part of everyday life at Posten and Bring. Our ability to change is part of our DNA – without it, we wouldn’t be here today. Posten has transformed itself more in the last 20 years than in the first 350 – and this change in pace seems only to be increasing. Photo: Håvard Jørstad Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I A WORD FROM OUR CEO 5 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview In a rapidly changing world the timeframe a new vision to give us a clear direction: increase our use of biogas vehicles. for strategic plans needs to be shorter than “We make everyday life simpler and the world Last year we opened several new logistics before. To balance this it’s important for us smaller”. This vision articulates how we should centres which use innovative solutions to to keep an eye on our long-term economic evolve, how we should work for the benefit elevate their environmental profiles. The growth. Sustainability for Posten and Bring of our customers and how we should make hub of our modern logistics network – the Our sustainability report means exactly this: our long-term viability. ourselves more attractive to partners. Oslo Logistics Centre at Alnabru – has led to In an age of digitisation, one could be forgiven approximately 10,000 fewer driven kilometres shows how we rely on the for thinking that technology and capital are We have a lot to be proud of. Absenteeism every single day. interaction between all the most important things for a company’s continued to decrease in 2017 as the result survival. Our sustainability report, however, of a long-term, goal-oriented exercise. This We are keen to learn from others as well as of our resources in order shows how we rely on interactions between has been very valuable for individuals, the from our own experience. The sustainability to remain a relevant and all of our resources in order to remain Group as a whole and society. Every day, report provides an annual summary of preferred supplier in a relevant and preferred supplier in the 540 more fit and healthy employees now turn the work we are doing in this area as we long term. It describes in other words, our up for work than in 2006. This represented a continue to measure, evaluate and learn. This the long term. employees, relationships and partnerships, saving of NOK 220 million in 2017. The Group is essential for keeping pace and ensuring networks and expertise, as well as our continues to decrease its CO2 emissions. We our ability to complete the task. Tempo is the financial capital and ability to change. hope to set a green example in the industry, keyword for 2018. We shall continue to evolve leading the way with the help of new solutions. and change to enable ourselves to create In 2017 we equipped the organisation to In 2017, we set ourselves a new and highly long-term value for all of our stakeholders. better meet – and stay ahead of – the ambitious goal of only using only renewable changes that are taking place. We also energy sources in our vehicles and buildings updated our strategy. “Customer-oriented”, by 2025. We have Norway's largest electric “simplified” and “profitable” have been vehicle park, which includes approximately keywords in guiding our work. And we have 1,180 electric vehicles, and we continue to Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I A WORD FROM OUR CEO 6 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Our strategy for creating long-term viability Sustainability for us is about ensuring the Group's long-term viability. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 7 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview When it comes to creating value and with the Group's sustainability council. defined by the Group as being important ensuring long-term viability, the Group’s The council contributes to the further to us but which are not currently part most important resources are our development of sustainability reporting of the GRI template. employees, relationships and partnerships, and is composed of experts from within our network and expertise, our ability to the Group who can provide input and This year, Posten has moved from the GRI G4 The Group's stakechange and our financial capital. These agreement on the road ahead. reporting standard to the GRI Sustainability resource areas are defined as capital Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). The holders are demanding areas in our sustainability report. The capital areas – our resources – provided differences include a simpler reporting a more systematic the basis for defining which critical success structure and more consistent, clearer To ensure that we report on the most factors (GRI aspects) should be included in language used in the guidelines for defining approach to sustainrelevant areas for long-term value creation, the materiality analysis. The analysis resulted individual indicators. Among the advantages ability and expect Posten, we have carried out a materiality analysis. in thirteen priority areas we believe have the of the change is a reduced scope for as a major Norwegian Our materiality analysis is based on a broad greatest importance for our value creation interpretation of individual indicators, which definition of sustainability and is linked to the and for our most important stakeholders. should result in increased comparability public-sector player, to Group's strategy and management system. We have also decided to report on supplier between dissimilar companies. Posten has not work methodically on this. Where previously we discussed environmental management, as this element is of changed the scope of its reporting in moving and social considerations, this latest analysis increasing importance for the Group. from GRI G4 to the GRI Standards. addresses the Group's long-term viability and its ability to create value. This change was Furthermore, we have linked the In this year’s reporting, we have chosen to link introduced because important stakeholders, recommended and recognised reporting our GRI indicators to the UN’s Sustainable such as the owner, business customers and template from the Global Reporting Initiative Development Goals (SDG). The UN has capital managers, who increasingly ask for (GRI) to these success factors and carried set certain goals to be achieved by 2030, more non-financial information. out an analysis in order to define which GRI including: eradicating hunger and poverty, indicators are linked to the various aspects reducing inequality in and between countries, The Group's Materiality Analysis was that we are reporting on. strengthening human rights and gender carried out in 2015 and forms the basis equality, and protecting the planet and its for 2017 reporting. The analysis was carried The GRI template is an international standard natural resources. It is important that we out following interviews with twelve key that is not individually customised to Posten. at Posten also help to support this work. persons in the Group and a working meeting Therefore, we have also included indicators Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 8 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Materiality Analysis The area on the right shows the fourteen areas of greatest Customer-oriented importance for the company's Health, working ability to create value over Open and effective environment and safety communication the long term and of greatest Attractive workplace Return on equity importance for stakeholders. Integrity Information security Solvency and liquidity The critical success factors (GRI aspects) are categorised Competitive framework IMPORTANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS’ ASSESSMENTS by our capital areas. Environmentally efficient conditions transport and logistics Our employees Innovation and service development Network Our relationships and partnerships Corporate governance Our network and our expertise Diversity and Good managers integration Supplier management Our ability to change and adapt Our financial capital Purchasing Threat monitoring Noise and preparedness Local air quality IMPORTANCE FOR POSTEN'S ABILITY TO ACHIEVE LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION, ITS VISION AND STRATEGIC GOALS Posten Norge, Sustainability Report 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY I Materiality Analysis 9 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Our key stakeholders Defining our key stakeholders has been a central element of the materiality analysis, since these stakeholders are involved in establishing the Private customers framework for our work on sustainability. The and local communities stakeholders each have their own requirements High expectations regarding availfor and expectations of the Group. ability, quality and customer service Our main key stakeholders were identified as being the owner and public authorities, business customers, and present and future employees. In Employees Suppliers Require a safe and Concerned with predictability in addition, private customers and local communities, attractive workplace bidding and tendering processes capital markets, suppliers and interest groups are central to the Group's work on corporate social responsibility and sustainability. Corporate customers Requirements for supplier manageCapital market The Group also conducts dialogue with other ment, integrity and the environment Concerned with environmental plans, savings and lower risk premiums stakeholders, such as trade unions, trade resulting from good HSE efforts and employers associations, political parties, supervisory bodies, competitors and the media. Owner and public authorities We are in dialogue with our stakeholders in various Requirement to deliver targeted formal and informal arenas. The frequency of these return on invested capital. Requirements for societal value Special interest organisations meetings varies according to the needs and creation, high quality service delivery, Fragmented group that sets requirements of the stakeholders. reduction of environmental impact, requirementsfor areas such as and employee well being environment and universal design In view of the Group working on a new corporate strategy in December 2017, a new materiality analysis will be implemented which will be linked to this new strategy. This will form the basis for sustainability reporting in 2018. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY I Key Stakeholders 10 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Our five capital areas These are our most important resources for ensuring the Group’s long-term viability. They also determine which GRI aspects we report on to ensure the good development and management of resources. Our employees Our relationships Our network and Our ability to Our financial and partnerships expertise change capital Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS 11 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Our employees The Group's most important resource is its employees. A health-promoting work environment, the right composition of employees and managers and especially good managers are essential for achieving the financial demands of the owner. There are three GRI aspects under this capital area which we need to report on. Health, safety and working environment GRI indicators: 403-1, 403-2, 406-1 Attractive workplace GRI indicators: 401-1, 401-2, 405-1, 202-1 Good managers Own indicator: Employee satisfaction (not carried out in 2017) Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES 12 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Health, safety and working environment GRI indicators: 403-1, 403-2, 406-1 A health-promoting work environment, where How we work Stakeholders none of our employees become injured or ill as a result of their work, continues to be an imporDevelopment work and the long-term collaboration with those actors supporting Business customers: Set tant goal for Posten. Health, safety and working strategic work of HSE are taken care of by us in our efforts to create a better working requirements concerning environment (HSE) are not secondary factors: a centralised expert unit. Line management environment. Posten continually works to systematic HSE management they are integral to the Group’s work. By working receives assistance from the central unit as improve and further develop services offered and often include the right to systematically and purposefully with HSE, sickwell as local support from within the subject by the occupational health service. Evaluation audit HSE work in contracts. ness absence has declined, fewer of our employarea. HSE is the first item on the agenda at takes place through monthly reports, weekly Owner and authorities: Legal ees have become disability, and the number of all management and Board meetings, which status meetings and half-yearly collaborative requirements. Expect systematic personal injuries has been markedly reduced. The helps to put HSE on the agenda across the meetings. The divisions are followed up on a HSE work. result is clear: compared to 2006, the number entire company. quarterly basis to see whether they make use of fit and healthy employees now turning up for of the financial support schemes included in Employees: Crucial for ensuring work every day has increased by 540. HSE results are reported systematically the IA agreement (inclusive workplace) for attractive workplaces and work The Group has been developing and improving across the whole Group. Every month, KPIs use of the occupational health service and attendance in a labour-intensive its tools, procedures and methods for a number (key performance indicators) are reported to facilitation grants. For many years the Group business with a high pace of change. of years in order to reduce injuries and sickness Group management. These include key figures has followed up inspections undertaken by absence. The main key to us achieving such good for sickness absence, injuries, disabilities, the Norwegian Labour Inspection Authority Investors and banks: Concerned HSE results can be found in our dedicated and near accidents and undesirable incidents. The very closely, which has added to the with cost savings and lower risk competent employees and managers who place Group's Board of Directors receives reports improvement of our HSE work, both locally premiums resulting from good HSE at the top of the agenda every day. We see and analyses on HSE results at all Board and centrally, and to our HSE system. HSE work. that when attendance increases and more of meetings. There is also good three-party our employees are at work, we experience fewer collaboration between management, union operational challenges. Productivity and quality representatives and safety representatives. rise, employee satisfaction improves and we achieve significant cost savings. Sickness absenInteraction between relevant stakeholders ce and injuries are expensive. The decrease in and the authorities is important for the sickness absence and the number of injuries in further development of our HSE work and 2017 resulted in a cost saving of NOK 220 million for solving the major challenges facing the for the Posten Group, compared with 2006. Group. In 2017, Posten continued its active Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I Health, Safety and Working Environment 13 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Employee voices are important Injuries and near accidents Figures GRI indicator 403-1: Employee representation workforce. Three-party meetings are regularThe responsibility for both prevention and in formal HSE committees with representatily carried out at all levels of the organisation. follow-up work lies with managers. To increase ves from management and employees. 96.1 per cent of the Group's permanent and the competence of the managers, a training temporary employees work in sections of the concept has been developed that will enable 500 50 000 It is important for Posten that employee business covered by formal health and safety managers to proactively address risky drug working conditions are taken seriously and, committees (work environment committee, use and gambling. This was the theme of as such, we rely on feedback from employetripartite collaboration etc.). The committees the annual HSE manager training in the Mail 400 es. Close collaboration with safety and union offer advice and monitor measures which Division in 2017. Posten also piloted the use representatives is a prerequisite for achiepromote health and safety. Posten only has of electronic key cabinets throughout 2017, 40 000 ving our goals for the working environment. figures on its own employees in this regard. where a driver must blow into an alcolock to 40,513 Collaboration strengthens adaptability and Posten works systematically and retrieve keys. The aim is to prevent our drivers 300 provides an opportunity to develop collective continuously on the prevention and monitoring from operating their vehicles while under the solutions and to embed decisions among the of substance abuse and gambling addiction. influence of alcohol. 232 200 30 000 12 13 14 15 16 17 The number of personal injuries continues to decline Injuries GRI indicator 403-2: Type and frequency of individuals, their attitudes and their behaviour. were recorded in the Group, compared with 278 Near accidents personal injuries, occupational diseases, lost Posten records personal injuries based personal injuries in 2016. The number of lostworking days and absenteeism, and total on the Federation of Norwegian Industries' time injuries requiring medical treatment (H1) number of work-related fatalities by region standard. Lost-time injuries requiring medical was reduced from 122 in 2016 to 108 in 2017. and by gender. treatment are included in the H1 ratio, while H2 The Group’s H2 figure ended at 8.4, which is an injuries are all other personal injuries inclusive improvement on 2016’s figure of 8.7. The result Systematic work over time has yielded good of H1 injuries. The number of recorded lostis 0.1 higher than the goal set for H2 in 2017. The results, leading to a marked decrease in the time injuries has shown a clear and positive Group is continuing its commitment to work number of personal injuries at Posten. We have decline since measuring commenced in 2006. In safety and the reduction of personal injuries by achieved good results by focusing not only on 2017, the number of personal injuries declined by setting an H2 goal of 7.4 for 2018. causes, systems and procedures, but also on 17 per cent: a total of 231 personal injuries (H2) Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I Health, Safety and Working Environment 14 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview In 2017, employees in the Posten Group self-assessments and audits showed an Injuries, fatalities and sickness absence recorded 40,513 near accidents and adverse increase in the number of units achieving an incidents. This is equivalent to over 2.5 reco“Approved” level. H1 value H2 value Fatalities Sick leave percentage rdings per employee. The registred near acAny serious incident where employees Posten Group 3.9 8.4 1 5.8% cidents and adverse incidents means we are have been injured or where damage could informed of risks and dangerous conditions have occurred shall be investigated, and Posten Norge AS 3.1 5.8 0 6.5% and situations in the workplace before somereports are used for training. In 2017, 75 inMail Division 3.3 8.8 0 6.3% one gets hurt. This gives us an opportunity vestigations were conducted. All investigation Logistics Norway Division: 5.4 8.3 1 6.0% to implement preventive measures and thus reports conclude with a learning page. This is Logistics Nordic Division 3.1 8.6 0 3.7% reduce the risk of injury. Other essential tools then supplemented with images, a descripin Posten’s safety work are the group-wition of the event and learning elements and de HSE Safety Standard, safety audits of is used for notices or for presentations at operational units, investigation of all serious team and departmental meetings to provide incidents and accidents, and safety discussivaluable knowledge about how accidents can ons between managers and employees. be prevented. Injuries, fatalities and sickness absence in Posten Norge by gender The HSE Safety Standard is a mandatory A robust safety culture concerns attituchecklist for all of the Group’s managers and des, conscious choices and the proper and H1 value H2 value Fatalities Sick leave percentage comprises control points covering everything systematic use of tools. Individual safety Women 3.1 6.6 0 8.1% from the securing of buildings and goods to discussions are a group-wide instrument for those areas most important for creating a increasing individual understanding of the Men 3.1 5.3 0 5.7% safe working environment. The Standard is risk of injuries and accidents. The discussiused every year as the basis for self-evaluaon should be a dialouge between manager tion and audits. Self-assessment of the HSE and employee, addressing important safety Safety Standard was conducted throughout challenges in the individual’s everyday work. the Group for the fifth consecutive year, The safety discussion is carried out annually Another crucial safety measure is the work and the environment by way of a sudden acciand 448 managers responded when asked for employees within selected job families to disseminate information and knowledge dent. In 2017, Posten focused on the training of whether they meet the requirements of and is one of Posten's most important tools about the treatment of dangerous goods – that operations personnel, as well as on the update the Safety Standard. Additionally, in 2017, 20 for building a robust safety culture across is, materials having properties that could pose a and implementation of improved process descentral audits were conducted. Results from the whole Group. danger to human life and health, material worth criptions for dangerous goods. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I Health, Safety and Working Environment 15 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Sickness absence at a record low level Sickness absence in the Norwegian labour market and the Posten Group 12-month trend as a percentage GRI indicator 403-2: Type and frequency of personal injuries, occupational diseases, lost working days and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region and gender. 8 Sickness absence in the Group ended at a record low level in 2017. The 12-month rolling trend started at 6.1 per cent at the start of the year. During the 7 spring months, sickness absence started to improve and eventually ended the year at 5.8 per cent. This is 0.2 percentage points lower than the target for the year, and the 6.4% lowest annual result measured in the Group. 6 The improving trend in sickness absence 5.8% in recent years means that the level of sickness absence across the Group is lower than that in the Norwegian labour market. 5 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The sickness absence target for 2018 is set to 5.7 per cent. At the same time as the level of sickness absence has declined, the level of disabilities across the Group has remained at a stable low level. The disability percentage ended at 1.1 per cent in 2017, which was the target level set for the year. The 2017 target Norwegian labour market, source: SSB (Statistics Norway) will be carried into 2018. Posten Group Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I Health, Safety and Working Environment 16 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview The good sickness absence results have partnerships with the occupational health every three years. Participants get basic Sickness absence been achieved at the same time as the Group service and the Norwegian Labour and information about the body, with a focus on As a percentage according to gender has undergone several restructuring and Welfare Administration’s (NAV) working life muscles, back and neck, as well as the use of production changes. Throughout the Group, centres. In addition, much work has been done support aids. systematic and purposeful work has been on management support and the increase in 8.1% ongoing to prevent these changes from competance levels of managers and HR, with There is still reason to believe that the leading to an increase in sickness absence. the realisation that close and systematic systematic use of tools and measures At the same time, health-promoting and follow-up by supervisors is key to the reduces sickness absence. Systematic preventive work has continued, and efforts success of this work. This will be continued follow-up with employees on sick leave 5.7% to reduce recurring and high rates of and intensified in 2018, when the themes of makes the processes more predictable for sickness absence have been intensified. this year's HSE management training in our all involved parties. The use of Postmodellen largest divisions will be absence follow-up (“the Posten Model”) – Posten's procedure For several years now, the Group has and mental health. for sickness absence follow-up – has prioritised efforts towards employees having been and will remain an important tool. In the highest sickness absence and has been At the same time as Posten is working to 2018, a revised and improved model will be engaged in getting them back to work. An reduce recurring and high rates of sickness implemented so that we can achieve our important part of this work is the It helps absence, we are also focusing on preventive goal of further improvement of group-wide Women Men methodology, which targets employees who work. We continue our commitment to sickness absence. have been absent through sickness for 24 our health promotion programme, and our shifts or more every year for the past three managers and the occupational health The table shows an overview of total sickness years. The work of “It helps” has been very service continue to focus on proactive and absence in the Posten Group, by gender. effective. The number of employees with this preventive work. Posten is working to raise frequency of absence was reduced by 63 employees’ competence regarding their own per cent at the end of 2017 compared with health in order to create a health-promoting 2010. There was a 15 per cent reduction in working environment. The Managing Health the number of employees with this frequency course has been developed in partnership of absence from 2016 to 2017. In order to with the occupational health service. get employees with recurring and high rates This course focuses on ergonomics and of sickness absence back to work, Posten acquiring coping skills, and is to be conducted Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I Health, Safety and Working Environment 17 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Posten is a racism-free zone GRI indicator 406-1: Number of incidents continue in this direction. Our 2020 goal is year, involves employees being seconded to of discrimination and measures initiated in based on a re-evaluation of the population. different parts of the Group and receiving connection with these. Diversity in managerial, corporate staff and relevant training as necessary. You make the administrative positions is lower and the goal difference is an important part of Posten's GRI indicator 405-1: Diversity in management set is based on a staffing analysis. In 2017, diversity work, and the programme will bodies and among employees. 15.8 per cent of employees in the Norwegian continue in 2018. section of the Group had an immigrant Integration and diversity is one of the background: an increase of 1.3 percentage In 2017, Posten’s own mentorship programme Group's focus areas within corporate social points since for promoting integration among unemployed responsibility. This entails the Group having 2016. For positions in management, staff immigrant women ran for the fifth time with an outward-facing, racism-free profile and and administration, the proportion was 19 participants. Each of the women receive taking an active role in integration work 6.7 per cent. The proportion of managers their own mentor and meet once or twice internally and externally. In collaboration with from an immigrant background has risen a month to discuss a variety of topics. The Norwegian People's Aid, Posten has been a from 4.6 per cent in 2016 to 5.2 per cent programme is intended to give the women a racism-free zone since 2001. The Group's in 2017. None of the representatives greater understanding of Norwegian working whistleblowing scheme handled no cases on Posten's Board have an immigrant life and to assist in the job application relating to discrimination during 2017. background. process. The mentorship programme was conducted in collaboration with Moving Posten has set itself ambitious goals for You make a difference is an internal trainee Mamas – a social entrepreneurship diversity leading up to 2020. The aim is that programme targeting employees in our programme working with unemployed at least 17 per cent of employees in the operational processes that have higher immigrant mothers. For the first time, Norwegian section of the Group and 9 per education and/or managerial experience they the participants in the mentorship cent of employees in managerial, corporate are not applying in their current position. programme were offered an 80-hour staff and administrative positions should Participants must have a family background Norwegian course. Five of the participants have an immigrant background. Currently, from outside of the Nordic region. Four chose to follow the course. our diversity reflects society in terms participants were chosen for the programme of overall composition, and we wish to in 2017. The programme, which lasts for one Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I Health, Safety and Working Environment 18 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Attractive workplace GRI indicators: 401-1, 401-2, 405-1, 202-1 Creating attractive workplaces for both How we work Stakeholders existing and new employees is extremely important to the Group. We believe that The task of creating attractive workplaces is positive (32%) than negative (30%) media Employees: Crucial for attracting in sum our four main goals contribute undertaken by all of Posten’s employees and notices concerning Posten. Highlighted in the and retaining suitable employees. in creating an attractive workplace. An managers working together on a daily basis. media as one of Posten’s strengths was the Has an impact on efficiency. attractive workplace invites the more It is expressed through employee interactisubject of employee wellbeing. Business customers: Can affect committed and talented individuals. We on with our customers, through our digital the quality of services. are committed to developing our existing customer interface and in the way we are In 2017, the Group formally opened new employees and attracting the skills we need presented in the media. logistics centres in Narvik, Trondheim and today and in the future. Oslo and marked the occasions by inviting The marketing and communication departcustomers, partners and employees. The ments in Communications and Strategy are new logistics centre at Oslo was officially responsible for strategic brand attractiveopened by HRH Crown Prince Haakon. Parties ness, and work, through their marketing and were held for employees following the official information channels, to give an impression of opening events in Oslo and Trondheim. Posten as a modern, future-oriented business with its customers and employees close to In 2017, Bring was a logistics partner to the heart. An active press team works to present UCI World Road Championships in Bergen, talented employees and interesting workplace and many employees took part in logistics stories to the media. We realise how individual deliveries for the cycling championships. employees can help to build trust and a good In addition, a number of activities were impression of Posten when they express organised to create engagement and a themselves on current affairs. feeling of pride among employees. Posten is a sponsor of the Norwegian Media monitoring agency M-Brain analyses Handball Federation and offers tickets for Posten’s annual media exposure. This helps international handball matches in Norway for to establish the basis for evaluating the both the women’s and men’s teams. These effectiveness of the Attractive Workplace activities are popular among the workforce. initiative. Overall for 2017, there were more Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I ATTRACTIVE WORKPLACE 19 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview In the organisational survey of 2016, employees said that they felt positively about Posten sponsoring handball, and nearly half said that they felt proud to work in the Group because of the sponsorship. On the basis of the Group's various undertakings as part of the Attractive Workplace initiative and their results, the work is deemed to be effective in achieving overall goals. Photo: Birger Morken Posten and Bring are proud sponsors of the Norwegian Handball Federation. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I ATTRACTIVE WORKPLACE 20 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Composition of governing bodies and the workforce Composition of the Board by age and gender GRI indicator 405-1: Composition of on Saturdays, as well as the transition to a Age range Men as % Women as % Total number governing bodies and distribution of single mail stream. employees by employee category 30 to 50 0.0% 100% 1 determined by gender, age group, minority The proportion of permanent and temporary Over 50 62.5% 37.5% 8 group and other diversity indicators. female employees in the Group stood at 32.9 Minority background 0% 0% 0 per cent in 2017, and 28.8 per cent of the Total 55.6% 44.4% 9 As of 31 December 2017, no members of the Group's managers are women. Four men Board are from a minority background. Of and five women (including our female CEO) sit the Board's nine representatives, four are in the Group’s management team, resulting female and five male. One representative is in in a female representation of 55.6 per cent. Composition of permanent and temporary employees by function and age the 30-50 age group and the remaining eight The proportion of women in the Group as a are over 50 years of age. whole stands at 36 per cent, and among the Age range Managers Employees Total managers it stands at 30 per cent. CorporaAt the close of 2017 there were te HR and HSE staff monitor the Group’s feUnder 30 1.6% 18.3% 17.3% 15,631 permanent employees in the male representation and aim for the gender 30 to 50 45.1% 38.6% 39.0% Posten Group. In addition, the Group has balance among managers to reflect that of Over 50 53.2% 43.1% 43.8% 1,595 temporary employees. The Group has the Group as a whole. employees in 14 countries, though 79.3 per Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% cent of our permanent employees work in In 2017 Posten took part in Storebrand’s Norway. After Norway, the countries where FiftyFifty2017 initiative. The programme most of our permanent employees work has focused the spotlight on the unrealised Composition of fulland part-time employees by gender are Sweden (15.6 per cent) and Slovakia potential that lies in an equal and diverse (2.1 per cent). Overall, there has been an workplace. Over the course of four worksGender Full-time Part-time Total 8 per cent decrease in the number of hops held during 2017, more than 100 female Men 9,743 1,814 11,557 permanent employees from 2016 to managers and management talents from 2017, with the biggest decline happening 12 different companies worked together Women 3,909 1,760 5,669 in Norway. This is largely due to the on specific measures to create awareness Total 13,652 3,574 17,226 discontinuation of postal deliveries around an important social challenge. Posten Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I ATTRACTIVE WORKPLACE 21 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview contributed with ten participants to the Employees in the Group programme. The participants also carried out several internal debates and discussed Country Permanent Temporary Total the subject of gender balance in management with the CEO and HR Director of the Men Women Men Women Posten Group. Norway 8,089 4,301 329 134 12,853 Sweden 1,709 731 657 320 3,417 In 2017, 47.5 per cent of permanent Greece 8 7 0 0 15 employees were over 50 years of age, and 40 per cent were in the 30-50 age group. The Netherlands 34 10 7 3 54 This guarantees the Group access to a Belgium 3 1 0 0 4 stable workforce. The United Kingdom 47 20 0 0 67 Denmark 164 66 4 1 235 Hong Kong 1 2 0 0 3 Italy 2 1 0 0 3 Russia 0 4 0 1 5 France 32 11 5 1 49 Finland 32 20 1 1 54 Germany 3 1 0 0 4 Slovakia 304 28 126 5 463 Total 10,428 5,203 1,129 466 17,226 All data on employees is taken from the HR system and is valid as of 31 December 2017. The figures do not include externally paid workers. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I ATTRACTIVE WORKPLACE 22 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Equal pay and equal opportunities 99.4 per cent of employees in the Group work New employees in Norway by age and gender for a company in which the same benefits Number and percentage of employees in each category GRI indicator 202-1: Conditions of standard are offered to temporary employees and starting salary by gender compared with local permanent employees. Exempt from this Age range Men Women Total minimum wage rates at sites with significant are employees of Norwegian companies operations. working less than 20 per cent of normal Under 30 244 (23%) 113 (25%) 357 (24%) working hours, who are not covered by Nordic countries do not operate national pension savings agreements or disability 30 to 50 238 (7%) 93 (7%) 331 (7%) minimum wage systems. Wage levels pension agreements. This area is regulated Over 50 275 (7%) 173 (7%) 448 (7%) and starting wages are governed by the by settlements and agreements or agreed by Total 757 (9%) 379 (9%) 1,136 (9%) relationship between union representatives the individual company. and the employer. 96.1 per cent of the Group's permanent and temporary employees are employed in a Nordic Restructuring contributes country. 95 per cent of the Group's to increased turnover New employees outside of Norway by age and gender permanent employees work in a company GRI indicator 401-1: New employments and Number and percentage of employees in each category that is covered by one or more collective staff turnover. wage agreements. On average, when Age range Men Women Total looking at all employees without managerial The Group has adopted rules of action responsibility, men and women at Posten that govern important aspects of local Under 30 753 (79%) 479 (95%) 1,232 (84%) Norge AS earn the same. Women in the employment pertaining to recruitment 30 to 50 635 (39%) 213 (38%) 848 (39%) management employee group earn, on processes, equality, anti-discrimination and Over 50 80 (14%) 28 (17%) 108 (15%) average, 0.6 per cent more than men. intercompany mobility. Total 1,468 (47%) 720 (58%) 2,188 (50%) GRI indicator 401-2: Benefits for fullIn 2017, the Group recruited 3,324 new time employees that are not offered to employees, 77.8 per cent of whom were temporary or part-time employees, employed in full-time positions. by site of significant operation. * Included in the term “new employees” are employees who have been transferred from one company to another within the Group. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I ATTRACTIVE WORKPLACE 23 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview The Group had a staff turnover of 18.4 per female employees being 0.8 per cent higher Turnover outside of Norway by age and gender cent in 2017. The turnover rate among male than among male employees. The Group is Number and percentage of employees in each category employees was 1.9 per cent higher than engaged in continuous restructuring, and among female employees. The combined we regard this rate of turnover as being Age range Men Women Total turnover rate for employees in Norway necessary to operate staffing management was 15.1 per cent, with the rate among in line with market developments. Under 30 279 (29.2%) 153 (30.2%) 432 (29.6%) 30 to 50 443 (27.2%) 118 (21.0%) 561 (25.6%) Over 50 198 (35.7%) 35 (21.0%) 233 (32.3%) Total 920 (29.3%) 306 (24.8%) 1,266 (28.0%) Turnover in Norway by age and gender Turnover within the Group by age and gender Number and percentage of employees in each category percentage of employees in each category Age range Men Women Total Age range % Men % Women Total Under 30 350 (32.6%) 165 (36.9%) 515 (33.9%) Under 30 31.0% 33.4% 31.8% 30 to 50 418 (13.1%) 208 (15.6%) 626 (13.9%) 30 to 50 17.9% 17.2% 17.7% Over 50 480 (11.5%) 317 (11.9%) 797 (11.7%) Over 50 14.4% 12.5% 13.7% Total 1,248 (14.0%) 690 (14.8%) 1,938 (15.1%) Total 18.8% 17.6% 18.4% *Figures include voluntary and involuntary resignations, as well as retirees Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I ATTRACTIVE WORKPLACE 24 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview STAKEHOLDER EMPLOYEES MURAT KUTLUAY, a civil economist with Turkish parents, was working night shifts at the Karihaugen distribution centre when he applied for the You make a difference programme – the Group's internal trainee programme for employees with immigrant Posten's diversity work, backgrounds looking for experience in administrative and managerial positions in the Posten Group. Its through its ’You make a aim is to increase diversity within the management, difference’ programme, corporate staff and administrative functions. The programme manages secondment to various parts led to a turning point of the Group for a period of one year. in my career. ”In what way is Posten’s work on sustainability MURAT KUTLUAY important to you?” Senior Analyst in the E-commerce and Logistics Division “Posten's diversity work, through its ‘You make a difference’ programme, led to a turning point in my career. I was seconded to an analyst position in the Finance Department in the E-commerce Division, and then moved to the Sales Development and Marketing Department in the Logistics Division as a temp. I was offered a permanent job there as a senior analyst in April 2017. It was a dream come true. Among other things, I compile sales reports and analyses and really get to put my education to use. I'm so happy with my job. I've always liked the Posten culture – it’s very inclusive and welcomes suggestions and input. People are knowledgeable and friendly. You just have to ask. I have many people to thank for giving me such a Photo: Birger Morken priceless opportunity.” Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I STAKEHOLDER: EMPLOYEES 25 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Good managers Own indicator: employee satisfaction Good managers are crucial in unlocking How we work Stakeholders potential from our 17,226 employees, thereby enabling them to thrive and The recruitment and development of success of this is measured through the Owner and authorities: Relevant perform to the best of their ability. We good managers are part of the longorganisational survey. The survey was not to Posten's goal achievement. currently have 1,027 managers with term strategic work of organisational conducted in 2017, but will be carried out Business customers: Good personnel responsibility, all of whom play development, but the most important annually from 2018. management can affect the quality an important role in implementing the development takes place in day-to-day of services delivered to customers. Group's strategy and in the realisation operations, in which managers play an Systematic employee reviews, known as of our goals. important role. A centralised expert unit in PLUSS reviews, are held between manager Private customers and local organisational development is developing and employee at least once per year. communities: Good management People are motivated by several group-wide structures and content and Managers are responsible for conducting can affect the quality of services factors, such as feelings of selfcontributing to the implementation of dialogue with employees on key measures and delivered to customers. efficacy, autonomy, support and measures in line management. subjects that affect working processes and recognition as well as having meaningful the working day in peripheral units. Employees: Critical for motivation tasks to perform. Good managers Line management, including Group and performance. Crucial for distinguish themselves by being management, are regularly updated on this The Group continues to work systematically attracting and retaining suitable conscious of these factors and organisational development work, when on developing management teams and employees. exercising their leadership accordingly. progress on key measures is presented. An individual managers at different levels as Good leadership results in better example of this is the annual reporting of needed. In 2017, 190 employees participated performance, better collaboration and manager capacity and capability. in the Group’s various management lower avoidable turnover, which influence development initiatives: 16 in the Confident both efficiency and goal achievement. As The Group's managers should practise Manager relationship development such, the recruitment and development leadership that balances involvement programme and 67 in the first-line of good managers is a priority area for and control. They should be role models in management programme. 40 participated in achieving the Group’s goals. terms of how they conduct themselves and the Group's middle management programme must bring the Group's values to life. Our and 51 in the senior management programme. managers are characterised by being visible The senior management programme is and clear, taking and allocating responsibility, carried out as required, based on the and developing and inspiring employees. The implementation of strategy and various Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I GOOD MANAGERS 26 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview initiatives: previously in 2013/14 and again in 2017/18. Team-building has been carried out Good managers are crucial to in response to requests from the divisions bringing out the potential in and staff sections. Posten’s employees, helping them to thrive and perform to the best of their ability. The Group works to identify leadership talent in order to ensure a good pipeline of managerial candidates. This is achieved through PLUSS reviews, manager reviews, the Group’s common CV database and other means. The Group uses a digital application for conducting PLUSS reviews. In addition, ambition and willingness to be mobile organisationally and geographically are mapped. The Aspiring Managers (Lederspirer) programme aims to recruit first-line managers from among our own workforce. One programme was completed in 2017 with a total of seven participants. The Group's two-year trainee programme ran for the 18th time. The trainee programme is part of Posten's long-term focus on management development and recruitment of critical expertise. Five Group trainees started in 2017. Four university and university college internships were completed in the autumn of 2017. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR EMPLOYEES I GOOD MANAGERS 27 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Our relationships and partnerships Delivering as agreed, dialogue, high integrity and good supplier management are key to developing, maintaining and strengthening relations with our business contacts and partners. Good relationships with our owner, customers, partners and suppliers are fundamental to profitable growth. There are four aspects in this capital area which we need to report on. Customer-oriented Own indicators: Delivery quality and customer satisfaction Open and effective communication Own indicator: Reputation Integrity GRI indicators: 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 206-1 and 418-1 Corporate social responsibility in the supply chain GRI indicators: 308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 414-2, 102-43, 102-44 Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS 28 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Customer-oriented Own indicators: Delivery quality and customer satisfaction Customer orientation is about How we work Stakeholders understanding the customer’s business and how we can help strengthen their Net Promoter Score (NPS) is the Group's the delivery quality of Posten's distribution Owner and authorities: Indicator of competitiveness. It’s about creating most important metric for listening to and network. The measurements contribute quality. Interested in Posten's valuethe best possible experience for our understanding customers as we measure to ensuring a robust distribution network adding function in the districts. customers and their customers in turn. our customers' and their customers' across the entire country. The measurement Legal requirements relating to Being a customer should be a simple experience of services and enquiries. The of letter quality takes place in accordance coverage and availability. process regardless of interface and we measurements include questions relating with a European standard using test mailings Business customers: Posten should deliver as agreed. Development to loyalty to the brand and satisfaction and is performed by an external company. increasingly contributes to of our value chain, services and digital with the actual point of contact with the delivering on its customers’ solutions should be customer-driven. customer. The Net Promoter Score allows The Group does not undertake its own customer promises (interview). both business customers and private customer surveys concerning social and Important competitive advantage We hold our customers’ brands in our customers to give feedback to the Group environmental issues. For the Posten sales when choosing Posten as a partner. hands every day when we deliver across on their overall experience of the company. team, corporate social responsibility is a the entire Nordic region. It is a great Results and customer feedback are followed topic that is taken up as and when requested Private customers and local responsibility and commitment. up by line staff and provide the basis for by customers. Health, safety, environment communities: Affected on a daily continuous, customer-oriented improvement and quality are on the agenda at all basis by Posten's service, reliability We are constantly looking for in the organisation, and are also important operational meetings, both internally and and reputation. improvements and opportunities to means of gauging how the company is externally with customers and suppliers. develop new solutions, whether large meeting customer expectations and needs. Employees: Linked to pride, or small, that will make life easier Bring's customers are increasing their efficiency and contentment. and create increased value for our It is important for the Group to have good focus on corporate social responsibility. The customers. Our customer promises are: quality deliveries, not just to fulfil the E-Commerce and Logistics Division and the for Posten – “We live to deliver” and for owner's licence requirements but also to International Logistics Division of Posten Bring – “Finding new ways”. maintain our customers’ confidence in us. Norge AS are ISO 9001:2015-certified in the We therefore measure the quality of letters following business areas: and parcels on an ongoing basis to monitor Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I CUSTOMER-ORIENTED 29 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview E-Commerce and Logistics Division: National Distribution Centre Network and Transport for Parcels and Goods International Logistics Division: Subsidiary Bring Cargo AS • International forwarding: Air, sea, rail and road • Industry and offshore Bring Cargo AS is also certified in accordance with Achilles, and Industry and Offshore follows NorSok S006N and the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association's guideline No. 116. The certifications stipulate the requirements within the areas of health, working environment, safety, the external environment and quality. It is important for the Group to achieve a high standard of delivery, not only to meet the owner's licence requirements but also to ensure our customers’ confidence. The view at Svinesundsbrua. PHOTO: Birger Morken Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I CUSTOMER-ORIENTED 30 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Good customer satisfaction Good delivery quality Own indicator: Results from customer level on a par with the previous year’s results. Reporting to Group management will move Own indicator: Delivery quality satisfaction surveys Seen in the context of the Group wanting to from quarterly to monthly in 2018 in line strengthen customer loyalty and satisfaction, with closer KPI monitoring and an increased We achieved an 85.4 per cent delivery quality In 2017, 25 per cent of those who received the results do not quite achieve our 2017 focus on customer orientation, using for A-mail (overnight forwarding) in 2017. an NPS invitation gave feedback on their targets because individual areas performed overarching KTI activities at relationship This was 0.4 percentage points above the experience following contact with customer at a level lower or equal to the previous year level as well as NPS evaluations at contact licence requirements of the owner but 0.7 services or telesales, on using self-service overall. points. The background to this is that Group percentage points lower than the previous (Mybring) or upon completion of a delivery. management has defined overarching KPI year. Other licence requirements linked to Units involved at the respective contact targets in addition to earlier follow-up at domestic quality targets were also fulfilled. We work continuously to improve our contact points have established or are establishing contact point level. This also coincides with For B-mail, we achieved a four-day delivery points. Customer expectations of quality and relevant goals for different levels within new strategy and the Group’s new main goals quality of 96.6 per cent compared with the service change over time, and at the same the organisation in correlation with source in relation to satisfaction and customer licence requirement of 85 per cent. For time the Group is undergoing changes that data and insight into relevant developmental loyalty. parcels covered by the licence requirement, can directly and indirectly affect experience factors. we achieved a four-day delivery quality of and feedback there and then. 88.6 per cent, which was also better than the Customer opinion is continuously monitored licence requirement of 85 per cent. On an overall level, total customer within those units defined as active contact satisfaction with the various contact points points, and they are implementing ongoing From 2018 onwards, A and B mail streams in 2017 was on a par with the previous year, appropriate measures or addressing general will be merged into one letter stream, with with the exception of customer services, conditions which need to be prioritised. a delivery time of two days. The licence which experienced lower levels of satisfaction The aggregated results and the plunge in requirement for the new letter stream is 85.0 at times during the year just gone. These the polls were reported in 2017 to Group per cent. periods coincide with the introduction management and quarterly to the Board. of, among other things, new distribution At the end of 2017, a new KTI (customer Delivering on our targets for delivery quality centres and IT systems. The quality of service satisfaction) evaluation was also carried out is very important to the Group and we will experienced by customers in encounters with at relationship level. continue to work systematically to maintain our delivery drivers remained at a stable, high and improve the standard in 2018. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I CUSTOMER-ORIENTED 31 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview STAKEHOLDER BUSINESS CUSTOMERS AGA AGA is northern Europe's largest industrial gas company and operates in the Nordic countries and Baltic states. It has used Bring for its distribution in Norway for 17 years. Drivers delivering gas must both pass a written exam that has been prepared We are committed to the by AGA and participate in annual safety meetings. They wear flame-resistant uniforms and always responsible treatment of carry protective glasses and gloves in their vehicle. people and the environThey are forbidden to use mobile phones inside the vehicle and are not allowed to be accompanied by ment. These are important passengers or animals. criteria when it comes to choosing a partner for ”In what way is Posten’s work on sustainability important to you?” delivery and distribution to our customers. “Health, safety and environment are priority areas for AGA AS. We are committed to the responsible GEIR MORTEN HOVEN treatment of both people and the environment. Head of Cylinder Operation These are important criteria when it comes to Norway at AGA choosing a partner for the delivery and distribution of products to our customers throughout the country. Because Bring values this as highly as we do, it is easy for us to understand each other’s priorities and choices when working together.” Photo: Håvard Jørstad There are stringent safety requirements for drivers delivering gas for AGA. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I STAKEHOLDER: BUSINESS CUSTOMERS 32 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Open and effective communication Own indicator: Reputation: Open and effective communication is How we work Stakeholders crucial in developing a good reputation and creating understanding of the Communication work should support the In 2017 we worked actively on both internal Owner and authorities: Require choices that the Group makes, and it Group's business strategies and goals, as well and external communication initiatives. information about whether Posten also contributes to developing solid as foster a good reputation, strong brands, Among other things, our CEO has a blog in is meeting its required rate of relationships with key stakeholder satisfied customers and proud employees. which she regularly discusses key strategic return and fulfilling its social groups. Reputation and ability to The Communications Department is responthemes and provides direction for the responsibility. change can be negatively affected if sible for group-wide internal and external Group's work. The CEO has also completed Business customers: Dialogue the stakeholders' informational needs communication channels and the Group's 15 trips visiting units in the Group, often is a prerequisite for customer are not met. Employees, customers, annual report and sustainability report. The combined with customer visits. orientation. Require simplicity when investors, owner and authorities, Group has an active press team acting as a dealing with Posten. partners, suppliers and interest contact point for the media. The Group has quarterly meetings with its organisations require insight into owner, the Norwegian Ministry of Trade, Private customers and local the way Posten operates. Internal The Group's marketing department is Industry and Fisheries, in which we report communities: Require simplicity communication has a very important responsible for the Group's communication on the Group's development, corporate when dealing with Posten. role in restructuring processes, and it with potential and existing customers and social responsibility and current affairs. is a critical success factor for creating endeavours to adhere to the Norwegian Where necessary, the Group has contact Employees: Linked to pride in understanding and providing energy to Marketing Act in all marketing communiwith politicians from the Storting to update the company and potential realise goals and strategies. cation with the Group's customers. The them, for example, on Posten's situation restructuring processes. Group's annual marketing plan is quality-asand development, and we participate in sured against this legislation. The Group relevant hearings. We have ongoing, or Suppliers: Predictability in tender has a procedure to ensure that all external more occasional, contact with industry competitions. communication is quality-assured by the organisations and interest groups. Investors and banks: Clear central Communications Department. information is crucial for analyses In 2017, the Group published a book on and decisions linked to lending, The overall impression rating of Ipsos's Posten’s development over the past 20 years as well as insurance and pension annual profiling survey on major Norwegian entitled ”Den store forvandlingen. Posten premiums. companies is used as a measurement parai en digital tid” (“The great transformation. meter for gauging Posten’s reputation. Posten in the digital era”). The book Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I OPEN AND EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION 33 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview documents part of Norway’s industrial and Dialogue with business customers also changes that will be followed up in 2018. Maintains its good reputation restructuring history through a number takes place proactively through the of major and minor changes. The internet account manager in order to ascertain The Group implemented some major Own indicator: Reputation began a continuous process of change, which service requirements and chiefly through restructuring processes in 2017 which has changed Posten more over the last 20 customer services, as and when incidents resulted in a new group structure and the In 2017, 231 companies, agencies and years than during the whole of its first 350 arise. Dialogue with private customers takes move to a single letter stream. We are organisations were assessed on overall years, and which continues to affect the place at delivery depots as well as through committed to ensuring predictability during impression, as well as on environmental Group's development. The book has played customer services. such processes by explaining them and awareness, corporate social responsibility an important part in creating awareness of keeping people updated on their progress. and ethics, finance and profitability, and Posten's situation and need to change, as Communication with employees takes place At the same time, we use line management advertising and information. The survey is well as creating a sense of pride internally in through the Group's joint communication and the intranet to explain the rationale for based on a selection that is representative the reorganisation that has taken place. The channels and through line management. The the end result. A project team continuously of the nation as a whole. story of the past has also created increased Group attaches importance to reaching evaluates informational need during Posten was placed 23rd on overall interest in Posten's future. employees effectively wherever they are. restructuring processes. impression: 60 per cent of respondents had For the past few years we have actively a positive impression compared with 68 per One of the ways in which we look after the employed social media, and the number of Line management plays a very important cent in 2016. Posten maintains its positive stakeholder group of investors and bankers followers is growing constantly. The Group's role in ensuring open and effective reputation, but this is a signal from the is by inviting them to quarterly presentations Facebook page for employees currently communication. The purpose of our senior Norwegian people that the Group needs to of the results, which are also streamed live has 8,700 followers, and we aim to increase management programme in 2017 was to work harder to maintain and strengthen on publication of the half-year and annual this number going forward. The Group has a prepare managers for communicating and its position. Major restructuring of mail results. separate SoMe strategy providing employees encouraging ownership in the Group's new operations, such as the discontinuation of with guidelines for use. All employees help direction and strategy. The participants Saturday postal deliveries and the merging Dialogue with business customers is to build Posten’s reputation as an employer assessed the usefulness of their experience of A and B mail streams, could be perceived structured through the NPS tool, which when they express themselves through social at the end of the programme and the negatively. It could also lead to Posten continually measures customers' media. feedback was good. being perceived as less visible in people's experiences with services and enquiries. everyday lives. Bring was included in the poll In addition, an annual customer satisfaction A reader survey was carried out in 2017 On the basis of these collective initiatives for the second time and also experienced a survey is carried out. Read more about this for the in-house magazine Vi i Posten og and associated feedback, Posten considers drop in position. 58 per cent had a positive in the Customer-oriented section of the Bring (“We are Posten and Bring”). Readers that the work on open and effective impression of Bring, placing it at 27th chapter Our Relationships gave good feedback on the usefulness of communication helped to achieve the Group's position on the list – a drop of 14 places and Partnerships . the publication and also provided input on goals in this area in 2017. from last year. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I OPEN AND EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION 34 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Integrity GRI indicators: 205-1, 205-2, 205-3, 206-1 and 418-1 The Group's integrity standard is How we work Stakeholders the collective term used in Posten’s company guidelines to describe the The overall principles for integrity-related the extent necessary for the purpose of Owner and authorities: areas of corruption and other financial work are outlined in the Group's code achieving specific objectives that are factually Requirements set down in fraud, lawful competitive behaviour, of conduct, an integrity handbook and in justified. legislation and expressed social dumping, privacy and information separate Group policies. These principles are When it comes to the subject of social expectations. security. then put into operation via regulations and dumping, the Group takes the clear position Business customers: Set down Group-wide tools, including instructions. that it should not happen in our business. As clear requirements concerning The Group constantly focuses on an employer, we will ensure compliance with the monitoring of integrity in maintaining a high standard of The Group has a clear and pronounced employees' rights in legislation, collective their invitations to tender and at integrity. We demand the same from stance on the areas covered by the integrity agreements and international conventions. contract signing. our subcontractors and partners in standard. The main risk associated with social dumping that they must commit themselves to The Group distances itself completely is related to the use of subcontractors. As Suppliers: Expect fairness during observing the Group’s Code of Conduct from all behaviour that may be affected such, we actively audit our subcontractors. the processing of tenders and in for Suppliers. High demands on integrity by corruption legislation, and has a zero In the acquisition of concerns/companies, collaborative relationships. internally and externally help raise tolerance of corruption. on the establishment of joint-owned the standards for our entire industry, We have clear guidelines relating to companies ( joint ventures) and on the contributing to good relationships with marketing behaviour in that we should act as conclusion of new agreements with partners key partners. an individual player in all marketing decisions in countries or industries where there could that could affect competition, and in that conceivably be a risk of violation of our Inadequate compliance with the integrity we should not abuse our position in those integrity standard, an Integrity Due Diligence standard could result in significant markets in which the Group could be deemed assessment should, as a rule, be carried loss of reputation and financial to have a dominant position. out. The Group’s Integrity Due Diligence consequences. Investments in internal regulations contain specific rules for training and knowledge are therefore Concerning the treatment of personal conducting such an assessment. crucial to ensure compliance. We also data, our approach is to demonstrate make a point of monitoring that our transparency of how the information is The integrity standard is expressed through subcontractors and partners adhere treated, and that it should be handled in an integrity programme which was developed to our integrity standard. a proper and secure manner, and only to by the Group. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I INTEGRITY 35 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview The integrity programme was adopted operations) and the Group's partners, such The legal director is also responsible for Managers have a particular responsibility by Posten’s Board of Directors in October as consultants, agents, sales representatives administering and operating the Groupfor setting a good example and for creating 2011. In 2015, an assessment of the integrity and distributors. wide whistleblowing scheme. This scheme a culture in which employees are able to programme was made against best practice The legal director has overall responsibility was established in 2008 and is available to share their concerns and dare to speak out and the Board carried out a further review of for ensuring that the integrity standard all Group employees regardless of their regarding any breach of rules or unacceptable the programme. has the proper content and that it is known country or the company with which they behaviour they become aware of. All of the Group's operations are obliged within the Group. This involves creating and are associated. It is not specifically set up The scheme is readily accessible to all of to implement the programme to ensure that maintaining Group-wide instruments, such as to allow employees other than those from the Group’s employees and can be contacted its managers and employees safeguard the guidelines, e-learning programmes, manuals within the Group to raise concerns through by e-mail, phone or post. Procedures Group's integrity standard. and training courses. The instruments should this channel, but if reports are received from have been put in place to ensure proper contribute to increased understanding of elsewhere, they are treated according to the case handling with regard to both the Our manuals and policies are accessible tools and compliance with the standard. A network scheme’s guidelines in so far as these are whistleblower and the matter or person that for all the Group's managers and employees of local resources in each division and appropriate. is the subject of the disclosure. An important in the ongoing work to ensure integrity. The subsidiary ensures that there is adequate If employees experience, discover or part of these procedures is ensuring that code of conduct and integrity handbook are information about Group-wide measures and suspect questionable conditions, they the whistleblower will not be subject to available in Norwegian, Swedish and English. that these are implemented locally. are encouraged to notify their immediate retribution following disclosure. The decision whether to translate these Group management is updated on the superior. Where this is not possible or feels The legal director reports in individual into other languages is currently under status, risk profile and ongoing initiatives too difficult, any employees of the Group cases to the CEO, and can – when deemed consideration. in the work related to compliance with the may contact the company’s whistleblowing necessary – report directly to the Chair Managers and other key personnel integrity standard every six months. scheme. It is possible to make an anonymous of the Board of Directors. The Group’s receive regular information and training We regularly assess whether integrityreport. whistleblowing scheme reports half-yearly on the integrity standard to ensure a related work is effective enough, including In light of the #Metoo campaign, to the Board of Directors’ audit committee, high level of competence internally within whether the guidelines are clear enough and Posten has also placed the issue of sexual to the internal control committee and to the organisation. The requirements and whether they are sufficiently well-known harassment on the agenda. This shall not the CEO. The report details the number and expectations expressed therein apply within the Group. This assessment is carried happen in our workplaces and employees are type of cases, the results of each case and to anyone acting on behalf of the Group. out annually, together with the annual risk reminded where they can turn if they wish to the measures and activities initiated and This includes all managers, employees analysis, and includes measures such as an raise their concerns. So far there have been completed. In addition, an annual statement (irrespective of whether they are temporarily electronic survey for employees. See more no notifications of this type through the is given to the Group’s Working Environment or permanently connected to the Group's about this below. Group’s whistleblowing scheme. Committee. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I INTEGRITY 36 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Identification of integrity risks GRI indicator 205-1: Operations assessed as risk. The Group is aware of this risk and has specific training and other contact with the being at risk of corruption. concentrated efforts on providing guidelines Group’s units and suppliers. and training to this part of the business. As part of the process for assessing the The result of the risk analysis related to risk of violation of the corruption rules and In 2017, the Group conducted, in collaboration corruption and other areas surrounding the additionally of our integrity standard, last with external advisers, an extensive internal integrity standard is included in the Group's year, as in previous years, an anonymous control project concerning integrity in overall risk analysis, which is presented to the survey was carried out. the Group's operations outside of the Board in June and December each year. Nordic region. The project was selected by The survey addressed the themes of the Board's audit committee based on a The analysis carried out in 2017 indicated corruption, competition law, whistleblowing report from the internal control committee, that the programme is effective. This shows, and privacy and was somewhat more detailed which again based its report on an earlier for one thing, that the integrity programme than the surveys carried out in previous risk analysis. A focus area for the project is generally well-known within the Group. years. was supplier compliance with the Group's Furthermore, there were no confirmed ethical standards. In the wake of the project, corruption incidents in 2017. However, as The survey was sent to 540 individuals, of adequate measures will be taken to improve explained above, some improvements could whom 75 per cent (405 individuals) completed the existing ethical framework, including be made to the ethical framework, and the survey. The respondent group consisted the routines for and monitoring of this part some measures could be taken to reinforce of Group management, level three managers of the business. Where it is also relevant knowledge about the programme. and employees in all four of our corporate to Nordic operations, the corresponding staff sections (HR, Economy & Finance, IT and measures will be taken. The analysis further indicates that the most Strategy and Communications). obvious integrity risks within the Group The basis for the overall risk assessment continue to be cross-border transportation, The Group has also had occasional relating to compliance with integrity-related unlawful anti-competitive collaboration and assignments involving transportation themes also includes the experiences and the processing of personal data. in countries where corruption is more observations of the Group’s legal advisors widespread, which in itself could pose a through ongoing consultancy, general and Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I INTEGRITY 37 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Communication and training GRI indicator 205-2: Communication of and Our partners must undertake to comply groups. The latter happens in practice by the courses were developed specifically for this training in policies and procedures for antiwith the Group's Code of Conduct for manager registering as a course participant target group and designed to be delivered in corruption. Suppliers, which stipulates, among other in the e-learning portal, and thereafter a classroom setting. These courses are based things, that corruption is not acceptable and conducting the course in meetings with their on the integrity handbook and e-learning The Group has an integrity programme that suppliers should actively work against group/unit. We are not currently capable course but go into more detail and prioritise to help strengthen the Group's ethical all forms of corruption. We refer to the of recording which employees undergo the discussions about relevant dilemmas that standard and understanding of subjects “Corporate social responsibility in the supply e-learning programme in a group setting. As may arise. The main focus of training in 2017 relating to integrity. The integrity programme chain” section regarding this. such, we have no exact figures for how many was the forthcoming EU privacy regulations. emphasises the following subjects: corruption The Group makes an ongoing evaluation of individuals actually completed the e-learning In total, about 350 people in staff positions and other financial irregularities, lawful possible updates to the ethical framework, course in 2017. In 2018 we will look more closely and divisions have received training. There competitive behaviour, social dumping, including the code of conduct and the integrity at setting up a method to record these will continue to be a focus on training in and privacy and information security. With these handbook. These documents will be updated in figures. awareness of the privacy regulations in the subjects as their basis, various tools have 2018, after which they will be communicated to Records show that the e-learning course future. been developed for employees and selected the rest of the organisation. on integrity was conducted 134 times in 2017, As mentioned, one of the subjects of the partners. These tools should enable the Our e-learning programme on integrity is on either an individual or a group basis. Of the integrity programme is lawful competitive Group’s managers and employees to actively designed to be suitable for all employees in 134 courses conducted, 27 were completed by behaviour. To ensure that all employees have take ownership of and live up to our integrity the Group. It does, however, have a primary employees working for partners participating sufficient knowledge of the competition rules standard. target group of those employees most likely in the Post i butikk concept – post-office and adhere to them, a separate handbook The integrity programme is based on the to encounter the type of risk dealt with in counters located in shops. The relatively was created in 2013, entitled: Posten og Group's code of conduct adopted in 2006, and the integrity programme. The primary target low number is partly due to the majority of Brings 10 konkurranserettsbud (“The 10 in addition to the latter it includes an integrity group essentially includes all job categories employees within the target group having Commandments of Competition Law at handbook and an e-learning programme, etc. except for those of postal and distribution already completed this training, and partly due Posten and Bring”). The handbook is available The code of conduct and integrity centre employee. The vast majority within the to the primary focus of 2017 being on group in both Norwegian and English, and it is also handbook were distributed to all Group primary target group have completed the education and training in the privacy policy. accessible on the Group’s intranet. The Group employees in 2011 and 2012. e-learning programme on integrity. Managers, staff employees, sales, makes ongoing assessments of the need for All new employees receive the code of The e-learning course is on permanent marketing and other key personnel need any updates to the competitive behaviour conduct and integrity handbook when they offer to the Group's employees and managers to undergo training that is more advanced guidelines. start work at the Group. and can be completed individually or in than the e-learning course. For this reason, Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I INTEGRITY 38 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview No incidents of corruption revealed No complaints for violation of privacy regulations Future integrity work GRI indicator 205-3: Confirmed corruption GRI indicator 418-1: Confirmed complaints transparency in its treatment of personal Our main focus during 2017 was on antiincidents and implemented measures. concerning violation of customer privacy and data. Our privacy strategy supports rapid corruption and preparations for the new EU loss of customer data. technological advancement, and we have privacy regulation, as well as further developThere were no confirmed incidents of a continual focus on information security ment of the risk analysis methodology. corruption within the Group in 2017. The Group's services necessitate the and on the integration and management processing of personal information about of privacy into all development phases of IT Our work with the integrity programme will No fines for non-compliance with customers and third parties. The Group sees systems and solutions. During 2017, the Group be continued and fortified during 2018. In the competition legislation compliance with privacy regulations and the placed particular emphasis on developing wake of the internal control project underprotection of personal data as important procedures to ensure effective compliance taken during 2017, adequate measures will GRI indicator 206-1: Judicial reactions to means of building trust with our customers with privacy regulations and on implementing be taken to improve the existing ethical anti-competitive behaviour and antitrust and mail recipients and of strengthening our training initiatives. framework, including the procedures for and and monopolistic practices position as a trusted third party in a compemonitoring of this part of the business. We will titive market. The Group received no complaints relating to continue to place great emphasis on developThe Group received no fines or violation of privacy regulations in 2017. ing and optimising procedures and frameworks sanctions for non-compliance with The Group is very attentive to compliance in order to ensure a systematic approach to acts and regulations relating to with privacy regulations. It pays particular We refer to the information security section compliance with privacy regulations. competition law during 2017. attention to ensuring that processing is in “Our network and expertise” for reporting In addition to the Group’s own solicitors, limited to necessary and factual information on indicators which deal with the loss of a network of resource persons within the only and that, at the same time, it practises customer data.. divisions also assists with communicating and implementing the integrity programme at a local level. These local resource persons are important for ensuring good knowledge of the integrity programme throughout the Group. Our priority will be to maintain and strengthen this network in the new organisational structure during 2018. This also applies to resource persons who deal with reports received through the Group's whistleblowing scheme. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I INTEGRITY 39 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview STAKEHOLDER SUPPLIER CARGONET CARGONET is Posten’s supplier of rail freight services and Norway's largest carrier of freight on the rail network. CargoNet works actively with Posten on solutions for facilitating and increasing freight on the rail network. “Posten’s growth on the rail ”In what way is Posten’s work on sustainability network sets a new standimportant to you?” ard for the industry.” “Posten’s commitment to sustainability highlights KNUT BRUNSTAD how important it is for us as a supplier of transport services to continually develop our environmentally Sales Director at CargoNet friendly solutions. Posten’s growth on the rail network sets a new standard for the industry.” CargoNet is Norway's largest carrier of freight on the rail network. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I STAKEHOLDER: SUPPLIERS 40 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Corporate social responsibility in the supply chain GRI indicators: 308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 414-2, 102-43, 102-44 The Group is exposed to reputational How we work Stakeholders risk associated with suppliers and subcontractors who largely represent The centralised expert unit for HSE and Dialogue with both existing and potential Business customers: Major Posten when they perform work for the corporate social responsibility ensures suppliers is central to the Group’s purchasing companies set requirements Group; for example, post-office counters systematic group-wide solutions and procedures. Posten conducts both written for systematic monitoring. They in shops and subcontractors providing coordinates work on corporate social and verbal dialogue in the form of workshops expect partners acting on behalf transport. The Group’s suppliers thus responsibility in the supply chain. Suppliers as part of its standard procurement process. of Posten to comply with their affect the company’s ability to deliver its with group-wide agreements are monitored When in dialogue with the supplier market, the standards. customer promises and other strategic by the purchasing department. Transport Group generally emphasises good business Owner and authorities: Expect goals. As a major player, the Group has suppliers are monitored by the relevant practices and compliance with the Group's acceptable behaviour and zero the opportunity to influence industry divisions and business areas. Divisional ethical principles and values. Confidence in the social dumping. This is important, standards and conditions in a positive coordinators manage local coordinators supplier market is a prerequisite for achieving as suppliers that represent Posmanner by working on corporate social in any business contact with transport good terms and conditions and meeting ten also indirectly represent the responsibility in the supply chain. One suppliers and ensure local underpinning. the Group's purchasing requirements in a owner. goal is for the Group's ethical standards satisfactory manner. This applies both before for suppliers to be met through Group management is regularly updated on a contract is concluded and during the Suppliers: Require predictability preventive work, risk assessments and the status, risk profile and ongoing initiatives contract's term. and control. checks of its suppliers. in the work related to compliance with the Group's requirements for suppliers. All suppliers that have signed an agreement with the Group must sign the Ethical Standards for Suppliers document, which gives the minimum requirements placed by the Group on its suppliers, as well as HSE and environmental declarations. The largest road transport suppliers must also sign an environmental transport declaration. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 41 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Targeted work against labour market crime The Group performs regular GRI indicator 414-2: Substantial actual The Group has also continued its work to checks on its suppliers. Violations of the Group's and potential negative consequences to combat labour market crime within the requirements are closely society in the supply chain, environmental transport industry, with a particular focus on followed up. criteria, labour practice criteria and human the courier and express transport segment. rights criteria in the supply chain, and implemented measures. Unannounced inspections linked to the Group's minimum requirements for ethics A total of 80 suppliers submitted selfand the environment have been carried reporting for the first time in 2017 and a out at six different locations in the Nordic further 13 updated existing self-reporting. region. A total of 69 drivers and 18 assistants All of these have been assessed on were checked and interviewed. These were compliance with the Group's ethical affiliated to 35 different carriers which have standards for suppliers, including HSE, contracts with various Group companies. employee rights, human rights, business Carriers that were registered as having practice and the environment. Within potentially violated the Group’s requirements priority categories (transport services, were followed up with audits. cleaning, work clothes and building/ construction), 48 per cent * of suppliers have 17 road transport suppliers and one submitted self-reporting. These vendors IT supplier were audited in relation to account for 61 per cent of the total costs compliance with the Group’s ethical standards associated with the priority categories. for suppliers. For 89% of the audited Within the car transport category, which suppliers, improvement plans for compliance in particular relates to the core business with the Group’s requirements were agreed. of the Group, 58 per cent have submitted Audits and checks are approved by the self-reporting. These suppliers account for Group’s council for revisions and inspections. 70 per cent of the total cost of transport The council comprises the Group Director PHOTO: Håvard Jørstad services in the Group. for HR/HSE, the Director for HSE and CSR, Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 42 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview the Director of Procurement and the Legal potential negative environmental impact The emissions relate to: emissions of concerning the environment and HSE. Director. The council is presented with risk from labour practices in the supply chain and greenhouse gases that contribute to global The Group's guidelines are available at assessments of the supply chain which it implemented measures. warming, predominantly carbon dioxide, postennorge.no. uses to define risk-reducing measures. methane and nitrogen dioxide; emissions of A total of 80 road transport suppliers air pollutants that contribute to a poorer New processes for corporate social submitted self-reporting relating to local environment, such as nitrogen oxides, Majority of suppliers provide responsibility in the supply chain were compliance with the Group's environmental particulate matter, carbon monoxide transport services developed in 2017 and these will be requirements. 14 road carriers (17%) and hydrocarbons; and finally, traffic Of our 902 suppliers with a turnover implemented in 2018. These include, for reported a deviation from the Group's noise. No contractual agreements were in excess of NOK 2 million in 2017, more instance, new routines for background minimum requirements relating to EU terminated with any suppliers on the basis of than half supply primarily transport services. checks on carriers in advance of contract emissions standards (minimum Euro 5). environmental impact. The operation having the most suppliers conclusion. No road carriers (0%) reported deviations and the largest procurement in 2017 was from the Group's age requirements for the Logistics Norway Division. Other major In 2017, an internal audit of the procedures light vehicles (maximum age of five years for Criteria for the selection of suppliers categories are support for special transport and practices for purchasing transport vehicles under 3.5 tonnes). GRI indicator 414-1: Percentage of new equipment and IT. services from third parties outside the suppliers selected based on criteria for Nordic region was conducted. The audit The most substantial negative environmental social impact, human rights criteria, labour resulted in an improvement proposal which is impact identified among the Group's practices and environmental criteria (308-1) to be implemented in 2018. transport suppliers originates from road transport. Road transport accounted for 61 For all 35 acquisitions implemented by Group per cent of total emissions in the transport Procurement in 2017, a requirement in the Road transport – the greatest supplier chain in 2017, air transport pre-qualification phase was that all suppliers environmental challenge accounted for 17 per cent, ferry transport 19 had to accept the Group's ethical standards GRI indicator 308-2: Significant actual and per cent and rail transport 3 per cent. for suppliers and complete declarations * All percentage calculations are based on a list of suppliers having turnovers in excess of NOK 2 million per year/during 2017. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND PARTNERSHIPS I CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN 43 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Our network and expertise Our network is Posten’s lifeblood. Knowledge of how we optimally exploit the various networks is decisive for our strategic success. The Group relies on good operating models for optimising its distribution and logistics network and, not least, for enabling a reduced environmental impact on society. At the same time, Posten is becoming increasingly reliant on technology. Technology is a crucial factor in the stable operation and development of our network and value chains. There are three aspects in this capital area which we need to report on. Emissions-free and efficient transport, and logistics GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4 Network Self-reporting Information security GRI 418-1 Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE 44 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Emissions-free and efficient transport, and logistics GRI 305-1, GRI 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI 305-4 The largest source of greenhouse gas Stakeholders How we work emissions in Norway is the transport sector, while at the same time freight The Group's environmental vision is to This price rise led to us using a fuel mix with Owner and authorities: Obligated forwarding is fundamental to almost all work purposefully towards environmentally less HVO and less pure HVO in Norway in through ownership report value-adding activities. If Norway is to efficient operations and sustainable 2017. to make its operations more meet the EU’s expectation of a 40 per development and this supports one of environmentally friendly. cent reduction in greenhouse gases in the Group's main goals: sustainable and The centralised expert unit for HSE and CSR the sectors not subject to quotas by innovative development. The Group is ensures systematic group-wide recycling Business customers: Major 2030, the major part of the reduction actively working to reduce the extent of of good solutions and a unified approach. customers (ASKO, IKEA, oil must happen in the transport sector. its environmental impact and has reduced A group-wide environmental network that and gas) are committed to As one of the Nordic region's largest CO2 emissions continuously over the past consists of environmental resource persons the environment and stipulate transport operators, Posten’s CO2 eight years. In 2016, the company met its from all business areas also ensures that requirements. impact is considerable. environmental target of a 40 per cent experience and best practice are shared reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020. As a across the organisation. The expertise we Private customers and local Consequently, the environment is one result, the Group decided on a new and need in specific areas is secured through communities: Customers notice of the Group's most important areas highly ambitious environmental goal in external partners and suppliers. environmental efforts, something within corporate social responsibility, 2017 to be using only renewable energy which is visible in IPSOS MMI’s and its two biggest climate challenges sources in its vehicles and buildings A climate reporting system is used for the reputation polling. Posten is in 6th are reducing CO2 emissions from by 2025. entire Group to record its total climate place in the section concerning heavy goods vehicles and minimising impact. The Board of Directors and environmental awareness. local pollution. Our biggest initiative, The climate account results shows a 6 per Group management team are regularly Customers in Sweden are therefore, involves phasing out heavy cent reduction since 2016, which equates updated on the status and risk profile perceived as being interested in goods vehicles that use fossil fuels and to a CO2e of 26,565 tonnes. A large of environmental work and any ongoing the environment. electrifying vehicles used in urban areas. proportion of the reduction is due to the initiatives. Environmental work is also discontinuation of unprofitable shipments defined in a separate environmental policy and Saturday deliveries. More stringent and strategy supported by action plans requirements for HVO feedstock and in the business areas. This was updated in national requirements for increased biofuel 2017 to accommodate new environmental use have resulted in increased HVO prices. goals. The Group works in accordance with Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I EMISSIONS-FREE AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORT, AND LOGISTICS 45 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview yearly environmental action plans in the free Utility Transport project. It also has business areas and the work is followed up ongoing dialogue and collaboration with The Group is actively working through quarterly reports, business reviews, various actors, such as TINE, NHO (the to establish a market for larger electric vans. management KPI charts and PLUSS reviews. Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise) and Goals for the Group and the business areas TØI (the Norwegian Centre for Transport are drawn up on a yearly basis as well as up to Research) and has held lectures on the 2020. The environmental goal is also followed environment on several occasions, both in up through the senior management KPI chart. Norway and Sweden, and in addition has participated in Sweden’s Almedalen week. The Group wants to be socially responsible The Group is also participating in Næring for by being an active driver in reducing its klima, an environmental partnership between own emissions, but it also wants to drive Oslo municipality and the business community. development towards a green shift. Good Klimatpakten is a similar partnership and close co-operation between businesses, operating in the City of Stockholm, and organisations and the authorities is the Group is also participating in this. The therefore extremely important. The Group Group is a member of the International Post has worked together with Zero in Norway Corporation, which promotes international and the 2030-secretariat in Sweden for collaboration within the industry and is also a number of years. It is also a partner in a a member of Nordic Swan’s purchasing club project to establish the environmentally and Grønt Punkt. efficient distribution of goods in Drammen city centre and Stockholm and participates in the international EU project FREVUE together with SINTEF. The Group is actively working to establish a market for larger electric vans by sharing its own experiences with electric vehicles and PHOTO: Håvard Jørstad through participation in Zero’s EmissionsPosten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I EMISSIONS-FREE AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORT, AND LOGISTICS 46 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and polluting less GRI 305-1: Direct emissions of greenhouse also started to use biogas vehicles in Skien. vehicle initiative by being the first in the In 2017, the Group opened several new logisgases (CO2e) Vehicles that run on bioethanol are being Nordic region to test Maxus, the electric van tics centres with impressive environmental tested in Bergen. produced by China-based SAIC Motor. The profiles. The Trondheim logistics centre has 2017 has been a challenging year for reducing size of this van allows it to be used in the several excellent environmental solutions emissions from heavy goods vehicles. The Bring continues its commitment to using distribution of parcels and goods. The electric including, for example, high-speed doors to Group had previously invested in ten tank renewable diesel in Sweden. The company has van will be used in Oslo city centre and will halve energy consumption, solar panels and facilities in order to make use of HVO (hydro197 cars which used over 8.3 million litres of help to build a market, thus demonstrating wind turbines providing approximately 25 per genated vegetable oils). This is a second-geHVO. Bring has also conducted pilot tests that electricity is a good option in this cent of the distribution centre’s total energy neration fuel consisting of vegetable oils and in Sweden to trial HVO in light lorries whesegment as well. Also, in Helsinki, Finland a demand, and a battery bank that stores waste certified in accordance with the EU's re the suppliers do not endorse the use of smaller electric van is being tested in urban enough power to charge 80 electric vehicles. sustainability criteria. The arguments against renewable diesel as fuel. These pilot tests distribution. The hub of the Group’s modern logistics first-generation biodiesel (e.g. that using raw have yielded good results, and the fuel works network, the Oslo logistics centre at Alnamaterials like oil seed rape and sugar cane taentirely without problems. The project has In 2017, Bring received the Swedish Confebru, opened in October. The logistics centre kes up valuable land and pushes up food prices been extended into 2018. deration of Transport Enterprises’ sustaiis a collocation of the earlier Posten and in poor countries) do not apply to HVO. The nability prize for the Älskade Stad (“beloved Bring distribution centres at Karihaugen and Group refrains from using palm oil or palm-oil The Group also has Norway's largest fleet city”) project. The initiative is a commercially Skårer. It is estimated that the collocation at based raw materials, which has resulted in a of electric vehicles, with nearly 1,200 electric sustainable, industrial collaboration between Alnabru will result in 10,000 fewer kilometres reduced supply of raw materials and increased vehicles consisting of 518 electric mopeds, Ragn-Sells, Bring, Vasakronan and the City of being covered every day, leading to an annual prices. Requirements for increased biofuel use 511 electric cars and 150 electric carts. Today, Stockholm. The collaborative goal is to pick CO2e reduction of 4,200 tonnes. In addition, and reclassification of the raw material PFAD over 80 per cent of Norway’s population lives up the pace and encourage more sustainable it provides close proximity to customers from a waste product to a by-product have in towns and cities, and this figure is expected initiatives that benefit from a vibrant urban and the rail freight terminal. The Group also made it challenging to obtain sustainable raw to rise. The Group’s investment in zero-emisenvironment. This initiative uses an electric updates its car fleet regularly, which helps rematerials certified under the EU sustainability sions solutions and collocation of these car to coordinate the distribution of goods duce local emissions. The average age of the criteria. In 2017, the Group used 0.7 million litres has resulted in 43 central areas in towns and packages with waste logistics in central cars in the parent company is approximately of renewable diesel based on waste cooking oil and cities across Norway having completely Stockholm, reducing the transport of both two years. 91.3 per cent of the vehicles are from tank facilities located at our new Alnabru emissions-free mail distribution. This results incoming and outgoing waste. The collaboraEuro 6 standard, and 8.5 per cent are Euro Logistics Centre. in better air quality, less noise and reduced tion is scalable and can be expanded in both 5 standard. The Group has introduced speed The Group has 93 biogas vehicles in greenhouse gas emissions. Stockholm and other cities, and can include reduction in 684 lorries, and this is being Stavanger, Oslo and Jevnaker, and in 2017 we In 2017, the Group expanded its electric more companies. introduced as standard in all new vehicles. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I EMISSIONS-FREE AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORT, AND LOGISTICS 47 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Reporting Consolidated climate accounts for the Group in metric tonnes of CO2e (Table 4) The Group has made no changes to emissions Gas (GHG) Protocol, except for refrigeration [tonnes CO2e] 2015 2016 2017* factors between 2016 and 2017. gases, which are not part of CO2e. Other Scope 1 128,595 109,949 103,164 greenhouse gases that are not part of the The Group has previously reviewed the reGHG protocol are not reported. Road 127,981 109,404 102,892 porting system to improve the quality of the All emissions presented in the Group's Buildings 613 546 272 data reported. climate accounts in 2017 are presented Scope 2 (location-based) 15,604 15,127 13,002 In 2015, the Group reviewed the emissions as tonnes of CO2 equivalents. The Scope 2 (market-based) 48,431 2,449 2,089 factors used in climate reporting and calculation of emissions is based on a changed from reporting on CO2 to reporting mixture of consumption figures, data from District heating 2,514 2,449 2,089 on CO2 equivalents (CO2e). CO2e gases are various transport systems relating to Scope 3 349,525 328,617 309,197 CO2 (carbon dioxide), N20 (nitrous oxide) subcontractors and estimates where data is Road 219,141 216,458 187,306 and CH (methane). This covers all emissions inaccurate. Rail 5,492 4,655 8,985 from sources defined in the Greenhouse Air 62,630 56,005 51,203 Water 56,760 47,355 57,689 2017 RESULT Business travel 5,503 4,143 4,015 Total (location-based) 493,724 453,693 425,363 The consolidated climate accounts show great progress Total (market-based) 526,551 441,015 414,450 The annual climate account shows a 6 per cent The table shows the consolidated climate reduction since 2016, which equates to a CO2e accounts for the Group in metric tonnes of 2015 2016 2017 of 26,565 tonnes. A large proportion of the CO2e from 2015 to 2017. Scope 1 is GRI indiOutside of Scopes** 35,892 50,703 49,210 reduction is due to the discontinuation of uncator 305-1, Scope 2 is GRI 305-2 and Scope profitable shipments and Saturday deliveries, 3 is GRI 305-3. *) Sources for emissions factors are the Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs’ (DEFRA) collection of emissions factors from 2015. Emissions and to the use of renewable diesel. There is an factors are tank-to-wheel (TTW). Location-based electricity is the Nordic production mix of 2015. The consolidation method according to the GHG protocol increase for rail and boat, but a reduction for is “organisational control” **) “Outside of scopes” is the direct CO2 effect of the combustion of biofuel. Emissions included in “Outside of scopes” are quickly air and road. absorbed by bioenergy sources during their lifetime. “Outside of scopes” is included to ensure comprehensive accounting for those emissions arising from the combustion of biofuels. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I EMISSIONS-FREE AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORT, AND LOGISTICS 48 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Significantly reduced emissions from own vehicles (Scope 1) Emissions of greenhouse gases (Table 1) GRI 305-1: Direct emissions of greenhouse gases Scope 1 [tonnes CO2e] 2015 2016 2017 The Group reduced its direct emissions by 6 per cent (6,785 tonnes CO2e) from 2016 Group 128,595 109,949 103,164 to 2017. The cessation of operations in Sweden contributed to a 5,536 tonne reduction Road 127,981 109,404 102,892 of CO2e. The one million litre reduction of fuel consumption in the Mail Division is a Buildings 613 546 272 consequence of the discontinuation of newspaper and Saturday deliveries. The reduced availability of pure HVO for Logistics Norway led to an increase in emissions. Logistics Norway Division91,276 79,330 83,159 Road 91,157 79,263 83,147 Buildings 119 67 12 Reduced emissions from electricity consumption (Scope 2) Logistics Nordic Division 19,420 14,840 7,698 Road 19,041 14,488 7,470 GRI 305-2: Energy – indirect emissions of greenhouse gases. Buildings 379 351 228 Mail Division 17,899 15,779 12,307 The Group reduced its electricity consumpGroup has reduced its indirect emissions Road 17,784 15,652 12,275 tion in buildings by 13 per cent in 2017. This by 13 per cent. In 2015 and 2016 in Sweincludes electricity used for the Group's den, energy mapping was carried out in Buildings 115 127 32 1,179 electric vehicles. The reduction was accordance with legislative requirements. Outside of scope 29,005 44,201 35,664 mainly due to reduced electricity consumpUsing the market-based method, Posten tion in the Logistics Nordic Division, where has no emissions from electricity, since Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases from electricity consumption (Table 2) three cold storage facilities in Denmark it purchased electricity with Guarantees were closed towards the end of 2016. of Origin for the Group's entire electriScope 2 [tonnes CO2e] 2015 2016 2017 Since 2015, new EU requirements sticity consumption in 2017, as it did in 2016. pulate that reporting of greenhouse gas Electricity having a Guarantee of Origin Group (location-based) 15,604 15,127 13,002 emissions from electricity consumption has been produced using renewable energy Group (market-based) 48,431 2,449 2,089 must be reported in two ways: by location sources. The Group has purchased hydroElectricity (market-based) 45,917 0 0 and by market. The requirements must electric power with Guarantees of Origin District heating 2,514 2,449 2,089 be in accordance with the GHG protocol. for the whole of its operations in Norway, Using the location-based method, the Sweden and Denmark. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I EMISSIONS-FREE AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORT, AND LOGISTICS 49 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Stable emissions from subcontractors (Scope 3) Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases through our subcontractors (Table 3) GRI 305-3: Other indirect greenhouse gas volumes from international business. Scope 3 [tonnes CO2e] 2015 2016 2017 emissions Group 349,525 328,617 309,197 The Logistics Nordic Division reduced its Road 219,141 216,458 187,306 Emissions from the Group's subconemissions by 19 per cent from 2016 to tractors have reduced by 6 per cent 2017. The reduction is due in part to the Rail 5,492 4,655 8,985 (19,420 tonnes CO2e). discontinuation of unprofitable operatiAir 62,630 56,005 51,203 ons, which constitutes 11 per cent of the Water 56,760 47,355 57,689 The Logistics Norway Division increased division's total reductions. The remaining 8 Business travel 5,503 4,143 4,015 its emissions from subcontractors by 3 per cent reduction from subcontractors per cent from 2016 to 2017. Transport by is due to increased consumption of reneLogistics Norway Division 215,217 197,836 203,018 boat has increased as a result of higher wable diesel. Road 112,665 111,265 102,962 Rail 5,371 4,536 8,940 Air 57,859 51,600 45,723 Water 38,211 29,429 44,275 Business travel 1,111 1,006 1,119 Logistics Nordic Division 131,546 128,002 117,130 Road 105,583 104,186 83,445 Rail 121 120 45 Air 4,771 4,405 5,480 Water 18,549 17,926 13,414 Business travel 2,523 1,365 1,207 Mail Division 2,257 2,329 2,316 Road 893 1,007 899 Business travel 1,364 1,322 1,417 Outside of scope 6,887 6,502 13,546 Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I EMISSIONS-FREE AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORT, AND LOGISTICS 50 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Towards a more climate-efficient organisation The Group continues its environmental commitment in 2018 GRI 305-4: Greenhouse gas emissions implies a more efficient organisation in terms In 2018, the Group will actively phase out and zero-emissions vehicles. The further intensity of greenhouse gas emissions. fossil fuels, replacing them with sustainable development of new distribution centres The table shows the Group’s greenhouse renewable diesel, and continue to electrify will be important for the collocation and The Group's turnover in 2017 was at roughly gas emissions intensity over the last three vehicles used in towns and cities, in line with optimisation of our routes. This will reduce the same level as in 2016, while the level of years. All emissions are included (Scopes 1-3) our environmental goal to use only renewable energy consumption and kilometres covered. emissions per NOK earned decreased. This in the calculation of emissions intensity. energy sources in vehicles and buildings by 2025. Other important focus areas will The Group has 45 units certified under Ecotherefore include: seeking out low-andlighthouse (Miljøfyrtårn), and important tasks zero-emissions vehicles; piloting and testing in 2018 will include recertifying units and The Group’s greenhouse gas emissions intensity (Table 3) new technological solutions as they become certifying new distribution centres. available; and utilising the latest technology in our vehicles. Our employees are our most important asset Relative target * 2015 2016 2017 in environmental work, and the Group will CO2 emissions (grammes) per NOK earned 19.5 17.8 16.8 The Group has discontinued its continue training in environmental driving and Environmental Fund and replaced it with provide general environmental skills in the a central support fund for piloting lowStep-by-Step e-learning programme in 2018. * Market-based, Scope 2 is used in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions intensity Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I EMISSIONS-FREE AND EFFICIENT TRANSPORT, AND LOGISTICS 51 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview STAKEHOLDER PRIVATE CUSTOMERS AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES ALNA COMMUNITY In connection with the establishment of the Oslo logistics centre, Posten has worked with the ALNA COMMUNITY to make the immediate area more attractive. As the host district for ”In what way is Posten’s work on sustainability important to you?” Posten's logistics centre in Oslo, we see it as impor“As the host district for Posten's logistics centre in Oslo, we see it as important that the new centre tant that the new centre contributes to fewer kilometres being travelled contributes to fewer in Oslo. We also regard it as very positive that kilometres being Posten has facilitated several good environmental measures, such as the pedestrian and cycle route travelled in Oslo. through the grounds of the distribution centre, which is important for both employees and the KNUT RØLI general public. There are also future plans to link the Leader of Alna District Council pedestrian and cycle route to walks continuing on to Alna Park and Groruddalen. “The collaboration has also resulted in the establishment of a park with water features up towards Lower Kalbakkvei, which is a considerable upgrading of the area. The Kjelsrud beck (Kjelsrudbekken), which was previously closed during Posten's ownership, has now been opened Photo: Birger Morken up. In addition, Posten and the City of Oslo worked The green area around the Oslo logistics centogether to remove a large industrial refuse tre (LSO) was created in collaboration with tip before setting up the park. All in all, this has the community of Alna. significantly lifted and softened the landscape around the distribution centre.” Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I STAKEHOLDER: PRIVATE CUSTOMERS AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES 52 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Network Self-reporting Customer requirements for transport Stakeholders How we work and logistics are continually growing. The emergence of e-commerce has led Posten lives to deliver. This means managing continues to be a central theme in the new Owner and authorities: Implicit to an influx of new solutions, in terms and operating a large transport network strategy. interest through required rate of of both delivery forms and user-friendly that runs from customers via distribution return. technology. Online trading results centres and depots to recipients in increased volume and seasonal throughout the Nordic region. Consignments Fewer and larger distribution centres Business customers: Implicit fluctuations that can challenge the vary enormously in size and weight – from During the last few years, the Group has interest if the optimisation of the network’s capacity. At the same time, letters weighing a few grammes to heavy been working on a significant investment network affects price, customer letter volumes continue to decline. All of goods weighing several tonnes. The Group's programme for renewing the distribution service or quality. Expect it to be this requires continual adjustments to approximately 17,000 employees are centre structure. In order to make optimum easy to deal with Posten. structures and processes. There is also responsible for large values in terms of use of resources, separate goods and parcel ongoing pressure on price – customers distribution centres and transportation distribution centres have been collocated. Employees: Linked to their individual want the lowest possible transportation means. In addition, a large number of small In addition, the total number of distribution working days and workplaces. costs. and large local carriers operate on behalf centres has been reduced to ensure capacity of the Group throughout the Nordic region. utilisation and efficiency. New distribution Suppliers: Could affect the working Considerable expertise is required to centres were opened in Oslo, Trondheim day and expectations. structure and manage such a large network. and Narvik during 2017, and Gøteborg and The network has to operate cost-effectively, Stokke are next in line for 2018. Further Investors and banks: Could be imit should be environmentally friendly, and it new distribution centres, including Bergen, plicitly relevant to credit risk. should provide both our own employees and Stavanger and Copenhagen, are in the those working for partners with a planning stage. The fall in letter volumes and good working environment and a high the change to a two-day stream means that level of security. the operations of the letter distribution centres will be restructured and consolidated The Group has just updated its corporate into fewer locations. strategy and, in connection with this, we have evaluated the work relating to our network. This work is considered to be New technological foundation constructive in achieving the Group's The Group is using the New Posten and objectives. Based on this, our network Bring programme to renew its technological Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I NETWORK 53 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview foundation – for both managing the network’s resources and developing the customers' tools for managing their own logistics. The MyBring customer portal undergoes continuous improvement and has extended functionality. On the receiving end, both the website and Posten’s tracking app undergo continuous refinement. Employees within the Group have new tools to make their working day more efficient and to improve resource utilisation and work processes. As part of the programme, all work processes are reviewed to clean up unwanted process deviations and exploit new technology. At the same time, service categories and transport terms and conditions are simplified and orientated towards the customer. Depending on the people In spite of major investment in buildings and technology, the quality of a network will always depend on the people who run it – on their work effort, motivation and expertise. A major reorganisation of the network is taking place PHOTO: Håvard Jørstad New digital tools – such as and all of the Group’s employees are actively digital collection messages – involved in and implementing the changes. make the employee’s working Both logistical expertise and adaptability will day more efficient. continue to be important success factors for years to come. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I NETWORK 54 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Information security GRI indicator: 418-1 Information security involves making Therefore, it is important to ensure that Stakeholders How we work sure that information processed by the the information security risk is kept Group is safeguarded against all forms of within an acceptable level. The overarching principles for the work on Owner and authorities: Expect confidentiality breach and access denial, information security are embodied in a sethe implementation of effective and that the information is complete and Information security breaches can parate Group policy, with the corresponding information security under the correct. The combined threat to Posten impact our customers and employees corporate rules, procedures and guidelines. Norwegian government’s Action must be understood and necessary and have major consequences for the The documents are based on the recognised Plan for Information Security in measures implemented to ensure that business in the form of increased costs framework of the ISF’s Standard of Good Government Administration and the risk remains at an acceptable level. and loss of reputation and income. Practice (SoGP) and ISO/IEC27002. compliance with regulatory requiIn addition, we must ensure that there Therefore, information security should rements, including the information is sufficient expertise and capacity support and safeguard the operation Posten’s information security strategy is basecurity requirements of personal within the organisation, including among of the business, public trust and our sed on active risk management. The aim is to data regulations. our contractual partners, such that reputation in the public space by establish and maintain a level of security that the consequences for the business are preventing and limiting the impact of safeguards personal information, products Business customers: Assume and minimised should any security incidents undesirable security incidents. and services while taking reasonable account require satisfactory information occur. of risk, costs and operational matters. The security, including secure and effiinformation security work is ongoing, with as cient information flow, predictabiThe Group will increase profitability much of a focus on employee knowledge of lity and absence of downtime. through innovation and customer and attitudes to information security as on efficiency. The digital shift will lead to the technology used to streamline informatiPrivate individuals: Customers information becoming increasingly on processing. and employees expect personexposed to risk, especially through al information to be handled in mobile data handling, increased use of The Group’s expert unit on information seaccordance with the regulations cloud services and increasingly complex curity is responsible for setting the standard in a safe and secure manner that value chains. In addition, cybercriminals and conditions and for being an active advisor supports their work activities. have changed their operating method: and driver in the establishment of adequrather than attacking computers, they ate information security for all information now attack persons considered to be processing within the Group. This applies to the weakest link in the information chain. processing carried out internal to the orgaPosten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I INFORMATION SECURITY 55 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview nisation as much as to processing in systems, During 2017, we carried out awareness camexposed to both viruses/malware and phisfor mobile access and more stringent privacy applications and networks. paigns aimed at the Group’s IT users on the hing scams. requirements. In order to achieve this, we topics of information security, online financial need to successfully implement integrated This responsibility also involves setting fraud and the secure processing of e-mail. information security, which is supported by security requirements for our suppliers, The campaigns took the form of five to ten No complaints of loss of customer data the framework we use (SoGP). Systematic working actively on employee awareness and nano-learning sessions of a two-to-threeGRI indicator 418-1: Total number of confirwork on risk assessments and the underparticipating in decision-making processes minute duration. We consider that there was med complaints concerning breach of custostanding of acceptable risk is a prerequisite that affect information security. In addition, good and active participation among the mer privacy and loss of customer data. for this to succeed. we continually monitor the prevailing threat users. level surrounding cyber security. We perform The Group received no complaints concerning In addition, the information security and legal security tests on our infrastructure, carry Group management receives quarterly updabreach of customer privacy or loss of custodepartments have established a joint project out security audits of suppliers and our own tes on the status and risk profile of informamer data during 2017. Nor have we identified to adapt themselves to the new privacy reinternal processes, conduct risk analyses and tion security and any ongoing initiatives within any cases of leaks, thefts or loss of customer gulation, the EU’s GDPR, which will enter into implement measures to maintain adequate the organisation. In addition, it is updated at data. force from May 2018. The work involves estainformation security. every Group management meeting on events blishing policies, procedures and guidance to relating to information security. At the end We also refer to the section on integrity in comply with the GDPR, identifying changes Daily responsibility for information security of each year, we present an annual report to the chapter “Our relationships and partnersthat need to be made in IT systems and lies with line management and in the business Group management summarising the events hips” regarding that part of the GRI indicator working out control routines. The work has as area that has the closest relationship to the that the company has been exposed to in the which pertains to breach of customer privacy. much emphasis on information security as on information being processed. This is whecurrent year, how we assess the threat level privacy. re the best conditions are for determining and the actions that are being planned going protection requirements and assessing the forward. Increased digitisation without consequences of absent information, confiincreased risk dentiality breaches and undesirable changes We consider that the information security Our aim for the future is to support the buto data. The manager is responsible for work in the Group is effective. We justify siness needs of innovation and rationalisation information processing in the services and this in that there were no serious security through improved digitisation and the use of work processes that the department owns, incidents in 2017 that had consequences for new technologies, without compromising the develops and manages. our customers or business operations – this risk level. For example, information security in spite of the fact that we are continually must constantly adapt to changing demands Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR NETWORK AND EXPERTISE I INFORMATION SECURITY 56 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Our ability to change In a world where development takes place at an ever-increasing rate, Posten is dependent on increasing its pace of change in order to achieve long-term value creation. Developments in the markets in which we operate are driven by increased consumer power and digitisation. This results in changing customer behaviour and increased competition, which in turn create a need for changing framework conditions and multi-dimensional innovation. There are two aspects in this capital area which we have chosen to report on. Competitive framework conditions Self-reporting Innovation and service development GRI indicator: 404-2 Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR ABILITY TO CHANGE 57 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Competitive framework conditions Self-reporting In order to ensure good framework Stakeholders How we work conditions for the business, it is important for Posten to work Posten's social mission is to ensure the international framework conditions. This Owner and authorities: Expect proactively and with a long-term provision of high quality, reasonably priced includes: good, constructive input on releperspective with regard to central nationwide postal services. This has been vant processes. government. It is particularly important set down in the company's Articles of • Dialogue with SD on overarching to create an understanding of the need Association. framework conditions Suppliers: Posten’s framework for restructuring and adaptation of • Dialogue with SD and Nkom concerning conditions affect suppliers’ the services offered within the mail The Norwegian government’s Ministry of specific matters framework conditions. segment. Changing relevant framework Trade, Industry and Fisheries is responsible • Reporting to Nkom, including delivery conditions can often take a long time. for management of the state's ownership times and annual product accounts Private customers and local There are financial and strategic risks in Posten Norge AS, while the Ministry of • Active participation in the Universal communities: Framework condiassociated with framework conditions Transport (SD) is responsible for postal Postal Union and industry organisations tions could have consequences on that are not tailored to the competition legislation, including the system for at EU level the further development of the situation and changing customer government procurement of statutory • Membership and participation in Spekter service. demands. postal services that are not commercially and NHO Logistics and Transport profitable. • Consultation responses and other Business customers: Framework contributions on political matters of conditions could have conseThe Norwegian Communications Authority importance to the Group quences on the service offer. (Nkom) supervises Posten to make sure it is fulfilling its obligations as set out in the Posten must act as a credible and Employees: Could have an impact Postal Services Act, regulations and licence. constructive voice of opinion on all questions on their working day. The Group must also deal with other relevant relating to regulatory and other matters authorities that are of significance to our that directly affect the business in order operations, including our corporate social to maintain its role as a socially responsible responsibility activities. company and obligatory provider in the Norwegian postal market. Posten has its own regulatory unit that is responsible for working with national and Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR ABILITY TO CHANGE I COMPETITIVE FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS 58 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Posten has implemented a number of structural changes Increasingly fewer letters mean that regulatory changes are absolutely necessary in order to operate profitably. In recent years, Posten has implemented a number of structural changes and measures that have contributed to maintaining earnings on postal services in spite of a significant decline in letter volumes. In 2016, Saturday postal deliveries were discontinued, and as of 1 January 2018, A-mail and B-mail were merged into a new service with a twoday delivery period. Political acceptance and changes to regulatory requirements were necessary prerequisites for these much-needed reorganisations. However, they will not be sufficient to compensate for the negative effect on profit caused by the future decline in letter volumes. If regulatory requirements are not tailored to the restructuring which Posten believes is necessary to ensure satisfactory profit development, the extra costs will have to be financed through the government procurement of unprofitable business services. Photo: Julien Hazemann Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR ABILITY TO CHANGE I COMPETITIVE FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS 59 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview STAKEHOLDER INTEREST ORGANISATIONS ZERO ZEROis an independent, non-profit environmental foundation that works to drive zero-emission solutions and curb investment in solutions that cause emissions. When Posten takes the ”In what way is Posten’s work on sustainability important to you?” initiative and tries out new types of vehicles and fuels, “Posten has been working systematically and with dedication on sustainability for a long time, and it it contributes experience has thus become one of the most knowledgeable that benefits the whole companies in Norway on climate-friendly transport. industry. We need that knowledge! When Posten takes the initiative and tries out new types of vehicles and fuels, it contributes experience that benefits the KARI ASHEIM whole industry. As we know, the industry needs Department head for transport at ZERO to halve its emissions from transport in just a few years. Posten's knowledge of solutions for sustainable transport will also be useful to national and local governments in the next few years as they reinforce climate policy to achieve national and global climate goals.” Posten's trialling of new types of vehicles and fuels Photo: Tore Oksnes benefits the whole industry, according to environmental organisation ZERO. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I STAKEHOLDER: INTEREST ORGANISATIONS 60 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Innovation and service development GRI indicator: 404-2 In recent years the Group has been through Stakeholders How we work major changes due to digitisation, increased consumer power, a more complex competition In order to ensure our position in rapidly a digital strategy which states that Owner and authorities: Interested situation and a different market dynamic. changing markets, we must, in addition digitisation should be Posten's principal in return on equity (continuation Reduced mail volumes have resulted in the to acquiring new expertise, undergo a tool in its journey towards increasingly requires adaptability) and also merging of A and B streams into a single mail cultural shift. Digitisation must lie at the customer-orientated simplification. A clear interested in good restructuring stream. For the same reason, the government root of our efforts in solving tomorrow's digital strategy is essential for creating processes. has also proposed reducing Posten's mail challenges. For this reason, the Group set future competitive strength. delivery to every other day from 2020. At the up a unit for digital innovation in 2017. The Business customers: Interested in same time, the trend of increased parcel new unit will serve as a centre of excellence In order to support the digital strategy, Posten fulfilling relevant customer volumes continues, partly due to a rise in online for innovation and digital business the Group has created a digital forum, with needs at all times. Increasingly commerce. When we combine this with a rise in development and ensure that Posten has a representation from all divisions in the demand new, preferably international trade, we have the background for technologically forward-looking, customerGroup. The digital forum has the task of customised, services where digital the desired and necessary changes. oriented architecture. The unit will help monitoring Posten’s digital position, deciding applications are important. For us at Posten, this represents an us to develop more efficient processes its direction and the momentum of any opportunity of enormous scope, while for getting new ideas to the market more selected initiative. Private customers and local simultaneously presenting us with some quickly. communities: Interested in Posten challenges. We keep asking ourselves how No formal evaluation of the work on this fulfilling relevant customer needs we can meet our customers' needs in an The Board is committed to raising the subject was carried out during 2017, but in at all times. Increasingly demand even better way tomorrow. We need to take Group's innovative capabilities and digital 2018 consideration will be given to creating new services and business models. advantage of the digital universe for the benefit vigour to enable us to develop new growth one or more KPIs. of our customers – using new business models, areas and solutions for both senders and Employees: Interested in good customised services, more efficient operations, recipients. In 2017, the Group developed restructuring processes in good platforms and, not least, a good digital connection with, e.g., needs and customer interface. Much of the change that expectations concerning internal our customers and partners experience is a and external mobility. Innovation natural and expected development: Posten is could affect the number of jobs. changing because people are changing. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR ABILITY TO CHANGE I INNOVATION AND SERVICE DEVELOPMENT 61 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Innovation on the agenda Future challenges Innovation is no longer an option To an even greater extent than in previous Areas that will impact our industry in the but an absolute necessity for the Group. years, the changes mean that the Group future include: network and platform needs to consider innovation in several economies; self-driving vehicles; the analysis dimensions. It is no longer sufficient to of large volumes of data for new insights; think only about productivity improvements opportunities for home delivery arising from or working smarter with existing services smart homes; and the exponential growth and processes. To ensure success in of the Internet of Things. We constantly the future we have to challenge, refine challenge ourselves to deliver even better and change. In several industries, new services to our customers based on the competitors enter and change the dynamics business models of the future. The Group will of the market practically overnight. This has continue to work on developing the mail and happened, most obviously, within personal logistics services, both alone and with our transport, accommodation and banking/ customers and partners. finance, etc. The threat that lies in reactivity We have a policy agreement whereby is now clearer than ever. We consider a realignment assistance is agreed between number of the changes we are experiencing the parties should an employee become to be permanent shifts. Innovation is redundant as a result of essential therefore no longer an option but an downsizing and it is not possible to offer absolute necessity. new work. Realignment assistance is mainly During 2017, we continued to enjoy good the provision of job-seeking courses. In collaboration with the Center for Service larger exercises where it is not possible to Innovation at the Norwegian School of offer new work internally, agreements are Economics (see csi.nhh.no). Posten has also entered into with outplacement companies become a main partner of StartupLab and for additional assistance. The offer does Photo: iStock.com a member of Open Innovation Labs. These not apply to minor part-time positions. collaborations will continue in 2018. Participation is voluntary. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR ABILITY TO CHANGE I INNOVATION AND SERVICE DEVELOPMENT 62 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Equipping our employees with a better aptitude for change GRI indicator 404-2: Programmes the last survey showed that 1,095 permanent The Group’s employees in Norway have, since for employee competence raising and employees had certificates of apprenticeship 2015, been offered a basic Norwegian course realignment. and 78 apprentices were in training. in reading, writing and oral skills. The purpose of the course is to strengthen employees’ Development opportunities for employees For employees in job realignment prolanguage skills, which will assist with the mashelp to make the Group a more attractive grammes, the Group can offer retraining tering of tasks and increase wellbeing. It also employer. At the same time, they prepare based on individual assessment. The Group improves safety in the workplace and helps employees for coping with changes to their also offers educational scholarships. The employees become better qualified for job working day and taking on new tasks. scholarship scheme should help to motivate realignment. Seven employees completed the employees to strengthen their formal Norwegian course in 2017. In addition to skills development in the workcompetence. In 2017, 34 educational place, training courses are offered through scholarships were awarded. We have a policy agreement whereby job the Group's own learning portal, the Academy. realignment assistance is agreed between 50,245 individual e-learning courses were The Group has also developed its own concept the parties should an employee become completed during 2017. This figure includes for the statutory basic training on the workredundant as a result of essential downsizing learning which is customised to Posten's ing environment. The training comprises three and it is not possible to offer new work. partners in Post i Butikk in Norway and mandatory parts: two e-learning courses Realignment assistance is mainly the provision external carriers. and a two-day meeting. The training provides of job-seeking courses. In larger exercises participants with an understanding of how we where it is not possible to offer new work It is the Group's ambition to have the work on HSE at Posten and an understandinternally, agreements are entered into greatest number of employees as possible in ing of better collaboration between various with outplacement companies for additional Norway with certificates of apprenticeship. actors in HSE work. 107 managers, union repassistance. The offer does not apply to The apprenticeship scheme is used to recruit resentatives, safety representatives and HR/ minor part-time positions, and participation young people with a relevant vocational HSE employees completed the basic training is voluntary. education into transport and logistics. In 2017, in the working environment during 2017. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREAS: OUR ABILITY TO CHANGE I INNOVATION AND SERVICE DEVELOPMENT 63 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Our financial capital Our financial capital forms the basis of our ability to develop the Group and to create long-term value for our owner. Satisfactory financial performance, solvency and liquidity are vital in order to gain access to new capital. There are two aspects which need to be reported on in this capital area. Return on equity Self-reporting Solvency and liquidity Self-reporting Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREA: OUR FINANCIAL CAPITAL 64 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Return on equity Self-reporting Good return on equity is relevant Stakeholders How we work to meeting the requirements and expectations of the owner, banks and Posten has a separate unit with specialist ensure the necessary return on equity. Owner: Sets out requirements investors. Return on equity is important expertise in finance which ensures that for return on equity. for access to capital markets and the Group has the financial flexibility to Regular meetings are conducted with lenders provides financial flexibility and the operationalise its strategies and achieve its to discuss investment plans and financing Investors and banks: Relevant operational ability to realise ongoing objectives. needs, etc. In addition to the Group's to raising capital. strategies and investment programmes. presentation of annual and half-year results, Employees: Relevant The Group's investment committee is relevant banks and investors are also invited to job security. responsible for ensuring the quality of all to attend an annual meeting to review significant investments made by the Group. Posten’s results, strategies and future Investment decisions are based on thorough prospects. analysis and should meet the given criteria to Positive development and good prospects It is important for Posten to have sufficient Ongoing and future investments combined financial latitude to implement its investment with improvement initiatives will contribute plans and operations in a demanding market. to more efficient operations and increased All Posten managers and employees have a returns on equity. simultaneous responsibility for ensuring a As of 31 December 2017, Posten's equity satisfactory return on equity by contributing was approximately NOK 6,400 million, with to continuous operational improvements. an equity ratio of 37.6 per cent. The return Posten's investment in new distribution on equity in 2017 was below owner requicentres will, together with the Group’s ongorements, but development is positive. The ing improvement programme, lead to more reason for higher equity returns in 2017 was standardised work processes, better customainly better results from operations, as mer experiences and increased profitability. well as capital gains. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREA: OUR FINANCIAL CAPITAL I RETURN ON EQUITY 65 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview STAKEHOLDER THE CAPITAL MARKET NORDEA Posten is NORDEA'S customer within a wide range of financial services. ”In what way is Posten’s work on sustainability important to you?” “Posten is an important “Nordea is working systematically on sustainability pioneering example and in all parts of the organisation and with our a driving force behind the customers, on both the investment and financial sides. Sustainability will remain an important green shift in Norway, and subject to be emphasised in our future dialogue this is also important to with and assessments of customers. Posten is an Nordea.” important customer for us and has come a very long way by thinking about sustainability in every part of its business strategy. Nordea would like THINA SALTVEDT to support Posten's good sustainable business Senior Adviser in Nordea's Sustainable models by being able to provide sustainable financing Finance Department solutions. Posten is a well-known and cherished brand name for many in Norway, and its work and demands in relation to sustainability therefore send a very important signal to its partners and to the Norwegian people. In addition, the high demands it places on sustainability in all parts of its own and on Photo: Sarah Christine Nørgaard/Scanpix its subcontractors’ operations contribute to the faster development of products and services with higher sustainability and green standards. Posten is an important pioneering example and a driving force behind the green shift in Norway, and this is also important to Nordea.” Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I STAKEHOLDER: THE CAPITAL MARKET 66 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Solvency and liquidity Self-reporting Solvency and liquidity are important How we work Stakeholders for meeting the requirements of the Owner: Expects good solvency owner, banks and investors, as well as for The Finance Department is responsible the investment programme is continuously and liquidity. ensuring the Group’s ability to realise its for the Group's liquidity management and monitored to ensure that capital operational goals. solvency. The Group shall have satisfactory requirements do not conflict with this Investors and banks: Relevant to liquidity and loan reserves at all times, and objective. raising capital. Employees: Relevant to job security. Good solvency and liquidity Posten has good solvency and liquidity strategies and further develop the Posten and considerable financial flexibility. Good and Bring brands in a constantly evolving capital discipline has helped to ensure that market. the Group is able to realise its long-term Refer to the accounts and notes in the Annual Financial Report for a complete overview of our financial capital. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I CAPITAL AREA: OUR FINANCIAL CAPITAL I SOLVENCY AND LIQUIDITY 67 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview STAKEHOLDER OWNER AND AUTHORITIES THE GOVERNMENT THE NORWEGIAN GOVERNMENT owns the Group through its Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries. ”In what way is Posten’s work on sustainability important to you?” “Sustainability in economic, “Posten is a meaningful company for the Government social and environmental as its owner, for companies and private individuals in contexts is important for Norway and for its employees. Sustainability in economic, social and environmental contexts is important for the the Government as owner Government as owner because it helps to safeguard and because it helps to develop develop the Government's long-term shareholder values. the Government's longStructured and professional management of sustainability work contributes in our opinion to the company's term shareholder values.” business development in that both risks and opportunities are mapped and managed. When good sustainability assessments are integrated into business strategy, we HEGE SJO believe they contribute to increased wealth creation. Director in the Ownership Department at the Ministry of Trade, Industry and “The Government as owner has expressed expectations Fisheries towards factors we believe can contribute to sustainable development in state-owned companies. This includes expectations as to how companies work with climate and the environment and human and employee rights, as well as against corruption and for transparency of cash flows. Companies that do good work integrating relevant sustainability themes into strategies and operations are The Government as owner expresses expectations usually identifiable as having a good understanding of how as to how Posten should work on issues such as the their business affects their surroundings and the ability environment and employee rights, etc. to work purposefully on sustainability. They will also set goals for desired outcomes and report openly on them.” Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I STAKEHOLDER: OWNER AND THE AUTHORITIES 68 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview MARKET REPORT Weak growth in the marketplace The post and logistics market is in flux, but last year did not bring about any radical technological shift, in spite of several interesting and important changes. Recognised trends have established themselves and now characterise the market. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I MARKET REPORT 69 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Declining letter volumes are affecting absolutely necessary to allow Posten to conconfidence in the economy, and increased the postal business, and positive but weak tinue providing good and competitive postal capacity utilisation has led to increased deeconomic development in Norway means that services to the whole population. mand for investment. growth in the logistics market is also weak. Elsewhere in Europe too, postal services Growth is strong in the Swedish economy. Economic development was strong in Sweden are changing in line with declining volumes. Production rose throughout 2017, which, Economic growth has during 2017, and internationally too, the proThe Danes, for example, have drastically cut together with reduced unemployment, is spects for growth are better than they have the number of delivery days. Posten is also providing good overall opportunities for resulted in slightly higher been for some time. considering a reduction in the number of growth. The Swedish krone remains relatively volumes, but strong comdays but is dependent on changes in reguweak, meaning that Swedish exports are latory conditions to implement the change. very competitive. Any fragility in the Swedish petition has led to price Postal services in flux In order to ensure future profitability in the economy is related to weak and falling house pressures. The digitisation of society is reducing the mail segment, it is necessary to inject some prices, which, during a prolonged fall, can demand for traditional postal services. In flexibility into the regulatory conditions to result in a ripple effect on the rest of the the last few years, customers in both the allow prompt readjustment of supply to economy. public and private sectors who send out demand. Economic growth in Norway is weaker administrative mail have continued to develop For those involved in marketing, written than in Sweden. The driving forces that have their digital solutions. This has resulted in an communication is still in a strong position. helped to curb the recession are expected accelerated decline in the volume of Norway’s Customer newsletters, brochures and marto have a more neutral role going forward. letter post. Volume has fallen by 60 per cent keting leaflets still function well on paper and Weak growth is expected, with increased since the peak year of 1999, and in 2017 voluare maintaining a steady volume level. oil investment and increased international me fell by 13 per cent. growth being important contributors. This As of 1 January 2018, A and B mail means that economic growth, although weak, streams were combined into one stream Growth in the Western economy will probably be positive. with a two-day delivery period. By remoThe global economy continued to grow ving the need for overnight delivery of mail, stronger through 2017. The euro area seems a significant volume that was previously to have passed a cyclical low point, and the Increased competition forwarded by air has been transferred to economic upturn appears to be somewhat There is a clear relationship between ecoground-based transportation, thus reducing stronger than initially assumed. Reduced nomic growth in the logistics market and costs and CO2 emissions. The change was unemployment has strengthened consumer the economy overall. The logistics market in Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I MARKET REPORT 70 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Norway has been challenging during 2017 as Nordic region, and structural changes are mobile. The largest proportion of consumers E-handelvolum E-commerce volume well. Economic growth has resulted in slightly occurring in both the logistics industry and continues to be those purchasing clothes Utvikling fra Q4 2012, i prosent 54 % growth (in per cent) higher volumes, but strong competition in commerce, where traditional boundaries, in and shoes, but in terms of turnover, spending the market has led to price pressures. There terms of what individual actors take responis higher in electronics. 54% is slightly more activity and growth in the sibility for, are changing. For this reason it is One trend in the market is that more and 50 Swedish market, but here too competition becoming increasingly important to capture more sellers have both a physical outlet and 40 between major Nordic players and internavolumes heading for the Nordic region that an online shop, and an increasing number tional networks is contributing to increasing originate from outside of our immediate are connecting the two sales channels. For 30 downward pressure on prices. The eventual vicinity. This is especially true with regard to example, some sellers allow customers to outcome will be that prices fall so much that the parcel and freight segment. order goods online in the physical shop if 20 this forces more cost-effective logistics the desired item is not in stock, or to return networks, which will also impact Posten. goods purchased online to a physical shop. 10 The competitive situation in the Nordic E-commerce is growing The market, however, is characterised by 0 market is also characterised by ongoing The growth in parcels is strongly influenced intense rivalry among existing actors, strong 12 13 14 15 16 17 consolidation, in which three international by the growth of online shopping in the Nordic bargaining power amongst consumers and a corporations and the former postal region. Within the logistics market, online trastrong threat from potential new entrants. companies are the dominant players. These de is demonstrating the strongest growth, Development is likely to move towards fewer five players account for over 40 per cent of with a large part being in cross-border trade. but larger providers, and consumers will the total logistics market. Online trade will continue to grow sharply in increasingly expect fast, simple and flexible One market trend is that more customers the years to come, and new industries will delivery. The letter box is a very attractive want their entire logistics solutions coordioffer various forms of online solutions. option when it comes to e-commerce, and nated and simplified through fewer suppliers A comprehensive analysis of the the quantity of small packages arriving that and centralised warehouses, especially in Norwegian e-commerce market from online way is growing, compensating slightly for the Southern Sweden and, to a somewhat lesser payment company DIBS Payment Services fall in letter volumes. degree, in central Eastern Norway. The ongoindicates a growth rate of over 20 per cent ing globalisation process is leading to ever in online goods and services. 85 per cent larger international product streams, which of Norwegians shop online and 54 per cent Innovation and digitisation is resulting in stronger competition from low have done so using their mobiles. Within the having an effect price actors. Retail companies from Central goods segment, the report shows that 28 The mail segment realised the ramifications Europe see opportunities for growth in the per cent of all online purchase are made on a of digitisation and declining letter volumes Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I MARKET REPORT 71 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview long ago. In recent years, the logistics segdeliveries, such as small, high-value parcels is therefore a strong focus on expanding ment has also noticed changes arising from or those requiring fast delivery, will also be railways. Passenger transport is being the growth in e-commerce. In the future, suitable for delivery with drones. prioritised, meaning that the transfer of innovation and digitisation are expected to New technology offers opportunities for freight from road to rail is moving slower further affect the market in the form of new innovative thinking, both large and small scale. than desired. New technology offers developments that will impact our business The Group is following development closely models. Last autumn, Tesla launched its new and will focus on innovation and digitisation At the same time, car manufacturers opportunities for innovative electric truck, which should have sufficient across its entire business portfolio. Areas continue to develop and produce more thinking, both large and small range to be able to operate within the normal such as AR (augmented reality), VR (virtual reenvironmentally friendly cars. In the Nordic drivingand resting-time parameters. Other ality), robotics and AI (artificial intelligence) will countries, longer and heavier articulated scale. The Group is followactors are experimenting with electric trucks be involved. The initiative is part of creating vehicles (25 metres/60 tonnes) are being ing development closely and that are charged through power rails in and growth and profitability through new services used on approved roads, which reduces will focus on innovation and along the road surface. and the improvement of existing services. the number of heavy goods vehicles on the Several car manufacturers and other roads as well as costs, fuel consumption and digitisation across its entire players are busy designing self-driving cars. Focus on infrastructure and the exhaust emissions. business portfolio. Within the transport industry we are seeing In order to facilitate distribution in the possibilities of a convoy with a manned environment cities, several companies have set up leading car followed by several self-driving The Nordic countries are experiencing popuprojects with those cities for testing new cars. This creates savings by both freeing lation growth with relatively high birth rates transport methods. New, innovative vehicle the driver up to perform other tasks and compared with the rest of Europe, combined solutions are being tested and the value reducing the distance between cars, which with high net immigration rates. Urbanisatichain is being challenged and restructured in turn provides less air resistance and lower on is also continuing and an ever-increasing to accommodate, for example, smaller CO2 emissions. proportion of the population is concentrated distribution warehouses to reduce the Many companies are also experimenting around the major cities and regional hubs. use of delivery vehicles. It is important for with drones, both as independent parcel In spite of substantial public investment logistics companies to work closely with carriers flying directly from warehouses in cities, the infrastructure is failing to keep customers, the authorities and expert and as assistants to parcel carriers where pace with the increase in road traffic, which communities in order to identify good, the drone can fly from the car to the most in turn is creating more and more environfuture-oriented solutions for guaranteeing remote delivery addresses. Some types of mental and noise-related problems. There distribution in the cities. Posten Norge, 2017 Sustainability Report I MARKET REPORT 72 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Overview of reported indicators in 2017 The GRI Standards template includes two levels at which we can report: Core or Comprehensive. We have chosen to report at the Core level. In total, we report on 29 indicators. Of these, 21 are GRI indicators and 8 are our own. We also report profile information. This includes general information about the Group and our operations. Most of this profile information can be found in the Annual Financial Report or on Postennorge.no. In the auditor's report, the auditor confirms that the profile information has been reported. GRI – General Standard Disclosures General Title Page number or link External atStandard testation Disclosures Organisational profile 102-1 Organisation’s name This is Posten Norge Yes 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services www.PostenNorge.no/om-oss Yes 102-3 Location of head office Nordic map – PostenNorge.no/om-oss Yes 102-4 Location of operating sites Nordic map – PostenNorge.no/om-oss Yes 102-5 Ownership and legal information www.PostenNorge.no/om-oss/organisasjon/selskapsform-og-styring Yes 102-6 Market presence www.PostenNorge.no/om-oss/organisasjon/divisjoner-posten-norge Yes 102-7 Organisation's size www.PostenNorge.no/om-oss/organisasjon/divisjoner-posten-norge Yes 73 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI – General Standard Disclosures General Title Page number or link External atStandard testation Disclosures 102-8 Information about employees and other workers Our employees; Supplier management Yes 102-9 Supply chain Sustainability Report, PostenNorge.no/om-oss Yes 102-10 Significant changes in the organisation and its supply chain Note 23 in Annual Financial Report Yes 102-11 Precautionary principle/approach Corporate governance (item 10) in Annual Financial Report Yes United Nations Global Compact, Global Reporting Initiative G4, Zero, SINTEF, Næring for 102-12 External organisations and initiatives Yes Klima, International Post Corporation, Nordic Swan Purchasing Club and Grønt Punkt 102-13 Membership of associations Our network and expertise Yes Strategy 102-14 Statements from the top decision-maker A word from our CEO; the Board's annual report in the Annual Financial Report Yes Ethics and integrity This is Posten and Bring; Sustainability Report; Our relationships and partnerships; 102-16 Values, principles, standards and behavioural norms Yes Integrity Management PostenNorge.no/om-oss; corporate governance in the financial report; independent 102-18 Management structure Yes attestation report Stakeholders 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Key stakeholders Yes 102-41 Collective agreements Our employees; Equal pay and equal opportunities Yes 74 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI – General Standard Disclosures General Title Page number or link External atStandard testation Disclosures 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders Key stakeholders; Sustainability Report Yes 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Key stakeholders Yes 102-44 Key themes and concerns taken up Key stakeholders Yes Reporting practices 102-45 Units included in Group accounts PostenNorge.no/om-oss/organisasjon/konsernstruktur Yes 102-46 Report content and delineations Our strategy for creating long-term viability Yes 102-47 List of material themes Our strategy for creating long-term viability Yes 102-48 Repetition of information Our network and expertise; Our employees Yes 102-49 Changes in reporting Sustainability Report Yes 102-50 Reporting period 1 January to 31 December 2017 Yes Norwegian edition of online report, 17 March 2017; 102-51 Date of last report Yes English edition of online report, 8 May 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual reporting Yes 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report rapport@posten.no Yes 102-54 Reporting in accordance with GRI Standards Sustainability Report; GRI Content Index Yes 102-55 GRI Index Sustainability Report; GRI Content Index Yes 102-56 External audit Independent attestation report Yes 75 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI overview: Our employees GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals Health, safety and working environment GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes GRI 403 Health, safety and working environment 2016 Employee representation on formal HSE Information on workers who are not employees is not 403-1 committees with representatives from available: reporting can only include own employees. An Yes management and employees assessment will be made as to whether this is sufficient. 76 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals a) The Group does not report the frequency of occupational diseases or lost working days as data is not available. b) Injury and accident statistics are broken down by gender Type and frequency of personal injuries, for employees in Norway only as the same level of detail is occupational diseases, lost working days not available from other operations. Assessment is ongoing 403-2 and absenteeism, and total number of Yes 3, 5 concerning reporting needs. work-related fatalities by region and gender c) The Group does not have access to full HSE statistics for workers who are not Group employees: working hours for these are not available from the HR system. Assessment is ongoing as to whether the current data base is sufficient. GRI 406 Non-discrimination 2016 Number of incidents of discrimination 406-1 and measures initiated in connection Yes 8 with these Attractive workplace GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes 77 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals GRI 202 Market presence 2016 Conditions of standard starting salary by gender compared with local mini202-1 Yes 8 mum wage rates at sites of significant operation. GRI 401 Employments 2016 401-1 New employments and staff turnover Yes 5 Benefits for full-time employees that are not offered to temporary or part401-2 Yes 8 time employees, by site of significant operation. GRI 405 Diversity and equal opportunities 2016 The percentage of employees with an immigrant background is reported for permanent employees in the Diversity in management bodies 405-1 Norwegian part of the Group only as data is not available Yes 5, 8 and among employees from other operations. An assessment will be made concerning the need to make changes in the future. Good managers GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 78 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes Own indicator The Group did not complete the organisational survey PN-1 Employee satisfaction in 2017; therefore data on employee satisfaction is not Yes available. It is scheduled to be conducted in 2018. 79 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI overview: Our relationships and partnerships GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals Customer orientation GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes Own indicator PN-2 Delivery quality Yes PN-3 Customer satisfaction Yes Open and effective communication GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 80 Contents ConThis is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview tents GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes Own indicator PN-4 Reputation Yes Integrity GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes GRI 205 Anti-corruption 2016 The Group's risk analysis cannot fully respond to 205-1 at this moment in time, as data broken down by operation is 205-1 Operations assessed for corruption risk not available. As assessment will be made as to whether Yes 16 changes can be made within the current framework to respond to 205-1 in the future. 81 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals The Group does not currently have reporting systems that allow it to fully report on the total number and percentage Communication of and training in of employees who have received information and participa205-2 Yes 16 anti-corruption policies and procedures ted in training: data sorted by employee category, business partner and region is not available. Assessment is ongoing concerning data collection and reporting needs. Confirmed corruption incidents and 205-3 16 implemented measures GRI 206 Anti-competitive behaviour 2016 Judicial reactions to anti-competitive 206-1 behaviour and antitrust and monopolisYes tic practices GRI 418 Privacy 2016 Confirmed complaints concerning 418-1 violation of customer privacy and loss Yes of customer data Supplier management GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes 82 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals GRI 308 Environmental assessment of suppliers 2016 The Group is reporting only on suppliers with turnovers in excess of NOK 2 million in 2017: data on other suppliers is not New suppliers that were assessed on 308-1 available. No fundamental distinctions are made between Yes environmental criteria new and existing suppliers. Assessment is ongoing concerning data collection and reporting needs. Data is unavailable on the number of suppliers found to have a significant negative environmental impact or on Negative environmental impact in the 308-2 the number of suppliers where improvements have been Yes supply chain and measures implemented agreed. Assessment is ongoing concerning data collection and reporting needs. GRI 414 Social assessment of suppliers 2016 The Group is reporting only on suppliers with turnovers in excess of NOK 2 million in 2017: data on other suppliers New suppliers that were assessed on 414-1 is not available. No fundamental distinctions are made Yes 8 social criteria between new and existing suppliers. Assessment is ongoing concerning data collection and reporting needs. Data is unavailable on the number of suppliers found to have a significant negative social impact or on the number Negative social impact in the supply chain 414-2 of suppliers where improvements have been agreed. Yes 8 and measures implemented Assessment is ongoing concerning data collection and reporting needs. 83 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI overview: Our network and expertise GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals Environmentally efficient transport and logistics GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes GRI 305 Emissions 2016 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases 305-1 Yes 12, 13, 14, 15 (CO2e) Energy – indirect emissions 305-2 Yes 12, 13, 14, 15 of greenhouse gases 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions Yes 12, 13, 14, 15 305-4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Yes 12, 13, 14, 15 84 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals Network GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes Information security GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes GRI 418 Privacy 2016 Confirmed complaints concerning 418-1 violation of customer privacy and Yes loss of customer data 85 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI overview: Our ability to change GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals Competitive framework conditions GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes Innovation and service development GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes GRI 404 Employments 2016 Programmes for employee competence 404-2 Yes 3, 8 raising and realignment 86 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview GRI overview: Our financial capital GRI – Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Title Page number or link Exclusion(s) External Sustainable Indicators attestation Development Goals Return on equity GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes Solvency and liquidity GRI 103 Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation and delineation of themes Yes 103-2 Management approach Yes 103-3 Evaluation of management approach Yes 87 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Oslo, 15 March 2018 Idar Kreutzer (Chair of the Board) Randi B. Sætershagen (Vice-chair of the Board) Tove Andersen Odd Christian Øverland Anne Britt Berentsen Morten Karlsen Sørby Ann-Elisabeth Wirgeness Erling A. Wold Lars Nilsen Tone Wille (CEO) 88 Contents This is Posten Norge Group CEO Sustainability Strategy Capital Areas Market Report GRIOverview Statsautoriserte revisorer Foretaksregisteret: NO 976 389 387 MVA Ernst & Young AS Tlf: +47 24 00 24 00 Fax: +47 24 00 24 01 Independent attestation report Dronning Eufemias gate 6, NO-0191 Oslo www.ey.no Postboks 1156 Sentrum, NO-0107 Oslo Medlemmer av Den norske revisorforening To the Board of Directors of Posten Norge AS Statsautoriserte revisorer Foretaksregisteret: NO 976 389 387 MVA Ernst & Young AS Tlf: +47 24 00 24 00 Fax: +47 24 00 24 01 Dronning Eufemias gate 6, NO-0191 Oslo www.ey.no Postboks 1156 Sentrum, NO-0107 Oslo Medlemmer av Den norske revisorforening Independent assurance report – Posten Norge sustainability report 2017 Our work has consisted of the following procedures: To the Board of Directors of Posten Norge AS • Review of Posten Norge’s process for the preparation and presentation of the Report to We have performed an independent verification of Posten Norge’s sustainability report for 2017 (the provide us with an understanding of how corporate social responsibility is ensured in practice Report). We have assessed if the information being presented in the Reporting is based on relevant within the business criteria from the guidelines for sustainability reporting from the Global Reporting Initiative Standards • Interviewed those in charge of reporting to develop an understanding of the process for the option “core” (GRI Standards). Controlled information is shown in the company's overview of reporting on preparation of the Report GRI indicators (the GRI index). The GRI index also includes information related to the UN’s Sustainable • Verified on a sample basis the information in the Report against source data and other Development Goals. This information is not verified by EY. information prepared by Posten Norge • Assessed the overall information in the Report against the criteria in GRI Standards including a Independent Management’s assurance report – Posten Norge sustainability report 2017 responsibility review of the consistency of information against the GRI index, with the exception of the We have performed an independent verification of Posten Norge’s sustainability report for 2017 (the information related to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. PostenWe Report). Norge’s have assessed management is responsible if the information for the being presented in the Reportingofisthe selection based on relevant and collection of the data information for presentation criteria from the guidelines and for the preparation for sustainability reporting GlobalinReporting Report the the offrom accordance with Initiative the criteria of GRI Standards. Standards In our opinion, the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. option “core” (GRI Standards). Controlled information is shown in the company's overview of reporting on GRI indicators (the GRI index). The GRI index also includes information related to the UN’s Sustainable Our Independence Development Goals. This information and Quality Control is not verified by EY. Conclusion We have complied with the independence requirements of the Norwegian Law on Auditors and Auditing Management’s responsibility Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report, in all and other ethical requirements from the Code of Ethics of the Norwegian Institute of Public Accountants material respects, is not prepared and presented in accordance with the GRI Standards, and that the Posten Norge’s management is responsible for the selection of the information and collection of the data which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due for presentation and for the preparation of the Report in accordance with the criteria of GRI Standards. information in the Report contains material misstatements. Indicators covered by our assurance report care, confidentiality and professional behavior. are listed in the GRI index. Our Independence and Quality Control Wehave We apply compliedInternational Standard on with the independence Quality Control requirements (ISQC1) of the Norwegian Law“Quality on Auditors control for firms that perform audits and Auditing andother and reviewsethical of financial from requirements statements, the Code of and other Ethics assurance of the and related Norwegian Institute of Publicservices engagements” and Accountants accordingly which are founded maintain on fundamentala comprehensive system principles of integrity, of quality objectivity, controlcompetence professional including documented and due policies and Oslo, 15 March 2018 care, confidentiality and professional behavior. procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal Ernst & Young AS and We apply regulatory International requirements. Standard on Quality Control (ISQC1) “Quality control for firms that perform audits and reviews of financial statements, and other assurance and related services engagements” and accordingly Auditor’s maintain tasks a comprehensive and dutiessystem of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal Eirik Tandrevold and regulatory requirements. Our task is to issue an independent report to the Board of Directors on the Report based on our work. Our State Authorised Public Accountant (Norway) work is conducted in accordance with ISAE 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews Auditor’s tasks and duties of Historical Financial Information”. The standard requires that we plan and perform procedures to obtain Our task is to issue an independent report to the Board of Directors on the Report based on our work. Our (This translation from Norwegian has been made for information purposes only.) limited assurance that the information in the Report is prepared and presented in accordance with work is conducted in accordance with ISAE 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews relevant of Historicalcriteria Financialfor sustainability Information”. reporting The standard in accordance requires that we plan and withperform Standards GRIprocedures and does not contain to obtain material limited assuranceerrors. that the information in the Report is prepared and presented in accordance with relevant criteria for sustainability reporting in accordance with GRI Standards and does not contain material errors. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 89 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited POSTEN NORGE AS Postboks 1500 Sentrum, 0001 Oslo www.postennorge.no Follow us on:
