CREATING VALUE Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 2017 Krusell Group CONTENTS “ Owners Statement: It was our renewed focus in 2017 to create sustainable and long OWNERS STATEMENT 3 term value, despites the challenges of a fast and ever changing WHO WE ARE 4 environment. This included naturally also our CSR activities, with GROUP VALUES 6 a clear emphasis of quality over quantity. We had to carefully evaluate where our initiatives could result in best possible impact, GROUP VISION & MISSION 6 for customers, partners and employees. Many of these activities ACTIVITIES 2017 9 are marked under #fairproduction, to send a positive signal to GROUP CSR STRUCTURE 18 all our stakeholders, at a time where we still continue to hear Environmental Compliance 19 and read about exploitations within working environments. Chemical Compliance 19 It remains our conviction, that a fair and social production “ Social Compliance 20 environment drives company values. It leads to engaged and Information Security Compliance 20 empowered employees and returns high quality performances, which ultimately provide value to customers and partners. Financial Compliance 20 Anti-Corruption Compliance 21 02. 03. WHO WE ARE Krusell Group is a Swedish lifestyle house with brands such as Krusell, Pagalli and Walk on Water. After more than 25 Years in the industry, Krusell group is established as one of the leading companies in its niche, and one of the very few companies to own and maintain their own production. A case of Swedish Design Besides protection for mobile devices, Krusell also develop, manufacture and sell specialized OEM/ODM solutions, premium private label brands, small leather goods and packaging solutions. Krusell is a certified and audited supplier to Sony, Fujifilm, Garmin, Phonak and many other prestigious brands. 04. 05. GROUP VALUES INTEGRITY To always apply strongest standards to our actions. Display a high level of moral principles. Be supportive, loyal and caring to all parties. HONESTY To always be truthful and transparent. To not cause unnecessary disturbances. To not manipulate and/or politicize. COMPASSION Be engaged and apply drive. Constantly motivate and encourage. Be proud of achievements and constantly evolve and develop. GROUP VISION & MISSION VISION To conduct our business with integrity, honesty and compassion towards everyone at all times to the best of our abilities. MISSION Krusell is a Swedish company with a mission to enrich its customers, partners and employees with quality products and services based on the core value principles of the company. By adhering to these principles, the company wants to create sustainable relationships with all involved at perform at consistently high levels by constantly embracing challenges. 06. 07. ACTIVITIES IN 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Krusell Group continues its engagement within the UN Global Compact Initiative. Thailand has established its own local chapter, of which Krusell Thailand is also an active participant. Our headquarters in Sweden continues it’s active information work towards customer and partners on the importance of fair conditions within the manufacturing environment. These activities are tagged internally as well as externally under #fairproduction. Unfortunately we are still facing many instances, where ultimate profitability thinking wins over the clean conscience of knowing that products are coming from a fair and compliant production set-up. This however will not deter Krusell Group to continue on its path and to adhere to UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and the sustainable development goals: 1. Full protection of human rights towards employees. 2. No tolerance towards any human rights abuse. 3. Employee right of representation without any discrimination. 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5. Zero tolerance policy towards child and minor labor. 6. Complete elimination of all forms of discrimination. 7. Pro-active and protective approach to environmental issues. 8. Promote greater environmental responsibilities. 9. Development of environmental friendly technologies. 10. Work against corruption in all its form and shape. 08. 09. TRAINING & SKILL DEVELOPMENT TRAINING STATISTICS 2017: TRAINING COURSES PRODUCTION Target Group In hours Period Providing adequate training opportunities remains a vital component 1 Quality + Environment Systems Internal auditors 200 02/17 of our CSR strategy. It engages our staff, gives them the needed 2 Chemical Safety Management Line leaders + staff 120 03/17 working tools and helps them in their evolvement. Access to 3 Fire fighting + Safety All selected reps 240 04/17 training is a basic need for employees to develop and it rewards the 4 Synergy + Efficiency in Team work All 1440 05/17 company with capable, empowered staff. The company continued 5 Quality Awareness in Production Process Production staff 800 07+08/17 to provide a wide range of training programs, involving a majority 6 Risk Management Principles Supervisor Level 80 08/17 of our employees. 7 Workplace safety + First Aid All selected reps 60 09/17 8 Standards of Quality Control QC/QA/WH dept. 80 12/17 9 Basic Leather Knowledge Prod. + WH staff 160 12/17 10 General Safety Training Introduction All new staff 720 2017 T Total Training Hours provided 3’900 2017 TRAINING COURSES OFFICE Target Group In hours Period 1 Quality + Environment Systems Internal auditors 40 02/17 2 Photography and Design Design 24 02/17 3 Labor Law 2017 HR 16 02/17 4 Financial Analysis Accounting 16 05617 5 Tax Compliance + Promotions Accounting 48 06/17 6 Leather Skill Workshop Product Team 64 07/17 7 Canon Smart Online SME Design 8 08/17 8 Photography for Online Presentations Design 16 10/17 T Total Training Hours provided 232 2017 10. 11. SOCIAL COMPLIANCE Within our CSR commitment is the guarantee to our employees to provide an International Standard of Human Rights and the company practices a zero-tolerance policy for any potential human rights violations. Furthermore, the company wants to make sure that our production environment is completely free of any form of abuse, mobbing and negative peer pressure. Respectful language and interaction build an important part of the Company’s Code of Conduct. Employees must have access to reporting tools without fear of any form of repercussions, whereas any potential conflicts must be mediated and resolved, with the same fairness standards to all. HR Department successfully implemented a trust-reporting tool, which allows employees to report on potential incidents with a guarantee of proper due process. The company continues to provide employees financial and debt restructuring advices. Production staff are prone to financial liabilities and can easily become victims of loan sharks. By providing such an advice service, employees often can avoid landing themselves into dire situations or are put in a position, where a financial restructuring plan allows them to become debt free once again. Our production and office environment is a drug free zone. Random checks are regularly performed, as per mutual agreement with employees and in accordance with legal regulations. The company practice a 2nd-chance approach with any employees caught and will support their rehabilitation, rather than immediately criminalize the person. However employees caught a second time on random checks are immediately released as they endanger the well being of other employees and the good of the company. 12. 13. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Another milestone in the company’s environmental protection program has been reached by achieving ISO 14001:2015 certification in March 2017. ISO 14001 standards relates to environmental Management and the company’s ability to minimize their operation and production procedures, which could negatively affect the environment. By achieving compliance with this demanding standard, Krusell Group clearly demonstrates that environmental sound practices are an integral part of how the company operates. SUSTAINABILITY & QUALITY A return to the roots in terms of sustainability and quality of products meant, that the company had to forge new partnerships with suppliers that represents the same values and conduct their business equally sustainable. In terms of raw material selection, specifically premium leather, only established suppliers with impeccable track records were evaluated. Over the course of the year, this ended in rewarding partnerships with some of the best suppliers in their field. 14. 15. PRODUCTION SUCCESS Production line 1 has been certified to produce the full range of premium leather cases for a Japanese Premium brand. The prestigious Japanese brand has initially produced both in Japan and Korea, due to the required high standard in craftsmanship and quality. Earlier attempts to transfer production to Chinese manufacturer were all met with failure and refusal by end consumer to buy the products. Krusell Group was finally able to meet the customer requirements after a long development period and intense collaboration by the parties. This marks a substantial achievement by the manufacturing team and the full production line was promoted to a level 3 standard as a reward. They will serve as an example for other production lines and have set the standard. Fujifilm HQ has intensified the collaboration with Krusell Group. Based on previous and current performances, the company was selected as the default, official supplier of leather camera cases. The collaboration continues to further expand the reach of the project work. Gauss Lab Inc., HK, confirms Krusell Group as the selected OEM/ODM supplier for its VR goggles accessories range. The collaboration started early 2017 and has allowed Gauss Lab to establish itself as the main supplier of such accessories. A new project foresees a substantial expansion of target market reach. 16. 17. Environmental compliance ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Krusell Group and its manufactured goods are compliant with Social Chemical compliance compliance the EU REACH regulation (EC No. 1907/2007) and the RoHS Directive (2002/95/EC). Therefore, any substances, e.g. of very high concern (SVHC) are all restricted in the production of goods. Global CSR Additionally Krusell Group is certified ISO 14001:2015, for it’s ability to manufacture products within an effective environmental Management system and comply with International standards set Information Financial by European Union’s Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS). security compliance compliance CHEMICAL COMPLIANCE The chemical compliance is a sub-section to the environmental compliance. In addition to the policies and procedures covered GROUP CSR STRUCTURE IN SUMMARY in the environmental compliance, this section also controls the The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) structure is divided correct work procedures in handling chemicals, the employee safety into five compliance sections; environmental-, chemical-, social-, measures and the storage regulations in the production facility. information securityand financial compliance. The coming Krusell Group actively works on developing the chemical summary of all sections present the base of the CSR work that compliance, so that workplace safety and occupational health Krusell group is conducting in order to allow a responsible and procedures are maintained at all times. Chemical compliance sustainable growth of the company. is part of annual safety audits by the related governmental departments of the Ministry of Labor in Thailand. 18. 19. SOCIAL COMPLIANCE ANTI-CORRUPTION COMPLIANCE Social Compliance protects and covers the integrity of all employees Integrity and honesty are two of the three basic core values within Krusell Group and is a framework for creating the standard within Krusell Group. The company will never tolerate any form for a fair and decent workplace environment. Social Compliance of corruption, since corruption is an issue that contaminates any constitutes a core commitment of Krusell Group and is part of the form of compliance. social standards and values that the Organization represents. The company pays utmost focus on establishing working procedures, regulations and control mechanism that avoids creating opportunities for misconduct. The principles of a fully INFORMATION SECURITY COMPLIANCE corruption free environment are applied to all employees, suppliers, Information security compliance protects customers, specifically service providers, customers and any other person engaged in in OEM/ODM projects where data security and the professional business with Krusell Group. handling of confidential information are of upmost importance. Information security compliance is part of the internal ISO Management System. Employees are constantly trained and audited on the safe and secure handling and storage of customer Would you like more specific information details? data and information. Contact e-mail provided at the end of report. FINANCIAL COMPLIANCE Financial compliance guarantees partners and customers that they are working with properly registered legal entities that engage in best practice financial Management. Moreover, it guarantees that entities are compliant with all relevant fiscal obligations, subject to yearly audits by third party auditors and authorities. This substantially reduces the potential risk exposure for partners and customers, and allows them to trust on a professional handling of their projects. 20. 21. Krusell EU Headquarter APAC Headquarter & Production Krusell International AB Krusell (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Nellickevägen 22, 10th floor, 3656/78-79 Green Tower, 23rd floor, SE-412 63 Gothenburg Rama 4 Road, Klongtan, Klongtoey, Sweden Bangkok 10110, Thailand Creating Value | Krusell Group Corporate Social Responsibility Report | 2017. Content: Mauro Beck, Ulf Sandberg Content information contact EU/US: ulf.sandberg@krusell.se. Content information contact APAC/RoW: mauro.beck@krusell.co.th Revision: 01. Date: 20.03.2018
