Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2017 When trust nytt foto ska in is shared, it grows CONTENTS Alecta – in brief 4 Message from the CEO 6 Highlights of 2017 9 The occupational pensions market 10 A key part of a sustainable pension system 12 A good pension 14 A stable and trusted company 16 Responsible investment 22 An attractive workplace 28 Administration Report 30 Five-year summary 41 Financial statements 44 Board of Directors’ signatures 97 Audit Report 98 Governance 102 Sustainability notes 104 GRI table 112 Auditor’s review report on Sustainability Report 114 Board of Directors 115 Council of Administration and auditors 119 Senior management 120 Glossary 122 The formal annual report comprises pages 30–100. This document is a translation of the Swedish original. While every effort is made to ensure the accuracy of the translation, portions may be incorrect. In the event of any discrepancies between this version and the Swedish original, the Swedish original shall prevail. About Alecta’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2017 Alecta’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report are presented by the Board of Directors, and are intended to give all stakeholders a fair representation of our activities and results in the past year. The Administration Report and the financial statements on pages 30–97 constitute Alecta’s statutory financial information and are subject to external auditing. Alecta’s statutory sustainability report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines, and the key sections of the report on Alecta’s sustainability work in 2017 are those presented on pages 12–29 as well as the supplementary in-depth information on governance and sustainability on pages 102–113, where we also present processes, supplementary data, and the scope and boundaries. The Sustainability Report has been examined by external auditors. The Audit Report on the statutory financial information and the review report on the Sustainability Report from Alecta’s auditors, Ernst & Young AB, are presented on pages 98–100 and 114, respectively. I want to be able to decide myself when to retire. Andreas Fasth A resident in Sollentuna, on parental leave. − This is the third time I’ve taken paternity leave, so it wasn’t really a big deal when I asked for leave again. The pharmaceutical industry employs a lot of women, so perhaps that’s why parental leave is something completely normal at my job, and dads too are encouraged to be at home. − We have received advice on occupational pensions at work, so I have a good understanding of what is included. For me, being able to decide myself when to retire is important, but right now I look forward to going back to work again. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 3 Alecta in brief Our mission When trust is shared, it grows Alecta’s mission is to maximise the value of collectively agreed Alecta was founded in 1917 based on the insight that the greatest possible occupational pension schemes for security in old age and in illness is achieved if we take shared responsibility. our corporate and private clients. That has remained the “Alecta model” to this day. Alecta is a mutual insurance company – we are owned by our customers. We always have our customers’ best interests at heart. Any surplus that we generate is returned to our customers in the form of better pensions or lower costs for our corporate customers. The risk and responsibility are shared between the customers. With a single insurance solution, everyone takes collective responsibility for each other’s security. This creates greater security and flexibility. Alecta can, for example, offer a lifelong pension and disability insurance without any complex exemptions. Our services are purchased collectively by the employer and employee organisations. Purchasing insurance collectively – in a group – creates economies Alecta customer Sofia Blomberg of scale, which means that the administrative and management and her dog Knut next to Magnus Billing, CEO of Alecta expense per insured is low. Another benefit is that Alecta has no need to incur costs for sales and marketing. That leaves a bigger pension pot for the employees and reduces the costs for the employers. Alecta is owned by its customers Alecta has as many as 2,4 million private customers, and that is something that we want to highlight in our annual report. In November, we met up with some of them to find out what they think about their occupational pensions. We also asked the photographer Evelina Carlborn to take the photos you see on the cover and on some of the pages of this annual report. 2,4 million 34 000 SEK 830 billion 364 insured private corporate in assets under employees customers customers management 4 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Alecta’s fundamental insight – a good pension starts with a low fee One of the key factors determining the value of a pension is low fees. A low fee reduces the costs for the companies and results in a better pension for the pensioners. Over the course of a working life, 25 per cent of a saver’s pension capital disappears if the fee is one per cent. At three per cent, half the capital disappears. Our vision and our core values Based on our insight, we have formulated our vision and our values. Our vision: To be the world’s most efficient occupational pension fund. Our core values: Simplicity – Customer benefit – Responsibility Our goals We offer occupational pensions Based on our mission, vision and values, with retirement, disability and we have defined three goals: survivor’s pension: – Secure and satisfied customers – Defined benefit ITP 2 for private-sector salaried – High cost-effectiveness employees born in 1978 or earlier. – A robust return and strong financial position – Defined benefit ITP 1 for those born in 1979 or later. Since its introduction in 2007, our Alecta Optimal Pension product has been the contracted default option for the ITP defined contribution pension plan. We are also the default option for the FTP collective bargaining agreement for salaried employees in the insurance industry. Moreover, Alecta Optimal Pension is a selectable option in all major collective bargaining agreements. 0,02 0,06 SEK 20,4 billion investment management management expense ratio in retirement, disability and expense ratio for pension products survivor’s pension payments (excl. selection centre costs) 5 Message from the CEO Focusing on the ITP-procurement and customer value 2017 was an eventful year that saw big swings in financial markets and property prices as well as an extensive debate about those parts of our pension system which fall outside the collectively agreed occupational pension schemes. In this environment, Alecta stood strong. Once again, we showed that our model of asset management generates strong returns. Many of those participating in the debate also highlighted the employer-union procurement model as an example for other areas of the pension market. Developments in the market in 2017 strengthened Alecta’s for people’s sense of security and that they will be an imporposition in the ITP 1 defined contribution plan procurement for tant part of tomorrow’s social security systems. When trust is 2018–2023, which was initiated in 2017. Much of the year was shared, it grows. taken up by preparations for the procurement, and in March 2018 we were delighted and proud to receive the news that our Focusing on the customer meeting status as the default option had been extended. We are owned by our 2,4 million private customers and 34 000 corporate customers. That’s why we always have our eye on High returns and low fees customer benefits and the best interests of the customer. Any The return on our ITP 2 defined benefit plan was 6,5 per cent surplus that is generated is returned to our customers in the in 2017 and the return on Alecta Optimal Pension was 9,1 per form of increased pensions or lower premiums. Customer sercent. Assets under management grew to SEK 830 billion and vice, customer interfaces and sustainability were some of our we welcomed 100 000 new customers. main focus areas in 2017. Digitisation is creating opportunities for improvements and Ten years with Alecta Optimal Pension more effective customer meetings. Inspired by two of our core Thanks to the collective procurement and our strong focus on values – simplicity and customer benefit – we are continually cost-effectiveness, we still offer one of the lowest fees in the trying to make it easier for our customers to understand and industry. In 2017, Alecta was once again named the world’s manage their pensions. We are also continually evaluating our third most cost-effective occupational pension fund in CEM processes to maximise the value that we add for our customBenchmarking’s global study. In the autumn, our defined bene­ ers. For example, in the past year we launched a new website, fit product, Alecta Optimal Pension, marked its tenth anniverstarted work on developing improved self-service functionality sary. Since its launch, Sweden’s biggest savings product has for private customers and initiated the development of a new delivered an average annual return of 7,3 per cent. We were payment solution. We also hit a new record in terms of the also named the most sustainable pension fund in Europe and number of customers who are withdrawing their pensions digi­ best active manager at the 2017 IPE Awards. All said, these are tally. Over 60 per cent of our customers now make their first tremendous achievements on the part of all our employees. pension withdrawal entirely digitally through My Pages. Every A big thank you to you all! fourth customer letter from Alecta is now sent digitally. Alecta A hundred years ago, a collectively procured insurance soluis also a contributor to the Swedish insurance industry’s comtion was a far-sighted idea. Although today many people use mon forecasting and calculation service, is connected to the other words, such as customer power and the sharing economy, MinPension pension portal and is supporting the development there is no doubt that collective insurance solutions mean a lot of a withdrawal plan and electronic transfer sheets. 6 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Our founders were driven by an important insight: when trust is shared, it grows. That is a conviction that we still hold. Digitisation is creating new expectations We have produced an ambitious survey of how and when our customers will need to receive pension information in the future. Digitisation has fundamentally changed consumers’ and businesses’ expectations with regard to ease of use, availability and presentation. Our aim is to be flexible enough to provide the level of service that our customers expect. Having secure and satisfied customers is one of our goals, and the way we interact with our customers is set to become yet more important in the future. Sustainability – a key concern for a growing number of people Sustainability is becoming increasingly important for a growing number of pension customers. The Swedish government also wants the banking and insurance industry to make a more active contribution to developing a sustainable society, with the UN’s 17 sustainable development goals in Agenda 2030 as guiding principles. Alecta welcomes the emerging focus on long-term value creation and sustainable risk management. We are convinced that sustainable investments generate good returns if you have a long-term perspective and factor in environmental concerns, social development and good corporate governance already at the investment process stage. In addition to high cost-effectiveness and capital growth, our unique asset management model also creates several significant sustainability benefits. During the year, we initiated a sustainability certification of our research and investment process in which an independent certifier was invited to examine and verify our activities. That Cont. next page ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 7 is a mark of quality. A sustainability perspective at the research Paris Agreement on keeping a global temperature rise below stage further future-proofs our investment but also serves as a two degrees. catalyst for identifying new investments or asset classes which We have also signed up to the UN Global Compact and promote sustainable development. One result of this focus is support the Compact’s ten principles on environment, human that Alecta at the end of 2017 had invested over SEK 17 billion rights, labour and anti-corruption. We also support the recomin green bonds earmarked for projects or businesses which mendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Dishave a positive impact on the climate and environment. closures (TFCD), as we want to see standardised and more forIn the public debate, we have highlighted the need for a ward-looking climate reports from the companies we invest in. wider choice of sustainable investment opportunities of a size Our sustainability work has produced successful and conand with a risk level consistent with our mission to deliver crete results. Alecta’s equity portfolio has the lowest carbon good pensions. This requires politicians who are able to lead footprint among all companies in our industry that publish the way, as an example by issuing green government bonds to their carbon footprint, by a wide margin. In spring, the World finance a transition to a more sustainable society. We therefore Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) published a report showing the welcome the government’s proposed inquiry into green bonds. extent to which European pension fund portfolios meet the Paris Agreement’s two-degree target. Alecta’s portfolio was A better society and environment deemed to be well positioned and came out top in two of three The banking and insurance industry can make a positive concategories. tribution to society and the environment if the companies in The companies in our equity portfolio score highly in exterthe industry take joint action and adhere to a set of common nal sustainability analyses. Over half of the companies in which reporting standards. Alecta’s strategy is therefore to adopt and Alecta has a seat on the nominating committee are among the take part in developing broadly accepted standards. In 2017, we top ten per cent in their industry. In the same companies, the led a working group under the Swedish Investors for Sustainashare of women on the board is over 40 per cent – a target that ble Development (SISD) initiative of the Swedish International we have been working towards for a long time. Development Cooperation Agency (Sida). We have also, as the sole Swedish company, had the privilege of leading a working Moving forward from a strong foundation group that forms part of the EU’s High-Level Expert Group I am convinced that the collective procurement model for on Sustainable Finance. occupational pensions will stand the test of time. Alecta is Both initiatives have produced draft standards and stratewell equipped to deliver the best solution, thanks to our strong gies that need to be agreed on and formalised. One concrete team of competent and committed employees and our highly example is the Expert Group’s recommendation that legislacompetitive products. I look forward to continuing to work tion governing pension funds’ fiduciary duties place a clearer with all my fantastic colleagues to realise our mission of maxemphasis on sustainability – a recommendation that the imising the value of the collectively agreed occupational penEuropean Commission has chosen to act on immediately. sions that we provide. Based on the strong foundation on which we stand, we will continue to develop Alecta in the best interSustainability work with an impact ests of our customers also in the future, whatever shape We have also strengthened our internal resources by appointit may take. ing a Sustainability Officer, and have formulated a sustainability policy and clarified our sustainability approach. In When trust is shared, it grows! our investment management activities, we have adopted the two-degree target as a long-term sustainability goal. This Magnus Billing means that our investments will be geared to support the CEO 8 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Highlights of 2017 Alecta Optimal Pension turns ten Alecta named best pension fund for Occupational pensions in Almedalen Our defined contribution and selectable prodsustainability and active management For a number of years, Alecta has been repreuct Alecta Optimal Pension turned ten in 2017. Alecta is the best European pension fund for sented at the political gathering in Almedalen. Since its inception in September 2007, the sustainability and active management. This was In 2017, we arranged three seminars together product has had an average annual total return made clear in late November 2017 at the IPE with News55 at which we discussed the value of 7,3 per cent. That means that it has outperAwards, where Alecta came out on top in the of collectively agreed pensions, tomorrow’s formed our benchmark index, Morningstar, by ESG and Active Management categories, facing pension systems and people’s expectations 3,0 percentage points annually over the same off competition from 440 rival nominations for their retirement. In addition to our own period. Alecta Optimal Pension has SEK 92,5 from pension funds in 24 countries. seminars, we had the opportunity to exchange billion in assets under management. experiences with other industry stakeholders that are important for us and our customers. Report on Alecta’s corporate Alecta was the fifth most frequently men100 years of taking responsibility for governance tioned company, in any category, in social the future In mid-2017, we published Alecta’s first annual media during the week-long gathering. In 2017, Alecta and the modern occupational corporate governance report, which provides a Page 18 pension celebrated their 100th anniversary, more detailed description of our corporate govwhich was marked by various activities aimed at ernance activities. The report describes Alecta’s Pension plagiarisms have higher costs highlighting the value of occupational pensions role as owner, trends identified at shareholders’ and lead to lower pensions yesterday, today and tomorrow. A notable event meetings during the year and Alecta’s corporate Employees who are not covered by collective was a jubilee seminar on tomorrow’s labour governance policy. bargaining agreements risk losing hundreds market and social security systems. Page 26 Page 18 of thousands of kronor in pension capital. Sale of foreign properties Pension solutions outside the collective agreeAlecta’s first impact investment ments also incur higher costs for the employIn the first quarter, Alecta sold its eight remaining Alecta made a commitment to invest USD ers. These are some of the findings presented directly owned properties in the UK and US. In 100 billion in the company’s first impact in the Pension Plagiarisms report, which was connection with the sales, we closed our offices investment. The money will be invested in the published by Alecta and PTK in late May 2017. in London and San Francisco. Following the sales, Page 18 Netherlands-based NN FMO Emerging MarAlecta’s foreign property portfolio consists exclukets Loans Fund, which finances sustainable sively of properties that are owned indirectly, development, without compromising Alecta’s through funds or other vehicles. required rates of return. Page 26 Among the top three in the world for The ITP procurement cost-effectiveness In March 2018, Alecta, in competition with For the fourth time, Alecta participated in a other companies, was again designated as the benchmark study on cost-effectiveness. The default option for the defined contribution study, conducted by Canadian benchmarking retirement pension plan under the ITP supplefirm CEM, compares Alecta’s defined benefit mentary pension scheme, i.e., both ITP 1 and plan globally with companies of similar size that ITPK, for private-sector salaried employees administer equivalent products. Alecta once for a further five years. again came third, but had improved its results compared with the previous survey in which the company participated, in 2015. Page 16 ALECTA’s LONG-TERM OPERATIONAL GOALS FOLLOW-UP OUTCOME 2017 Secure and Our customers should feel secure and satAlecta measures customer satisfaction through customer surveys, A CSI score of 8,0 for private satisfied isfied, and have confidence in Alecta. That’s based on a customer satisfaction index (CSI), for private and corporate customers contacting Alecta, customers why it is particularly important to ensure that customers. The surveys cover customers who contact Alecta as well 8,3 for corporate customers customers who contact us receive good cusas customers who are receiving their first payments from Alecta. contacting Alecta and 7,7 for tomer service, and that Alecta enjoys a good The target for 2017 was 8,0 for private customers who contact Alecta, private customers receiving reputation as a responsible player in society. 8,1 for business customers who contact Alecta and 7,7 for private their first payment. customers who receive their first payment from Alecta. High costOur goal is to maintain a level of costCosts are monitored through key performance indicators such as Alecta’s operating expenses effectiveeffectiveness that is world-class. Through management expense ratio and cost per insured. As the KPIs are were SEK 853 million, excluding ness our mission, we have every opportunity to strongly influenced by other factors than operating expenses, the variable pay. achieve that goal. ambition is translated into a cost target defined in millions of kronor. For 2017, the target was operating expenses of less than SEK 865 million, excluding variable pay. A robust Alecta’s return should be competitive, both We compare our return over time with that of the industry. Our average annual return over return and in terms of the overall return and the return Our target for our defined benefit portfolio is an average annual return the past five years is 8,0 per cent, strong for each asset class. We will work to achieve that is 0,5 percentage points higher than the average for the life insurwhich is 0,7 percentage points financial our long-term target returns while ensuring ance industry, excluding Alecta, over the past five-year period. better than the industry. position that Alecta is in a sufficiently strong financial position to withstand events that could occur The return for our defined contribution savings product, Alecta Our average annual return over according to our long-term risk assessment. Optimal Pension, should exceed Morningstar’s SEK Aggressive the past five years is 10,9 per Balanced funds index by 1,5 percentage points annually over the cent, which is 2,3 percentage past five years. points better than the industry. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 9 The occupational pensions market The Swedish pension system has three legs • Private savings, which each individual is responsible for and puts money into. Two examples of long-term pension savings are investment savings accounts (ISK) and endowment policies. • An occupational pension is a component of an individual’s pension that is linked to his or her employment and is paid for by the employer. It is agreed between the employer and trade union through a collective bargaining agreement, or provided directly by the employer if the company is not party to a CBA. Roughly nine out of ten employees have an occupational pension. ITP is the largest of the pension schemes covered by the CBAs. • The State pension is that part of a person’s pension which is paid out by the government. It consists of an earnings-related pension (income pension and a premium pension), guaranteed pension, housing supplement for pensioners, income support for the elderly and a survivor’s pension. Everyone who has worked or lived in Sweden receives a state pension, which is based on all taxed income. There are also components of the State pension that are not earnings related, such as the guaranteed pension. The State pension is lifelong. Source: Pensionsmyndigheten Nine out of ten Swedes have an choose their pension fund through their selection centre occupational pension (“check-the-box” plans) and one in which the employer An occupational pension is a benefit which Swedish employers decides how the pension funds should be managed and what offer their employees, and in 2017 occupational pensions worth options should be offered to the employees. around SEK 200 billion (192) were secured in Sweden. An occuOutside the check-the-box plans, the Swedish occupational pational pension can be secured through premium payments to pension market generated premiums of around SEK 70 billion life and unit-linked insurance funds or a pension fund society. in 2017. Employers can also secure occupational pensions by paying Premiums paid into collectively agreed check-the-box plans into a pension trust or by recognising promised retirement totalled around SEK 65 billion in 2017. The big pension schemes benefits as liabilities in their balance sheets. The occupational in this market segment are the ITP scheme for private-sector pension market therefore also includes promised retirement salaried employees, Avtalspension SAF-LO for private-sector benefits that are secured by private employers, the central workers, PA 16 for government employees and KAP-KL/AKAPgovernment, local authorities and county councils. KL for local authority and county council employees. Contributions paid to life insurers and unit-linked insurance In the check-the-box market, the parties to the collecfunds under occupational pension schemes that are open to tive agreements select the insurance companies and savings competition totalled SEK 134 billion in 2017. Alecta’s share of options that will be made available to the employees, who then this market was 15 per cent (15). choose from among the selectable options. There are normally Occupational pensions plans that are open to competition about a hundred options to choose from. The administration is can be divided into two categories: one in which the employees handled by the selection centres. OCCUPATIONAL PENSIONS, TOTAL OCCUPATIONAL PENSIONS OPEN TO COMPETITION, CHECK-THE-BOX SEK 200 BILLION IN PREMIUMS IN 2017 APPROX. SEK 65 BILLION IN PREMIUMS IN 2017 PRI SEK 8bn Trusts SEK 3bn Kåpan 3 % Swedbank 4 % The State SEK 10bn Nordea 4 % Alecta 20 % Local authorities and Handelsbanken 3% county councils SEK 19bn SEB 5 % Danica 1 % Pension fund SPP 1 % societies SEK 8bn Skandia 2 % Life insurers, Länsförsäkringar 1 % Life insurers, risk savings insurance insurance SEK 5bn open to Life insurers, competition Folksam 10 % savings insurance SEK 132bn not open to competition AMF 28 % SEK 16bn KPA 18 % Occupational pensions insured with Occupational pensions secured by life insurers and pension fund societies employers, calculated premium Source: Collectum’s monthly statistics Source: Collectum’s monthly statistics 10 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 September 2017 marked the tenth anniversary of Alecta Optimal Pension, which since its inception has generated an average annual return of OCCUPATIONAL PENSIONS OPEN TO COMPETITION, NOT CHECK-THE-BOX APPROX. SEK 70 BILLION IN PREMIUMS IN 2017 7,3 per cent. Alecta Optimal was created for the first ITP occupational pension Nordnet 4 % Other 1 % Alecta 10 % procurement in 2007 and earned Alecta Avanza 12 % AMF 1% KPA 3 % the status of default option. Since then, Folksam 3% Swedbank 3 % Alecta Optimal Pension has also become Nordea 2 % Handelsbanken 3 % Länsförsäkringar a selectable option for a number of other 10 % collective bargaining areas as well as the SEB 13 % default product for the FTP collective bargaining area for insurance industry Movestic 4 % Danica 3 % Skandia 21% workers. SPP 8 % Source: Collectum’s monthly statistics ITP for private-sector salaried employees scheme, i.e., which company should manage the occupational ITP is the occupational pension plan for the majority of pension schemes for those employees who do not make their private-sector salaried employees who are covered by collective own choice. The procurement is arranged by the employer bargaining agreements. and employee organisations and is administered by a selection Previously, occupational pensions for salaried employees centre. For ITP, this means that the Confederation of Swedish were mainly defined benefit pensions. In 2007, an entirely new Enterprise and the Council for Negotiation and Cooperation defined contribution scheme, ITP 1, was introduced, fully open (PTK) are the contracting entities, and that the procurement is to competition. This has enabled an ever widening group of administered by Collectum. All insurance companies that meet salaried employees to choose their pension fund. the requirements may participate in the procurement. For defined benefit pensions under the ITP scheme, Alecta is the main service provider. For ITP defined contribution penThe ten times earner market sions, Alecta is the default option, and Alecta Optimal Pension In the defined benefit ITP 2 scheme, insureds with an annual is a selectable option under all the big collective bargaining salary exceeding ten income basic amounts, known as “ten agreements. times earners”, have the option of choosing a different pension solution if this is permitted by the employer. These pension Competition through procurement solutions can take a wide variety of forms. However, ten times Every five years, decisions are made on which companies earner solutions have faced mounting criticism, and many big should be selectable and which of these should be the default employers no longer offer such solutions. option for defined contribution pensions under the ITP In December 2017, there were 119 000 ten times earners, of whom around 50 000 had chosen a different pension solution than defined benefit ITP 2. This was down from 53 000 people out of 125 000 at the same time in 2016. Traditional or unit-linked? Traditional insurance In traditional insurance, the saver does not need to decide how to invest the money, which is managed by the pension What is a selection centre? fund. The saver always has a guarantee, which is now norWhen we use the term “check-the-box” we mean the mally a money-back guarantee. Traditional insurance often choices that the insureds make through the selection cenhas a slightly lower equity component and thus a lower risk tres for the collective bargaining agreements. Collectum than unit-linked insurance. is the selection centre for the collectively agreed ITP 1 Unit-linked insurance occupational pension scheme and serves as the link In unit-linked insurance, the saver chooses which funds to between the insureds, the employers and the contracted invest in from among those on offer. Unit-linked insurance insurance companies that manage the ITP 1 scheme. is suited for savers who like to be more actively engaged in Collectum is owned by the Confederation of Swedish Entermanaging their savings. A higher equity share offers the prise and the Council for Negotiation and Cooperation chance of a higher return but also increases the risk. Fees (PTK), which have also negotiated the ITP agreement. have a big impact on the size of the pension. Source: www.collectum.se ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 11 A key part of a sustainable pension system Alecta’s role in society is to help build a sustainable pension system that gives people pensions they can live on now and in the future. We are a part of a system that relies on stable pension funds with a long-term approach and strong sense of responsibility. Balance adds to stability • M  utual ownership – which means that we are owned by A key element of the Swedish social contract is that it should our 2,4 million private customers and 34 000 corporate be possible to live on your pension and that pensions should customers, and that any surplus that is generated is returned give us a sense of security both during and after our working to them. lives. Our business and our general sustainability responsibility • A  collective insurance solution – a solution in which the are primarily about helping to build what we call a sustainable responsibility and the risk are shared by everyone creates pension system. This is a system that rests on three pillars: greater security and flexibility. It makes it possible to offer pensions that people can live on now and in the future, stable all customers a lifelong pension, a survivor’s pension and pension funds which enjoy a high level of trust, and responsible disability insurance without complex exemptions. investments which help to build a sustainable society. That’s • C  ollective procurement – creates economies of scale, why we have a strong focus on good returns and low fees couwhich, together with efficient management of pension assets, pled with high cost-effectiveness while also integrating susenables us to keep our fees low. tainability into our investment management activities. Alecta’s investment strategy is based on intimate knowledge and thorough analysis of a number of selected shareholdings and investments. As an active long-term owner, we need to have a broad perspective on risks and opportunities that takes A key part of a sustainable pension system account of our invested companies’ impact on society. By ensuring the right balance between a good pension, a stable company and responsible investment, Alecta helps to build a sustainable pension system. A good A stable Responsible pension company investment Our employees are crucial to our ability to live up to our lofty goals and ambitions. We need people with the right skills to deal with our current as well as future challenges. We want to be an Alecta that we can be proud of, as far-sighted today as An attractive workplace we were a hundred years ago when the company was founded. When trust is shared, it grows When trust is shared, it grows – this insight inspires everything Alecta’s mission and goals that we do. It underpins our mission, which is to maximise Alecta’s mission is to maximise the value of collectively the value of collectively agreed occupational pensions. It is agreed occupational pensions for our corporate and also reflected in our operational goals – secure and satisfied private customers. To guide our activities, Alecta has customers, a high level of cost-effectiveness, and a good return defined three general operational goals: and strong financial position. • Secure and satisfied customers. Alecta’s ability to help build a sustainable pension system • High cost-effectiveness. is based on a number of fundamental decisions made by our • A robust return and strong financial position. founders and principals: 12 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 A key part of of aa sustainable sustainablepension pensionsystem system I miss being part of problem solving. Sven Palmér A resident in Södertälje, pensioner. – My big interests are travelling, photography and fishing. I also like to be active and keep fit, so I do a lot of cycling and canoeing, and in the winter I go skiing. And I also do a bit of work through Veteranpoolen [the retired persons part-time work agency]. – The best thing about being retired is that I am the master of my own time. I can choose what I want to do myself. Except that there is one thing that I miss sometimes, which is to be able to solve problems. Throughout my working life, I have been solving problems, and I have always found that exciting and challenging. A good pension A good pension has several components – low fees, a good return, good service and easy-to-access information. We want our private as well as corporate customers to understand the value of a good pension in different pension situations. That’s how we will achieve our goal of secure and satisfied customers. We always put the customer first FIVE-YEAR RETURN COMPARED WITH MORNINGSTAR We are owned by our customers, and that is something that 16 influences everything we do. Our focus is naturally on the 14 customer. Ever since Alecta was founded in 1917, we have been 12 working to give people financial security during and after the 10 end of their working lives. Alecta has 2,4 million private cus8 tomers and 34 000 corporate customers. Our customers are 6 mainly salaried employees in the private sector and companies 4 covered by collective bargaining agreements with the ITP 2 pension plan. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ITP 2 ITP 1 Morningstar Mixed Fund, Aggressive A long record of strong returns Alecta manages assets of over SEK 800 billion. Under our investment management model, which is unique for such a large portfolio, nearly all asset management activities are Our strategy has produced one of the highest returns in the conducted in-house. Our equity investments are concentrated industry over a long period of time. At year-end 2017, the averto a limited number of shareholdings, around 100 companies, age annual return over the past five years for our defined conin which we hold significant stakes and have a good insight. tribution pension product, Alecta Optimal Pension, was 10,9 This is an efficient model that results in low fees. per cent. The same figure for our defined benefit ITP 2 product was 8,0 per cent. 0,06 Among the lowest fees in the industry management Thanks to the system of collective procurement and our effiexpense ratio for cient asset management model coupled with a high level of cost % pension products. awareness and our ability to exploit economies of scale, Alecta 0,02 (excl. selection centre costs) is able to offer one of the lowest fees in the industry. In 2017 and in the previous year, the management expense ratio for our investment managepension products was 0,06 per cent excluding selection centre % ment expense ratio. costs and our investment management expense ratio was 0,02. ALECTA’S PRIVATE CUSTOMERS Earning period Inactive Payment period Customers whose employers are Customers who are covered by an occupational pension Customers whose pensions are being paid. paying premiums. plan administered by Alecta but for whom no premiums are currently being paid and who have not yet started to draw their pensions. Earning period, other collective Inactive, other collective Payment period, other Payment period bargaining areas: 2,3 % bargaining areas: 3,6 % collective bargaining ITP 1: 1,7 % areas: 0,4 % Inactive ITP 1: 32,8 % Earning period Inactive Earning ITP 1: 42,9 % ITP 2: period 63,6 % ITP 2: 54,9 % Payment period ITP 2: 97,9 % 14 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 A key part of a sustainable pension system – A good pension Our goal is secure and satisfied customers But it is a good idea to read up on what occupational pension Customer relations are an important part of our mission. We you will receive even before you approach retirement age. work continuously to develop the quality of our interaction Using a specially designed service at alecta.se, visitors can find with customers and to further improve the efficiency of our out if they are customers with Alecta and in which collective pension administration activities. bargaining area. This is a very popular and much-used service. Twice a year, we conduct customer surveys based on the An external service like Kivra, which Alecta signed up to in customer satisfaction index (CSI) model. In these surveys, our 2016, also makes life easier for our private customers. Here, private and corporate customers are asked to rate the service all documents are dispatched digitally, which is positive from we provide by telephone, by e-mail and on login-protected an environmental perspective. web pages. We also contact a sample of customers who have Our corporate customers can retrieve cost estimates and received their first retirement or disability pension payments. forecasts digitally from our website. One of the most popular Our CSI score for 2017 was 8,0 for private customers who services is “What does the ITP2 cost for an employee?” contact us, 8,3 for corporate customers who contact us and 7,7 for customers who have received their first payments. In 2017, we achieved our targets for all measured customer service parameters. 25 We know that many of our customers think that occupational pensions are complex. That’s why we offer our corporate customers the opportunity to take part in a number of differof the letters we send go ent training and networking events free of charge. % to customers who have asked to receive them A new website adapted to the digitally. customer’s needs 60 In 2017, we launched a new website with a structure and conof all pension withdrawal tent that are based on the needs of our customers. The design requests are made through of the new site was based on the results of several surveys and % our Calculate and Withdraw statistics on customer visits. Most customers visit our website with a specific purpose – a task that they want to solve. That’s service. why our website is structured around the most common questions and needs. We want our visitors to feel that it is surprisingly easy to get help with their enquiry on our website. Following the launch of the new website, we conducted surveys which show that a clear majority are satisfied with their visit to alecta.se. Only six per cent say they are not satisfied. Alecta is a Our customers’ views are crucial to Alecta’s improvement activities. mutual company. Digitisation and pension withdrawals This means that we are owned by Digitisation is a clear trend in society that is also having an our customers – the insureds and impact on Alecta’s administration of pensions. We are, for example, seeing that digitisation is affecting the way our pritheir employers. Our customers vate customers choose to withdraw their pensions. On average, are represented by Alecta’s Council 60 per cent of all applications for pension withdrawals are of Administration. The Council of made digitally through our Calculate and Withdraw service. Administration appoints Alecta’s Board of Directors, which in turn appoints Alecta’s CEO. A stable and trusted company The level of trust in occupational pensions is influenced by the trust that our stakeholders have for the pension system as a whole. That’s why we need to ensure that Alecta acts responsibly and with great respect for the rules which govern our activities. We need to be financially stable and very cost-aware while also ensuring a high level of consumer protection. Everything we do must create value for our customers. Cost-effectiveness adds to stability An average private Acting responsibly is about using resources with care, and we customer with ITP 1 have a strong focus on cost-effectiveness. This comes naturally for us, as it is our customers’ and thus our owners’ money that 37 we are managing. Our cost-effectiveness also enables us to years old keep our fees down, which increases the value of the pensions 53 and reduces the employers’ costs for occupational pensions. per cent are women In our striving to achieve our vision of becoming the world’s most efficient occupational pension fund, we regularly comsek 2 495 monthly premium in 2017 pare ourselves with our peers in the global arena. As part of this effort, we have engaged the services of CEM Benchmarksek 83 723 ing, a Canadian firm which produces a study of around 70 pencapital at 31 Dec 2017 sion companies around the world. The study covers both costs and service. In the latest study, Alecta came third, and we are edging closer to second place. Financial strength is a part of The more cost-effective we are, the greater the value we our undertaking are able to offer our customers and society. Managing pensions is a long-term commitment. The money we manage will be returned to our private customers over many years to come. Our relationship with a private customer can last for over 60 years, and with corporate customers even In 2017, we paid out a total of SEK longer. That’s why having a strong financial position is impor20,4 billion tant. The solvency ratio is a measure of our financial strength, and of the extent to which our assets cover future commitments. At year-end 2017, Alecta had a solvency ratio of 174 per cent, which is well above the statutory requirement of 104 per cent for traditional insurance. to our private customers. Generating value that benefits many In 2017, Alecta generated a return on capital of SEK 53,3 billion (37,8) before operating expenses. The value accrues to the cusPAYMENTS TO PRIVATE CUSTOMERS IN 2017 1) tomers in the form of higher insurance payouts and refunds. Retirement pension On top of that, we also compensate our employees, suppliers Number of people Amount in SEK and business partners, and pay taxes and fees to the government. 543 000 17 342 000 000 In 2017, we paid out a total of SEK 20,4 billion to our private Survivor’s pension customers. The majority, SEK 17,3 billion, was in the form of Number of people Amount in SEK retirement pensions. Payments for disability pension, a smaller 55 000 1 506 000 000 but important benefit that is paid in case of extended illness or Disability compensation disability during a person’s working life, totalled SEK 1,5 billion Number of people Amount in SEK in 2017. In the same period, SEK 1,5 billion was paid in the form 45 000 1 505 000 000 of survivor’s pensions. Alecta also creates benefits for employers and their employ1) The indicated amounts include distributed refunds. ees through our premium waiver insurance, under which Alecta assumes responsibility for premium payments when 16 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 A key part of a sustainable pension system – A stable company Distribution of value 2017 level of integrity and exercise good judgement. During the year, Alecta’s employees and full-time consultants participated in a 2,6 mandatory training course on ethical guidelines and the com0,52 SEK bn SEK bn Taxes in Sweden pany’s whistleblower function. Suppliers and and abroad The course was aimed at giving employees guidance on how purchases to act in various situations where it may not be clear what the 0,35 appropriate course of action is, and to familiarise the course 20,4 SEK bn participants with the governing documents and guidelines Salaries and benefits which describe the company’s expectations. During the course, SEK bn the employees discussed issues and dilemmas linked to inapSEK 5,6 bn Retirement, disability and survivor’s pensions propriate benefits, the importance of confidentiality and correct handling of personal data and conflicts of interests as well Refunds in the form of adjustments to earned as other matters. pension entitlements and Another objective was to ensure that the employees know premium reductions how to report any deviations through Alecta’s whistleblower function. The participants discussed cases that have been highExamples of the value distributed during the year. lighted in the media and the #MeToo movement as examples For a complete GRI-compliant presentation, see page 111. of when a whistleblower function is important. In 2017, 96 per cent of all employees of the parent company and full-time the employee is ill and in some cases also when he or she is on consultants took part in the course. parental leave. In 2017, SEK 1,4 billion (1,3) was paid in the form of premium of waiver insurance. Alecta also allocated refunds in the form of premium reductions of SEK 4,1 billion, which represents the surplus arising mainly from a decrease in claims and a higher than expected return. THE EU’S NEW GENERAL DATA PROTECTION REGULATION Strong compliance has the highest priority – customer privacy and data protection Our industry is subject to extensive regulatory requirements, and a licence is required for the provision of pension and In 2017, Alecta further stepped up its efforts to ensure insurance services. Regulators monitor that Alecta and other privacy and security in the processing of personal data. companies in the industry are complying with the applicable The activities are based on Alecta’s own risk and vulneraregulations, and these have undergone significant changes in bility analysis, legislation and industry agreements on the recent years. The regulations are designed to ensure financial processing of personal data. stability, transparency and customer protection. Alecta is A particular point of emphasis during the year was the engaged in an ambitious effort to introduce and update intercompany’s ongoing adaptation to the EU’s General Data nal procedures and systems for compliance. Protection Regulation, which becomes effective in 2018. We work to ensure that the regulations governing our indusThe changes will create greater clarity on how we process try are appropriately designed, both through trade associations data and how long the data is retained. The protective like Insurance Sweden and independently. Alecta’s governance measures include training employees in how to handle is described in greater detail on page 102. personal data, random checks of access, documentation and the handling of identified shortcomings, and measTraining on ethical guidelines ures to enhance the protection of personal data. Alecta operates in a privacy-sensitive industry. Our employees therefore have an important responsibility to act with a high ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 17 A stable and trusted company, cont. On the customers’ side PENSIONSPLAG Mer pens ion för pe IATEN ngarna me Customers’ insight into pensions and the system affect their The Pension Plagiarisms d ITP. report was produced by ability to make well-founded decisions and ultimately their Alecta in collaboration with PTK. trust in the pension system as a whole. Today, providers of pension products often have a knowledge advantage over the buyer, mainly in terms of their understanding of what impact the fee has, and they may be driven by short-term incentives INFFO rather than the long-term interests of the customer. Alecta takes the interests of the consumers very seriously and wants to help increase awareness about pensions. For the past eleven years, Alecta has had a Pension Economist with a MER PENS ION FÖR mandate and responsibility to challenge the pension industry, PENGARNA MED KOLL EKTIVAVTA LAD ITP 1 including Alecta. Our Pension Economist works to spread knowledge on the consumer side. All our stakeholders should be able to feel confident that we always have the consumers’ the companies in terms of savings or premiums to achieve the interests at heart. It is on that basis that we have produced same level of cover. fact-based reports such as Rovdriften på pensionärerna In connection with Alecta’s 100th anniversary during the (“The Exploitation of Pensioners”) and Deltidsfällan (“The year, we arranged a seminar on future challenges and opportuPart-time Trap”). nities with the aim of highlighting and discussing how digitiIn 2017, we published the Pensionsplagiaten (“Pension sation, the expected sharp increase in life expectancy and new Plagiarisms”) report together with PTK. The report shows how forms of working will affect social security systems and theremuch alternative pension solutions to ITP, including products by also pension systems in the long term. which are marketed as copies of ITP, cost for the individual and Pension plagiarisms and tomorrow’s social security systems were also focal points at the seminars which Alecta arranged at the Almedalen political gathering in summer 2017. The semDuring a jubilee week in March, Alecta inars were very well attended and led to Alecta being the fifth celebrated its 100th anniversary with a most frequently mentioned company across all industries in social media during the week-long political gathering. film premiere, a book release and the launch of a history website, an exhibiAlecta’s CEO Magnus Billing and Chairman Erik Åsbrink tion and podcasts. In April, a jubilee talk with the descendants of Alecta’s founders, Jacob Wallenberg and Per Olof Söderberg. seminar was arranged with a focus on tomorrow’s social security systems. A key part of a sustainable pension system – A stable company Gilla Din Ekonomi Gilla Din Ekonomi (“Like Your Personal Finances”) is a network of government agencies, organisations and businesses that works to educate people about personal finances. The vision is to enable consumers throughout the country and of all ages to make better-informed decisions about their personal finances. Alecta has been a member of the programme council since the network was established in 2010. The network has a coordinating office at the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FSA), which ensures that all published information is fact-based and free from commercial interests. Other participants include AMF, Avanza, the FSA, the Swedish Investment Fund Association, the Swedish Consumer Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Agency, the MinPension pension portal and the Swedish Pensions Agency. Examples of training initiatives that Alecta is participating in include: Staffan Ström Pension Economist Secure your financial future Participants include budget and debt advisors, consumer advisors, chief guardians and trade union representatives. Better financial security in old age Pension studies at Swedish universities A course that is aimed at improving pensioners’ knowledge Many Swedish employers feel that they know much too about pensions, housing benefit, taxes, consumer rights and little about pensions to be able to professionally diseveryday law. charge their responsibilities in the area of pensions and insurance. We therefore decided to find out whether Pensions and insurance pension studies is part of the syllabus for HR and ecoA basic training course for insurance information officers. nomics degrees at Swedish universities and university Participants are taught about statutory and collectively agreed colleges. The result was discouraging. Not one single pensions and insurance policies. seat of learning in Sweden had pension studies on the syllabus. We therefore decided to initiate such a proFor employers and trade unions gramme, and in 2015 the first courses were held. This Alecta is happy to share its knowledge and provide inspiration was seen as a pioneering initiative that has been praised at seminars, panels and courses at Swedish workplaces, at by the National Government Employee Pensions Board trade union and employers’ associations, and at universities (SPV) and others. and university colleges. During the year, we gave presentations at the annual conference of the Council for Negotiation and Since then, the pension studies course has been Cooperation (PTK), taught at IFL/the Stockholm School arranged as part of the Gilla Din Ekonomi personal of Economics, served as lecturers for several trade unionfinance network. It is project-managed by Alecta’s Penorganised courses on insurance and gave presentations at a sion Economist, who engages lecturers from among the large number of pension seminars. various members of the network and other bodies linked Together with the MinPension pension portal, we have also to pensions. informed employees about their occupational pensions, for example at Volvo Cars in Gothenburg. During the year, the course was arranged on five occasions at Dalarna University, Kristianstad University, the University of Skövde and Linnaeus University. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 19 A stable and trusted company, cont. The Pension Economist’s blog The mid-term report which the group released in July conAlecta’s Pension Economist, Staffan Ström, works to stimutained a number of preliminary recommendations that attractlate a debate on how to develop and improve Sweden’s cured a lot of attention. In late August, Alecta hosted a seminar rent pension system. The debate is conducted in the media, with Swedish and international experts on sustainable finance through participation in inquiries and panels, in meetings with to discuss the report. researchers and politicians, and through training courses and The European Commission has already chosen to act on lectures. some of the proposals presented in the mid-term report, notaStaffan Ström is also acquiring in-depth knowledge about bly with regard to the financial regulators’ responsibility to factors that affect pensions and then explaining things in a take sustainability aspects into consideration and the proposal way that is easy to understand, in plain language. to integrate sustainability more clearly into pension funds’ A new channel for this was launched in summer 2017: the fiduciary duties. The final recommendations were published in Staffan Ström blog (www.staffansstrom.se). The readers are January 2018. mainly private individuals with an interest in pensions, but the list of subscribers also includes politicians, journalists, union Knowledge initiative for Agenda 2030 and employer representatives, and senior executives in the In 2017, Alecta took part, along with a number of other institupension industry. tional investors and holding companies, in Swedish Investors for Sustainable Development (SISD), a platform for cooperation established by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida). The initiative is primarily designed to enable the participants to learn together how to implement the global sustainable development goals in their businesses. In May, Alecta and Folksam helped to arrange an international investor seminar in Stockholm hosted by Sida in collaboration with the Global Reporting Initiative and the Global Compact. It resulted in the Stockholm Declaration, which A long-term approach and sustainability in the EU Alecta’s CEO has, as the sole Swede, participated in the European Commission’s High-Level Expert Group that is tasked with producing recommendations for a long-term sustainable financial market. The general objective is to create a better development climate and conditions in the EU for investments in long-term sustainable initiatives which promote innovation, is an international investor appeal for support for Agenda new technology and new business models that also help to 2030 and the development of a reporting framework for the create more jobs. sustainable development goals. As part of SISD, Alecta’s CEO Another ambition is to expand the financial market’s risk led a working group on Goal 8, Decent Work and Economic and time perspective in order to create clearer incentives to Growth. This resulted in a proposal to introduce indicators factor in sustainability aspects and thereby help to ensure that can be used by businesses to report their impact in financial stability in the long term. There are unique opporturespect of each of the goals. nities to combine the pension funds’ mission of adding value to occupational pensions with responsible and sustainable investments, provided that there is a clear political framework and a level playing field for all players in the industry. 20 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 A key part of a sustainable pension system – A stable company The best thing about my job is meeting the travellers each day. Anne-Marie Edin A resident in Älta, Train Attendant at SJ. – I have been working at SJ for seven years now. It all began when I was earning some extra money as a “summer child” in 2011 – imagine being a summer child at the age of 55. – Before that, I had worked in the conference and event industry for over 20 years, where I didn’t have an occupational pension. So for me it’s fantastic that SJ is party to a collective agreement and that they are now paying into my pension. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 21 Responsible investment Our ambition is to help create long-term value in businesses and society at large. We believe a sound attitude to environmental, business ethical and social issues is essential to a company’s ability to remain competitive and achieve sustainable profitability. Responsible and sustainable asset Investments in a concentrated portfolio management of select companies With over SEK 800 billion in assets under management, Alecta Alecta’s philosophy is to invest in a small number of carefully is a significant international pension fund manager and one of selected assets. At year-end, our equity portfolio consisted of the largest actors in the Swedish financial market. We are one slightly more than 100 listed shareholdings, all of which are of the largest owners of listed Swedish companies, and through presented at alecta.se. As we invest for the long term, environour investing activities we can influence the sustainability mental considerations, social issues and corporate governance management activities of the companies we invest in. issues are important criteria for our choice of investments. The companies we invest in must have a business model that Active, internal portfolio management we understand and that we believe will help our customers’ Alecta manages its customers’ pension capital in-house and pension capital to grow. only engages in active asset management. This means that we Unlike many other investors, we meet with representatives do not seek to track an index and that each investment is the of all the companies that we invest in and engage in an ongoing result of a thorough internal analysis. dialogue. These dialogues allow us to gain a better understandAlecta invests in shares, debt securities and real estate, ing of how the companies are managed and to discuss sustainmainly in Europe and the United States. The composition of ability issues. Companies which do not meet our sustainability the portfolio is presented on page 34 and at alecta.se. criteria do not qualify for inclusion in the portfolio. A clear decision-making process At year-end 2017, Alecta had for investments Sustainability is an important criterion in Alecta’s decisioninvestments worth SEK 830 making process for investments. The process is applied for all equity and credit investments, which account for around 75 per cent of our total assets. billion 22 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 A key part of a sustainable pension system – Responsible investment Alecta’s investment process Information gathering Internal analysis Screening • Meetings with NO BUY companies CRITICISM NEW • Return potential Active ownership • Reports • Sustainability policy INVESTMENT • External sustainaNEGATIVE bility analysis RESPONSE REFRAIN Alectas ägarpolicy • Meetings with EXISTING companies • Return potential Active ownership NO • Reports • Sustainability policy CRITICISM HOLD INVESTMENT • External sustainability analysis CRITICISM Sustainability analysis POSITIVE HOLD – Indicators for human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. ANALYSIS, RESPONSE – Reviews after incidents involving non-compliance with international conventions. DIALOGUE WITH – No investments in businesses which violate conventions, are associated with COMPANY controversial weapons or derive more than 30 per cent of their revenue from coal. NEGATIVE SELL RESPONSE Information gathering and internal analysis we will contact the company to engage in a dialogue on those The first step in our investment process is to gather informaareas where the company needs to take action. As Alecta is tion about the company, which is often done through personal often a significant shareholder, we are in a good position to meetings. We also look at a number of sustainability criteria engage in a close dialogue with the company and exercise with the help of Sustainalytics, a company specialising in susinfluence. If it is not expected that the dialogue will achieve tainability analysis. We then do a financial analysis to assess the desired result, Alecta will sell its shares. In 2017, we held the company’s return potential. Before deciding to invest, we five dialogues in response to suspected violations of the active make our own assessments of whether the business model ownership policy and a further ten sustainability-related diais sustainable, for example, and weigh the return potential logues with other companies. A selection of our dialogues is against sustainability risks associated with the company or presented at alecta.se. the industry. Screening of new investments Corporate governance, nomination Alecta’s Board of Directors has adopted an active ownership committees and voting policy, which is based on the principle that the companies in Alecta exercises active ownership mainly by participating in which Alecta invests must follow the international conventions nomination committees and voting at shareholders’ meetings, and agreements that the Swedish State has entered into. These but also by engaging in dialogue with the companies in which include conventions on the environment, human rights, labour Alecta holds shares. In 2017, we voted at shareholders’ meetings law, anti-corruption and controversial weapons. of all Swedish and foreign companies in which we hold shares Each decision to invest in a new company is preceded by apart from two. a screening carried out by research firm GES Investment In the run-up to the 2017 AGM season, Alecta participated Services to assess whether the company is complying with in 17 nomination processes. In Swedish companies, it is normal international conventions and standards. practice for major shareholders to be members of nomination Alecta refrains from investing in companies which: committees and propose directors. Alecta’s participation in • violate or are suspected of violating international nomination committees is based on our long-term ownership conventions. commitment and our belief in the future of the company. Our • are engaged in activities involving controversial weapons. activities are guided by the ambition to ensure that each com• derive over 30 per cent of their revenue from coal. pany’s board of directors has the best possible composition. We therefore attach great importance to sustainability issues and Screening of existing investments diversity, which we believe ensure that the board will have the Companies that have got through our investment process best possible composition and expertise. Women accounted and are included in Alecta’s portfolio are subject to in-depth for 41 per cent of the directors on average in those companies screening twice a year and on an ongoing basis through weekin which Alecta was a member of the nomination committee in ly updates on alleged norm breach. In case of a norm breach, 2017. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 23 Responsible investment, cont. SHARE OF WOMEN ON CORPORATE BOARDS CARBON FOOTPRINT, ALECTA’S EQUITY PORTFOLIO Share of women, % tCO₂e / SEK million of revenue 45 20 40% 41% 40 16 27 37% 36% 35% Tonnes of carbon dioxide 35 12 equivalents (CO2e) 32% emitted by businesses per 30 8 15 SEK million of revenue. 12 25 4 7 15 5 3 20 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Large caps Alecta’s holdings Share of female AGM-elected directors in companies where Alecta has a seat on the The emission measurements follow the global GHG Protocol standard and are based nominating committee compared with the Female Representation Index of the Second on the latest available carbon dioxide data for direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) Swedish National Pension Fund (AP2), which shows the average for large cap companies. emissions in connection with consumption of energy. Emissions of greenhouse gases Note that chief executives are excluded from the calculation for Alecta’s holdings for all are expressed in terms of carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e), a unit of measurement years but are excluded from the AP2 Female Representation Index only for 2017. Source: which makes it possible to measure greenhouse gases in a uniform manner. AP2/Nordic Investor Services. tCO₂e / msek Omsättning tCO₂e / msek Investerad Reduced carbon footprint in renewable energy, 30 water purification or environmentally equity portfolio friendly infrastructure. 24 We have the same required 27 rate of Alecta has signed the Montreal Pledge and follows Insurance return for an investment in a green bond as for other bonds, 18 Sweden’s recommendations for carbon footprint reporting. but demand additional documentation from the issuer. 18 This means that we have undertaken to measure and report We want to12 find out how the money will be used, and ensure 11,9 the carbon footprint of our equity investments. Through that the issuer6 applies an industry standard for green bonds these measurements, we obtain knowledge about the emisand that an independent party has confirmed that the issuer is 0 sions of individual companies and industries. The carbon following industry practice. 2015 2014 2015 footprint is used to assess climate-related financial risks, In 2017, Alecta increased its investments in green bonds by such as the price of carbon dioxide. It also provides a basis around SEK 10 billion and now has over SEK 17 billion investfor Alecta to use its position as an asset manager to influence ed in green bonds issued by 16 different issuers. The issuers companies to reduce their emissions, for example by introinclude the Nordic Investment Bank, the French State and the ducing targets for emission cuts, risk management, business City of Gothenburg. strategies and transparency. Our measurement of the carbon footprint of Alecta’s equiA sustainable property owner ty portfolio covers all listed companies in the portfolio at 31 Alecta owns properties directly and indirectly in Sweden and December 2017. The carbon footprint decreased by a quarter in indirectly outside of Sweden. Indirect ownership means, for 2017 compared with 2016. As few changes have been made to example, that the properties are held by a fund or through a the companies included in the equity portfolio, the main reajoint venture. In Sweden, we are a significant property owner, son for the decrease is that the companies have become more with properties with a total market value of around SEK 45 effective in managing their emissions. Out of the companies billion, representing six per cent of Alecta’s total assets. As a in Alecta’s equity portfolio, 72 per cent (70) publish emissions property owner, Alecta has a significant direct impact on the data. These account for around 87 per cent (86) of the market environment, mainly through energy use, consumption of value of the portfolio. materials and waste management. For the remaining holdings, the emissions data has been Our properties are subject to environmental and sustainestimated by research firm ISS-Ethix. More information on ability guidelines that have been adopted by the CEO. To the carbon footprint of Alecta’s equity portfolio is provided at ensure compliance with the guidelines, we regularly establish alecta.se. environmental targets for our external property managers and construction projects that we participate in. We also specify Increased investments in green bonds environmental requirements for procurements of operations In a green bond the capital is earmarked for various climateand maintenance work. and environment-oriented projects, such as investments in An environmental officer is appointed for each contract and 24 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 A key part of a sustainable pension system – Responsible investment We own 10 properties, worth SEK 9,7 billion that have some form of environmental Lustgården 10 and 18 on Kungsholmen, Stockholm, is classified as a Green Building. certification. specific targets are defined in an environmental action plan. In 2017, energy consumption was reduced by nearly seven The plan, which is reviewed continuously, contains explicit per cent compared with 2016, which means that we achieved targets, such as requirements on the use of specific materials our target. Since 2015, all of Alecta’s directly owned Swedish in construction projects or energy targets for individual properties, including our head office, only use electricity from properties. renewable energy sources. Alecta is a member of the Sweden Green Building Council, which promotes sustainability in the construction and real Initiatives and partnerships estate industries. Alecta is a direct owner of ten environmenAlecta is a member of several partnerships and industry inititally certified buildings. atives. The objective is to show our standpoint as an investor In its directly owned Swedish properties, Alecta’s target is while enabling collaboration with other investors with the to reduce energy consumption, measured as a normal year’s aim of influencing the market as a whole as well as individual consumption of electricity, district heating and cooling in companies to take an active approach to sustainability manageterms of kWh per square metre, by three per cent each year. ment. Examples of such partnerships are shown below. ENERGY CONSUMPTION, ALECTA’S SWEDISH PROPERTY PORTFOLIO kWh per m2 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Electricity District heating District cooling 2015 2016 2017 Consumption in kWh per m (leased area) in Alecta’s Swedish property portfolio. For comparative 2 purposes, only properties that were owned throughout the comparative period of 2015–2017 have been included. The figures reported in last year’s annual report have therefore been slightly adjusted. Indirectly owned and residential properties are not included in the comparison. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 25 Responsible investment, cont. Impact investing ALECTA’S RESPONSIBLE In 2017, Alecta committed to invest USD 100 billion in a loan INVESTMENT GOALS * OUTCOME 2017 fund managed by the Dutch development bank FMO. The fund Increase the share of companies that report Increased from focuses on financing businesses and projects in emerging countheir carbon footprint. 70 to 72 per cent tries. Alecta has also undertaken to invest USD 200 million in Increase Alecta’s investments in green Increased by a new green bond fund that will be investing in green bonds bonds. SEK 10 billion issued in emerging countries. The fund is managed by French Participate in nomination committees when 100 per cent asset manager Amundi with guarantees from the World Bank. this is warranted by Alecta’s ownership (17 nominating interest in the company. committees) The investments are very much in line with our long-term investment model, which, in addition to a competitive return, Vote at all shareholders’ meetings, both 98 per cent Swedish and foreign. also has a positive social and environmental impact. By 2020, the underrepresented sex should 41 per cent Certification and skills development account for at least 40 per cent of the AGM-elected Directors. In 2017, Alecta worked to obtain certification under the ESG4Real standard. In the certification process, which is scheduled * Alecta is producing new general sustainability targets and key performance indicators in a structured process for 2018 and future years. for 2018, our processes will be examined by an independent party with regard to the four requirements for certification: exclusion of controversial weapons, norm-based screening of investments, integration of sustainability in investment decisions and active ownership. Certification is an important signal New climate target for the to our customers that we have good processes for integrating equity portfolio sustainability. In late 2017, Alecta’s investment management business As part of our effort to continually develop and strengthen adopted a long-term climate target for the equity portour research capacity, all members of our equities team have folio. Alecta is aiming to maintain an equity portfolio completed an online course in sustainability integration. This that evolves and is managed in line with the two-degree will make us even better equipped to continue to identify longclimate target. term sustainable business models. This means that our investments must be in line with the ambitions of international climate initiatives to ensure Increased transparency on active that the rise in global temperatures stays below two ownership issues degrees, and that our investment model should promote In 2017, Alecta published its first active ownership report, a transition that is in line with our mission to maximise the which is aimed at providing a clearer and more transparent picvalue of occupational pensions. We are developing measture of how we operate, and explain what we are doing to help urement and analysis methods that we can use in our investment management business and investment probuild a sustainable pension system and a sustainable society. cesses to support the achievement of the target. At the end of the year, Alecta took the initiative to propose that the Swedish Corporate Governance Code be clarified with In 2018, Alecta will be presenting a number of general regard to the board’s sustainability responsibility. sustainability goals along with key performance indicators that support our mission and operational goals. Alecta’s active ownership report provides an overview of the company’s active ownership work. 26 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 A key part of a sustainable pension system – Responsible investment Alecta’s disability pension makes a difference. Loes Vollenbroek. A resident in Trelleborg. On half-time disability pension. − A few years ago, an acquaintance suggested that I should check if I was eligible for a disability pension from Alecta. Now I receive sickness benefit from the Social Insurance Agency and an ITP 1 disability pension from Alecta. I have a fifty per cent early retirement pension and take jobs as a lecturer twice a month. – Do I know about collective agreements? Yes, I do. When I moved to Sweden ten years ago, I joined the union and was told about them. They’re a good thing. It’s thanks to the collective agreement that I now receive a small but very welcome financial allowance each month. An attractive workplace Alecta is a long-term employer. We need employees who are motivated and committed, and who have the skills required to handle the challenges we face today as well as future challenges. Based on our mission and our goals, we are focusing on measures which promote health, skills development and leadership development. In doing so, we ensure that our employees help to build a sustainable pension system. Our employees enjoy working at Alecta We conducted an in-depth study of our employees’ perception Alecta is a popular employer. This is borne out by the number of development opportunities which resulted in several conof years our employees stay with us, the feedback we receive in crete measures. our annual employee surveys and the interest we see in Alecta One such measure is to develop a basic training course among job applicants. The parent company Alecta employs 340 which will ensure that all employees have a shared knowledge people, and we are continually working on improving our overabout Alecta and our business. We have also launched an iniall performance by identifying any shortcomings that exist and tiative to produce advanced courses in which our employees addressing them. can gain in-depth knowledge about the products we offer – ITP 2 defined benefit occupational pensions and our defined conThe employee survey – a useful tool tribution product, Alecta Optimal Pension. For our employees To monitor the situation at the company, Alecta conducts an working with insurance matters and claims settlement, these annual employee survey. The survey provides excellent comadvanced courses are generally mandatory. parability over time on key issues such as how our employees Each employee at Alecta is required to have a skills develperceive Alecta as an employer and the well-being of our opment plan that is followed up through our goals and skills employees. The response rate has long been exceptionally high, portal. At year-end 2017, 88 per cent of Alecta’s employees had with 94 per cent responding in 2017, which ensures a high level participated in performance reviews during the year, with the of credibility as well as a small margin of error. remainder being employees who were employed during the We are proud that the majority of our employees feel motilatter part of the year. vated, that the dialogue between managers and employees is highly rated, and that our employees have a high level of trust Leading with the right skills in their managers. A large majority would also consider recomAlecta has a clear and shared view of leadership that helps to mending Alecta as an employer. We conduct follow-up interpromote active employeeship. To ensure good leadership, all views with new employees after six months and again after managers took part in a programme centred on transformaone year, and termination interviews with all those who leave tional leadership in 2017. In recruiting people to managerial Alecta. This gives us a good picture of what our employees positions, we look for individuals with a high level of expertise think of us as an employer. in their field as well as the right personal qualities. We want managers who are clear, who are able to coach their employees Creating more opportunities to make the most of their potential, and who are good at develfor development oping our business as well as our employees. During the year, we made an extra effort to make our employThrough regular internal managers’ forums, we provide ees aware of the opportunities for development that exist at opportunities for dialogue and feedback among managers, Alecta. That there was a need for this was evident from the training based on concrete cases, and discussions aimed at results of the employee survey, where opportunities for develincreasing our managers’ self-awareness and leadership skills. opment received a slightly lower than average score. Active promotion of diversity Our view is that diverse groups are essential to our ability to fulfil our mission and achieve our goals. With diversity, we 100 receive different perspectives in our work, which enables us to of Alecta’s employees keep up with what is happening and make wise, well-grounded are covered by collective decisions when faced with difficult choices. It also makes us % bargaining agreements better representatives for our customers. 28 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 A key part of a sustainable pension system – An attractive workplace In 2017, we introduced a new diversity policy which describes Alecta’s view on diversity and our long-term diversity goals. The policy is supported by an action plan with interim objec59 of Alecta’s employees % are women. 52 tives and activities that push things forward. Diversity is an important factor in recruitments. We pracof Alecta’s managers tice affirmative action and strive to always have at least one person of the underrepresented sex among the final selection % are women. of candidates. (The figures refer to employees of the parent company Alecta.) Around 52 per cent of Alecta’s managers are women. In 2017, Alecta’s management team consisted of three women and six men. For a number of years, we have been conducting annual salary surveys to identify and correct unwarranted differences in salary. Alecta is also a partner of Jobbsprånget, a national programme which offers four-month internships to migrant gradu­ates. The programme is aimed at harnessing the participants’ skills and accelerating their entry into the Swedish labour market. Discussions on abusive behaviour Starting in spring 2017, we arranged discussions in all working groups at Alecta on unequal, unfair and abusive behaviour and how we can avoid such problems. This initiative is part of our diversity efforts and is aimed at raising awareness of what abusive behaviour is, how we can prevent it at Alecta and what can be done if it happens nonetheless. The #MeToo initiative that emerged at the end of the year lent added relevance to our internal dialogue on these issues. The scope of the campaign in terms of appeals in different industries has clearly shown the importance of continued discussion on the problem. ALECTA’S GOALS* AS A LONG-TERM EMPLOYER OUTCOME 2017 All employees should have a skills development plan. 88 per cent of Alecta’s employees, including all new employees during the year, have a skills development plan. In 2017, each employee completed an average of 26 hours of training. A review of ITP expertise should be made to ensure a high level of expertise in ITP. An annual review was conducted at all departments. Diversity should be a key element in all Alecta’s recruitment processes, both internal and The diversity perspective was taken into account in all external. In all recruitments, there must be at least one person of the underrepresented recruitments. In one recruitment, affirmative action was sex among the final candidates. applied in favour of candidates of the underrepresented sex. An action plan for increased diversity should be prepared and presented. Alecta’s diversity plan and policy were presented to the whole organisation and all groups held discussions on abusive behaviour. * Alecta is producing new general sustainability targets and key performance indicators in a structured process for 2018 and future years. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 29 Administration Report The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt hereby present their annual report for 2017, the company’s one hundred and first year of operations. Corporate Identity Number: 502014-6865 Registered office: Stockholm, Sweden Ownership and structure Alecta’s principal mission is to manage the various parts of the Alecta is a mutual life insurance company. This means that the ITP occupational pension plan on behalf of the Confederation company is owned by the policy holders and the insureds, and of Swedish Enterprise and the Council for Negotiation and that any surplus generated is returned to the policy holders and Cooperation (PTK), which have concluded collective bargainthe insureds. ing agreements. Alecta manages the ITP 2 defined benefit Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt is the parent comretirement pension plan and the ITP 1 defined contribution pany of the Alecta Group. In 2017, the activities of the Group retirement pension plan. In addition to retirement pensions, were conducted in-house with the exception of some parts of the ITP 2 plan also comprises defined benefit family pensions Alecta’s property management and IT operations, which were and ITPK defined contribution supplementary retirement penperformed by external service providers under contract. Some sions. Defined contribution retirement pensions are offered of the tasks performed by Collectum and other selection centhrough the Alecta Optimal Pension product, which is the tres within the framework of the ITP and other pension plans default option and a selectable option for ITP 1 as well as ITPK. are also considered to be performed on behalf of Alecta and the Alecta has also been contracted to manage the disability and other participating insurance companies. life insurance products provided under the ITP plan. These include the risk insurance products disability pension, waiver Operations and products of premium and family cover. Alecta offers occupational pensions through selection centres Under the ITP agreement, employers have the option of under collectively agreed occupational pension plans, i.e., funding their employees’ retirement pensions by recognisinsurance schemes based on collective bargaining agreements ing liabilities in their balance sheets under the “PRI model”. that are tied to the employment relationship and for which the Obligations that have been secured under the PRI model are premiums are paid by the employer. administered by Alecta on behalf of PRI Pensionsgaranti. The NUMBER OF INSUREDS COVERED BY AN ITP RETIREMENT Alecta’s core business is the ITP plan. Only seven per cent of Alecta’s customers PENSION PLAN WITH ALECTA come from other collective bargaining areas, but the number is growing. Number of insureds 60 000 50 000 Earning period ITP 1 Earning period ITP 2 Inactive ITP 1 40 000 Inactive ITP 2 Payment period ITP 1 30 000 Payment period ITP 2 20 000 10 000 0 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 Age of the insured Source: Alecta 30 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Administration Report level of service and quality are the same as if the employees’ Net profit and financial position retirement pensions had been secured through insurance. The Group reports a net profit for the year of SEK 57,3 billion Alecta Optimal Pension is also a selectable option in the (13,4). Comments on Alecta’s results and financial position are other big collective bargaining areas: private-sector employees presented in the following. covered by the collective occupational pension plan Avtals­ pension SAF-LO, government employees in the PA 16 collective Premiums written bargaining area, employees of municipally owned enterprises Premiums written in 2017 totalled SEK 38,5 billion (33,6); covered by the PA-KFS occupational pension plan, and local see Note 4 on page 62. Premiums written can be divided into authority and county council employees covered by the KAPinvoiced premiums and guaranteed refunds. KL/AKAP-KL plans. We are also the default option and a Invoiced premiums were SEK 32,9 billion (29,9). The selectable option in the collective bargaining area for the insurincrease on 2016 is attributable to regular premiums. For ance industry, FTP. defined benefit insurance products, the rise was due to Alecta also offers occupational group life insurance (TGL). increased benefits, and for defined contribution insurance the main reason was a growing portfolio. For risk insurance, the Employees and organisation increase was partly due to the increase in the gross premium In 2017, the average number of employees in the Alecta Group at the beginning of 2017 and partly due to a decrease in the was 371 (390), or 354 on a full-time equivalent basis (373). premium reduction for disability and waiver of premium insurAt year-end 2017, the total number of employees in the ance from 75 to 65 per cent, which meant that the portion that Group was 364 (389), of whom 340 worked in the parent comis billed to the companies increased. pany (353). The share of female employees was 60 per cent (60) Guaranteed refunds, which totalled SEK 5,6 billion (3,6), and the average age of employees was 47 years (48). comprise reductions of employers’ premiums for disability and Information on the average number of employees, salaries premium waiver insurance and family pensions as well as an and benefits is provided in Note 48 on pages 91–95. The note increase in earned pension benefits (paid-up policies). also describes the principles for determining the remuneration and benefits of senior executives as well as the applicable drafting and decision-making processes. NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR INVOICED PREMIUMS TOTAL RETURN, FIVE-YEAR AVERAGE SEK billion SEK billion Per cent 100 50 10 80 40 8 60 30 6 40 20 4 20 10 2 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 31 Return on capital National Front in France and Geert Wilders’ PVV in the Financial markets Netherlands. The global economy grew at a stable pace throughout 2017. The US central bank, the Federal Reserve, raised its policy Economic developments in continental Europe were particurate three times during the year, and three further hikes are larly encouraging, but markets in Sweden, China and the UK pencilled in for 2018. The yield on US 10-year government also performed better than expected in many areas. Employbonds remained stable, ending the year roughly where it began. ment continued to grow and unemployment rates declined in The Bank of England also raised its policy rate but is now the US, EU and Sweden. Inflation increased from 1,2 to 1,7 per awaiting the outcome of the Brexit negotiations. As of 2018, the cent in the EU but remained flat in Sweden and the United European Central Bank will start to scale back its emergency States, at 1,7 and 2,1 per cent, respectively. bond purchases, as planned. The Riksbank has a similar stance, The past year was a year of elections in Europe, with voters having announced that it does not intend to extend its bond going to the polls in Germany, France, the Netherlands, the UK purchase programme and signalled that the first interest rate and other countries. Populism was one of the most prominent rise may occur in mid-2018. issues. Angela Merkel received a new mandate to lead GermaThe Swedish krona lost 2,6 per cent against the euro but ny, albeit with less support from the people than previously strengthened by 9,9 per cent against the dollar. Of the three and with no obvious coalition partners. The populist AfD party currencies, the dollar was the clear laggard. enjoyed considerable success in the elections, as did Le Pen’s Emerging markets were the strongest performers, with the Total return table for investments, Market value Market value Total return, per cent total 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 Average MSEK % MSEK % 2017 2013–2017 Shares 345 250 41,6 332 862 43,2 12,6 14,1 Debt securities 419 809 50,6 383 172 49,7 1,0 3,2 Real estate 64 733 7,8 54 409 7,1 12,1 12,5 Total investments 829 792 100,0 770 444 100,0 6,7 8,2 Total returns for each year and asset class for the period 2013–2017, which are included in the average total return, are presented in the five-year summary on page 41. The total return table has been prepared in accordance with the recommendations of Insurance Sweden. The reporting and valuation of the investments do not agree with the accounting principles applied in the financial statements. A reconciliation between the total return table and the financial statements is presented in Note 47. Total return table for investments, Market value Market value Total return, per cent defined contribution insurance 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 (Alecta Optimal Pension) Average MSEK % MSEK % 2017 2013–2017 Shares 52 592 60,5 43 947 63,4 12,6 14,1 Debt securities 27 414 31,6 20 401 29,4 1,0 3,3 Real estate 6 862 7,9 4 962 7,2 12,1 12,5 Total investments 86 867 100,0 69 311 100,0 9,1 10,9 The proportion of shares in Alecta Optimal Pension is higher than in Alecta’s other products. The table above refers to the portfolio that constitutes Alecta’s default option, which has a 60 per cent share component. The market value of the total Alecta Optimal Pension portfolio, i.e., including all asset classes, is SEK 92,5 billion (73,6). Total return table for investments, Market value Market value Total return, per cent defined benefit insurance 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 Average MSEK % MSEK % 2017 2013–2017 Shares 290 232 39,4 286 996 41,2 12,6 14,1 Debt securities 389 627 52,8 360 723 51,8 1,0 3,2 Real estate 57 425 7,8 49 141 7,1 12,1 12,5 Total investments 737 284 100,0 696 860 100,0 6,5 8,0 The total return tables refer to the Group. Due to rounding, the sum of the figures shown in the tables may differ from the totals. 32 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Administration Report MSCI Emerging Markets Index increasing by as much as 31,0 Claims incurred per cent in local currency. MSCI USA gained 21,9 per cent, Claims incurred consist partly of insurance claims paid and MSCI Europe 13,7 per cent and MSCI Sweden 9,8 per cent. In partly of changes in provisions for claims outstanding. the third quarter, stock markets retreated on a broad front. The Insurance claims paid, which mainly comprise benefits setback proved short-lived, however, with nearly all markets incurred in retirement pensions, disability and life insurance, recovering strongly to end the year at new record highs. increased to SEK 20,3 billion (19,5). The increase is largely In Sweden, real estate stocks performed well, with the Car­ attributable to a greater number of new retirees and a higher negie Real Estate Index rallying 13,9 per cent, but in the Swedaverage pension amount than for retirees whose payments ish housing market prices hit a wall towards the end of the ended due to death or because the beneficiary reached the final year. In the final three-month period, house prices fell by 8 per payment age. Operating expenses incurred in connection with cent nationwide and by 9 per cent in Stockholm. the settlement of claims are included in insurance claims paid and totalled SEK 142 billion (134). See also Note 8 on page 63. Return The change in the provision for claims outstanding was SEK The total return on Alecta’s investments in 2017 was 6,7 per 0,5 billion (2,4). cent (5,2). The return was driven mainly by shares and real estate. Marginally lower interest rates during the year ensured Technical provisions a positive return also on Alecta’s portfolio of debt securities. Technical provisions comprise the sum of provisions for life Alecta’s average annual return over the past five years is 8,2 per insurance and provisions for claims outstanding, and consticent (9,1). tute the capital value of Alecta’s guaranteed obligations for The return on the share portion of Alecta’s portfolio was insurance contracts in force. Technical provisions were 12,6 per cent (7,2) while debt securities increased by 1,0 per SEK 478,8 billion at 31 December 2017. This is an increase of cent (3,1) and real estate by 12,1 per cent (9,2). SEK 12,5 billion (38,4) for 2017, which was due to the following Alecta’s defined contribution savings product, Alecta Optireasons: mal Pension, gained 9,1 per cent (5,8), outperforming Morningstar’s benchmark index for balanced funds by 0,6 percentage • C  hanges in the yield curve that is used to value technical points. Over the past five years, Alecta Optimal Pension has provisions. The average cash flow-weighted rate increased generated an average annual return of 10,9 per cent (12,5). from 2,22 to 2,25 per cent in 2017. This resulted in a decrease The return on Alecta’s defined benefit insurance product in technical provisions of SEK 2,5 billion (increase of 20,9). was 6,5 per cent (5,1). The average annual return over the past • T  he return for the period and deductions for taxes and operfive years is 8,0 per cent (8,9), ating expenses, which together increased technical proviIn the income statement, the consolidated return on capital, sions by SEK 13,0 billion (12,6). including unrealised changes in value, was SEK 53,0 billion • P  remiums and outgoing payments for savings products, (37,5). including the difference resulting from the fact that premiAt year-end 2017, the market value of Alecta’s total investum assumptions differ from the assumptions applied in calment assets stood at SEK 829,8 billion (770,4). Of this, the culating provisions. This resulted in an increase in technical Alecta Optimal Pension default portfolio accounted for SEK provisions of SEK 2,3 billion (3,9), of which SEK 1,5 billion 86,9 billion (69,3). (0,0) refers to guaranteed refunds in the form of earned pension benefits. Changes in the portfolio • T  he provision for new insurance cases in Alecta’s disabiliAt year-end, the share portion of the portfolio was 41,6 per cent ty pension and waiver of premium products exceeded the (43,2). The decrease was a result of the active selling of shares reversal of provisions for existing insurance cases. The net in order to reduce the overall risk in the portfolio, following a increase was SEK 0,4 billion (1,9). strong performance in the stock markets.. The country alloca• T  ariffs were changed with effect from 1 March 2017, and the tion remained largely unchanged compared with the previous whole portfolio was therefore recalculated based on the new year. tariffs. The premium rate for regular premiums was reduced At the beginning of the year, the final sales of Alecta’s from 2 to 1,25 per cent and the operating expense charge directly owned foreign properties were completed, but due to for the premium was reduced from 1,5 to 1,0 per cent. The strong capital growth and significant new investments the real tariff changes are prospective, which means that Alecta’s estate portion of the portfolio increased to 7,8 per cent (7,1). corporate customers will be paying higher premiums for new The composition of Alecta’s portfolio is presented on page 34. policies and increases in benefits but not for existing benefits ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 33 Alecta’s portfolio composition at December 31, 2017 TOTAL INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO DEBT SECURITIES, geographic distribution DEBT SECURITIES, type of issuer Real estate 7,8 % USA 12,3 % Other Swedish issuers 13,8 % Other foreign issuers 26,5 % Swedish Shares Debt Europe Sweden government 41,6 % securities 34,6 % 53,1 % 15,1 % 50,6 % Foreign Swedish governments housing finance 20,4 % institutions 24,2 % SHARES, geographic distribution SHARES, sector UK 4,1% France 3,9 % Materials 3,2 % Telecom 0,7 % Consumer staples 6,0 % Rest of world 6,7 % IT 11,2 % Industrial 25,4 % Germany 7,7 % Sweden 43,4 % Healthcare 14,6 % Switzerland 11,7% Consumer Financial 23,1 % discretionary USA 22,5 % 15,8 % REAL ESTATE, geographic distribution REAL ESTATE, category Hotel 2,9 % Rest of world 2,7 % Public-sector Other 0,5 % USA 9,0 % properties 3,40 % Retail 22,4 % UK 16,5 % Sweden 71,8 % Residential 18,3 % Office 39,2 % Industrial 13,3 % STOCK SECTOR MARKET VALUE, SEK MILLION Atlas Copco AB Industrial 16 823 ALECTA’S FIVE LARGEST Investor AB Financial 16 815 SHAREHOLDINGS December 31, 2017 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB Financial 13 598 AB Volvo Industrial 13 472 Alphabet Inc IT 12 964 Market value according to total return table. 34 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Administration Report under outstanding policies. In connection with the tariff Tax expense changes, changes were also made to the assumptions used The yield tax expense, net of foreign tax credits, was SEK for redistribution of defined benefit retirement pensions, and 271 million (298). Despite an increase in the capital base, the in the fourth quarter of 2017 a minor change was made to yield tax expense was lower than in 2016. This was due to the the model for calculating future operating expenses. The net decrease in the average government borrowing rate from 0,58 effect of these changes is a decrease in provisions of SEK 0,9 to 0,50 per cent, which represents the floor for the government billion. borrowing rate that applies from 1 January 2017 for calculating • Other changes resulted in an increase in technical provisions the tax base. Yield tax is payable on Alecta’s pension products of SEK 0,2 billion. and on family cover. The income tax expense, which comprises current and For further information, see Notes 36 and 37 on pages 87 deferred tax, was SEK 608 million, compared with tax income and 88. of SEK 1 108 million in the previous year. In addition to Swedish income tax, the item also includes coupon tax and foreign Operating expenses income tax. The change compared with the previous year is Operating expenses for the insurance business, which are mainly due to significant deferred income in 2016 that was termed operating expenses in the income statement, were attributable partly to tax losses and partly to an asset arisSEK 559 million (560). Although operating expenses remained ing from foreign tax which the company expects to be able largely unchanged, a number of activities of a non-recurring to offset against future Swedish tax. In Sweden the business nature took place, including the launch of our new, revamped segments disability pension, waiver of premium and TGL are website, alecta.se, a redevelopment of Alecta’s offices, which subject to income tax. is scheduled for completion in 2019, and activities to mark Alecta’s 100th anniversary. We have also reduced our IT operDistribution of surplus ating expenses significantly after renegotiating our contract. A surplus arises when the return on Alecta’s assets exceeds the financial cost of its guaranteed obligations but can also Management expense ratio arise in other situations, for example when actual outcomes for The management expense ratio was 0,09 per cent, the same as mortality, morbidity and operational expenses are positive. A in 2016. The ratio for pension products excluding selection cenmore detailed presentation of how the surplus arises is providtre costs was also unchanged, at 0,06 per cent. ed in the alternative income statement on pages 42–43. Alecta is a mutual company, which means that any surplus generated is returned to our customers – the policy holders and the insureds. The surplus is returned in the form of refunds. Over the past 15-year period (2003–2017), Alecta has distributed SOLVENCY LEVEL COLLECTIVE FUNDING RATIO, MANAGEMENT EXPENSE RATIO Defined benefit insurance for pension products, excluding selection centre costs Per cent Per cent Per cent 175 175 0,25 160 160 0,20 145 145 0,15 130 130 0,10 115 115 0,05 100 100 0,00 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 35 SEK 97 billion in refunds. The refunds have been distributed to impede Alecta’s ability to fulfil its insurance commitments or the policy holders and the insureds in the form of pension supprotect pensions in payment against inflation. plements, increases in earned pension entitlements, premium Alecta’s solvency ratio at year-end 2017 was 174 per cent reductions and client-company funds. (166). For Alecta’s defined contribution insurance product, Alecta Optimal Pension, any surplus or deficit is allocated directly to Proposed appropriation of profits the insureds on a monthly basis. For this reason, the collective The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer propose to funding ratio is nearly always 100 per cent. Any surplus is disthe Council of Administration that the parent company’s profit tributed in the form of a supplement to the guaranteed pension, for 2017 of SEK 55 340 835 771 be transferred to the surplus in accordance with the actuarial guidelines adopted by Alecta’s fund. Board of Directors. The Board and CEO propose that the Council of AdminisFor defined benefit insurance products, Alecta’s Board of tration approve the resolution of the Board regarding refunds Directors decides each year whether and in what form refunds as set forth in the section Distribution of surplus in the Adminshould be distributed. For 2017, the Board approved an upward istration Report on pages 35–36. adjustment of defined benefit pensions by 0,59 per cent. The adjustment applies to pensions in payment as well as earned Significant events pension entitlements, known as paid-up policies, and is based Sale of foreign properties on the change in CPI between September 2013 and September At the beginning of the year, Alecta completed the sale of its 2016. For insureds who retired in 2015 or 2016, however, the directly owned foreign real estate portfolio in the US and UK, Board authorised an upward adjustment of 0,91 per cent to which had been initiated in 2016. The total consideration for compensate for inflation in the past year. For 2017, the Board properties sold in 2017 was around SEK 6 billion. In connection also approved premium reductions of 65 per cent for disability with the sales, Alecta’s offices in London and San Francisco and waiver of premium insurance, 75 per cent for family cover were closed. and SEK 7 per insured per month for occupational group life insurance (TGL). Adjustment of premiums For 2018, the Board approved an upward adjustment of With effect from 1 March 2017, the premium rate for regular defined benefit pensions by 2,12 per cent, based on the change premiums was reduced from 2 to 1,25 per cent. As a result, the in CPI between September 2016 and September 2017. The deciaverage regular premium for new policies and increases in sion covers pensions in payment as well as earned pension entibenefits increased by 15 per cent. Single premiums payable on tlements, known as paid-up policies. For 2018, the Board also redemption of defined benefit retirement pensions were also approved premium reductions of 65 per cent for disability and raised by 3 per cent on average. The changes were prompted by waiver of premium insurance, 75 per cent for family cover and the prevailing low interest rate environment and an increase in SEK 9 per insured per month for TGL. life expectancy. The premium for risk insurance was further increased Collective funding and solvency as of 2017. The existing 75 per cent premium reduction was Alecta’s defined contribution insurance products have a colmaintained for family cover but was reduced to 65 per cent for lective funding ratio of 100 per cent (100), which is the normal disability and waiver of premium insurance. These premium level when surpluses or deficits are allocated to the insureds on reductions totalled SEK 4,1 billion (3,6) during the year. an ongoing basis. At year-end 2017, the collective funding ratio for the Group’s Adjustment of paid-up values defined benefit insurance products was 154 per cent (149). The In the first half of 2017, Alecta recognised an increase in earned collective funding capital was SEK 255,8 billion (226,5). Under pension entitlements (adjustment of paid-up values) of SEK 1,5 Alecta’s funding policy for its defined benefit insurance prodbillion following a decision by the Board to increase defined ucts, the collective funding ratio may vary between 125 and 155 benefit pensions by 0,59 per cent. The increase reflects the per cent in normal circumstances, with a target level of 140 per change in CPI for the period September 2013–September 2016. cent. If Alecta’s collective funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or exceeds 155 per cent measures must be taken that will allow Resolution on refunds and premiums for 2018 the collective funding ratio to return to the normal range withAlecta’s Board of Directors has decided to increase defined in three years, provided that such measures are not expected to benefit pensions by 2,12 per cent in January 2018, matching the 36 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Administration Report inflation rate over the past year. The increase, which is worth SOU 2014:57 report. Under the proposed Act, insurance comaround SEK 10 billion, reduced the collective funding ratio as panies which exclusively or mainly provide occupational penat 31 December 2017. sions will be able to turn themselves into occupational pension The Board has also decided to cut the premiums for disafunds and operate fully under the new Occupational Pension bility and waiver of premium insurance slightly in 2018, and Business Act instead of the Insurance Business Act and to maintain the current 65 per cent premium reduction for Solvency II. disability and waiver of premium insurance and 75 per cent On 5 October 2016, the Swedish government announced, reduction for family cover. The monthly invoiced premium for after several years of deliberation, that it intends to prepare occupational group life insurance (TGL) will be reduced from a new Occupational Pension Business Act that is essentially SEK 32 to SEK 29 per employee. based on the report produced by the Committee on Occupational Pension Service Providers. The proposed new Act Organisational changes will also enable insurance companies to turn themselves In August, Camilla Wirth became Alecta’s Chief Financial into occupational pension funds, and introduces stronger, Officer. She took over from Katarina Thorslund, who has risk-based regulation of solvency capital requirements. On 16 chosen to focus on her role as head of Alecta’s Customer March 2017, the Swedish government instructed the Financial department. Before joining Alecta, Camilla Wirth was CFO Supervisory Authority to draw up a draft for such stronger at Nordax Bank. solvency capital regulations. After consulting with the insurHans Sterte has been recruited for the position of Head of ance industry, including Alecta, the FSA submitted its draft to Investment Management and will take up his post in March the government on 1 September 2017. The FSA proposes that 2018. Before joining Alecta, Hans Sterte worked in a similar the risk-sensitive capital requirement should be in line with role at Skandia. The previous Head of Investment Managethe requirement that has applied since 2006 under the FSA’s ment, Per Frennberg, left Alecta in May, and Tony Persson, “traffic light” regulatory system, which Alecta also considers Head of Fixed Income and Strategy, was appointed Acting to be reasonable. The final decision on whether and how the Head of Investment Management. FSA’s draft regulations should be integrated into the proposed In July, Anders Munk took up the post of Chief Actuary new Occupational Pension Business Act will be made by the at Alecta, replacing Fredrik Palm, who remains in charge of government. Alecta’s Product department. Before joining Alecta, Anders The new Occupational Pension Business Act, through which Munk was Chief Actuary at AMF. the IORP 2 occupational pensions directive will be introduced In March, Carina Silberg was appointed Sustain­ability in Swedish law, will take effect on 13 January 2019. This means Officer at Alecta. Her recruitment is an important step in that the schedule for the remaining legislative work in 2018, Alecta’s striving to raise its ambition in the area of sustainincluding the ministry report and standard consultation proability. Carina Silberg previously worked at Hallvarsson & cess, referral to the Council on Legislation, government bill Halvarsson, where she was head of the CSR and Sustainability and parliamentary debate, will be very compressed. Alecta will Communication business area. be following the process with great interest. A good legislative framework for Alecta and other occupational pension funds Change in the law could enable Alecta to will be of great benefit for Alecta’s customers. Alecta therefore convert itself into a mutual occupational hopes that Sweden will now make the best use of the opportupension fund nities created by the EU directives to create new, well-judged Since the Solvency II Directive came into effect on 1 January and fit-for-purpose regulations tailored to the type of business 2016, Alecta has applied the transition rules which apply until that Alecta is engaged in. 31 December 2019 for companies which exclusively or mainly If the timetable holds, and the new Occupational Pension provide occupational pensions. The question of which reguBusiness Act enters into force on 13 January 2019, Alecta will lations Alecta will be operating under in the long term – the have the option, from 2019, of converting itself from a mutual Solvency II-based Insurance Business Act or a new Swedish insurance company into a mutual occupational pension fund. occupational pension law based on the IORP occupational penSuch a reorganisation would also affect the extent to which sion directive – is of great import for Alecta. Alecta will be covered by other legislation, including antiAlready in 2014, the Swedish government’s Committee on money-laundering and insurance distribution regulations. Occupational Pension Service Providers presented a proposal for a new Swedish Occupational Pension Business Act, in the ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 37 Significant events after the balance Alecta. With good margins, we can take a proactive approach in sheet date any sell-off, and thus turn a weak market into a good business Alecta retains status as default option for ITP1 opportunity, laying the foundation for good long-term returns In mid-November 2017, Alecta submitted its bid in the profor our customers. curement of a service provider for the management of the ITP 1 occupational pension scheme, and in early March 2018 The labour market and pensions market Collectum announced the results of the procurement. In comThere is currently strong demand for labour, and many competition with other pension funds, Alecta was chosen to remain panies are struggling to recruit people with the right skills. the default option for another five years, covering the period 1 The ongoing process of automation and digitisation is leading October 2018–30 September 2023. to the disappearance of some jobs while new jobs are being In connection with the procurement, Alecta is further created, but the main impact is in the changing nature of the improving its Alecta Optimal Pension product by cutting the tasks involved. This increases the need for skills development. already low fee, to 0,09 per cent, and lowering the annual cap Unfortunately, in an economic downturn employers have fewer on fees from SEK 900 to SEK 600. resources for retraining, which increases the risk that some people will drop out of the labour market. While some areas of Outlook industry are struggling to find the right people, there are thereFinancial markets fore also groups of employees who are struggling to find work The past year was another good year for equity markets, because they do not have the necessary knowledge or previous although the Stockholm Stock Exchange underperformed. experience of the Swedish labour market. The situation in the world in 2017 was marked by challenges The Swedish pension system is being adapted to increasand uncertainty, but this does not stand in the way of financial ing life expectancies. The reform proposals presented by the markets when the global economy remains strong. It needs to government’s pensions group in December 2017 are aimed at be borne in mind, however, that this strong performance of raising the actual retirement age, but also hint that the govfinancial markets and the real economy has been shored up ernment wants to have more influence over occupational penby several years of accommodative monetary policy. Although sions. Among other initiatives, the pensions group is proposing inflation and unemployment levels are now back at more northat the current deduction rules for occupational pensions be mal levels in several economies, central banks’ policy rates reviewed. Tax deduction rules are crucial for employers’ penremain at very low levels. This combination makes the current sion costs and for entering into agreements on ways to supplesituation unique. Developments in the next few years will be ment the collectively agreed occupational pension schemes. strongly influenced by how well central banks succeed in windThe volume of occupational pensions grows when more ing down their stimulus programmes and bringing interest people receive salary increases above the ceiling for the State rates back to more normal levels. pension. Provisions for part-time and flexible pensions are The flip side of a strong run in stock markets is that the also set to increase in future, and there is a growing interest potential future returns will generally be lower. With price in individual savings through salary exchange, mainly among multiples already at high levels, robust earnings growth will be high-earning salaried employees. Many employers therefore required to sustain current share prices. While there are good risk incurring retirement benefit costs that are not deductible. reasons to expect earnings to continue to rise, the margins are A limited right of deduction also creates problems for employthin, and even minor changes in the market outlook can trigger ers who want to strengthen occupational pensions for employlarge movements in share prices. Indications as to how conees who have moved to Sweden in mid-life. cerned the equity market actually is about current prices also Negotiations between employers and unions, especially evidence that the level of any such concern is very low. High within the framework of the ITP scheme, have been a driving share prices and low risk awareness are rarely a good combinaforce for greater efficiencies in the Swedish life insurance tion. On the other hand, experience tells us that it is very hard industry. The fees charged by the industry have been slashed to predict turnarounds in the stock market. Alecta’s strategy for collectively agreed occupational pensions, but also in marfor meeting this challenge is to have very high safety margins kets outside the collective bargaining agreements. To cope in its use of risk but also to own only quality companies. Apart with the reduced fees, the industry is implementing efficiencies from faring relatively better in a stock market downturn, these by investing in new systems and digitising customer contacts. companies are able to exploit the new situation to conclude In many areas, customers have become accustomed to fast corporate deals on favourable terms. The same applies for and personal service through digital channels. They expect 38 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Administration Report the same level of service from providers of financial services. The interest rate represents the four big Swedish banks’ averAlthough occupational pensions still engage only a small numage financing cost for five-year debentures for the same period. ber of players, we are seeing signs of a growing interest in penAlecta carefully distinguishes between operating expenses sion matters. Digitisation is making it easier for new players to which have been incurred specifically as a result of the decision create customer-facing services, which can quickly spur greater to invest in a defined contribution product, known as increinterest in occupational pensions. To meet these challenges, mental costs, and the portion of the shared expenses to be several life insurers and banks are initiating partnerships with borne by each product. It is the growth in the defined contrifintech companies. bution product’s income and incremental costs which creates the real financial risk for the defined contribution plan that is Product reporting funding the deficit during the start-up phase. Alecta operates in accordance with principles of mutuality and In summer 2014, a milestone was passed as Alecta Optimal is required to ensure that income and expenses are allocated Pension’s regular annualised income reached a level where it equitably among its various products. Our ability to use econis sufficient to cover the incremental costs. Incremental costs omies of scale and spread shared expenses across all products comprise product-specific system administration and system enables us to add value for our customers. Alecta’s product development, direct customer service working hours, and costs areas are: for information and marketing activities. The accumulated deficit (fees less incremental costs including interest) peaked Pension insurance in 2014 at just under 0,02 per cent of assets under management • Defined benefit pensions (primarily ITP) in the defined benefit plan, which funded the deficit through • Defined contribution pensions (mainly ITP but also in loans during the start-up phase. The incremental cost deficit is other collective bargaining areas) expected to have been fully eliminated by 2018. Shared expenses comprise costs for management and staff Risk insurance functions, shared systems and infrastructure. Alecta Optimal • Disability and life insurance products (mainly ITP) Pension’s total expenses, which comprise incremental costs, • Occupational group life insurance (TGL) shared expenses and interest on the deficit, accounted for 0,09 per cent (0,11) of the capital in 2017, which is below Alecta’s Alecta monitors the financial performance of its various fee ratio of 0,10 per cent in its main ITP business. A second products very closely. The allocation of operating expenses milestone has thus been passed – Alecta Optimal Pension is among the various products is based on specific allocacovering its total costs and has started to pay back the capital tion principles and allocation keys. The allocation keys are contribution to the defined benefit collective. reviewed regularly to ensure as equitable an allocation as The significant synergies that exist among Alecta’s products possible. also exist in the company’s investment management activities. In addition to allocating income and expenses equitably The capital is managed on the basis of an investment model among its various products, Alecta also seeks to ensure that that is used for all products. No separate decisions are thererisks are borne in an equitable manner. Alecta’s monitoring of fore made in respect of the management of each asset class solvency and risk ensures that each product has a capital that for Alecta Optimal Pension. The difference lies in occasional is adequate to cover these risks. decisions to adjust the allocation among asset classes and in the requirement for separate monitoring and reporting. AlecProduct calculation for Alecta Optimal Pension ta’s total investment management expense is 0,02 per cent of Alecta Optimal Pension is a product that was introduced in assets under management, and is charged to all products. connection with the ITP procurement in 2007. The pricing The dominant risk in pension products like Alecta Optimal is based on the principle that the income, in the form of the Pension is the financial risk exposure, i.e., the risk that the fees charged, should balance the total operating expenses product will not be able to bear the associated market risks. over time. For a number of years after its launch, the expenses However, Alecta Optimal Pension has a higher solvency ratio incurred for Alecta Optimal Pension exceeded the income. The than Alecta as a whole, mainly because the guarantees in Alecdeficit was funded through an interest-bearing capital contrita Optimal Pension are lower than in the defined benefit penbution from Alecta’s defined benefit collective. For the period sion products. At year-end 2017, Alecta Optimal Pension had a 1 July 2013–30 June 2018, the interest rate was set at Stibor solvency ratio of 242 per cent (234), compared with 174 per cent (3-month) plus a fixed risk premium of 1,63 percentage points. (166) for Alecta as a whole. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 39 Risk management and risk organisation Other risks To protect the interests of our customers and other stakeAll managers and employees are responsible for ensuring good holders, we need to ensure that we maintain strict control of internal control in their respective areas of activity, which risks and of how risks are managed. Insurance risks need to be entails a responsibility for managing and controlling risks and managed in a way which ensures that Alecta is able to meet its their potential consequences. insurance commitments. The financial risks taken must genAlecta’s management of the above risk categories is erate the highest possible return without jeopardising Alecta’s described in greater detail in Note 3 on pages 60–62. commitments to the insureds. Other risks, such as compliance, sustainability and information security risks, need to be manRisk management support functions aged in a way that does not prevent Alecta from fulfilling its • T he independent control functions Compliance and Risk mission. Operational risks should be managed in a way that and the Actuarial function make independent assessments strengthens internal control. of Alecta’s risks. They also perform a supporting role in It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to ensure relation to management and other operational functions. that Alecta has a well-balanced risk exposure and good inter• The Data Protection Officer assists in ensuring that Alecta nal control. The Board has delegated the task of monitoring complies with the Swedish Personal Data Act. Alecta’s investment activities to its Finance Committee and the • The Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorist Financing task of monitoring Alecta’s risks and management’s handling Officer is responsible for assessing the risk of Alecta’s prod­ of these risks to its Audit Committee. The CEO is responsible ucts and services being used for such purposes. for the day-to-day management of Alecta’s operations, which • The Complaints Officer is tasked with assisting in the includes ensuring a high level of internal control. management of customer complaints. • R isk & Performance, an Investment Management function Insurance risks which operates independently from Alecta’s business activiThe Board of Directors defines actuarial guidelines, which ties, is responsible for daily control of financial risks. describe the methods and principles to be used for actuarial • The Internal Audit function audits and evaluates the assumptions. The CEO determines the basis of actuarial calcompany’s internal control on behalf of the Board. The culations, which contains more detailed calculation models as Internal Audit function, or Compliance, is also the recipient well as the assumptions to be applied in the actuarial calculaof whistleblower reports. tions. The Chief Actuary is responsible for the management and monitoring of Alecta’s insurance risks, which involves a Corporate Governance Code responsibility continuously to adapt actuarial guidelines and Alecta applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code even the basis of actuarial calculations by submitting proposals for though it has no formal obligation to do so. Rules in the Code changes. which are not adapted to mutual insurance companies are not applied, however. In accordance with this Code, a corporate Financial risks governance report has been prepared, which is available at The Board of Directors adopts Alecta’s investment guidelines, alecta.se. which regulate the portfolio structure, risk limits and other aspects. The Board is responsible for ensuring compliance Sustainability report with the guidelines. The Board’s Finance Committee adopts In accordance with Ch. 6 § 1 of the Swedish Insurance Comguidelines for Alecta’s day-to-day investment activities, prepanies Annual Accounts Act, Alecta has chosen to present pares matters related to the company’s investment manageits statutory sustainability report separately from its annual ment activities that will be addressed by the Board and makes report. Alecta’s sustainability report covers the whole Group decisions on investment-related matters which fall outside the and describes Alecta’s standpoint on key sustainability issues, remit of the CEO. The CEO is responsible for the investment including sustainability risks and governance. In late 2017, activities under the mandate set forth in the investment guideAlecta launched an initiative to review its structure, goals and lines and other resolutions of the Board and the Finance Comkey performance indicators for sustainability, and this work mittee. Subject to certain restrictions, this mandate has been will continue into 2018. The sustainability report was submitsub-delegated to the Head of Investment Management, who ted to the auditor at the same time as the annual report, and is is responsible for the management and monitoring of Alecta’s contained on pages 12–29 and in the Governance and sustainafinancial risks. bility section on pages 102–113 of this document. 40 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Administration Report Five-year summary Group, SEK million 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Profit/loss Premiums written 38 514 33 557 34 377 36 122 25 059 Invoiced premiums 32 895 29 919 31 581 25 145 23 954 Guaranteed refunds 5 619 3 638 2 796 10 977 1 105 Claims incurred –20 776 –21 907 –20 330 –20 195 –17 330 Net return on capital 53 000 37 529 38 965 75 789 55 219 Profit before tax 57 863 12 320 52 916 18 876 87 620 Net profit for the year 57 255 13 428 52 234 18 216 86 716 Financial position Assets under management 1) 834 416 774 059 730 511 682 355 602 266 – of which pension products 794 982 735 430 692 150 645 726 565 903 Technical provisions 478 814 466 273 427 877 427 618 353 930 Collective funding capital 255 779 226 484 228 404 188 275 181 152 Capital base 2) 349 663 302 376 294 553 248 935 246 144 Required solvency margin 2) 20 097 19 231 17 668 17 658 14 648 Key performance indicators Total return for the Group, per cent 3) 6,7 5,2 5,9 13,0 10,2 – of which shares 12,6 7,2 9,0 17,5 25,3 – of which debt securities 1,0 3,1 1,2 9,4 1,6 – of which real estate 12,1 9,2 18,4 12,3 10,9 Total return, defined contribution insurance (Alecta Optimal Pension), per cent 4) 9,1 5,8 7,9 14,9 17,3 Total return, defined benefit insurance, per cent 4) 6,5 5,1 5,8 12,8 9,8 Direct return, Group, per cent 2,4 2,6 2,7 3,5 3,6 Management expense ratio 5) 0,09 0,09 0,10 0,11 0,12 – of which pension products excluding selection centre costs 0,06 0,06 0,06 0,07 0,08 Investment management expense ratio 6) 0,02 0,02 0,03 0,03 0,03 Collective funding ratio, defined benefit insurance, per cent 154 149 153 143 148 Collective funding ratio, defined contribution insurance, per cent 7) 100 100 100 100 100 Solvency ratio, per cent 174 166 171 159 170 1)  Defined as equity, provisions for life insurance and claims outstanding. 2) Refers to the Parent Company. 3) Refers to the Group (defined benefit and defined contribution retirement pensions and risk insurance). Calculated for all years in accordance with the recommendations of Insurance Sweden. 4) Calculated for all years in accordance with the recommendations of Insurance Sweden. 5) Calculated as operating expenses and claims settlement expenses divided by average assets under management. 6) Calculated as operating expenses for investment management divided by average assets under management. 7) Any surplus/deficit is allocated to the insureds on a monthly basis. The collective funding ratio is therefore nearly always 100 per cent. Alecta has conducted a review of which items are deemed to be relevant to report under Financial position and Key performance indicators. These items are presented in the five-year summary above. This means that there are items and KPIs specified in the general recommendations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FFFS 2015:12) that are not presented here and that there are items in the five-year summary which do not appear in the recommendations. As Alecta does not apply Solvency II but the transitional provisions for occupational pension funds, Solvency II-related data is not presented in the five-year summary. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 41 Alternative income statement Group Administration result It can be difficult to obtain an understanding of how the profit The administration result was SEK 31 million (109) and repof a life insurance company was achieved on the basis of the resents the difference between Alecta’s income and operating income statement. The main reason for this is that the changes expenses (excluding investment management expenses, which made to the technical provisions (TP) during the year are recare presented in the financial result). TPs include a proviognised on a net basis in the income statement items Change sion for future operating expenses for the company’s current in the provision for life insurance and Change in the provision insurance portfolio. The provision for operating expenses is for claims outstanding. As these figures are presented on a reversed on an ongoing basis and constitutes, together with net basis, it is not possible to deduce, solely on the basis of the operating expenses charged to premiums written, Alecta’s income statement, the company’s mortality results or its comincome (released operating expenses). bined financial results, which, in addition to capital return, also Other income, which mainly comprises administrative fees include interest rate effects for TPs. from PRI Pensionsgaranti, is presented separately in the alterThe alternative income statement is intended to give readnative income statement. In Note 8 Operating expenses, other ers a better understanding of the factors behind the reported income has instead been deducted from operating expenses. results, and has been prepared by allocating the change in TPs and other items from the income statement among four ADMINISTRATION RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2017 2016 sub-results: administration result, risk result, financial result Income 784 856 and tax result. For each sub-result, income and expenses are of which released operating expenses 732 803 matched. of which other income 52 53 The consolidated profit was SEK 57,3 billion (13,4). Expenses –753 –747 Total administration result 31 109 ALTERNATIVE INCOME STATEMENT (SEK MILLION) 2017 2016 Risk result Administration result 31 109 The risk result was SEK 2,7 billion (0,2) and shows how closely Risk result 2 728 241 Alecta’s assumptions on mortality, morbidity and use of insurFinancial result 54 834 11 855 ance options agree with actual outcomes. Insurance options Tax result –338 1 223 refer to the insured’s potential right to transfer the value of his Net profit for the year 57 255 13 428 or her insurance, decide when payments should begin or end, and discontinue regular premium payments. The annual morbidity result increased sharply in 2017, which was mainly attributable to discontinuation income for disability and waiver of premium insurance. The increase is mainly due to the fact that a larger number of cases of illness, especially cases of illness of long duration, have ended compared with our assumptions and with the previous year. The change is probably a consequence of changes in the regulations of the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. The risk result also includes changes in the assumptions used in calculating technical provisions (TPs). The changes made to the assumptions in 2017 are described in the section Technical provisions in the Administration Report. RISK RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2017 2016 Annual mortality result –48 106 Annual morbidity result 2 204 –373 Insurance options 172 –308 Changes in methods and assumptions used in calculating TPs 853 1 460 Other –453 –644 Total risk result 2 728 241 42 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Administration Report Financial result The financial result was SEK 54,8 billion (11,9). The financial result is largely dependent on the performance of financial markets, and normally accounts for most of the net profit for the year. A favourable investment performance contributed to the financial result for 2017. A longer description of Alecta’s return on capital is given in the Return on capital section of the Administration Report. The financial result is also affected by the cumulative return on TPs, changes to the discount rate, and by actual operating expenses in investment management. Finally, the financial result is affected by the profit arising on the insurance contracts when the interest rate used in discounting the insurance obligation exceeds the contractual premium interest rate. This profit is recognised in the item Other profit sources and is essential to Alecta’s ability to distribute substantial refunds to the insureds and the policy holders over the long term. The increase compared with the previous year is mainly due to the fact that the premium rate for regular premiums was reduced as a result of the tariff changes made in 2017. See the section Technical provisions in the Administration Report. FINANCIAL RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2017 2016 Result, return on capital 52 982 37 511 of which investment management expenses –180 –180 Released operating expenses for investment management 147 147 Cumulative return on TPs –14 250 –13 717 Other profit sources 13 453 8 842 Changes in TPs as a result of changed market interest rates 2 502 –20 928 Total financial result 54 834 11 855 Tax result The tax result was SEK –0,3 billion (1,2). TPs include a provision for future yield tax. The result for yield tax is thus the income which arises on an ongoing basis as provisions for tax are reversed, less the actual cost. Income tax is described in the Tax section of the Administration Report. TAX RESULT (SEK MILLION) 2017 2016 Result, yield tax 270 115 Income tax –608 1 108 Total tax result –338 1 223 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 43 Financial statements Contents Financial statements Group Income Statement 45 Statement of Comprehensive Income 45 Balance Sheet 46 Statement of Changes in Equity 48 Cash Flow Statement 49 Parent Company Income Statement 50 Statement of Comprehensive Income 50 Performance Analysis 51 Balance Sheet 52 Statement of Changes in Equity 54 Cash Flow Statement 55 Note Page Note Page 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles 56 27 Derivatives 80 2 Significant estimates and judgements 59 28 Financial instruments subject to enforceable 3 Risks and risk management 60 master netting agreements 81 4 Premiums written 62 29 Receivables related to direct insurance operations 82 5 Return on capital, income 62 30  Other receivables 82 6 Unrealised gains on investment assets 62 31  Accrued interest and rental income 82 7 Claims paid 62 32  Equity excluding guarantee reserve (Group) 83 8 Operating expenses 63 33 Surplus fund (Parent Company) 85 9 Return on capital, expenses 63 34 Proposed appropriation of profits 86 10 Unrealised losses on investment assets 64 35 Guarantee reserve 86 11 Yield tax 64 36 Provision for life insurance 87 12 Tax 64 37  Provision for claims outstanding 88 13 Intangible assets 66 38 Provision for pensions and similar obligations 88 14 Property, plant and equipment 66 39 Other provisions 89 15 Land and buildings 67 40 Liabilities related to direct insurance operations 89 16 Shares and participations in Group companies 69 41 Other liabilities 89 17 Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies 70 42 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 89 18 Investments in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 71 43 Assets and comparable collateral pledged for own liabilities 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 72 and for obligations reported as provisions 90 20 Net profit by class of financial assets and liabilities 74 44 Other pledged assets and comparable collateral 90 21 Maturity analysis of financial liabilities 74 45 Transfer of financial assets 90 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments 46 Contingent liabilities 90 measured at fair value 75 47 Reconciliation of total return table to financial statements 91 23 Disclosures on financial instruments measured at fair value 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration 91 based on Level 3 77 49 Disclosure of auditors’ fees 95 24 Shares and participations 79 50 Leasing 95 25 Bonds and other debt securities 79 51 Related party disclosures 95 26 Other loans 80 52 Significant events after the balance sheet date 96 44 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Income Statement Group SEK MILLION NOTE 2017 2016 Premiums written 4 38 514 33 557 Invoiced premiums 32 895 29 919 Guaranteed refunds 5 619 3 638 Net return on capital 53 000 37 529 Return on capital, income 5 33 017 35 482 Unrealised gains on investment assets 6 30 156 6 647 Return on capital, expenses 9 –5 735 –2 027 Unrealised losses on investment assets 10 –4 438 –2 573 Claims incurred –20 776 –21 907 Claims paid 7 –20 262 –19 494 Change in provision for claims outstanding –514 –2 413 Change in other technical provisions –12 026 –35 983 Provision for life insurance –12 026 –35 983 Operating expenses 8 –559 –560 Depreciation of owner-occupied properties 15 –19 –18 Yield tax 11 –271 –298 Total operating profit 57 863 12 320 Profit before tax 57 863 12 320 Income tax 12 –608 1 108 NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 57 255 13 428 Statement of Comprehensive Income Group SEK MILLION 2017 2016 Net profit for the year 57 255 13 428 Items that can subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Foreign exchange difference that can subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss –179 1 304 Accumulated foreign exchange differences reclassified to profit or loss –1 179 –1 470 Other comprehensive income –1 358 –166 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 55 897 13 262 Comprehensive income for the year is wholly attributable to the owners of the Parent Company. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 45 Balance Sheet Group SEK MILLION NOTE 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 ASSETS Intangible assets 13 259 285 Property, plant and equipment 14 14 11 Deferred tax 12 5 509 5 097 Investment assets Land and buildings Investment properties 15 28 216 25 447 Owner-occupied properties 15 878 855 Investments in jointly controlled entities Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 18, 19, 22, 23 15 359 6 045 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 18, 19 1 591 3 655 Other financial investment assets Shares and participations 19, 22, 23, 24 375 390 346 171 Bonds and other debt securities 19, 22, 23, 25, 44, 45 399 975 372 328 Other loans 19, 22, 23, 26 2 097 2 284 Derivatives 19, 22, 27, 28 6 221 7 944 829 727 764 729 Receivables Receivables related to direct insurance operations 19, 29 1 747 1 599 Current tax 1) 970 1 559 Other receivables 19, 30 1 738 4 151 4 455 7 309 Cash and bank balances 19, 44 2 731 2 856 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Accrued interest and rental income 19, 31 8 173 7 124 Other prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 61 99 8 234 7 223 Assets held for sale 15 – 5 696 TOTAL ASSETS 850 929 793 206 1) Adjustment compared with the Annual Report 2016 through the reclassification of a foreign tax asset of SEK 831 million from Other receivables to Current tax. 46 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Balance Sheet, cont. Group SEK MILLION NOTE 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY Translation reserve 32 129 1 487 Discretionary participation features reserve 32 89 388 70 855 Special indexation funds 32 10 298 10 445 Guarantee reserve 35 – – Retained earnings including net profit for the year 32 255 787 224 999 Total equity 355 602 307 786 LIABILITIES Provision for life insurance 36 461 572 449 546 Claims outstanding 37 17 242 16 727 Pensions and similar commitments 38 4 9 Other provisions 39 29 22 Current tax 35 29 Deferred tax 12 1 377 2 601 Liabilities related to direct insurance operations 19, 40 706 683 Derivatives 19, 22, 27, 27 8 302 8 552 Other liabilities 19, 41 1 903 4 475 Other accrued expenses and deferred income 19, 42 4 157 2 776 Total liabilities 495 327 485 420 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 850 929 793 206 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 47 Statement of Changes in Equity Group Discretionary Retained earnings participation Special including Translation features indexation Guarantee net profit for SEK MILLION reserve 1) reserve 1, 2) funds 1) reserve 3) the year 1) Total OPENING EQUITY AT 1 JANUARY 2016 1 653 60 943 10 559 1 867 227 612 302 634 Net profit for the year 13 428 Other comprehensive income –166 Total comprehensive income for the year –166 13 428 13 262 Allocated refunds 14 957 –14 957 – Guaranteed refunds –5 946 –5 946 Collective risk premium 4) –109 –109 Return on guarantee reserve in previous year 5) 107 –107 – Return on guarantee reserve in current year 5) 95 –95 – Transfer of guarantee reserve to foundation 3) –1 955 –1 955 Other changes 901 –5 –114 –882 –100 Closing equity at 31 December 2016 1 487 70 855 10 445 – 224 999 307 786 OPENING EQUITY AT 1 JANUARY 2017 1 487 70 855 10 445 – 224 999 307 786 Net profit for the year 57 255 Other comprehensive income –1 358 Total comprehensive income for the year –1 358 57 255 55 897 Allocated refunds 26 268 –26 268 – Guaranteed refunds –7 671 –220 –7 891 Collective risk premium 4) –112 –112 Other changes –64 –35 21 –78 Closing equity at 31 December 2017 129 89 388 10 298 – 255 787 355 602 1)  See Note 32. 2) Discretionary participation features refer to allocated refunds. See Note 32. 3) Reserve for financing the collective agreement guarantee and for use as information funds. The guarantee reserve was eliminated on 12 December 2016, at which date all funds were transferred to an independent foundation with the same purpose as the guarantee reserve. See Note 35. 4) Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. 5) Until the financial year 2015 returns were transferred between the surplus fund and guarantee reserve in the following year subject to a decision by the Council of Administration. The return for 2016 was credited to the guarantee reserve in connection with its elimination on 12 December 2016. See Note 35. 48 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Cash Flow Statement Group SEK MILLION 2017 2016 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit for the year before tax and appropriations 57 863 12 320 Interest received 4 994 8 581 Interest paid 1 156 –1 576 Dividends received 12 180 10 354 Adjustment for non cash-items 1) 2) –44 898 –1 076 Tax paid 2) –1 917 –4 309 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities 29 378 24 294 Change in investment assets –26 498 –18 943 Change in other operating assets 2) 2 292 –2 913 Change in other operating liabilities –2 864 1 584 Cash flow from operating activities 2 308 4 022 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in property, plant and equipment –8 –3 Cash flow from investing activities –8 –3 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Pension supplements/Supplementary amounts –2 273 –2 308 Payment from guarantee reserve – –2 069 Payment of indexation funds –112 –110 Cash flow from financing activities –2 385 –4 487 Cash flow for the year –85 –468 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2 856 3 302 Exchange rate differences in cash and cash equivalents –40 22 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR 2 731 2 856 1) Depreciation/Amortisation/Impairment, Notes 13, 14, 15 51 69 Yield tax, Note 11 271 298 Foreign exchange gains, Note 5 – –4 245 Foreign exchange loss, Note 9 4 685 – Capital gains, Note 5 –13 088 –10 283 Capital losses, Note 9 – – Unrealised gains, Note 6 –30 156 –6 647 Unrealised losses, Note 10 4 438 2 573 Interest income, Note 5 –6 043 –8 018 Interest expenses, Note 9 291 808 Dividends, Note 5 –12 170 –10 354 Adjustment of paid-up values, Note 4 –1 487 –3 Premium reductions, Note 4 –4 131 –3 635 Change in provision for life insurance, Note 36 12 026 35 983 Change in provision for claims outstanding, Note 37 514 2 413 Other 2) –99 –35 –44 898 –1 076 2) Adjustments compared with the Annual Report 2016 through reclassifications in operating activities. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 49 Income Statement Parent Company SEK MILLION NOTE 2017 2016 TECHNICAL ACCOUNT, LIFE INSURANCE BUSINESS Premiums written 4 38 514 33 557 Invoiced premiums 32 895 29 919 Guaranteed refunds 5 619 3 638 Return on capital, income 5 34 629 39 891 Unrealised gains on investment assets 6 30 744 6 608 Claims incurred –20 777 –21 907 Claims paid 7 –20 262 –19 494 Change in provision for claims outstanding –515 –2 413 Change in other technical provisions –12 026 –35 983 Provision for life insurance –12 026 –35 983 Operating expenses 8 –559 –560 Return on capital, expenses 9 –11 171 –6 057 Unrealised losses on investment assets 10 –3 385 –729 Life insurance, balance on the technical account 55 969 14 820 NON-TECHNICAL ACCOUNT Life insurance, balance on the technical account 55 969 14 820 Profit before appropriations and tax 55 969 14 820 Appropriations – – Profit before tax 55 969 14 820 Tax on profit for the year 12 –628 1 088 NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 55 341 15 908 Statement of Comprehensive Income Parent Company SEK MILLION 2017 2016 Net profit for the year 55 341 15 908 Other comprehensive income – – COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 55 341 15 908 50 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Performance Analysis Parent Company 2017 DIRECT INSURANCE OF SWEDISH RISKS Other life Occupational pension insurance insurance Occupational Defined disability Group life and Defined contribution insurance and occupational benefit traditional waiver of premium group life SEK MILLION Total insurance insurance insurance insurance Premiums written 38 514 19 113 12 971 6 227 203 Return on capital, income 34 629 28 329 4 649 1 624 27 Unrealised gains on investment assets 30 744 25 151 4 127 1 442 24 Claims incurred –20 777 –15 962 –646 –4 042 –127 Claims paid –20 262 –15 961 –646 –3 507 –148 Change in provision for claims outstanding –515 –1 – –535 21 Change in other technical provisions –12 026 –5 234 –6 792 – 0 Provision for life insurance –12 026 –5 234 –6 792 – 0 Operating expenses –559 –320 –60 –166 –13 Return on capital, expenses –11 171 –9 143 –1 495 –524 –9 Unrealised losses on investment assets –3 385 –2 769 –454 –159 –3 Life insurance, balance on the technical account 55 969 39 165 12 300 4 402 102 Technical provisions Provision for life insurance 461 572 423 288 38 284 – – Claims outstanding 17 242 20 – 17 176 46 Total technical provisions 478 814 423 308 38 284 17 176 46 Surplus fund 294 580 236 759 41 451 15 953 417 Total operating expenses, excluding property management expenses Operating expenses (administrative expenses in the insurance business) –559 –320 –60 –166 –13 Claims management expenses (included in Claims paid) –143 –82 –19 –40 –2 Investment management expenses (included in Return on capital, expenses) –169 –143 –18 –8 0 Total operating expenses, excluding property management expenses –871 –545 –97 –214 –15 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 51 Balance Sheet Parent Company SEK MILLION NOTE 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 ASSETS Intangible assets Intangible assets 13 259 285 259 285 Investment assets Land and buildings 15 11 282 10 741 Investments in Group companies and jointly controlled entities Shares and participations in Group companies 16 3 909 6 819 Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies 17, 19 9 272 10 380 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 18, 19, 22, 23 13 900 4 825 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 18, 19 1 591 3 366 Other financial investment assets Shares and participations 19, 22, 23, 24 374 944 345 710 Bonds and other debt securities 19, 22, 23, 25, 44, 45 399 975 372 328 Other loans 19, 22, 23, 26 2 097 2 284 Derivatives 19, 22, 27, 28 6 221 7 944 823 191 764 397 Receivables Receivables related to direct insurance operations 19, 29 1 747 1 599 Other receivables 19, 30 8 959 10 030 10 706 11 629 Other assets Tangible assets 14 9 6 Cash and bank balances 19, 44 2 644 2 444 2 653 2 450 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Accrued interest and rental income 19, 31 8 173 7 124 Other prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 36 20 8 209 7 144 TOTAL ASSETS 845 018 785 905 52 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Balance Sheet, cont. Parent Company SEK MILLION NOTE 2017-12-31 2016-12-31 EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Equity Surplus fund 33 294 580 286 753 Guarantee reserve 35 – – Net profit for the year 55 341 15 908 349 921 302 661 Technical provisions Provision for life insurance 36 461 572 449 546 Claims outstanding 37 17 242 16 727 478 814 466 273 Other provisions Pensions and similar commitments 38 4 8 Taxes 35 28 Other provisions 39 23 22 62 58 Liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations 19, 40 706 683 Derivatives 19, 22, 27, 28 8 302 8 552 Other liabilities 19, 41 3 311 5 193 12 319 14 428 Accrued expenses and deferred income Other accrued expenses and deferred income 19, 42 3 902 2 485 3 902 2 485 TOTAL EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES 845 018 785 905 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 53 Statement of Changes in Equity Parent Company SURPLUS FUND 1) Discretionary participation Collective features Other Guarantee Net profit SEK MILLION funding reserve 2) reserves reserve 3) for the year Total Opening equity at 1 January 2016 170 419 60 943 10 560 1 867 51 074 294 863 Net profit for the year 15 908 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year 15 908 15 908 Appropriation of profits from previous years 51 074 –51 074 – Allocated refunds –14 957 14 957 – Guaranteed refunds –5 946 –5 946 Collective risk premium 4) –109 –109 Return on guarantee reserve in previous year 5) –107 107 – Return on guarantee reserve in current year 5) –95 95 – Transfer of guarantee reserve to foundation 3) –1 955 –1955 Other changes –882 901 –5 –114 –100 Closing equity at 31 December 2016 205 452 70 855 10 446 – 15 908 302 661 Opening equity at 1 January 2017 205 452 70 855 10 446 – 15 908 302 661 Net profit for the year 55 341 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income for the year 55 341 55 341 Appropriation of profits from previous years 15 908 –15 908 – Allocated refunds –26 268 26 268 – Guaranteed refunds –220 –7 671 –7 891 Collective risk premium 4) –112 –112 Other changes 20 –63 –35 –78 Closing equity at 31 December 2017 194 892 89 389 10 299 – 55 341 349 921 1) See Note 33. 2) Discretionary participation features refer to allocated refunds. See Note 33. 3) Reserve for financing the collective agreement guarantee and for use as information funds. The guarantee reserve was eliminated on 12 December 2016, at which date all funds were transferred to an independent foundation with the same purpose as the guarantee reserve. See Note 35. 4) Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. 5) Until the financial year 2015 returns were transferred between the surplus fund and guarantee reserve in the following year subject to a decision by the Council of Administration. The return for 2016 was credited to the guarantee reserve in connection with its elimination on 12 December 2016. See Note 35. 54 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Cash Flow Statement Parent Company SEK MILLION 2017 2016 Operating activities Profit for the year before tax and appropriations 55 969 14 820 Interest received 5 123 8 705 Interest paid 1 156 –1 576 Dividends received 17 877 20 864 Adjustment for non cash-items 1) 2) –43 647 –4 532 Tax paid 2) –1 893 –4 302 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in assets and liabilities 34 585 33 979 Change in investment assets –32 026 –27 445 Change in other operating assets 2) 2 171 –3 830 Change in other operating liabilities –2 139 1 224 Cash flow from operating activities 2 591 3 928 Investing activities Investments in property, plant and equipment –6 –2 Cash flow from investing activities –6 –2 Financing activities Pension supplements/Supplementary amounts –2 273 –2 308 Payment from guarantee reserve – –2 069 Payment of indexation funds –112 –110 Cash flow from financing activities –2 385 –4 487 Cash flow for the year 200 –561 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2 444 3 005 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2 644 2 444 1) Depreciation/Amortisation/Impairment, Notes 13, 14 29 28 Foreign exchange gains, Note 5 – –2 776 Foreign exchange loss, Note 9 5 863 – Capital gains, Note 5 –9 872 –7 191 Capital losses, Note 9 – – Unrealised gains, Note 6 –30 744 –6 608 Unrealised losses, Note 10 3 385 729 Impairment of shares in Group companies, Note 9 4 599 4 737 Interest income, Note 5 –6 172 –8 142 Interest expenses, Note 9 291 808 Dividends, Note 5 –17 947 –20 878 Adjustment of paid-up values, Note 4 –1 487 –3 Premium reductions, Note 4 –4 131 –3 635 Change in provision for life insurance, Note 36 12 026 35 983 Change in provision for claims outstanding, Note 37 514 2 413 Other 2) –1 3 –43 647 –4 532 2) Adjustments compared with the Annual Report 2016 through reclassifications in operating activities. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 55 Notes NOTE 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles These annual financial statements for Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, tion of assets and assumption of liabilities of entities. Under this method, an Corporate Identity Number 502014-6865, with registered office in Stockholm, acquisition of participations in an entity is regarded as a transaction in which cover the financial year 2017. The company’s postal address is SE-103 73 the Group indirectly acquires the subsidiary’s assets and contingent assets Stockholm. The visiting address of the head office is Regeringsgatan 107. and assumes its liabilities and contingent liabilities. The consolidated cost is The annual report was approved for publication by the Board of Directors determined through a purchase price allocation (PPA) in conjunction with the on 15 March 2018 and will be presented to the Council of Administration for acquisition. In the PPA the cost of the participations or assets and liabilities and adoption on 18 April 2018. the fair value of acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities and continAmounts indicated in the notes refer to millions of Swedish kronor gent liabilities are determined. (SEK million) unless otherwise indicated. Figures in parentheses refer to When an entity is acquired an assessment is made of whether the acquisition the previous year. should be classified as a business or an asset. If a property is acquired through the acquisition of a company, the acquisition is treated as if the property had Presentation been purchased directly. This type of company normally has no employees General accounting principles and new accounting rules are described in Note and no organisation, or any operations other than those directly linked to the 1 below. Other accounting principles are described in the relevant Note in holding of the property. The cost comprises the fair value of the assets and order to enhance the reader’s understanding of each area of accounting. any associated loans. Deferred tax is not recognised as a liability on the surplus value attributable to the acquisition. Any deductions related to deferred tax Basis of preparation of financial statements received in addition to reported tax in the acquired entity are recognised as a Laws and regulations applying to the Group reduction of the fair value of the acquired property, both on acquisition and in The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the subsequent financial statements. the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRIC interpretaIf the acquired assets and assumed liabilities belong to an entity which also tions, as adopted by the EU. In preparing the financial statements, the Swedish engaged in business activities through employees, Alecta will define the acquiInsurance Companies Annual Accounts Act, the Regulations and General sition as a business combination. Business combinations are accounted for in Guidelines on the Annual Accounts of Insurance Companies (FFFS 2015:12) of accordance with IFRS 3, which means, for example, that acquisition costs are the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and Recommendation RFR 1 Supexpensed directly and that deferred tax is recognised as the difference between plementary Accounting Rules for Corporate Groups of the Swedish Financial the market value of the acquired assets and their tax residual value. Reporting Board have also been applied. For each acquisition, Alecta determines whether the acquisition should be classified as a business or an asset. As at 31 December 2017, all of Alecta’s Consolidated financial statements acquisitions have been classified as asset acquisitions. The consolidated financial statements comprise the Parent Company, Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, and those subsidiaries in which the Parent Translation of foreign currency Company directly or indirectly owns more than half of the voting rights for all The Parent Company’s functional currency is the Swedish krona and the shares and participations or otherwise has control. Control means that Alecta financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor. has the ability to govern the company, is exposed to or has the right to returns The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the closing rates that may vary and is able to govern those activities of the company which affect at the balance sheet date while income statements of foreign subsidiaries are the returns. Disclosures on shares and participations in Group companies are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. Translation differences provided in Note 16. Profits or losses from the operations of subsidiaries that arising on translation are recognised in Other comprehensive income and are were acquired or sold during the year are included in the consolidated financial transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. statements from the acquisition date until the date when the Parent Company Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency have been translated ceases to have control. All intercompany transactions, balance sheet items, into Swedish kronor at the closing rates at the balance sheet date. Realised income and expenses are fully eliminated on consolidation. Untaxed reserves and unrealised changes in value resulting from changes in exchange rates are in legal entities are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements and recognised on a net basis in the income statement in Return on capital, income allocated to equity and deferred tax. or Return on capital, expenses. Basis of measurement Insurance contracts The basis of measurement applied in preparing the consolidated financial As an insurer, Alecta provides a range of insurance products. Alecta distinstatements is historical cost, except for derivatives, and assets and liabilities guishes between pension products and disability and life insurance products. classified to the category financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value Disability and life insurance products comprise risk insurance policies, for which through profit or loss. The breakdown by category is described in Note 19. the premium is determined for periods of one year at a time. These insurance Technical provisions are calculated at present value and these calculations policies do not include a savings component. For pension products, the penare based on prudent actuarial assumptions on interest rates, mortality, morsion entitlement is earned during the premium payment period. For accounting bidity, operating expenses and other variables. and actuarial purposes, all of Alecta’s products are classified as insurance The preparation of financial statements in compliance with IFRS requires contracts. The defining feature of an insurance contract is the existence of a the use of critical accounting estimates. Management is also required to make significant insurance risk of some kind. certain judgements in applying the Group’s accounting principles. Areas which involve a high degree of judgement, are complex or where assumptions and Allocation of surplus and deficit funds estimates have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements are As regards Alecta Optimal Pension, which is a defined contribution product, described in Note 2. surpluses and deficits are allocated to the insureds on a monthly basis. An allocated surplus is disbursed in the form of a supplement to the guaranteed Asset acquisitions and business combinations pension (“supplementary amount”). The surplus is not guaranteed but is part In preparing the financial statements, the purchase method has been applied of Alecta’s risk capital. The size of the surplus or deficit depends on changes for the acquisition of participations in entities as well as for the direct acquisiin the pension capital, which in turn reflects actual outcomes for returns, tax, 56 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles, cont. mortality and operating expenses in the relevant defined contribution insurImpairment (Recognition of expected credit losses) ance collective. The Company allocates surpluses and deficits by calculating Under IFRS 9, provisions for credit losses should be recognised for loans and the refund rate on a monthly basis in arrears, which means that the collective receivables which are measured at amortised cost or fair value through other funding ratio normally remains close to 100 per cent. The surplus is recognised comprehensive income. The provisions should be based on expected future in equity in the balance sheet. credit losses and probability-weighted outcomes. Under the model, twelveA surplus or deficit arising in other products is transferred to Alecta’s surplus month expected credit losses should be recognised on the initial recognition fund. The primary function of the surplus fund is to safeguard Alecta’s ability of the instrument (Stage 1). If the credit risk of the instrument increases to meet its insurance commitments. Secondarily, it is used for distribution significantly, the instrument is moved to Stage 2, where the provision must of surpluses to policy holders and insureds. A surplus that is distributed to cover the credit losses which are expected to be incurred during the remaining policy holders and the insureds can take the form of a pension supplement for term of the instrument. pensions in payment, an increase in earned pension entitlements, a reduction Alecta’s assessment in respect of the impairment part of the standard, of insurance premiums, cash payments and allocations to policy holders in the which covers Alecta’s shareholder loans and rent receivables, is that it will not form of client company funds. Pension supplements, premium reductions and have a material impact on Alecta’s financial statements. The shareholder loans client company funds become guaranteed in conjunction with disbursement, account for a small portion of Alecta’s financial instruments, and historically deposit and use, respectively, and in connection therewith capital is transferred no credit losses have been incurred. With regard to rent receivables, too, the from the surplus fund. An increase in earned pension entitlements becomes transition to IFRS 9 and the introduction of a model for expected rental losses guaranteed in conjunction with its allocation to the insurance policies and will have no material impact on Alecta’s financial statements compared with the results in a technical provision. model for provisions for rental losses that is applied today. Changes in accounting principles Hedge accounting New and revised accounting standards for the financial year 2017: As Alecta does not apply hedge accounting, this part of the standard will not No new IFRS standards applicable from 1 January 2017 have become effective. have any impact on the financial statements. Changes in existing IFRS standards have not had any significant impact on Alecta’s financial statements. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective for financial New and amended standards or interpretations for financial years years beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and replaces all previously issued beginning in 2018 or later: standards and interpretations on revenue. IFRS 15 is an integrated model Only those standards that are expected to have an impact on Alecta are for recognition of revenue from customer contracts that is not covered by described. other standards such as IAS 17 Leases, IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The basis for the standard is a contract between two IFRS 9 Financial Instruments parties for the sale of a good or service. The first step is to identify a contract The Financial Instruments standard includes new bases for the classification with a customer, which creates an asset (rights, a promise of payment) and a and measurement of financial instruments, a forward-looking impairment liability (obligation, a promise to transfer goods/services) for the seller. Under model and simplified criteria for hedge accounting. IFRS 9 is effective from the model, revenue should be recognised when an obligation to deliver goods 1 January 2018. However, under a temporary exemption, companies whose or services to the customer is satisfied. The EU has approved the standard. activities are predominantly connected with insurance are permitted to delay Alecta has carried out an analysis of the effects of IFRS 15, and the assessthe introduction of IFRS 9 until 1 January 2012 for the purpose of coordinating ment is that the standard will have a certain impact on revenue from Alecta’s the application of the standard with the new accounting standard for insurance wholly owned properties and real estate companies. Based on the analysis of contracts, IFRS 17, which is expected to become effective on this date. Alecta revenue streams from the properties, the assessment is that the passing-on believes it qualifies for the temporary exemption and intends to delay the of costs for tenant improvements and the sale of properties and/or compatransition to IFRS 9 until 1 January 2021. nies are covered by IFRS 15. The passing-on of operating costs is considered to be subordinated to the lease and is covered by IAS 17. As regards the sale Classification and measurement of properties/companies, revenue should, under IFRS 15, be realised on the Under IFRS 9, all recognised financial assets covered by IAS 39 Financial Instrucompletion date, when the buyer obtains control over the property/company, ments should be measured at either amortised cost or fair value through other which is consistent with the principle applied by Alecta. The analysis of tenant comprehensive income or at fair value through profit or loss. The classification improvements that were completed in 2017 shows that the effects of the into the three categories should be based on the company’s business model transition to IFRS 15 will have no material impact on the financial statements in for the various holdings and the characteristics of the cash flows generated by either the Parent Company or the Group. the assets. Alecta’s assessment is that the new standard will not result in any change in IFRS 16 Leases the classification and measurement of its financial assets and liabilities. All finanIn January 2016, the IASB published the new accounting standard for leases, cial instruments with the exception of a small item consisting of shareholder IFRS 16. For the lessee, the standard will mean that essentially all leases should loans are currently measured in the fair value through profit or loss category. be recognised in the balance sheet. The exceptions are leases with a term of The shareholder loans are measured at amortised cost and account for a small twelve months or less and low-value leases. For lessors, the accounting treatportion of Alecta’s investment assets. Alecta’s assessment is that the introducment remains essentially unchanged. The effective date is 1 January 2019 and tion of IFRS 9 will not affect the classification and measurement of the Group’s early application is permitted. financial assets or liabilities. The standard is expected to have a certain impact on Alecta’s financial statements. It is primarily leases for computer and office equipment, cars and office premises that may be covered by the standard. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 57 NOTE 1 Group and Parent Company accounting principles, cont. IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (Not adopted by the EU) amortised cost. The measurement of financial assets traded in an active market On 18 May 2017, the accounting standard for insurance contracts was pubis based on observable market data. The fair values of financial assets that are lished. The standard affects all companies with insurance contracts that report not traded in an active market are determined with the help of established in accordance with IFRS. The standard will become effective on 1 January 2021 valuation techniques. Note 22 provides fair value disclosures for each class of if it is approved by the EU. financial instrument in a table format, based on a hierarchy with three levels of On 20 November 2017, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority anfair value. nounced at a meeting with representatives of the Swedish insurance industry that IFRS 17 will not be introduced for legal entities, as it conflicts with other Cash and cash equivalents legislation. The FSA is also considering removing the requirement for full IFRS Cash and cash equivalents constitute a financial asset and are classified in the in the Group for unlisted insurance companies. What will come instead is not loans and receivables category. Cash and cash equivalents are termed cash and yet clear. bank balances in the Group as well as the Parent Company. Return on capital Technical provisions Return on capital includes net operating income from investment properties, Technical provisions comprise the capital value of the Company’s guaranteed interest income, interest expenses, dividends on shares and participations, commitments for insurance contracts in force and consist of the provision foreign exchange gains and losses, capital gains and losses, and unrealised for life insurance and the provision for claims outstanding. These provisions changes in value on investment assets less operating expenses for investment are calculated according to generally accepted actuarial principles. This means management. Capital gains and losses are recognised on a net basis for each that the provisions are measured at present value and that the calculations are asset class in Return on capital, income and Return on capital, expenses, based on prudent actuarial assumptions on interest rates, mortality, morbidity, respectively. Unrealised gains and losses are also recognised on a net basis operating expenses and other variables. Technical provisions also include penfor each asset class. Unrealised gains and losses comprise the change for the sion commitments to Alecta’s employees in accordance with the FTP plan. year in the difference between cost and fair value. When an asset is sold the accumulated unrealised changes in value are reversed as unrealised gain or Pensions in the Alecta Group loss. Changes in value for the year, both realised and unrealised, are recognised All pension plans in the Group are accounted for as defined contribution plans. through profit or loss in the period in which they arise. Return on capital is This means that contributions are recognised as an expense in the period in presented in Notes 5, 6, 9 and 10. which the benefits are earned, which in most cases is the same as when the contribution is paid. Investment assets General information Cash flows Investment assets consist of the balance sheet items Land and buildings, InvestCash flows are recognised according to the indirect method. Alecta recogments in Group companies and jointly controlled entities, and Other financial nises cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing investment assets. activities by applying the necessary adjustments for the insurance business. As cash flows in the insurance business are mostly invested, investment assets Reporting of business events are accounted for as an integral part of operating activities. Bank balances are Financial assets at fair value are recognised at fair value after the acquisition recognised as cash and cash equivalents, i.e., the same as the Cash and bank date. The cost of investment assets excludes transaction costs related to balances item in the balance sheet. Short-term investments are not included financial instruments. Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised in cash and cash equivalents but are recognised as investment assets. Interest in the balance sheet on the transaction date. Transactions which have not received or paid and dividends received are recognised as cash flow from been settled at the balance sheet date are recognised as a receivable from or operating activities. liability to the counterparty in Other receivables or Other liabilities. Purchases and sales of land and buildings are recognised in the balance sheet on the Laws and regulations applying to the Parent Company completion date. The Parent Company applies IFRS with certain limitations contained in Swedish statutes, which means that international financial reporting standards are Transaction costs applied to the extent possible under Swedish accounting legislation. The Parent Transaction costs which are directly attributable to purchases and sales of Company’s financial reporting follows the Swedish Insurance Companies financial investment assets are recognised through profit or loss and included Annual Accounts Act, the Regulations and General Guidelines on the Annual in net capital gain or loss in the items Return on capital, income or Return on Accounts of Insurance Companies (FFFS 2015:12) of the Swedish Financial capital, expenses. Transaction costs attributable to purchases and sales of land Supervisory Authority and Recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for Legal and buildings and assets measured at amortised cost are accounted for as an Entities of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. In the Parent Company, the increase in cost or a decrease in capital gain or loss, respectively. mandatory formats for income statements and balance sheets provided for in For acquisitions of companies classified as a business combination, the the Swedish Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act are applied whereas transaction costs are recognised through profit or loss and included in the item IAS/IFRS formats are used in the consolidated financial statements. Return on capital, expenses. As the Group complies with IAS/IFRS standards, as adopted by the EU, the accounting treatment for certain income statement and balance sheet items Other financial investment assets in the Parent Company differs from the accounting treatment applied in the Alecta identifies and classifies its financial investment assets as financial assets Group. The most significant differences are described below. at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition. Derivatives are also accounted for in the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category, Land and buildings as they are considered, by definition, to be held for trade. This classification is In the Parent Company, investment properties and owner-occupied properbased on the fact that Alecta manages and measures all investment assets at ties are recognised at fair value. In the Group, owner-occupied properties are fair value. One exception is a small loan portfolio, which has been recognised at recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation. 58 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Group and Parent Company Significant estimates NOTE 1 accounting principles, cont. NOTE 2 and judgements The preparation of financial statements and application of different accounting standards are often based on estimates and judgements made by management Shares and participations in Group companies and the Board of Directors. These estimates and judgements are in most cases Shares and participations in Group companies are recognised at cost in the based on historical experience but may also be based on other factors, inParent Company but are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. cluding expectations of future events. Management evaluates these estimates and judgements on a continuous basis. Actual outcomes may differ from the Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies estimates and judgements applied. Intercompany loans and receivables are recognised at cost in the Parent ComThose estimates and judgements which Alecta deems to have the biggest pany but are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. impact on earnings and/or on assets and liabilities are presented below or in the notes indicated in the table. Surplus fund Life insurance companies which do not have the right to distribute profits are Technical provisions required to maintain a surplus fund to which funds are allocated that can be The calculation of technical provisions requires qualified judgements as well as used to cover losses. The surplus fund is part of equity in the Parent Company assumptions on mortality, morbidity, interest rates, expenses, tax and other and consists of collective funding, the discretionary participation features variables. The valuation of technical provisions is described in the accounting reserve and other reserves. This differs from the composition of equity in the principles in Notes 36 and 37. The sensitivity of the assumptions used as a basis Group. for the valuation of technical provisions is described in Note 3. For information on current assumptions, see Note 36 and Note 37. Appropriations, untaxed reserves, Group contributions Swedish tax legislation allows companies to reduce their taxable income for the Financial instruments year by transferring funds to untaxed reserves in the balance sheet through the The measurement of financial instruments at fair value is based primarily income statement item Appropriations. on quoted prices in active markets. For holdings for which quoted prices in Due to the relationship between accounting and taxation, the deferred tax an active market are not available, valuation techniques are used. These are liability attributable to untaxed reserves is not accounted for separately in the described in Note 22. The measurement of financial instruments is described Parent Company. in the accounting principles in the relevant note. A sensitivity analysis is shown The Parent Company recognises Group contributions received from and in Note 3. provided to subsidiaries as appropriations. Significant estimates and judgements Note Yield tax Technical provisions 36, 37 Significant estimates and judgements In the Parent Company income statement, yield tax is recognised together with Financial instruments 22 Significant estimates and judgements income tax in the Tax item. In the consolidated financial statements, yield tax is Investment and owner-occupied included in operating profit. Investment properties 15 properties Intangible assets 13 Intangible assets Business combinations Income tax 12 Income tax On the acquisition of a real estate company, all acquisition costs are accountDeferred tax 12 Income tax ed for as an increase in the cost of shares and participations in the Parent Company. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 59 NOTE 3 Risks and risk management A general description of Alecta’s risk management and risk organisation is Operating expenses risk provided on page 40 of the Administration Report. In this note Alecta’s various The operating expenses risk consists in the possibility that Alecta’s operating risk categories are described in greater detail. expenses will be higher than was assumed at the time of calculating the premiums and benefits. Alecta monitors operating expenses on an ongoing basis to Risk of loss ensure that they do not exceed the levels assumed in the calculations. This risk category refers to the risk of consequences in the form of loss of reputation or financial loss, for example. Such consequences may result from Interest rate risk a failure to manage risks in the risk categories described below. Interest rate risk arises from the assumptions on future returns used as a basis for calculating premiums and benefits. Technical provisions are valued mainly Insurance risks on the basis of the yield curve defined in the regulations of the Swedish FinanInsurance risks are risks associated with Alecta’s insurance products and cial Supervisory Authority. In the annual report the yield curve is expressed as insurance portfolio, and relate to factors such as pricing, the calculation of a cash flow-weighted average interest rate. The impact of the interest rate on technical provisions, and the calculation and allocation of surplus funds. These Alecta’s results and solvency ratio is described in the sensitivity analysis on page calculations are based on actuarial assumptions, primarily assumptions on 61. A further description of the management of the total interest rate risk for mortality, morbidity, operating expenses and interest rates, each of which assets and liabilities is provided under Matching risk on the next page. constitutes a risk. To determine the reliability of the actuarial assumptions used, Alecta’s Financial risks reported earnings are analysed from an actuarial perspective each year. This Financial risks exist in the investment activities and comprise market, credit is done by comparing actual outcomes for mortality, morbidity, operating exand liquidity risks, matching risk and solvency risk. The goal for the investment penses and return on capital with the assumptions used. The assumptions are activities is to generate a sustainable positive inflation-adjusted return, i.e., a revised when the analysis shows this to be necessary. Changes to assumptions return which consistently exceeds both inflation and the growth of Alecta’s incan lead to a change in technical provisions and/or the determination of premisurance commitments. In 2017, the independent control function Risk assessed ums. As Alecta’s insurance collectives are large and diversified, concentration the value of Alecta’s investment assets. Some aspects of risk management in risks are negligible. Alecta’s investment management activities were also reviewed. In 2017, the independent control function Risk conducted a review of Alecta’s insurance risks, which included a review of Alecta’s actuarial assumptions and Market risk calculations. Market risk is the risk that the value of Alecta’s investments will be negatively affected by changes in interest rates, exchange rates or the prices of shares, Mortality risk bonds or real estate. To limit market risk and avoid concentrations in the portMortality risk is the risk that the average life expectancy of the insureds will folio, Alecta spreads its investments across different asset classes and markets. differ from what has been assumed. The risk varies depending on whether the Asset allocation Exposure Share of portfolio insurance offers a death benefit or life benefit. In a death benefit insurance Asset class 2017 2016 2017 2016 policy the insurance amount is paid out when the insured dies. Alecta’s family Shares 345 250 332 862 41,6 % 43,2 % pension, family cover and TGL (occupational group life insurance) products Debt securities 419 809 383 172 50,6 % 49,7 % are death benefit policies. In a life benefit insurance policy the insurance Real estate 64 733 54 409 7,8 % 7,1 % amount is paid out when the insured reaches the age specified in the contract. Retirement pension is a life benefit insurance policy. Retirement pension with Total 829 792 770 444 100,0 % 100,0 % repayment cover is an example of a combined death benefit and life benefit insurance policy. The table shows Alecta’s asset allocation based on the classification in the total A reduction in mortality means that the insureds live longer than the return table, see page 32. A detailed breakdown by asset class is presented in Company had assumed. A life benefit insurance policy is negatively affected by the diagrams on page 34. reduced mortality, as the costs for the policy increase because the pensions To ensure that Alecta is able to meet its solvency requirements by a comhave to be paid out over a longer period than originally assumed. The opposite fortable margin even in adverse market conditions, the investment policy esapplies to death benefit insurance. tablishes limits for risk levels. Various derivatives, such as interest rate futures, Under the mortality assumptions used, a man or a woman born in the 1950s equity futures, forward exchange contracts and interest rate and currency is expected to live for a further 22,2 (22,2) and 23,9 (23,9) years, respectively, swaps, are used to reduce the risks in the event of major price fluctuations, after their 65th birthday. The increase in life expectancy for individuals born and to increase the cost-effectiveness of Alecta’s asset management activities. thereafter is assumed to be approximately 0,8 (0,8) years for each birth decade. Alecta also hedges its entire holdings of foreign bonds and real estate and a A 20 per cent decrease in assumed mortality means that the life expectancy portion of its holding of foreign shares. Alecta’s total currency exposure after of people aged 65 today will increase by 1,6 (1,6) years and that Alecta’s life hedging was equal to 12,4 per cent (12,1) of total investments at year-end. insurance provision will increase by approximately 5 (5) per cent. Without currency hedging, 42,1 per cent (43,8) of Alecta’s assets would have been exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. Morbidity risk Currency exposure after Share of investment Morbidity risk is the risk that the insured will remain ill for a longer period or at hedging portfolio Exposure a higher level of compensation than originally assumed. Alecta’s morbidity risk 2017 2016 2017 2016 is included in its disability and waiver of premium insurance products. When an DKK 1,6 % 0% 13 360 0 insured falls ill, a technical provision is made based on specific assumptions on EUR 0,0 % 0,2 % 83 1 640 the future degree of incapacity to work and the duration of the illness. CHF 0,4 % 0,4 % 3 402 3 317 If the probability of recovery decreases by 20 per cent at each future date GBP 0,7 % 0,5 % 5 560 3 548 while the level of working capacity decreases by 20 per cent, the technical USD 9,2 % 9,2% 75 926 71 033 provisions for disability pension and waiver of premium will increase by approximately 21 (21) per cent. Other currencies 0,5 % 1,8 % 4 481 13 505 Net exposure 12,4 % 12,1 % 102 811 93 043 60 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 3 Risks and risk management, cont. Credit risk targets and financial position. Decisions are reported on an ongoing basis in Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to the insolvency of an issuer or the Board’s Finance Committee. counterparty. Alecta analyses the credit risks associated with different types of investment and establishes credit limits for issuers and counterparties. Solvency risk Limits have also been established for single exposures, i.e., limits for Alecta’s Solvency risk is the risk that Alecta will be considered to have insufficient risk total shares and debt securities exposure to the same corporate group. Risk & capital to ensure that it is able to meet its guaranteed commitments. The Performance verifies that these limits are not exceeded on a daily basis. Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority measures solvency risk using its traffic Debt securities mainly comprise investments in securities issued by borlight model. Alecta’s risk capital meets the criteria for “green light” by a wide rowers with very high credit ratings. Investments are made mainly in bonds margin. In addition, Alecta performs its own stress tests on a daily basis. The assigned a rating of BBB– or higher by the Standard & Poor’s rating agency. In tests identify significant financial risks and are based on slightly more adverse addition to external ratings, all issuers are assessed for credit risk using internal market scenarios than those prescribed in the traffic light model. The stress credit rating models. tests measure risk exposure, and in the event that a limit is reached, action is taken to safeguard Alecta’s solvency. Credit exposure Bonds and other debt securities Market value Share Sensitivity analysis Effect on 2017 2016 2017 2016 Solvency ratio (% points) Net profit for year/Equity Rating Aaa/AAA 161 994 138 277 40,5 % 37,1 % Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 Rating Aa/AA 127 318 117 640 31,8 % 31,6 % Interest rate decrease 1 % point –11,0 % –10,1 % –25 717 –24 318 Rating A/A 54 513 54 525 13,6 % 14,6 % Share price decrease 10 % –7,2 % –7,1 % –34 525 –33 286 Rating Baa/BBB 33 522 39 133 8,4 % 10,5 % Real estate value decrease 10 % –1,4 % –1,2 % –6 473 –5 441 Rating Ba/BB 3 156 3 375 0,8 % 0,9 % Exchange rate decrease 10 % –2,2 % –2,0 % –10 344 –9 363 Unrated 19 472 19 379 4,9 % 5,2 % of which securities issued by The table shows how the solvency ratio and net profit for the year would be stated-owned issuers 6 711 4 877 1,7 % 1,3 % affected by a decrease in the value of shares, properties and currencies, and Total 399 975 372 328 100,0 % 100,0 % by a decrease in market interest rates, regardless of maturity and market. A decrease in market interest rates increases the value of Alecta’s commitments Liquidity risk by SEK 42 346 million (40 971) and the value of its debt securities by SEK Liquidity risk is the risk of loss on financial instruments arising from the inability 16 629 million (16 653). to immediately sell an instrument without a reduction in the price or the risk that Alecta will be unable to meet its payment obligations at maturity without Other risks an increase in the cost of obtaining the necessary funds. Alecta’s payment obliIn addition to the aforementioned risks, Alecta needs to manage other risks, gations consist of insurance obligations and financial liabilities. Of Alecta’s total such as compliance risks, sustainability risks and information security risks. obligations, approximately 95 per cent have a maturity in excess of five years; An important method for mitigating these risks, as well as the above risk see Notes 36 and 37. Alecta’s financial liabilities are limited to the derivatives categories, is to control operational risks; see below. More information on used to hedge foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, and usually have a Alecta’s management of these risks is presented in the section Governance and maturity of less than one year. Information on the nominal values of Alecta’s sustainability on page 102. derivatives is presented in Note 27. A maturity analysis of financial liabilities is also presented in Note 21. Liquidity risk is monitored through detailed Operational risks cash flow forecasts and is limited by the fact that a large portion of Alecta’s Alecta defines operational risk as the risk of operational inadequacies or failinvestments is invested in highly liquid assets. Note 22 shows that SEK 360 ures related to personnel, organisation and processes, IT systems or security. billion of Alecta’s investments consist of shares in listed companies that can be Such inadequacies or failures can cause risks in other risk categories. For converted into cash within one week. The remaining investments are deemed example, inadequate expertise on the part of Alecta’s personnel could result in to be convertible into cash within one year, and the liquidity risk is therefore the Company unknowingly being exposed to financial risks. Operational risks regarded as negligible. are counteracted by good internal control. Good internal control is achieved through a clear division of responsibilities, documented process and proceMatching risk dures, effective controls and by other means. Matching risk is the risk of a deterioration in the Company’s financial position due to differing characteristics between assets and technical provisions. Risk self-assessment The value of Alecta’s insurance commitments and fixed income investments Using a central self-assessment method, all departments at Alecta identify and depends on the level of interest rates. When interest rates fall, Alecta’s assess their risks and controls in various risk categories on an annual basis. commitments increase, as does the value of its debt securities. Given that the Areas of potential improvement are identified and decisions are made on which commitments are larger and have a longer average maturity than the debt risk reduction measures or financially motivated or other measures to take. securities, a decrease in interest rates has a negative impact. Information on Work on continuous improvement in Alecta’s day-to-day operations also helps the maturities of the commitments as well as fixed-rate terms for the asset to reduce risks. portfolio is provided in Notes 36 and 37, and Note 25, respectively. To limit matching risk, Alecta uses an asset liability management (ALM) ana­ Incident management lysis that is aimed at identifying the optimal composition of investment assets Despite the preventive actions that are taken to identify and reduce risks, with regard to Alecta’s commitments as well as its target return. The analysis incidents may still occur. Such incidents must of course be addressed immedialso takes account of how Alecta’s investment assets and liabilities at market ately to limit any possible damage and loss. Equally important is to learn from value, and thus also its risk capital, are affected by price fluctuations in financial what has occurred and take measures to try to prevent similar incidents from markets. Decisions on the composition of investments are based on Alecta’s occurring again. Incidents are therefore discussed and reported at all levels of long-term assessments of market conditions in relation to its obligations, Alecta on a regular basis. . ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 61 NOTE 4 Premiums written NOTE 5 Return on capital, income Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 Group Parent Company Current premiums 31 279 28 093 2017 2016 2017 2016 Single premiums 1 721 1 940 Rental income from land and buildings 1 702 2 569 638 904 Premium tax 1) –105 –114 Dividends received 12 170 10 354 17 947 20 878 Invoiced premiums 32 895 29 919 of which Group companies – – 5 867 10 920 Interest income, etc. 6 043 8 018 6 172 8 142 Adjustment of paid-up values 1 487 3 bonds and other debt securities 5 815 7 815 5 815 7 815 Premium reduction 4 132 3 635 other interest income 228 203 227 186 Guaranteed refunds 5 619 3 638 other interest income, Group companies – – 130 141 Total premiums written 38 514 33 557 Net foreign exchange gains – 4 245 – 2 776 1) The tax base is 95 per cent (95) of premiums received for TGL. Net capital gains 13 088 10 283 9 872 7 191 The tax is 45 per cent (45) of the tax base. land and buildings 3 361 3 802 145 710 shares and participations 8 175 4 801 8 175 4 801 Accounting principle bonds and other debt securities 1 552 1 680 1 552 1 680 Other 14 13 – – Premiums written can comprise paid-in and credited premiums as well as Return on capital, income 33 017 35 482 34 629 39 891 refunds in the form of adjustments of paid-up values and premium reductions. Reductions are made for special premium tax (relates to TGL). The accounting treatment of premiums written differs depending on whether the premiums relate to defined contribution or defined benefit insurance. The cash principle is applied for defined contribution insurance while the charging system is applied for defined benefit insurance when accounting for premiums written. Unrealised gains on Premiums are recognised as income and affect different balance sheet items depending on whether the premium relates to pension insurance or risk insurNOTE 6 investment assets ance. For pension insurance, an increase is made in technical provisions on the Group Parent Company liabilities side of the balance sheet while risk insurance premiums are allocated 2017 2016 2017 2016 through profit or loss to equity. Land and buildings – – 611 – Shares and participations 30 148 4 158 30 124 4 119 Calculation of premiums Bonds and other debt securities – 2 352 – 2 352 Premiums are intended to cover Alecta’s commitments to its policy holders. Other loans 8 137 9 137 The premium is determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions on interest Total unrealised gains on investment rates, mortality, morbidity and operating expenses. These assumptions are assets 30 156 6 647 30 744 6 608 based on experience and observations, and are broken down by insurance portfolio. Pension insurance can be either defined benefit or defined contribution. For defined benefit insurance, the benefits are specified in the insurance contract and premiums are determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. Premiums are determined individually for each insured. For defined contribution insurance, the premium is specified in the insurance contract and the benefits are determined on the basis of actuarial assumptions. NOTE 7 Claims paid The premium for risk insurance is either calculated individually for each Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 insured or distributed collectively over a group of insureds and applies for one Basic amount paid before indexation –17 513 –17 086 calendar year at a time. Waiver of premium paid –2 039 –1 882 Cancellations and repurchases 1) –568 –392 Operating expenses for claims management –142 –134 Total claims paid –20 262 –19 494 1) The item includes transferred capital of SEK 550 million (376). Accounting principle Benefits can either be guaranteed under the concluded contract or contingent in the form of a pension supplement, for example. A guaranteed benefit is recognised in the income statement as an expense and reduces the technical provision in the balance sheet by the same amount. A contingent benefit does not affect profit or loss but is recognised directly in equity. 62 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 8 Operating expenses Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Investment management Administrative expenses –559 –560 –559 –560 Investment management expenses are recognised in the item Return on capiTotal operating expenses in the tal, expenses in the income statement. These expenses consist of direct costs, insurance business –559 –560 –559 –560 primarily personnel, information and IT costs, as well as indirect costs, such as the share of costs for premises and costs allocated for central Group functions. Claims management 2) –142 –134 –142 –134 Investment management 2) –180 –180 –170 –167 Property management Property management 3) –70 –74 –34 –44 Like investment management expenses, property management expenses are Total operating expenses –951 –948 –905 –905 recognised in Return on capital, expenses in the income statement. A significant expense item related to property management is external costs, as the Specification of total operating management of Alecta’s properties has to a large extent been outsourced to expenses external service providers. Personnel costs –435 –429 –430 –419 Costs for premises –21 –24 –22 –23 Amortisation/depreciation –26 –26 –26 –26 IT costs –216 –217 –215 –215 Property management costs –70 –74 –34 –44 Selection centre costs –133 –132 –133 –132 Other costs 4) –98 –94 –93 –94 Administration fees 48 48 48 48 Total operating expenses –951 –948 –905 –905 1)  Recognised in Claims paid in the income statement, see Note 7. 2) Recognised in Return on capital, expenses in the income statement, see Note 9. 3)  Recognised in Return on capital, expenses in the income statement (included in the item Operating expenses for land and buildings in Note 9). 4) Other expenses largely comprise costs for consultants and fees paid to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Accounting principle NOTE 9 Return on capital, expenses Operating expenses are expenses for employees or temporary staff, costs for premises, IT costs, scheduled depreciation of property, plant and equipment Group Parent Company and amortisation of intangible assets, costs for the agency agreement with 2017 2016 2017 2016 Collectum, and other operations-related costs. These expenses are recognised Operating expenses for land and buildings –527 –990 –225 –324 as incurred. Operating expenses are divided into the following functions: Investment management expenses 1) –180 –180 –170 –167 acquisition, administration, claims management, investment management and Interest expenses, etc. –291 –808 –290 –808 property management. Acquisition expenses and administrative expenses are bonds and other debt securities –259 –781 –258 –781 recognised in the item Operating expenses in the income statement. Alecta other interest expenses –32 –27 –32 –27 does not regard depreciation and impairment of owner-occupied properties other interest expenses, as an operating expense in the insurance business. These are therefore recogGroup companies – – – – nised as a separate item in the income statement. Custodian expenses –24 –21 –24 –21 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment – – –4 599 –4 737 Acquisition expenses shares in Group companies – – –4 599 –4 737 Acquisition expenses refer to expenses incurred by the Company in acquiring Net foreign exchange losses –4 685 – –5 863 new insurance contracts. Alecta does not capitalise its acquisition expenses, as Net capital losses – – 0 – the amount is insignificant. land and buildings – – – – other loans – – 0 – Administrative expenses Other –28 –28 – – Administrative expenses consist of operating expenses incurred by Alecta for Return on capital, expenses –5 735 –2 027 –11 171 –6 057 the day-to-day administration of its insurance contracts as well as costs for central Group functions, such as finance and legal counsel. 1)  In addition to these expenses, external fees of approximately SEK 90 million (78) were paid for investments in unlisted real estate funds. These fees have been recognised as a negative change in the value of the holding and are therefore included in the net amount of unrealised gains on Claims management shares and participations in Note 6. Expenses for claims management consist of expenses for managing contracts that are under payment. They also include a portion of the IT expenses incurred in supporting the claims management process and expenses allocated to cover a portion of costs for the central Group functions. Claims management expenses are recognised in the income statement in the item Claims paid. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 63 Unrealised losses on NOTE 10 investment assets NOTE 12 Tax Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Land and buildings –1 053 –2 573 – –729 Current tax Bonds and other debt securities –3 385 – –3 385 – Tax on profit for the year in Sweden 1) –24 –2 – – Total unrealised losses on Foreign tax on directly and indirectly investment assets –4 438 –2 573 –3 385 –729 owned properties –1 626 –2 447 –1 626 –2 446 Adjustment of tax attributable to previous years – –4 – – Coupon tax –591 –575 –591 –575 Total current tax –2 241 –3 028 –2 217 –3 021 Deferred tax Change in deferred tax assets/liabilities 1 633 4 136 1 860 4 407 NOTE 11 Total deferred tax 1 633 4 136 1 860 4 407 Yield tax Income tax (Group) –608 1 108 –357 1 386 Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 Yield tax 1) –271 –298 Yield tax Adjustment of tax attributable to previous years 0 0 Yield tax 2) –271 –298 Total yield tax –271 –298 Adjustment of tax attributable to previous years 0 0 1) Yield tax Total yield tax –271 –298 Capital base A) 737 227 693 749 Tax base B) 3 686 4 024 Tax on profit for the year (Parent Company) –628 1 088 Yield tax before foreign tax credit C) –553 –603 Tax credit for paid coupon tax and income and property tax 1) In the Parent Company, the portion subject to income tax comprises disability pension, waiver of (foreign properties) in previous year 282 305 premium and occupational group life insurance (TGL). Yield tax after tax credits –271 –298 2) For the calculation of yield tax, see Note 11. Sensitivity analysis Effect on yield tax before foreign tax credit Group Parent Company Group 2017 2016 Reconciliation of theoretical tax expense Capital base +/– 10 % –/+ 55 –/+ 60 and reported tax 2017 2016 2017 2016 Allocation percentage +/– 1 % point –/+ 6 –/+ 6 Profit before yield tax and income tax Average government borrowing rate according to income statement 58 134 12 618 55 969 14 820 +/– 1 % point –/+ 1 106 –/+ 1 041 Less: Profit from operations subject to yield tax, including consolidation A) The calculation of the capital base for yield tax is based on the value of all assets at the beginning adjustments –50 792 –7 818 –51 462 –13 872 of 2017 less financial liabilities at the same date. The capital base is adjusted for premiums on Profit from operations subject to 7 342 4 800 4 507 948 indirectly owned foreign and Swedish properties. Of the capital base, SEK 5 790 million (8 291) income tax refers to premiums. The capital base for yield tax, which includes Alecta’s pension products and family protection, represents 95,16 per cent (94,90) of the total base. This portion is calculated on the basis of equity and technical provisions attributable to these products. Tax at applicable tax rate, 22 % –1 615 –1 056 –991 –209 B) The tax base is calculated as the capital base multiplied by the average government borrowing rate for the calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the tax year, which results in a Difference in tax rate A) –53 –183 – – form of standardised return. Average government borrowing rate: 0,50 per cent (0,58), which Non-deductible expenses –1 –1 –50 –53 represents the floor for the government borrowing rate that was introduced from 2017 for calculating the tax base. Non-taxable income 386 395 75 129 C) Tax rate: 15 per cent (15). Taxable income not included in profit –6 –55 –6 –60 Allocated premium reduction 891 783 891 783 Effect of initial recognition of properties 4 –49 – – Accounting principle Other 0 –4 – – Yield tax is payable on Alecta’s pension products and on family cover. Adjustment of tax attributable to Group: Alecta has made the assessment that the standardised return on the previous years –76 0 –32 –3 basis of which the yield tax is determined does not constitute a taxable profit as Creditable foreign tax B) 638 2 517 1 973 3 820 defined in IAS 12. Yield tax is therefore not classified as income tax but is recogForeign income tax –185 –664 –1 626 –2 446 nised as an expense in operating profit in the consolidated income statement. Coupon tax –591 –575 –591 –575 Parent Company: In the Parent Company income statement, yield tax is Reported income tax –608 1 108 –357 1 386 recognised together with income tax in the Tax item. Effective tax –8 % 23 % –8 % 146 % A) Refers to the USA. B) Comprises creditable foreign tax exceeding the maximum limit, creditable foreign tax paid during the year and the corresponding deferred tax on the difference between the book and tax values of foreign properties. 64 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 12 Tax, cont. Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Tax asset Tax liability Tax asset Tax liability Tax asset Tax liability Tax asset Tax liability Deferred tax related to: Temporary differences Land and buildings in Sweden –1 226 –1 013 –48 –43 Land and buildings outside of Sweden –155 –1 605 – –1 Other financial investment assets –1 337 –1 328 –1 337 –1 328 Accelerated depreciation –47 –33 – – Loss carry-forwards 837 940 837 936 Creditable foreign tax 1) 6 060 5 535 5 911 3 938 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 6 897 –2 765 6 475 –3 979 6 748 –1 385 4 874 –1 372 Netting of assets and liabilities –1 388 –1 388 –1 378 1 378 –1 385 1 385 –1 372 1 372 Net deferred tax assets and liabilities 5 509 –1 377 5 097 –2 601 5 363 0 3 502 0 of which expected to be settled after more than 12 months, amount before netting 6 607 –2 765 6 189 –2 374 6 458 –1 385 4 589 –1 371 1)  Comprises creditable foreign tax exceeding the maximum limit, creditable foreign tax paid during the year and the corresponding deferred tax on the difference between the book and tax values of foreign properties. Group Parent Company Changes in net deferred tax assets and liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening balance 2 496 –1 647 3 502 –905 Recognised in profit or loss 1 633 4 136 1 860 4 407 Foreign exchange differences 1 –2 – – Change through business combinations/sale 2 9 – – Closing balance 4 132 2 496 5 362 3 502 Accounting principle Significant estimates and judgements The tax is calculated individually for each company based on the applicable Income tax tax rules. Income tax refers to current tax and deferred tax. Current tax When calculating the basis for income tax in the Parent Company, an assessincludes tax on earnings and coupon tax on dividends received. ment needs to be made of the allocation of income and expenses between Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method for temoperations subject to income tax and operations subject to yield tax. The porary differences between the carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and principles applied have a direct impact on the estimated income tax. liabilities as well as tax loss carry-forwards and other unused tax deductions. In an asset acquisition, the temporary difference arising on the initial recogniDeferred tax tion of assets and liabilities is not taken into account. Deferred tax assets are Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for temporary differencrecognised to the extent that it is probable that they can be used. es, unused tax loss carry-forwards and other unused tax deductions. The Alecta is entitled to deduct foreign tax credits when calculating future reported deferred tax is affected by assumptions and judgements used in yield tax and income tax. Alecta’s tax expense (yield tax and income tax) will determining the carrying amounts of different assets and liabilities, and in thus be reduced, resulting in future economic benefits. Alecta’s assessment estimating future taxable profits. is that an asset should be recognised if the future tax credit can be reliably Each year, Alecta assesses whether new deferred tax assets can be recogestimated. The offset of future tax credits against yield tax is not specifically nised and whether tax loss carry-forwards or unused tax deductions from regulated in IFRS. Alecta’s assessment is that the right to future tax credits previous years have been impaired. is of a similar nature to income tax credits under IAS 12. An asset related to Alecta is entitled to deduct foreign tax credits when calculating future future tax credits will therefore be recognised as a deferred tax asset even yield tax and income tax. The resulting future economic benefits are recthough it will mainly be offset against yield tax. ognised as a deferred tax asset, even though the asset will largely be offset Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are recognised on a net against yield tax. An asset is recognised when the future tax credit can be basis when there is a legal right of set-off and the assets and liabilities refer to reliably measured. taxes levied by the same tax authority. The business segments in the Parent Company on which income tax is levied are disability pension, waiver of premium and occupational group life insurance (TGL). ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 65 NOTE 13 Intangible assets NOTE 14 Property, plant and equipment Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Cost Cost Opening balance 683 683 683 683 Opening balance 51 48 21 19 Investments during the year – – – – Purchases during the year 8 3 6 2 Disposals during the year – – – – Sales/disposals during the year –4 – – – Closing balance 683 683 683 683 Translation difference – – – – Closing balance 55 51 27 21 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Accumulated depreciation Opening balance –284 –259 –284 –259 Opening balance –40 –15 –15 –13 Amortisation for the year –26 –25 –26 –25 Depreciation for the year –4 –25 –3 –2 Disposals during the year – – – – Sales/disposals during the year 3 – – – Closing balance, amortisation –310 –284 –310 –284 Translation difference – – – – Closing balance –41 –40 –18 –15 Opening balance –114 –114 –114 –114 Carrying amount, property, plant and Closing balance, impairment –114 –114 –114 –114 equipment 14 11 9 6 Carrying amount, intangible assets 259 285 259 285 Intangible assets comprise internally generated expenditure for IT developAccounting principle ment, mainly IT development for the insurance system that was taken into Property, plant and equipment consist of IT equipment, machinery and use in April 2008, and account for SEK 680 million (680) of the total cost. equipment, and artwork, and are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation. Assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis based on their estimated useful lives. The depreciation period is three years for IT equipment and Accounting principle three to five years for machinery and equipment. Artwork is not depreciated. Intangible assets comprise direct expenditure for in-house-developed Depreciation methods and useful lives are reviewed at each closing date. At software. Internally generated intangible assets in the Group are measured at each closing date, an assessment is made of whether there are any indicacost. They are expected to generate future economic benefits. All internally tions of impairment of items of property, plant and equipment. If this is the generated intangible assets related to in-house-developed software are case, the asset’s recoverable amount is determined, and if this amount is less recognised only if all of the following criteria are met: an identifiable asset than the carrying amount, the asset is written down to the lower amount. exists, it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits, the Company has control over the asset, and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured. Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis from the date on which the asset goes into production. Amortisation schedules are prepared based on the estimated useful lives. The amortisation period is 20 years for the insurance system’s core system and five years for other, peripheral functions. For other capitalised development costs the amortisation period is three years. The insurance system’s core system has functionality for managing Alecta’s long-term insurance commitments. Amortisation methods and useful lives are reviewed at each closing date. An individual review is made for each asset. Amortisation is recognised as an operating expense. The value of Alecta’s intangible assets is reviewed at each closing date through an assessment of internal and external indications of impairment. If there are indications of impairment, the asset’s recoverable amount is determined, and if this amount is less than the carrying amount, the asset is written down to the lower amount. Significant estimates and judgements Alecta has a significant intangible asset in the form of accrued development costs for the insurance system. At each closing date, the value of each asset is assessed individually. The amortisation method and the useful life of the asset are also reviewed. 66 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 15 Land and buildings Investment properties Specification of change in fair value, SEK million Group Parent Company Group 2017 Sweden USA UK Total Fair value by sector 2017 2016 2017 2016 Opening balance 25 447 – – 25 447 Industrial 163 295 163 295 New builds, extensions and Office 18 425 14 852 6 445 6 108 conversions 3 212 – – 3 212 Residential 644 2 470 – – Acquisitions 140 – – 140 Retail 7 731 7 205 3 839 3 713 Sales –2 830 – – –2 830 Other 1 253 625 835 625 Change in value 2 247 – – 2 247 Total 28 216 25 447 11 282 10 741 Exchange rate fluctuations – – – – Closing balance 28 216 – – 28 216 Group Lettable floor area by sector, sq.m 2017 2016 Group 2016 Sweden USA UK Total Industrial 17 146 30 053 Opening balance 22 136 15 269 5 140 42 545 Office 449 292 321 586 New builds, extensions and Residential 4 212 57 936 conversions 634 173 15 822 Retail 274 473 277 978 Acquisitions 1 151 – – 1 151 Other 24 396 9 425 Sales –121 –11 401 –3 756 –15 278 Total 769 519 696 978 Change in value 1 647 262 –695 1 214 Group Exchange rate fluctuations – 1 266 –577 689 Future lease payments by maturity 2017 2016 Reclassified to assets held for sale – –5 569 –127 –5 696 Within one year 1 395 1 213 Closing balance 25 447 – – 25 447 Later than one year but within five years 3 267 2 849 Later than five years 1 966 1 986 Parent Company 2017 Sweden USA UK Total Total 6 628 6 048 Opening balance 10 614 – 127 10 741 New builds, extensions and conversions 240 – – 240 Owner-occupied properties Acquisitions – – – – Group 2017 2016 Sales –272 – –125 –397 Cost Change in value 700 – –1 699 Opening balance 994 991 Exchange rate fluctuations – – –1 –1 Purchases during the year 43 3 Closing balance 11 282 – – 11 282 Closing balance 1 037 994 Parent Company 2016 Sweden USA UK Total Accumulated depreciation Opening balance 9 704 1 778 5 140 16 622 Opening balance –139 –121 New builds, extensions and Depreciation for the year –19 –18 conversions 142 –1 15 156 Closing balance –158 –139 Acquisitions – – – – Carrying amount, owner-occupied properties 879 855 Sales –121 –1 708 –3 755 –5 584 Change in value 889 –209 –696 –16 Exchange rate fluctuations – 140 –577 –437 Closing balance 10 614 – 127 10 741 Specification of historical costs 1) Parent Company Sweden USA UK Total 2017 6 661 – – 6 661 2016 6 510 – 82 6 592 1) Historical costs in foreign currency have been translated at the closing rate. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 67 NOTE 15 Land and buildings, cont. Accounting principle Significant estimates and judgements Investment property Valuation method All properties in the Group, other than owner-occupied properties, are clasAlecta engages an external valuation firm to assess the market value of all sified and accounted for as investment properties in accordance with IAS 40, properties as at 31 December and 30 June each year. The external valuer as they are held for rental income or capital appreciation or a combination bases its estimates on information about the specific characteristics of each of the two. property, such as current tenancies, running costs and estimated market Investment properties are measured at fair value, which is the price that rents. In connection with the external valuation the information is qualitywould be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market assured by Alecta. participants at the measurement date. In accordance with IFRS 13, Alecta’s The total value of Alecta’s property portfolio is based on the estimated investment properties are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, market value of each individual property. The market value consists of the which means that non-observable inputs have been used. No properties future benefits which an acquirer could obtain from the property. The key were transferred to a different level of the hierarchy during the year. Alecta’s factors are what the property may be used for, and the extent to which and current use of the investment properties is deemed to be the best use, in what way an acquirer can use the property. which means that the valuation of the properties should reflect the assets’ Market values of properties are normally determined through cash flow maximum value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair values of assessments based on estimates of each property’s earnings potential. The the investment properties are recognised in the income statement in the method involves analysing expected future cash flows over a period of time, period in which the gain or loss occurs. Purchases and sales of investment normally ten years, and calculating the present value of these cash flows properties are recognised in the balance sheet on the completion date. using an estimated discount rate. The components of the nominal discount Alecta also owns properties that are being developed or exploited for rate are the estimated inflation rate, the risk-free real interest rate and a risk future use as investment properties. These project properties are measured premium. In determining the risk premium, account is taken of the nature of at fair value or, if fair value cannot be determined at the time of construction, the investment, the property, contractual relationships and financial risks. this investment property is measured at cost until its fair value can be reliably The valuations have been designed to meet the requirements of the MSCI determined. Project properties recognised at cost account for SEK 2 863 Sweden Real Estate Index. million (634) of the total carrying amount of SEK 28 216 million (25 447) in the Group. Significant valuation assumptions The valuation method used is based on several assumptions, such as estiOwner-occupied property mates of market rents, future costs, long-term vacancies, inflation, discount Alecta’s owner-occupied property is recognised at fair value in the Parent rates and required rates of return in the residual value assessment. A change Company in accordance with the Swedish Insurance Companies Annual in any of these assumptions will affect the valuation. Some of the key valuaAccounts Act and is classified as land and buildings in the balance sheet. In tion assumptions are presented below. the consolidated financial statements, the owner-occupied property is classified in accordance with IAS 40, as a large portion of the property is used for Valuation assumptions, weighted 2017 2016 the provision of the company’s own goods and services. In the consolidated Market rent per square metre SEK 2 218 SEK 2 227 financial statements, the owner-occupied property is recognised at cost less Long-term vacancy rate 4,40 % 3,55 % accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment, in accordance Required rate of return, initial 4,09 % 4,21 % with IAS 16. Owner-occupied properties are divided into components and Required rate of return, exit 4,63 % 4,62 % the depreciation method used reflects the time at which the asset’s future economic benefits are expected to have been exhausted. Actual operating Sensitivity analysis and maintenance expenses for Alecta’s owner-occupied properties are The value-affecting parameters used in the valuation should reflect the recognised in operating expenses in the income statement. The full amount reasoning of a prospective buyer in the market. To illustrate the uncertainty of depreciation and impairment (including reversal of impairment) of in the valuation, a number of parameters which show the impact on the owner-occupied properties is recognised as depreciation and impairment of valuation in SEK million have been singled out. owner-occupied properties in the consolidated income statement. Sensitivity analysis Change 2017 2016 Assets held for sale Market rent +/– 10 % +/– 2 675 +/– 2 610 In 2016, Alecta made a strategic decision to sell all its directly owned foreign Property costs +/– SEK 50/sq.m +/– 716 +/– 686 properties, which consisted of properties in the US and UK. The sale was Long-term vacancy rate +/– 2 % +/– 560 +/– 541 executed in two stages, with a majority of properties being sold in 2016 and Required rate of return, exit +/– 0,25 % +/– 1 441 +/– 1 386 the remaining portfolio in early 2017. At 31 December 2016, the Alecta Group had SEK 5 696 million in assets held for sale, of which SEK 127 million refers to assets in the Parent Company and SEK 5 569 million to assets in subsidiaries. In the Parent Company, the assets were included in the item investment assets. Accumulated foreign exchange differences that have been recognised in other comprehensive income in the consolidated financial statements and that are attributable to the aforesaid foreign properties totalled SEK 831 million. At 31 December 2017, the Alecta Group had SEK 0 in assets held for sale. 68 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 16 Shares and participations in Group companies 1) Corporate Identity Number of Carrying amount, Carrying amount, Parent Company Number Registered office shares Share of equity 2017 2016 Swedish companies Alecta AB 556597-9266 Stockholm 1 000 100 % 0 0 Alecta Köpcentrum AB 556943-7071 Stockholm 500 100 % 10 10 Alfab Nacka 12 AB 3) 559006-1015 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Värmdö 1 AB 556687-7071 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Värmdö 2 AB 556743-0102 Stockholm 100 000 100 % – – Alecta Retail Holding AB 556660-2594 Stockholm 1 000 100 % 124 125 Alfab Borås 1 AB 556708-2002 Stockholm 100 000 100 % – – Alfab Järfälla 1 AB 556664-7599 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Jönköping 1 AB 556692-9385 Stockholm 1000 100 % – – – Alfab Västerås 1 AB 556606-3656 Stockholm 100 100 % – – Alfab Jönköping 4 AB 556188-6127 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Jönköping 5 AB 556658-9783 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Valutan 13 AB 556708-2713 Stockholm 100 000 100 % – – Fastighet Ädel AB 556604-9275 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Fastighetsaktiebolaget Borås Filtret 556790-5525 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Fastighetsaktiebolaget Åkersberga Österåker Runö 556785-6389 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Fyrfast AB 556604-5513 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alecta Tjänstepensioner AB 556713-7160 Stockholm 1 000 100 % 0 0 Alfab Indirekt Holding AB 556931-5459 Stockholm 50 000 100 % 318 30 Kabelverket Holding AB 556587-1075 Stockholm 1 000 100 % 500 501 Alfab Brygghuset 2 AB 4) 556981-3149 Stockholm – – – – Alfab Göteborg 3 AB 556913-5717 Stockholm 500 100 % – – Alfab Göteborg 4 AB 556718-6654 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Göteborg 5 AB 556690-0386 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Haninge 515 AB 4) 556764-4462 Stockholm – – – – Alfab Haninge 516 AB 4) 556730-4174 Stockholm – – – – Alfab Helsingborg 1 AB 559032-2128 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Mangelboden 1 AB 4) 556942-6603 Stockholm – – – – Alfab Malmö 1 AB 4) 556655-4266 Stockholm – – – – Alfab Stockholm 1 AB 556660-5530 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Vällingby 1 AB 556892-7858 Stockholm 500 100 % – – – Alfab Vällingby 3 KB 4) 969761-3603 Stockholm – – – – Alfab Vällingby 2 AB 556892-7882 Stockholm 500 100 % – – – Alfab Vällingby 4 KB 4) 969761-3595 Stockholm – – – – Alfab Västerport 1 AB 556690-0378 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Alfab Västerport 2 AB 556946-8944 Stockholm 500 100 % – – Fastighets AB Kablaget 556577-4642 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – – Alecta Fastighetsutveckling AB 556577-4618 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – – Fastighets AB Kabelverket 556577-4568 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Vasaterminalen AB 556118-8722 Stockholm 2 022 000 100 % – – – World Trade Center Stockholm AB 556273-0803 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – – WTC Parkering AB 556424-3920 Stockholm 1 000 100 % – – Fastighetsbolaget Augustendal KB 3) 916635-9084 Stockholm – 99,9 % 401 – Fastighetsbolaget Båthamnen KB 3) 916626-5711 Stockholm – 99,9 % 50 – Fastighetsbolaget Ellensvik KB 3) 916625-6991 Stockholm – 99,9 % 152 – Fastighetsbolaget Gustafshög KB 3) 916625-6983 Stockholm – 99,9 % 4 – Fastighetsbolaget Klaraberg KB 3) 916625-6975 Stockholm – 99,9 % 242 – Fastighetsbolaget Mässan KB 3) 916626-5653 Stockholm – 99,9 % 62 – Fastighetsbolaget Oljekällaren KB 3) 916626-5638 Stockholm – 99,9 % 166 – Fastighetsbolaget Philipin KB 3) 916626-5679 Stockholm – 99,9 % 295 – Fastighetsbolaget Saluhallen KB 3) 916626-5695 Stockholm – 99,9 % 16 – Kontorshotellet Nacka Strand KB 3) 969646-7225 Stockholm – 99,9 % 1 – Alfab Helsingborg 2 KB 969775-2583 Stockholm – 99,9 % 2 1 Naraden Göteborg 1 KB 969697-7892 Stockholm – 99,9 % 317 311 Total, Sweden 2 660 977 1)  As all shares are unlisted, market values are not indicated. Carrying amounts are not indicated for subsidiaries of sub-groups. 2) The company was liquidated in 2017. 3) The company was acquired in 2017. 4) The company was sold in 2017. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 69 NOTE 16 Shares and participations in Group companies 1), cont. Corporate Identity Number of Carrying amount, Carrying amount, Parent Company Number Registered office shares Share of equity 2017 2016 Foreign companies, USA Alecta Real Estate USA, LLC DE ID 4078782 Delaware – 100 % 1 249 5 842 Alecta Denver, LLC 2) DE ID 4382120 San Francisco – – – – Alecta Los Angeles, LLC 2) DE ID 4784460 San Francisco – – – – Alecta Real Estate Investment, LLC DE ID 4223706 Delaware – 100 % – – – Alecta Real Estate Doral Plaza, LLC 2) DE ID 3601054 San Francisco – – – – – Alecta Real Estate Winsted, LLC DE ID 3601057 Delaware – 100 % – – Alecta Timberland, LLC 2) DE ID 4130208 San Francisco – – – – – Springboard – OP CO, LLC 2) DE ID 4834515 San Francisco – – – – – Springboard – Wallace Falls, LLC 2) DE ID 4830432 San Francisco – – – – Alecta Value Add Investments, LLC DE ID 5469880 Delaware – 100 % – – Birch Commercial Mortgage, LLC 2) DE ID 4641524 San Francisco – – – – Boylston Street Investors, LLC DE ID 5405204 Delaware – 100 % – – Columbia & Eighth, LLC 2) DE ID 5003417 San Francisco – – – – Cupertino – Tantau, LLC DE ID 4895201 Delaware – 100 % – – First Hill Northwest, LLC 2) DE ID 4905415 San Francisco – – – – Hillsboro Club, LLC 2) DE ID 4951762 San Francisco – – – – Hillsboro Terrace, LLC 2) DE ID 4951765 San Francisco – – – – Middlefield Circle, LLC 2) DE ID 5071351 San Francisco – – – – Moutain View Circle, LLC 2) DE ID 5413213 San Francisco – – – – SRP Valley, LLC DE ID 5125176 Delaware – 100 % – – Townsend East, LLC 2) DE ID 5225419 San Francisco – – – – Walnut & Fifteenth, LLC 2) DE ID 5235952 San Francisco – – – – Total, USA 1 249 5 842 Total shares and participations in Group companies 3 909 6 819 1)  As all shares are unlisted, market values are not indicated. Carrying amounts are not indicated for subsidiaries of sub-groups. 2) The company was liquidated in 2017. Carrying Carrying amount, amount, Debt securities issued by, and Parent Company Cost 2017 2016 NOTE 17 loans to, Group companies Opening balance 11 556 11 441 Purchases during the year 1 320 1 Shareholder contributions during the year 289 100 Carrying Carrying Liquidations during the year – – amount, amount, Share of profit for the year 80 14 Parent Company 2017 2016 Closing balance 13 245 11 556 Cost Opening balance 10 380 10 655 Accumulated impairment Change for the year –1 108 –275 Opening balance –4 737 0 Total debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies 9 272 10 380 Impairment for the year –4 599 –4 737 Liquidations during the year – – Closing balance –9 336 –4 737 The item consists wholly of long-term loans to property-owning subsidiaries Total shares and participations in Group companies 3 909 6 819 that are measured at amortised cost. Accounting principle Accounting principle In the Parent Company, shares and participations in Group companies are Intercompany loans and receivables are financial assets which are not quoted recognised at cost less impairment. in an active market. These assets are classified as loans receivable and are measured at amortised cost by applying the effective interest method. 70 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 18 Investments in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 31 Dec 2017 Corporate Identity Fair value, Carrying Parent Company Country Number Share of equity shares amount, loans Interest income Adapta Kongahälla AB Sweden 556809-6324 50,00 % 77 275 – Alfa SSM JV AB Sweden 556840-4262 50,00 % 0 – – KB Alfa SSM Sweden 969715-3998 49,00 % 166 46 3 Ancore Fastigheter AB Sweden 556817-8858 50,00 % 1 259 – – Convea AB Sweden 556912-4505 50,00 % 30 – 0 Fastighets AB Stenvalvet Sweden 556803-3111 25,60 % 512 614 52 Global Business Gate JV AB Sweden 559109-9030 50,00 % 0 – – Global Business Gate JV KB Sweden 969781-4847 49,50 % 15 – – Heimstaden Bostad AB – Pref B Sweden 556864-0873 55,04 % 6 545 – 56 1) Heimstaden Bostad AB – Stamaktie Sweden 556864-0873 29,35 % 1 762 – – Logistikfastigheter Sverige AB Sweden 559047-9738 50,00 % 254 103 2 Midstar Hotels AB Sweden 559007-7979 49,90 % 936 – – Profi lll Infracity AB Sweden 556922-4198 39,30 % 176 269 21 Sollentuna Stinsen JV AB Sweden 559085-9954 50,00 % 107 284 31 Stadsrum Fastigheter AB Sweden 559028-9624 49,00 % 591 – – Swedish Airport Infrastructure AB Sweden 559012-5182 50,00 % 0 – – Swedish Airport Infrastructure KB Sweden 969775-2609 49,90 % 1 470 – – Total, Parent Company 13 900 1 591 165 Group company Långeberga Logistik AB Sweden 556928-2840 50,00 % 431 – – ARE-LEI Venture, LLC USA DE ID 5473708 95 % 1 022 – – Boylston Street Associates LLC USA DE ID 4906542 95 % 6 – – Total, Group 15 359 1 591 165 1)  During the year, Heimstaden Bostad AB converted debt into equity. 31 Dec 2016 Corporate Identity Fair value, Carrying Parent Company Country Number Share of equity shares amount, loans Interest income Alfa SSM JV AB Sweden 556840-4262 50,00 % 0 – – KB Alfa SSM Sweden 969715-3998 49,00 % 218 112 8 Ancore Fastigheter AB Sweden 556817-8858 50,00 % 1 127 – 10 Convea AB Sweden 556912-4505 50,00 % 156 51 0 Fastighets AB Stenvalvet Sweden 556803-3111 25,60 % 390 522 45 Heimstaden Bostad AB Sweden 556864-0873 23,04 % 940 1 828 42 Logistikfastigheter Sverige AB Sweden 559047-9738 50,00 % 184 – – Midstar Hotels AB Sweden 559007-7979 49,90 % 455 – – Profi lll Infracity AB Sweden 556922-4198 39,30 % 131 269 21 Sollentuna Stinsen JV AB Sweden 559085-9954 50,00 % 100 584 2 Swedish Airport Infrastructure AB Sweden 559012-5182 50,00 % 0 – – Swedish Airport Infrastructure KB Sweden 969775-2609 49,90 % 1 124 – – Total, Parent Company 4 825 3 366 128 Group company Långeberga Logistik AB Sweden 556928-2840 50,00 % 119 289 16 ARE-LEI Venture, LLC USA DE ID 5473708 95 % 1 093 – – Boylston Street Associates LLC USA DE ID 4906542 95 % 8 – – Total, Group 6 045 3 655 144 in the investment assets category. Changes in value are accounted for in the Accounting principle income statement as unrealised gains or losses. Dividends are accounted for as Alecta’s investments in jointly controlled entities are made through joint dividends received in the item Return on capital, income. Valuation techniques ventures. for shares and participations are described in Note 22. A joint venture is a joint arrangement in which Alecta exercises joint control Loans in joint ventures refer to shareholder loans which are measured at together with the other co-owners. Alecta’s investments consist of shares amortised cost using the effective interest method and recognised in the loans and participations as well as shareholder loans to jointly owned real estate receivable category. Accrued interest income and interest payments received companies. are recognised as interest income in the item Return on capital, income. Note Shares and participations in joint ventures are recognised as financial 19 shows that fair value is equal to amortised cost. instruments at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 28 p. Information on transactions between Alecta and the above joint ventures is 18 and IFRS 9. In the balance sheet, shares and participations are recognised provided in Note 51 Related party disclosures. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 71 NOTE 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities Group, 31 Dec 2017 Financial assets and Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair liabilities measured at Loans and receivables/ Total value through profit or loss fair value through profit other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition or loss through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 15 359 – – 15 359 15 359 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 1 591 1 591 1 591 Shares and participations 375 390 – – 375 390 375 390 Bonds and other debt securities 399 975 – – 399 975 399 975 Other loans 2 039 – 58 2 097 2 097 Derivatives – 6 221 – 6 221 6 221 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 1 747 1 747 1 747 Other receivables – – 1 696 1 696 1 696 Cash and bank balances – – 2 731 2 731 2 731 Accrued interest and rental income – – 8 170 8 170 8 170 Total 792 763 6 221 15 993 814 977 814 977 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 7 7 7 Derivatives – 8 302 – 8 302 8 302 Other liabilities – – 1 800 1 800 1 800 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 3 579 3 579 3 579 Total – 8 302 5 386 13 688 13 688 Group, 31 Dec 2016 Financial assets and Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair liabilities measured at Loans and receivables/ Total value through profit or loss fair value through profit other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition or loss through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 6 045 – – 6 045 6 045 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 3 655 3 655 3 655 Shares and participations 346 171 – – 346 171 346 171 Bonds and other debt securities 372 328 – – 372 328 372 328 Other loans 2 161 – 123 2 284 2 284 Derivatives – 7 944 – 7 944 7 944 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 1 599 1 599 1 599 Other receivables – – 4 133 4 133 4 133 Cash and bank balances – – 2 856 2 856 2 856 Accrued interest and rental income – – 7 121 7 121 7 121 Total 726 705 7 944 19 487 754 136 754 136 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 2 2 2 Derivatives – 8 552 – 8 552 8 552 Other liabilities – – 4 372 4 372 4 372 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 2 194 2 194 2 194 Total – 8 552 6 568 15 120 15 120 72 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 19 Classification of financial assets and liabilities, cont. Parent Company, 31 Dec 2017 Financial assets and Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair liabilities measured at Loans and receivables/ Total value through profit or loss fair value through profit other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition or loss through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies – – 9 272 9 272 9 272 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 13 900 – – 13 900 13 900 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 1 591 1 591 1 591 Shares and participations 374 944 – – 374 944 374 944 Bonds and other debt securities 399 975 – – 399 975 399 975 Other loans 2 039 – 58 2 097 2 097 Derivatives – 6 221 – 6 221 6 221 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 1 747 1 747 1 747 Other receivables – – 2 625 2 625 2 625 Cash and bank balances – – 2 644 2 644 2 644 Accrued interest and rental income – – 8 170 8 170 8 170 Total 790 858 6 221 26 107 823 186 823 186 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 7 7 7 Derivatives – 8 302 – 8 302 8 302 Other liabilities – – 3 254 3 254 3 254 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 3 570 3 570 3 570 Total – 8 302 6 831 15 133 15 133 Parent Company, 31 Dec 2016 Financial assets and Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair liabilities measured at Loans and receivables/ Total value through profit or loss fair value through profit other financial assets carrying Financial assets on initial recognition or loss through trading and liabilities amount Fair value Debt securities issued by, and loans to, Group companies – – 10 380 10 380 10 380 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 4 825 – – 4 825 4 825 Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 3 366 3 366 3 366 Shares and participations 345 710 – – 345 710 345 710 Bonds and other debt securities 372 328 – – 372 328 372 328 Other loans 2 161 – 123 2 284 2 284 Derivatives – 7 944 – 7 944 7 944 Receivables related to direct insurance operations – – 1 599 1 599 1 599 Other receivables – – 4 970 4 970 4 970 Cash and bank balances – – 2 444 2 444 2 444 Accrued interest and rental income – – 7 121 7 121 7 121 Total 725 024 7 944 30 003 762 971 762 971 Financial liabilities Liabilities related to direct insurance operations – – 2 2 2 Derivatives – 8 552 – 8 552 8 552 Other liabilities – – 5 139 5 139 5 139 Other accrued expenses and deferred income – – 2 167 2 167 2 167 Total – 8 552 7 308 15 860 15 860 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 73 NOTE 20 Net profit by class of financial assets and liabilities Group Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss shares and participations 35 181 23 383 35 181 23 383 debt securities 2 493 15 590 2 493 15 590 loans 237 119 237 119 Financial assets and liabilities held for trade derivatives 10 445 –5 693 10 445 –5 693 Loans and receivables 211 175 342 316 Other liabilities –29 –23 –29 –23 Total net profit 1) 48 538 33 551 48 669 33 692 Land and buildings, net 4 664 4 176 2 340 6 206 Investment management and custodian expenses –204 –201 –194 –188 Other, net 2 3 2 3 Total return on capital as reported in income statement 53 000 37 529 50 817 39 713 1) Net profit includes realised and unrealised changes in value as well as interest, dividends and foreign exchange gains and losses. NOTE 21 Maturity analysis of financial liabilities Time to maturity Group, 31 Dec 2017 < 3 months 3 months < 1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total Non-liquidated securities transactions –72 – – – –72 Liability for cash collateral received for derivatives –1 443 – – – –1 443 Derivatives gross – outflow –255 046 –1 811 –29 442 –40 461 –326 760 Derivatives gross – inflow 254 283 2 203 29 800 35 131 321 417 Other liabilities –292 – – – –292 Other accrued expenses and deferred income –3 579 – – – –3 579 Total cash flow –6 149 392 358 –5 330 –10 729 Time to maturity Group, 31 Dec 2016 < 3 months 3 months < 1 year 1-5 years >5 years Total Non-liquidated securities transactions –397 – – – –397 Liability for cash collateral received for derivatives –2 661 – – – –2 661 Derivatives gross – outflow –240 842 –11 285 –23 824 –46 668 –322 619 Derivatives gross – inflow 242 289 11 322 25 373 41 243 320 227 Other liabilities –1 316 – – – –1 316 Other accrued expenses and deferred income –2 194 – – – –2 194 Total cash flow –5 121 37 1 549 –5 425 –8 960 The purpose of this note is to illustrate when the Group’s financial liabilities fall due for payment. The table shows actual future cash flows in each period, based on the remaining time to maturity. The amounts presented for each time to maturity refer to undiscounted cash flows. For derivatives, cash flows are reported on a gross basis, i.e., both outflows and inflows, to create a better understanding of these flows. For variable interest rate derivatives, the last known interest rate has been applied to approximate future cash flows. For a description of liquidity risk, see Note 3 Risks and risk management. 74 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments measured at fair value Under the disclosure requirements in IFRS 13, Level 2: Measurement based on observable accordance with market practice by estimating financial assets and liabilities which are measured inputs the present value of each derivative’s future cash at fair value must be classified into three levels Financial assets and liabilities for which there flows based on quoted market prices in respect of based on the valuation technique that is used. are no quoted prices in an active market are interest rates, credit spreads and exchange rates. Assets and liabilities must be measured using the measured at fair value based on as many available valuation technique that is appropriate in the market inputs as possible. Examples of market Level 3: Measurement based on unobservable circumstances, maximising the use of relevant inputs used in the measurement include: inputs observable inputs. The objective is to identify Financial assets which are measured at fair value the valuation technique which best estimates the • Q uoted interest rates, credit spreads and without access to observable market inputs are price at which the financial assets can be sold or exchange rates classified to Level 3. the financial liabilities transferred between market • Market information on prices for similar Financial assets at fair value which are measparticipants under current market conditions. financial instruments ured on the basis of some observable inputs The three levels of valuation categories are: • M arket information on prices in recently but for which Alecta does not have the ability completed transactions in the same or similar to inspect the used valuation technique are also Level 1: Measurement based on prices financial instruments classified to this level. quoted in an active market The main types of financial assets in this level Fair value measurement based on prices quoted Examples of financial assets and liabilities which are property-related investments in the form of in an active market is used if quoted prices are are classified to this level include debt instruments funds, part-owned property companies (joint easily and regularly available and these prices in the form of Swedish and foreign corporate ventures) and lending to property-owning comrepresent actual and regularly occurring market bonds, structured bonds, and all OTC derivatives panies. Fair values for these assets are obtained transactions. Examples of financial assets which in the form of interest rate swaps, currency derivfrom the fund manager or the property-owning are classified to this level include listed shares, atives and credit derivatives. companies following an external valuation of the government bonds and Swedish mortgage bonds. For debt instruments, daily prices from underlying properties. Prices for these financial assets are obtained external price providers Thomson Reuters and daily through providers of index prices retrieved Bloomberg are used. Under the concluded agreePrinciples for reclassification between levels from each exchange, which, where applicable, ments, Alecta has the right to inspect the price Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair are translated at exchange rates quoted on a provider’s valuation data to assure the quality of value are classified to one of the three valuation daily basis (5 p.m.) from the price provider, the provided price information. categories on acquisition and then normally WM Company. For OTC derivatives fair value is determined retain their classification until they are sold. on a daily basis in Alecta’s financial system in Under certain circumstances a financial asset may, Fair values of financial instruments, 31 Dec 2017 Measurement based on prices quoted in Measurement based Measurement based an active market on observable inputs on unobservable inputs Carrying amount, Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 Dec 2017 Assets Shares and participations 360 080 – 15 310 375 390 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 15 359 15 359 Bonds and other debt securities 243 295 156 680 – 399 975 Other loans – – 2 039 2 039 Derivatives – 6 221 – 6 221 Total assets 603 375 162 901 32 708 798 984 Liabilities Derivatives – 8 302 – 8 302 Total liabilities – 8 302 – 8 302 Parent Company Assets Shares and participations 360 079 – 14 865 374 944 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 13 900 13 900 Bonds and other debt securities 243 295 156 680 – 399 975 Other loans – – 2 039 2 039 Derivatives – 6 221 – 6 221 Total assets 603 374 162 901 30 804 797 079 Liabilities Derivatives – 8 302 – 8 302 Total liabilities – 8 302 – 8 302 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 75 NOTE 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments measured at fair value, cont. however, be reclassified to another level after the Level 3 to Level 2 because observable market As we do not have the means to inspect the acquisition date. The following principles apply to inputs became available. No transfers from Level unobservable inputs used by external price prosuch reclassification: 2 to Level 3 were made. viders, fund managers or real estate companies in their fair value measurements of these financial Principle for reclassification between Principle for reclassification between instruments, any sensitivity analysis is subject to Level 1 and Level 2 Level 1 and Level 3 a degree of uncertainty. For real estate-related To be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2, a finanA reclassification from Level 1 to Level 3 is made investments, however, it is reasonable to assume cial instrument must no longer be traded in an if a financial instrument is delisted from an active that these will be affected by roughly the same active market but still be capable of being measmarket and there are insufficient market inputs value-influencing factors as directly owned ured in accordance with the description for Level to allow for Level 2 measurement. Similarly, a properties, i.e., changes in net operating income 2. Similarly, a reclassification from Level 2 to Level reclassification from Level 3 to Level 1 may be and required rates of return, while venture capital 1 may be made if the Level 2 financial instrument made if the Level 3 financial instrument is quoted investments are primarily affected by equity is quoted in an active market. in an active market. market risk. No financial instrument was transferred from No financial instruments were transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 or from Level 2 to Level 1 either Level 1 to Level 3 or from Level 3 to Level 1 in Sensitivity analysis for shares and participain 2017 or in 2016. 2017 or 2016. tions, joint ventures and other loans The fair value of these Level 3 assets is SEK Principle for reclassification between Sensitivity analysis for Level 3 32 709 million, of which SEK 28 791 million refers Level 2 and Level 3 financial instruments to real estate-related assets and SEK 3 918 million A reclassification from Level 2 to Level 3 may be Under IFRS 13, a sensitivity analysis must also be refers to unlisted venture capital investments. A made if it is no longer possible to measure a finanpresented for those financial instruments which sensitivity analysis based on an assumed change cial instrument at fair value based on observable have been measured at fair value in accordance in the required rate of return of 0,5 percentage market inputs. Similarly, Level 3 financial instruwith Level 3. The sensitivity analysis must include points or a change in net operating income of 10 ments may be transferred to Level 2 if observable a narrative description of the sensitivity of the fair per cent for real estate-related investments would market inputs become available and an external value measurement to changes in unobservable increase/decrease the fair value by around SEK price provider is able to measure fair value based inputs. 2 879 million and SEK 3 031 respectively, while a on these inputs. Alecta’s assets in Level 3 mainly comprise financhange in share prices of 10 per cent for unlisted In 2017 no financial instruments were transcial instruments with real estate as underlying venture capital investments would increase/ ferred from Level 2 to Level 3 or from Level 3 to asset and, to smaller degree, unlisted venture decrease the fair value by approximately SEK 392 Level 2. In 2016, one bond was transferred from capital investments. million. Fair values of financial instruments, 31 Dec 2016 Measurement based on prices quoted in Measurement based Measurement based an active market on observable inputs on unobservable inputs Carrying amount, Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 31 Dec 2016 Assets Shares and participations 337 401 – 8 770 346 171 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 6 045 6 045 Bonds and other debt securities 204 770 167 558 – 372 328 Other loans – – 2 161 2 161 Derivatives – 7 944 – 7 944 Total assets 542 171 175 502 16 976 734 649 Liabilities Derivatives – 8 552 – 8 552 Total liabilities – 8 552 – 8 552 Parent Company Assets Shares and participations 337 401 – 8 308 345 709 Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) – – 4 825 4 825 Bonds and other debt securities 204 770 167 558 – 372 328 Loans secured by real estate – – – – Other loans – – 2 161 2 161 Derivatives – 7 944 – 7 944 Total assets 542 171 175 502 15 294 732 967 Liabilities Derivatives – 8 552 – 8 552 Total liabilities – 8 552 – 8 552 76 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Disclosures on financial instruments measured NOTE 23 at fair value based on Level 3 1) Fair value at year-end 2017 Shares and participations Shares and in jointly controlled Bonds and other Group participations entities (joint ventures) debt securities Other loans Total Opening balance 2017 8 770 6 045 – 2 161 16 976 Purchased 5 598 8 542 – – 14 140 Sold –689 –77 – –201 –967 Gains and losses Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding –53 1 – 68 16 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding 41 – – – 41 Unrealised gains/losses 1 965 929 – 9 2 903 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses –322 –81 – 2 –401 Transferred from Level 3 – – – – – Transferred to Level 3 – – – – – Closing balance 2017 15 310 15 359 – 2 039 32 708 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period 1 590 848 – 89 2 527 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period 1 631 849 – 79 2 559 Parent Company Opening balance 2017 8 309 4 825 – 2 161 15 295 Purchased 5 571 8 227 – – 13 798 Sold –686 –77 – –201 –964 Gains and losses Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding –53 1 – 68 16 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding 41 – – – 41 Unrealised gains/losses 1 973 924 – 9 2 906 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses –290 – – 2 –288 Transferred from Level 3 – – – – – Transferred to Level 3 – – – – – Closing balance 2017 14 865 13 900 – 2 039 30 804 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period 1 630 924 – 89 2 643 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period 1 671 925 – 79 2 675 1) The definition of Level 3 is found in Note 22 Valuation categories. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 77 Disclosures on financial instruments measured NOTE 23 at fair value based on Level 3 1), cont Fair value at year-end 2016 Shares and participations Shares and in jointly controlled Bonds and other Group participations entities (joint ventures) debt securities Other loans Total Opening balance 2016 7 863 4 058 1 210 1 880 15 011 Purchased 1 387 2 020 – 249 3 656 Sold –157 –1 025 – –39 –1 221 Gains and losses Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding –407 – – – –407 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding – 82 – 1 83 Unrealised gains/losses 289 900 – 137 1 326 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses –205 10 – –67 –262 Transferred from Level 3 – – –1 210 – –1 210 Transferred to Level 3 – – – – – Closing balance 2016 8 770 6 045 – 2 161 16 976 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period –222 992 – 71 841 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period –323 992 – 71 740 Parent Company Opening balance 2016 7 525 2 292 1 210 1 880 12 907 Purchased 1 370 1 671 – 249 3 290 Sold –157 – – –39 –196 Gains and losses Realised gains/losses, sold entire holding –407 – – – –407 Realised gains/losses, sold portion of holding – – – 1 1 Unrealised gains/losses 204 862 – 137 1 203 Unrealised foreign exchange gains/losses –227 – – –67 –294 Transferred from Level 3 – – –1 210 – –1 210 Transferred to Level 3 – – – – – Closing balance 2016 8 308 4 825 – 2 161 15 294 Total unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement for financial instruments held at the end of the period –329 862 – 71 604 Gains and losses recognised as return on capital during the period –430 862 – 71 503 1) The definition of Level 3 is found in Note 22 Valuation categories. 78 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 24 Shares and participations NOTE 25 Bonds and other debt securities 2017 2016 2017 2016 Group Fair value Cost Fair value Cost Amortised Amortised Group and Parent Company Fair value cost Fair value cost Swedish listed shares 158 938 99 486 146 898 91 464 Swedish government 60 079 55 712 58 962 53 356 Swedish unlisted shares 166 1 486 260 Swedish mortgage institutions 97 679 97 189 74 638 74 119 Foreign listed shares 201 141 152 935 190 502 165 506 Other Swedish issuers 55 577 54 309 54 566 53 091 Foreign unlisted shares 15 145 10 572 8 285 5 738 Foreign governments 115 541 106 899 99 084 89 287 Total 375 390 262 994 346 171 262 968 Other foreign issuers 71 099 70 157 85 078 83 066 Total 399 975 384 266 372 328 352 919 Parent Company Swedish listed shares 158 938 99 486 146 898 91 464 Swedish unlisted shares 166 1 486 260 The fair value of debt securities exceeds or is lower than the amount payable on the due date by SEK 24 854 (29 646) million and SEK 428 (460) million, Foreign listed shares 201 141 152 935 190 502 165 506 respectively. The items Swedish government and Foreign governments also Foreign unlisted shares 14 699 10 276 7 824 5 434 include state-guaranteed holdings. Total 374 944 262 698 345 710 262 664 Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 A list of all shares is available at alecta.se. Fixed-rate term 0–1 years 136 383 119 239 Accounting principle >1–5 years 135 375 123 140 Shares and participations are measured at fair value through profit or loss >5–10 years 72 126 88 760 on initial recognition. Valuation techniques for shares and participations are >10 years 56 091 41 188 described in Note 22. Accumulated changes in value for shares comprise Total 399 975 372 327 the difference between cost and fair value. Dividends are accounted for as dividends received in the item Return on capital, income. Accounting principle Bonds and other debt securities are measured at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition. Valuation techniques for bonds and other debt securities are described in Note 22. Accumulated changes in value for debt instruments comprise the difference between amortised cost and fair value. Amortised cost refers to future payments discounted to present value at the effective interest rate. The effective interest is the interest that is accrued over the term of the financial instrument. The calculation takes account of any premiums or discounts at acquisition that have been allocated over the remaining term of the instrument. Accruals of premiums and discounts, accrued interest income and coupon payments received are recognised as interest income in the item Return on capital, income. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 79 NOTE 26 Other loans NOTE 27 Derivatives 2017 2016 2017 2016 Group and Parent Company Fair value Cost Fair value Cost Fair value Fair value Other loans 2 097 1 654 2 284 1 849 Group and Parent Nominal Nominal Company value Assets Liabilities value Assets Liabilities Total 2 097 1 654 2 284 1 849 Equity-related instruments –15 189 – – –5 512 – – Futures –15 189 – – –5 512 – – Accounting principle Debt securities Alecta’s other loans consist mainly of real estate-related profit participating instruments 166 606 4 396 4 960 168 603 5 217 5 485 loans. Participating loans are classified as financial assets at fair value through Swaps 148 979 4 396 4 960 173 861 5 217 5 483 profit or loss. Futures 17 627 – – –6 599 – – CDS – – – 1 341 – 2 Currency-related instruments 206 723 1 825 3 342 204 958 2 727 3 067 Futures/swaps 206 723 1 825 3 342 204 958 2 727 3 067 Total 358 140 6 221 8 302 368 049 7 944 8 552 The management of collateral for derivatives is described in Note 28 Financial instruments subject to enforceable master netting agreements. For a description of the use of derivatives, see the section Market risk in Note 3 Risks and risk management. Accounting principle A derivative is a financial instrument whose value depends on the performance of another, underlying instrument. Alecta uses derivatives to improve the efficiency of the management of its assets and to reduce financial risks. Derivatives are classified as held for trade and recognised in the balance sheet at fair value while changes in value are recognised through profit or loss. Derivatives with positive fair values are recognised as financial investment assets while derivatives with negative fair values are recognised as liabilities in the balance sheet. In the income statement, derivatives are accounted for together with the underlying instrument and the net gain or loss is presented in Note 20. Alecta does not apply hedge accounting. 80 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 28 Financial instruments subject to enforceable master netting agreements of which amounts which are not netted Group and Parent Company Financial assets but which are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral 31 Dec 2017 balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency received received Net amount 3) Assets Derivatives 4) 8 611 –7 791 – –1 443 0 Securities lending 1) 2 322 – –2 369 – 0 of which amounts which are not Financial liabilities netted but are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency pledged 2) pledged Net amount 3) Liabilities Derivatives 4) 10 775 –7 791 –4 885 –262 0 of which amounts which are not netted Group and Parent Company Financial assets but which are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral 31 Dec 2016 balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency received received Net amount 3) Assets Derivatives 4) 10 189 –8 597 5) –245 –2 661 0 5) Securities lending 1) – – – – – of which amounts which are not Financial liabilities netted but are subject to enforceable recognised in the master netting agreements or similar Financial collateral Cash collateral balance sheet agreements in the event of insolvency pledged 2) pledged Net amount 3) Liabilities Derivatives 4) 10 667 5) –8 597 5) –1 434 –2 225 0 1) Lending of debt securities is described in Note 45 Transfer of financial assets. 2) Collateral pledged is also presented in Note 44 Other pledged assets and comparable collateral. 3) In accordance with IFRS 7, the net amount can never be less than 0. 4) The amounts include accrued interest income of SEK 2 390 million (2 245) and accrued interest expenses of SEK 2 473 million (2 115). 5) Adjusted compared with the Annual Report 2016. Disclosures on financial instruments subject to enforceable master Derivatives netting agreements At 31 December Alecta had derivatives with a positive value of SEK 8 611 The purpose of this note is to provide information on Alecta’s ability to settle million and derivatives with a negative value of SEK 10 775 million. All derivassets and liabilities on a net basis (netting) in the event of the insolvency of atives are subject to ISDA Master Agreements, under which the parties have either party, and on the collateral that has been exchanged for the net asset a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts in the event of or liability which remains between the parties after netting. insolvency. If there is no insolvency situation, the amounts are not netted. Derivatives and loaned debt securities are reported on a gross basis in the In addition to having the right to settle on a net basis, Alecta has concluded balance sheet. These financial instruments are subject to enforceable master CSA agreements which regulate the daily exchange of collateral during the netting agreements in the event of the insolvency of either party. All values in term of the contracts. From those counterparties for which the sum of all the table above are stated at fair value. derivatives is positive Alecta obtains corresponding collateral, and in cases where the sum of all derivatives is negative Alecta provides corresponding collateral. Under these CSA agreements, Alecta has received SEK 1 443 million in cash in cases where the sum of all derivatives is positive. Similarly, Alecta has pledged SEK 4 885 million in debt securities in the form of Swedish mortgage bonds and French and US government bonds, and SEK 262 million in cash in cases where the sum of all derivatives is negative. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 81 Receivables related to direct Accrued interest and NOTE 29 insurance operations NOTE 31 rental income Group Parent Company Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Receivables from policy holders 1 747 1 599 Accrued interest income 8 173 7 124 8 173 7 124 Total 1 747 1 599 Total 8 173 7 124 8 173 7 124 Refers mainly to a receivable from Collectum, which handles Alecta’s receivables from insurance customers in the defined benefit plan. Accounting principle Prepaid expenses and accrued income Prepaid expenses and accrued income comprise expenditure for future Accounting principle financial years and income earned during the financial year that has not been Receivables related to direct insurance operations are recognised at received or invoiced at the balance sheet date. Alecta’s prepaid expenses amortised cost. and accrued income mainly comprise interest receivables not yet due for investment assets. NOTE 30 Other receivables Group 2017 2016 Payment receivables from sale of investment assets 1 067 438 Approved dividend 48 58 Value-added tax 42 18 Receivable, PRI Pensionsgaranti 185 178 Collateral pledged for derivatives 1) 262 2 225 Other 134 1 234 Total 3) 1 738 4 151 Parent Company Payment receivables from sale of investment assets 1 067 438 Swedish tax 54 727 Foreign tax 916 831 Deferred tax 2) 5 363 3 502 Approved dividend 48 58 Value-added tax 1 0 Receivable from subsidiary 982 907 Receivable, PRI Pensionsgaranti 185 178 Collateral pledged for derivatives 1) 262 2 225 Other 81 1 164 Total 8 959 10 030 1)  See also Note 28. 2) See also Note 12. 3) Adjustment compared with the Annual Report 2016 through the reclassification of Foreign tax from Other receivables to Current tax. Accounting principle Other receivables are recognised at amortised cost. 82 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 32 Equity excluding guarantee reserve Discretionary Retained earnings participation Special indexation including net profit Group Translation reserve features reserve 1) funds 2) for the year Total Opening balance 2016 1 653 60 943 10 559 227 612 300 767 Net profit/loss for the year 13 428 13 428 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan – 6 758 – –6 758 – Defined contribution plan – 8 199 – –8 199 – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan – –2 213 – – –2 213 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan – –95 – – –95 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan – –3 – – –3 Premium reduction – –3 635 – – –3 635 Collective risk premium 4) – – –109 – –109 Return on guarantee reserve in previous year 3) – – – –107 –107 Return on guarantee reserve in current year 3) – – – –95 –95 Other changes Fees – – 10 –10 – Interest – 244 –22 –222 – Effect of changes in market interest rates – 577 – –577 – Exchange rate fluctuations for the period 1 304 – – – 1 304 Accumulated foreign exchange differences reclassified to profit or loss –1 470 – – – –1 470 Other 5) – 80 7 –73 14 Closing balance 2016 1 487 70 855 10 445 224 999 307 786 Opening balance 2017 1 487 70 855 10 445 224 999 307 786 Net profit/loss for the year 57 255 57 255 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan 13 957 –13 957 – Defined contribution plan 12 311 –12 311 – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan –2 156 –2 156 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan –117 –117 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan –1 267 –220 –1 487 Premium reduction –4 131 –4 131 Collective risk premium 4) –112 –112 Other changes Fees 15 –15 – Interest 251 –51 –200 – Effect of changes in market interest rates –106 106 – Exchange rate fluctuations for the period –179 –179 Accumulated foreign exchange differences reclassified to profit or loss –1 179 –1 179 Other 5) –209 1 130 –78 Closing balance 2017 129 89 388 10 298 255 787 355 602 1)  Funds which have been allocated to Alecta’s insureds and policy holders under various discretionary resolutions. These funds constitute a part of Alecta’s risk capital and are not guaranteed until assigned. Formally, Alecta can claw back the funds. SEK 1 468 million (1 468) of a total of SEK 89 388 million (70 855) refers to funds intended to cover the cost of measures forming part of the ITP plan, under which the parties to the collective agreement have the right to decide how the funds are used. The decision on the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s Board of Directors, provided that the Board unanimously agrees that the designated use is consistent with Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. 2) Funds contributed to Alecta for indexation of pensions or for other pension-promoting purposes or, alternatively, to be transferred to a foundation designed for indexation of pensions. The Council of Administration decides how the funds should be used. 3) Until the financial year 2015, returns were transferred between the surplus fund and guarantee reserve in the following year subject to a decision by the Council of Administration. The return for 2016 was credited to the guarantee reserve in connection with its elimination on 12 December 2016. See Note 35. 4) Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. 5) The item comprises cumulative return, inheritance gains and portfolio changes. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 83 NOTE 32 Equity excluding guarantee reserve, cont. Accounting principle Translation reserve Balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the closing rates at the that the Board unanimously agrees that the designated use is consistent balance sheet date and income statements of foreign subsidiaries are transwith Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. The allocation of surpluses lated at the average exchange rate for the year. Foreign exchange differences is regulated in the Company’s funding policy in the actuarial guidelines. As arising on translation are recognised in Other comprehensive income and the surplus is preliminary and not guaranteed, it is regarded as risk capital transferred to the Group’s translation reserve. The currencies that have been and is included in the Company’s surplus fund. The surplus is guaranteed in translated are the US dollar, pound sterling and euro. conjunction with payment under the applicable internal regulations and is recognised directly in equity. Discretionary participation features reserve The discretionary participation features reserve in equity consists of refunds Special indexation funds to policy holders and insureds that have been allocated on a preliminary Special indexation funds are funds contributed to Alecta for indexation of basis. Allocated refunds to the insureds include pension supplements and pensions in payment and for other pension-promoting purposes or, alternaadjustments of paid-up values for defined benefit pension products as well tively, to be transferred to a foundation designed for indexation of pensions. as refunds for defined contribution insurance that have been allocated on a Decisions on the use of the funds for these purposes are made by the Council preliminary basis. Allocated refunds to policy holders comprise a premium of Administration. Special indexation funds are not included in collective reduction for risk insurance. Allocated refunds to policy holders and the funding capital. Change items are recognised directly in equity. insureds also include funds intended to cover the cost of measures forming part of the ITP plan, under which the parties to the collective agreement have Retained earnings including net profit for the year been given the right to indicate how the funds should be used. The decision This item includes collective funding and net profit for the year. Collective on the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s Board of Directors, provided funding includes other risk capital, which is not allocated. 84 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 33 Surplus fund Discretionary participation features reserve Other reserves Allocated refunds to insureds Special indexation Parent Company Collective funding and policy holders 1) funds 2) Total Opening balance 2016 170 419 60 943 10 560 241 922 Appropriation of profits from previous years 51 074 – – 51 074 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan –6 758 6 758 – – Defined contribution plan –8 199 8 199 – – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan – –2 213 – –2 213 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan – –95 – –95 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan – –3 – –3 Premium reduction – –3 635 – –3 635 Return on guarantee reserve in previous year 3) –107 – – –107 Return on guarantee reserve in current year 3) –95 – – –95 Fees –10 – 10 – Interest –222 244 –22 – Collective risk premium 4) – – –109 –109 Effect of changes in market interest rates –577 577 – – Other changes 5) –72 80 6 14 Closing balance 2016 205 453 70 855 10 445 286 753 Opening balance 2017 205 453 70 855 10 445 286 753 Appropriation of profits from previous years 15 908 – – 15 908 Allocated refunds Defined benefit plan –13 957 13 957 – – Defined contribution plan –12 311 12 311 – – Guaranteed refunds Pension supplements, defined benefit plan – –2 156 – –2 156 Supplementary amounts, defined contribution plan – –117 – –117 Adjustment of paid-up values, defined benefit plan –220 –1 267 – –1 487 Premium reduction – –4 131 – –4131 Return on guarantee reserve in previous year 3) – – – – Return on guarantee reserve in current year 3) – – – – Fees –15 – 15 – Interest –200 251 –51 – Collective risk premium 4) – – –112 –112 Effect of changes in market interest rates 106 –106 – – Other changes 5) 130 –209 1 –78 Closing balance 2017 194 894 89 388 10 298 294 580 1)  Funds which have been allocated to Alecta’s insureds and policy holders under various discretionary resolutions. These funds constitute a part of Alecta’s risk capital and are not guaranteed until assigned. Formally, Alecta can claw back the funds. SEK 1 468 million (1 468) of a total of SEK 89 388 million (70 855) refers to funds intended to cover the cost of measures forming part of the ITP plan, under which the parties to the collective agreement have the right to decide how the funds are used. The decision on the final use of the funds is made by Alecta’s Board of Directors, provided that the Board unanimously agrees that the designated use is consistent with Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. 2) Funds contributed to Alecta for indexation of pensions or for other pension-promoting purposes or, alternatively, to be transferred to a foundation designed for indexation of pensions. The Council of Administration decides how the funds should be used. 3) Until the financial year 2015, returns were transferred between the surplus fund and guarantee reserve in the following year subject to a decision by the Council of Administration. The return for 2016 was credited to the guarantee reserve in connection with its elimination on 12 December 2016. See Note 35. 4) Premiums for waiver of premium insurance and collective final payments have been reduced as a result of the increase in employers’ expenses resulting from the rules for coordination and calculation of pensionable salaries introduced by the parties to ITP 2 in 2008. 5) The item comprises cumulative return, inheritance gains and portfolio changes. Accounting principle Surplus fund Life insurance companies which do not have the right to distribute profits are required to maintain a surplus fund to which funds are allocated that can be used to cover losses. If permitted by the articles of association, the reserve may also be used for other purposes. The surplus fund is part of equity and consists of collective funding, the discretionary participation features reserve and other reserves. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 85 Proposed appropriation NOTE 34 of profits NOTE 35 Guarantee reserve The Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer propose to the Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 Council of Administration that the Parent Company’s profit for 2017 of Opening balance – 1 867 SEK 55 340 835 771 be transferred to the surplus fund. The Board and CEO Return for previous year 1) – 107 propose that the Council of Administration approve the resolution of the Board regarding refunds as set forth in the section Distribution of surplus Return for current year 1) – 94 in the Administration Report, pages 35–36. Information funds – –105 Collective agreement guarantee – –8 See also Proposed appropriation of profits in the Administration Report Transfer to Guarantee foundation – –1 955 on page 36. Closing balance – – 1) Return after deduction of incurred investment management costs and tax. Until the financial year 2015, returns were transferred between the surplus fund and the guarantee reserve in the following year subject to a decision by the Council of Administration. The return for 2016 was credited to the guarantee reserve in connection with its elimination on 12 December 2016. The guarantee reserve was eliminated on 12 December 2016. The funds were transferred to an independent foundation, the Guarantee Foundation, with the same purpose as the guarantee reserve. 86 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 36 Provision for life insurance Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 Opening balance 449 546 413 563 EXPECTED DISCOUNTED NET CASH OUTFLOW FOR RETIREMENT PENSION, FAMILY PENSION AND ORIGINAL ITPK Change for the year 28 652 25 504 Premiums 32 287 28 679 SEK million 90 000 Payments –16 652 –16 048 Cumulative returns 14 064 13 563 80 000 Released operating expenses –638 –681 70 000 Yield tax –542 –414 60 000 Mortality result 48 –106 50 000 Other changes 85 511 40 000 Change in interest rate assumption –2 409 20 560 Difference between premium and provisioning assumptions –13 364 –8 726 30 000 Change in operating expenses assumption 722 – 20 000 Changed assumption for transfer under right of transfer – 160 10 000 Changed assumption for redistribution –2 074 2 009 0 Changed family pension assumptions 499 –3 524 year 0–5 5–10 10–15 15–20 20–25 25–30 30–35 35–40 40–45 45–50 50–55 55–60 60–65 Closing balance 461 572 449 546 The following assumptions have been applied in calculating the provision Accounting principle for life insurance as at 31 December 2017: Provision for life insurance The provision for life insurance is calculated as the capital value of expected • Interest rate assumption: The average rate of interest was 2,27 per cent guaranteed future pension payments, operating expenses, yield tax and (2,24) as at 31 December 2017. The method of determining this rate is contractual future premiums. described in Note 3. • Mortality assumption: Generational mortality is applied. It is assumed that Change in the provision for life insurance a 65-year-old male and 65-year-old female born in the 1950s will live for a The change in the provision for life insurance reflects actual events during further 22,2 (22,2) years and 23,9 (23,9) years, respectively. the period, such as premium payments received or outgoing payments made • Family pension assumption: Gender-dependent assumptions on family in conjunction with an insured event. The provision for life insurance is also composition are applied. adjusted by the period’s cumulative returns, assumed operating expenses, • Operating expenses assumption: Future operating expenses are considmortality results and the exercise of the right to switch pension providers, ered to comprise the present value of future expected expenses including and by the amount of paid-up policies. In addition, the provision for life cost increases due to inflation. Operating expenses are also recognised in insurance is affected by any changes to the method of calculation and the asconnection with premium payments. sumptions applied. Examples of assumptions used in calculating the provision • Deduction for yield tax: Future yield tax is considered to comprise the for life insurance are the discount rate, mortality and operating expenses. present value of the yield tax that Alecta is expected to pay on assets repreChanges in the provisions are recognised as an income and expense item in senting the present value of guaranteed commitments. the income statement. Interest rate sensitivity • For longer tenors, a fixed forward rate has been applied, which means that the average interest rate does not fluctuate as much as long-term market rates. If market interest rates were to fall by 1 percentage point, the average interest rate would fall by 0,6 percentage points and the provision for life insurance would increase by SEK 47,5 billion. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 87 NOTE 37 Provision for claims outstanding Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 Accounting principle Opening balance 16 727 14 314 Provision for claims outstanding Change for the year 608 2 150 The provision for claims outstanding is intended to cover future costs for Provision for new claims 5 899 5 865 insurance claims arising from incapacity to work. The technical provision is Discontinuation income –2 608 –1 198 determined when the right to compensation arises. A portion of the proviPayments –2 865 –2 752 sion for claims outstanding relates to claims incurred but not reported and Cumulative returns 186 154 is based exclusively on the Company’s experience of the backlog of reported Released operating expenses –57 –72 cases of illness, which does not normally extend beyond one year. Other changes 53 153 Change in the provision for claims outstanding Change in interest rate assumption –93 368 The calculation of the provision for claims outstanding is based on Alecta’s Change in operating expenses assumption – –105 insurance portfolio and on actuarial assumptions made on the basis of Closing balance 17 242 16 727 Alecta’s actuarial calculation data. Changes in the portfolio or in the assumptions lead to a change in the provision for claims outstanding. Such changes The following assumptions have been used in calculating, as at 31 December are recognised as an income or expense item in the income statement. 2017, the provision for claims outstanding in respect of disability pension and waiver of premium, which comprise the dominant portion of the provision: • Interest rate assumption: The average rate of interest was 1,09 per cent (1,00) as at 31 December 2017. The method of determining this rate is described in Note 3. • Morbidity assumption: Assumptions regarding the probability of remaining ill at a given point in time and regarding changes in benefit levels and the degree of incapacity for work. • Operating expenses assumption: Future operating expenses have been taken Provision for pensions into account in the form of a supplement for expected pension payments. Operating expenses are also recorded in conjunction with premium payNOTE 38 and similar obligations ments. • Indexation: It is assumed that benefits linked to changes in the price basic Group Parent Company amount and income basic amount (guaranteed indexation) will increase 2017 2016 2017 2016 annually by 2 per cent and 3 per cent, respectively. Provision for pensions 4 9 4 8 4 9 4 8 Interest rate sensitivity • If market interest rates fall by 1 percentage point the provision increases by The provision for pensions is largely attributable to employees born in 1955 SEK 0,7 billion. or earlier, who are entitled to retire on their own initiative from the age of 62 under the terms of the FTP agreement. See Note 1 and Note 48. EXPECTED DISCOUNTED NET CASH OUTFLOW FOR DISABILITY INSURANCE AND WAIVER OF PREMIUM INSURANCE Accounting principle All pension plans in the Group are accounted for as defined contribution plans. SEK million The FTP Agreement provides an option for employees born in 1955 or earlier 8 000 to retire on their own initiative with effect from the month after they turn 62. If 7 000 this option is exercised, Alecta will pay a single premium to cover the additional retirement benefits. An unfunded provision equal to 100 per cent of the 6 000 expected premium is made for employees who have notified Alecta that they 5 000 intend to exercise this option. For other employees who have the opportunity to retire early, an unfunded provision is made based on the assumption that 4 000 the benefit will be earned on a straight-line basis up to the age of 62 and that 3 000 60 (60) per cent of the employees will exercise the option. 2 000 1 000 0 year 0–5 5–10 10–15 15–20 20–25 25–30 30–35 35–40 88 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 39 Other provisions NOTE 41 Other liabilities Group Parent Company Group 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Payment liability on purchase of investment assets 72 398 Indexation of pensions for former Collateral received for derivatives 1) 1 443 2 661 employees 18 15 18 15 Accounts payable 248 188 Provision for real estate 11 7 5 7 Property tax 91 95 29 22 23 22 Value-added tax 12 8 Other 37 1 125 Accounting principle Total 1 903 4 475 A provision is a liability that is uncertain in terms of its due date and/or amount. A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when an existing All liabilities mature within one year of the balance sheet date. obligation arises as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow Parent Company 2017 2016 of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. An obligation can be legal or constructive. If these Liabilities to subsidiaries 1 550 849 criteria are not met, no provision is recognised in the balance sheet. Instead, Payment liability on purchase of investment assets 72 398 a contingent liability will arise, if the criteria for a contingent liability are met. Collateral received for derivatives 1) 1 443 2 661 Provisions are reviewed at each closing date. Provisions are used only for the Accounts payable 162 113 expenditure for which the provision was originally intended. Property tax 45 46 Value-added tax 12 8 Other 27 1 118 Total 3 311 5 193 1) See also Note 28. Liabilities related to direct Other accrued expenses and NOTE 40 insurance operations NOTE 42 deferred income Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 Group Parent Company Liabilities to policy holders 6 2 2017 2016 2017 2016 Preliminary tax, pensions 689 670 Accrued interest expenses 3 562 2 115 3 562 2 115 Other 11 11 Accrued property costs 72 107 44 43 Accrued personnel costs 136 198 131 136 Total 706 683 Prepaid rental income 370 277 157 139 Other 17 79 8 52 Accounting principle Total 4 157 2 776 3 902 2 485 Liabilities related to direct insurance operations are recognised at amortised cost. Accounting principle Accrued expenses and deferred income comprise expenses for the financial year that have been incurred by the business but have not been paid or invoiced at the balance sheet date, and income that has been paid or invoiced but has not been earned at the balance sheet date. Alecta’s accrued expenses and deferred income mainly relate to property costs, rental income, personnel costs and interest expenses. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 89 Assets and comparable collateral pledged for own liabilities and for NOTE 43 obligations reported as provisions NOTE 45 Transfers of financial assets Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 Assets registered on behalf of policy holders 811 221 754 457 Loaned debt securities 2 322 – in addition to required pledge 332 408 288 184 Collateral received for loaned securities 2 369 – 811 221 754 457 Land and buildings 20 947 22 834 Accounting principle Shares and participations in jointly controlled entities Loaned debt securities consist of Swedish government bonds, which are rec(joint ventures) 13 900 4 825 ognised at fair value in the balance sheet, in accordance with the applicable Loans to jointly controlled entities (joint ventures) 1 594 3 380 accounting principles. Collateral received for loaned debt securities consists Shares and participations 374 944 345 710 of Swedish government bonds and mortgage bonds and is not recognised in Bonds and other debt securities 397 257 373 454 the balance sheet. Compensation received in 2017 for the loan of debt secuOther loans 2 098 2 288 rities has been recognised as interest income in the item Return on capital, Derivatives –2 163 –478 income. See Note 5. At the end of 2016, no debt securities were on loan. Cash and bank balances 2 644 2 444 Total 811 221 754 457 The table above shows assets that have been registered for debt coverage under Regulation FFFS 2011:20 of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. NOTE 46 Contingent liabilities Group 2017 2016 Other pledged assets and Remaining balance to be invested in investment assets 9 328 1 057 NOTE 44 comparable collateral Guarantee commitments Total 825 10 153 752 1 809 Group and Parent Company 2017 2016 Parent Company Collateral pledged to clearing houses for derivatives Remaining balance to be invested in investment assets 9 237 906 trading Liabilities in limited partnerships 103 12 Bonds and other debt securities 2 734 2 192 Total 9 340 918 Cash and bank balances 168 155 Collateral pledged for derivatives trading in accordance with CSA contracts Contingent liabilities is a generic term for guarantees, financial commitments Bonds and other debt securities 4 483 1 145 and obligations that are not included in the balance sheet. Cash and bank balances 262 2 225 Remaining balance to be invested in investment assets refers to an obligaTotal 7 647 5 717 tion to inject capital, if requested, into unlisted real estate-related investments and unlisted venture capital investments. Collateral pledged for derivatives trading in accordance with CSA contracts The majority of Alecta’s guarantee commitments refer to loans in connecis described in Note 28 Financial instruments subject to enforceable master tion with the development of tenant-owner apartments. netting agreements. In the course of its normal business operations Alecta is party to several disputes, most of which relate to minor amounts. Alecta does not expect these disputes to have a material adverse impact on the Group’s financial position. 90 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 47 Reconciliation of total return table to financial statements Group 2017 2016 Group 2017 2016 Market value according to total return table 1) 829 792 770 444 Total return according to total return table 51 980 38 136 Assets not classified as investments 7 259 8 486 Items from the income statement (Notes 5, 6, 9, 10) Items from the liabilities side of the balance sheet which which are not included in the total return table 830 930 have been deducted in the total return table 14 039 14 371 Foreign exchange effects in foreign subsidiaries, Valuation differences –159 –95 recognised in equity in the financial statements 238 –1 271 Other –2 – Valuation differences, closing balance –159 –95 Total assets according to balance sheet 850 929 793 206 Valuation differences, opening balance 95 36 Other 16 –207 Total return according to income statement 2) 53 000 37 529 1) See page 32. 2) Notes 5, 6, 9 and 10 in the income statement. NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration 2017 2016 2017 2016 Average number of Number of Of whom Of whom Number of Of whom Of whom Gender distribution in senior positions Women Men Women Men employees 1) employees women men employees women men Parent Company Parent Company Board of Directors 4 11 4 11 Sweden 343 202 141 352 208 144 CEO – 1 – 1 United Kingdom 2) 0 0 0 2 1 1 Other senior executives 3 5 2 5 Total, Parent Company 343 202 141 354 209 145 Total, Parent Company 7 17 6 17 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Sweden 25 17 8 26 18 8 Board of Directors – 6 – 6 USA 2) 3 2 1 10 7 3 Other senior executives 1 1 1 1 Total, subsidiaries 28 19 9 36 25 11 Total, subsidiaries 1 7 1 7 Total, Group 371 221 150 390 234 156 Total, Group 8 24 7 24 Salaries, remuneration and fees paid to the CEO, senior executives, Directors and other employees 3) 2017 2016 Salaries, fees Salaries, fees and other Social security Pension and other Social security Pension kSEK remuneration contributions costs Total remuneration contributions costs Total Parent Company CEO and senior executives 4) 28 008 10 591 7 380 45 979 23 389 8 609 6 813 38 811 Directors 5) 3 003 759 – 3 762 2 747 647 – 3 394 Other employees 238 737 66 873 52 038 357 648 239 178 73 393 46 994 359 565 Total, Parent Company 269 748 78 223 59 418 407 389 265 314 82 649 53 807 401 770 Subsidiaries Sweden Other employees 10 660 3 302 872 14 834 10 113 3 039 807 13 959 USA Senior executives 6) 5 107 66 748 5 921 42 167 875 1 268 44 310 Other employees 6) 4 303 184 647 5 134 33 785 1 354 1 409 36 548 Total, subsidiaries 20 070 3 552 2 267 25 889 86 065 5 268 3 484 94 817 Total, Group 289 818 81 775 61 685 433 278 351 379 87 917 57 291 496 587 1) Refers to the average number of employees, both full-time and part-time. 2) All employees had left Alecta as at 31 May 2017 in connection with the closure of the foreign offices. 3) The note shows salaries, remuneration and fees charged to expense in each financial year. 4) Consists of senior management for 2017. For the current composition of senior management, see pages 120–121. 5) Members of the Board receive Directors’ fees and fees for work on Board committees, which are determined by the Council of Administration. One Director also receives remuneration for nominating committee work. 6) The change compared with the previous year is due to the closure of the US business following the sale of all directly owned properties. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 91 NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, cont. Salaries, remuneration, fees and benefits paid to senior executives and Directors 2017 Salaries, fees and other Variable Total Social security kSEK remuneration 1) remuneration 1, 5) Benefits 4) remuneration contributions Pension costs Parent Company CEO Magnus Billing 5 924 – 76 6 000 2 478 2 444 Deputy CEO Per Frennberg 2) 5 833 1 612 7 7 452 2 701 1 484 Katarina Thorslund 2 369 18 2 387 887 564 Senior executives Senior executives 3) 10 678 1 452 39 12 169 4 525 2 888 Total, CEO and senior executives 24 804 3 064 140 28 008 10 591 7 380 Chairman of the Board Erik Åsbrink 594 – – 594 60 – Other members of the Board (excl. CEO) Hanna Brandt Gonzalez 185 – – 185 58 – Cecilia Fahlberg 219 – – 219 69 – Anna-Karin Hatt 185 – – 185 58 – Per Hedelin 199 – – 199 63 – Peter Jeppsson 185 – – 185 58 – Martin Linder 185 – – 185 58 – Petra Hedengran 94 – – 94 30 – Richard Malmborg 185 – – 185 58 – Anders Weihe 94 – – 94 30 – Kaj Thorén 276 – – 276 28 – Magnus von Koch 185 – – 185 58 – Christer Ågren 219 – – 219 69 Other members of the Board (excl. CEO) that have left Jonas Milton 106 – – 106 33 – Lars Wedenborn 92 – – 92 29 – Total, Board 3 003 – – 3 003 759 – Total, Parent Company 27 807 3 064 140 31 011 11 350 7 380 1) Salaries, fees and other remuneration, variable remuneration and severance pay shown as total salaries, fees and other remuneration charged to expense in the financial year 2017. 2) Per Frennberg was Deputy CEO until 31 May 2017 and remained an employee until 19 November 2017. Salaries, fees and other remuneration include severance pay of SEK 3 132 000, representing 12 months’ salary, of which SEK 2 740 000 will be paid in 2018. The amount of severance pay will be reduced by benefits received from any other employment. 3) Other senior executives refer to seven positions (five), which together with the CEO and the Deputy CEO comprised Alecta’s senior management team from August 2017. During the period January to May 2017, the other senior executives category consisted of five individuals. From June 2017, the Acting Head of Investment Management has been included in other senior executives and from August 2017 the senior management team was increased by one person. For the current composition of senior management, see pages 120–121. The expense refers to those individuals who held a position as senior executive at some point during the year. 4) Typical benefits include a company car, mortgage interest benefits, household services and healthcare insurance. 5) Refers to variable remuneration under the Investment Management incentive scheme for which provisions have been made. A presentation of remuneration paid by Alecta, including variable remuneration, in accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s Regulations and General Guidelines on Annual Accounts of Insurance Companies (FFFS 2015:12) will be published on alecta.se in April 2018. 92 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, cont. Salaries, remuneration, fees and benefits paid to senior executives and Directors 2016 Salaries, fees and other Variable Total Social security kSEK remuneration 1) remuneration 1, 5) Benefits 4) remuneration contributions Pension costs Parent Company CEO Staffan Grefbäck, to 17 April 2016 1 950 – 19 1 969 777 651 Magnus Billing, from 18 April 2016 4 047 – 10 4 057 1 608 1 372 Deputy CEO Per Frennberg 3 288 1 251 18 4 557 1 382 1 414 Katarina Thorslund 2 193 – 17 2 210 809 474 Senior executives Senior executives 3) 10 461 – 135 10 596 4 033 2 902 Total, CEO and senior executives 21 939 1 251 199 23 389 8 609 6 813 Chairman of the Board Erik Åsbrink 579 – – 579 59 – Other members of the Board (excl. CEO) Hanna Brandt Gonzalez 92 – – 92 29 – Cecilia Fahlberg 214 – – 214 67 – Anna-Karin Hatt 92 – – 92 29 – Per Hedelin 181 – – 181 57 – Peter Jeppsson 92 – – 92 29 – Martin Linder 92 – – 92 29 – Jonas Milton 209 – – 209 65 – Richard Malmborg 181 – – 181 57 – Lars Wedenborn 181 – – 181 57 – Kaj Thorén 261 – – 261 27 – Magnus von Koch 181 – – 181 57 – Christer Ågren 214 – – 214 67 – Other members of the Board (excl. CEO) that have left Gunilla Dahmm 89 – – 89 9 – Karl Olof Stenqvist 89 – – 89 9 – Total, Board 2 747 – – 2 747 647 – Total, Parent Company 24 686 1 251 199 26 136 9 256 6 813 1) Salaries, fees and other remuneration, variable remuneration and severance pay shown as total salaries, fees and other remuneration charged to expense in the financial year 2017. 2) Other senior executives refers to five positions (eight), which together with the CEO and deputy CEOs comprised Alecta’s senior management from September 2016. During the period January to August 2016, the other senior executives category consisted of eight individuals. The expense refers to those individuals who held a position as senior executive at some point during the year. 3) Typical benefits include a company car, mortgage interest benefits, household services and healthcare insurance. 4) Refers to variable remuneration under the Investment Management incentive scheme for which provisions have been made. A presentation of remuneration paid by Alecta, including variable remuneration, in accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s Regulations and General Guidelines on Annual Accounts of Insurance Companies (FFFS 2015:12) was published on alecta.se in April 2017. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 93 NOTE 48 Average number of employees, salaries and remuneration, cont. Remuneration of Directors, the CEO and other senior executives outcome for the general incentive scheme is contingent on achievement of The Chairman and other members of the Board of Directors receive targets linked to the business plan for 2017, with a maximum payout of kSEK Directors’ fees in accordance with resolutions adopted by the Council of Ad12 per employee in the form of increased occupational pension premiums. ministration. The remuneration determined by the Council of Administration In 2017, all three targets were fully achieved. The outcome per employee was relates to the period until the next regular meeting of the Council of AdminkSEK 12 (10), representing a total cost for Alecta of approximately SEK 4 istration. The remuneration paid to the CEO and senior executives in 2017 million (4), including social security contributions. comprised basic salary and other benefits, such as a company car, mortgage The Investment Management incentive scheme for investment personnel interest benefits, healthcare insurance, household services, pension costs has an evaluation period of three years. The Board of Directors has defined and social security contributions. Per Frennberg, Deputy CEO until 31 May caps for payouts as well as the targets against which performance will be 2017, has received variable remuneration under the Investment Management measured. Key factors determining the outcome for variable remuneration incentive scheme. Tony Persson, Acting Head of Investment Management as are total return on investment assets, return in relation to Alecta’s competof 1 June 2017, has also received variable remuneration under the Investment itors and return from active management in the asset classes shares, debt Management incentive scheme. securities and real estate. The outcome for each individual also depends on The remuneration of the CEO is determined by the Board and is reviewed the extent to which individually defined targets have been achieved. For 2017, annually. The remuneration of senior executives is determined by the CEO a provision of SEK 15,9 million, excluding social security contributions, has subject to approval by the Board of Directors. been made for variable remuneration of investment personnel. For 2016, the Other senior executives refer to eight individuals who together with the vested variable remuneration was SEK 15,2 million excluding social security CEO have constituted Alecta’s management team. For the current composicontributions. tion of senior management, see pages 120–121. In the incentive scheme for subsidiaries engaged in restaurant and conIn accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s Regulaference activities, SEK 0,5 million excluding social security contributions was tions and General Guidelines on Annual Accounts of Insurance Companies vested for 2017. For 2016, there was no outcome. (FFFS 2015:12), supplementary disclosures on remuneration will be presented on Alecta’s website, alecta.se, in April 2018. Pension plans All employees of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt who are based in Pensions, severance pay and other benefits of the CEO, deputy Sweden are covered by an occupational pension plan, FTP 17. The plan CEOs and other senior executives consists of two parts, FTP 1 and FTP 2. Employees born in 1972 or later are The CEO has a pension agreement under which 35 per cent of the monthly covered by FTP 1 while employees born in 1971 or earlier are covered by FTP salary is set aside each month for pensions, including contributions to the 2. FTP 1 covers defined contribution retirement pensions with or without FTP plan. Any portion of the contribution which exceeds the contribution repayment cover, family protection, disability pension and waiver of premium required for the FTP plan may be used for retirement pension, survivor’s insurance. The premium for retirement pension is 4,7 per cent of the gross pension and/or disability pension, as decided by the CEO. The pensionable salary on portions of salary up to 7,5 times the income basic amount and age for the CEO is 65. The CEO’s employment contract is terminable on six 30,3 per cent on portions of salary in excess of 7,5 times the income basic months’ notice on the part of the Company, in which case the CEO is entitled amount. Employees born in 1971 or earlier with a salary in excess of ten to severance pay in the amount of twelve months’ salary. If the CEO takes times the income basic amount can choose to be covered by FTP 1. FTP 2 is up other employment, the amount of severance pay will be reduced by any a defined benefit pension plan, which means that the employee is guaranteed benefits received from such employment during the period of severance pay. a pension defined as a specific percentage of his or her final salary. FTP 2 The contract can be terminated by the CEO on six months’ notice. includes retirement pension, family pension, FTPK, disability pension, family The Deputy CEO is covered by the FTP plan. The Deputy CEO Katarina protection, waiver of premium insurance and a separate children’s pension. Thorslund is covered by a previous contract stipulating a notice period of 18 Pension commitments are secured through payments of fixed insurmonths, with any benefits received from other employment being fully deance premiums during the period of service. Under IAS 19, multi-employer ductible from severance pay. The contract can be terminated by the Deputy defined benefit pension plans should, as a rule, be accounted for as defined CEO on six months’ notice. benefit pension plans. If insufficient information is available to determine Senior executives are covered by the FTP plan. Two executives are the employer’s share of the obligations and plan assets, the pension plan covered by FTP2 and the remaining executives by FTP1. Their contracts are should instead be accounted for as if it were a defined contribution pension terminable on six months’ notice in case of termination by the Company and plan. Alecta accounts for the whole FTP plan as a defined contribution plan, provide for severance pay in the amount of twelve months’ salary. If a senior as the criteria for recognising the defined benefit components of the plan executive takes up other employment, the amount of severance pay will be in accordance with the main rule in IAS 19 are not met. This means that the reduced by any benefits received from such employment during the period of expense is recognised when the benefits are earned. The total insurance severance pay. Since early 2013 employees of Alecta have had the option of premium for defined benefit retirement and family pensions in FTP 2 was SEK exchanging a part of their salary for occupational pension premiums. Salary 21,3 million in 2017 and is expected to reach SEK 28,0 million in 2018. The exchange is cost-neutral for Alecta. This option is available to all employees premium represents approximately 0,09 per cent of the total premiums for of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt. defined benefit retirement and family pensions paid to Alecta by the client companies. Premiums are calculated on a per insured basis and for each Incentive schemes type of benefit by applying Alecta’s assumptions on interest rates, operating In 2017, investment personnel in the Investment Management department expenses and yield tax. and employees of a subsidiary which provides restaurant and conference Alecta’s collective funding ratio for defined benefit plans at the end of services were covered by an incentive scheme. Alecta has been running a the year was 154 per cent (149). The collective funding ratio is defined as general variable pay incentive scheme covering all employees except senior the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of its commitments to management, employees of the Internal Audit, Risk and Compliance units, policy holders calculated using Alecta’s actuarial assumptions, which are not and those employees at the Investment Management department who are alconsistent with IAS 19. Alecta’s funding policy for its defined benefit plans is ready covered by the special incentive scheme for investment personnel. The to maintain a collective funding ratio of 125 to 155 per cent under normal 94 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Average number of employees, NOTE 48 salaries and remuneration, cont. NOTE 50 Leasing, cont. conditions, with a target ratio of 140 per cent. If Alecta’s collective funding ratio falls below 125 per cent or exceeds 155 per cent measures must be Accounting principle taken to create conditions that will allow the collective funding ratio to return Leases in which essentially all risks and rewards of ownership accrue to the to the normal range within three years, provided that such measures are not lessor are classified as operating leases. Based on this definition, all of the expected to impede Alecta’s ability to fulfil its insurance commitments or Group’s rental agreements are classified as operating leases. Lease payments ensure the indexation of pensions in payment. In case of a low funding ratio, for operating leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis one measure that can be taken is to raise the agreed price for new policies over the term of the lease. All rental agreements for the Group’s investment and expansion of existing benefits. If the funding ratio is high, premiums can properties are classified as operating leases; see Note 15. Rental income is be reduced. recognised as income on a straight-line basis so that only that portion of FTP 2 provides an option for employees born in 1955 or earlier to retire the rent which is attributable to each period is recognised as income in the on their own initiative with effect from the month after they turn 62. The period. provision is recognised in the item Provision for pensions and similar obligations, see Note 38. The subsidiaries have only defined contribution plans. These plans are secured mainly through payments of insurance premiums by each Group company and in some cases also by the employees. Some Group companies also provide various forms of healthcare insurance. Provision for pensions In the Parent Company, the calculation of the provision for pensions for NOTE 51 Related party disclosures Alecta’s employees is made in compliance with the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and based on assumptions provided for in Regulation FFFS This note contains descriptions of transactions between Alecta and related 2007:31 of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. parties, as defined in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Alecta considers the following legal entities and physical persons to be related parties according to this definition: • all companies in the Alecta Group • members of the Board of Directors and management team NOTE 49 Disclosure of auditors’ fees • close family of members of the Board of Directors and management team • the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, PTK and their member organisaGroup Parent Company tions/unions 2017 2016 2017 2016 • associates and joint ventures EY • the occupational pension information centres Collectum and Fora (the main owner of Collectum being the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Statutory audit 3,4 3,1 3,4 3,1 which also owns half of Fora). Audit activities not included in statutory audit 0,6 – 0,6 – • AMF and AFA are half-owned by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Tax advisory services 1,2 2,9 – 0,2 Other services 0,1 2,2 0,1 0,3 Transactions with related parties must, like other transactions, be undertaken on commercial terms. When such transactions are undertaken particular Total, EY 5,3 8,2 4,1 3,6 attention must be paid to the internal rule on handling of conflicts of interest and Alecta’s ethics policy, both of which have been adopted by Alecta’s Board of Directors. The operations of Alecta are conducted in accordance with principles of NOTE 50 Leasing mutuality. The profit or loss arising in the company must be returned to or borne by the policy holders and the insureds. The operations are conducted on a non-profit basis and no profits are distributed. Subsidiaries are regarded Alecta has entered into operating leases for premises, office equipment and chiefly as capital investments aimed at generating the best return for the cars. The due dates for the sum of future minimum lease payments under owners. non-cancellable leases at 31 December 2017 are indicated below. Group Parent Company Transactions between Alecta and subsidiaries Expiration 2017 2016 2017 2016 Alecta-to-subsidiary transactions refer to loans or shareholder contributions Within one year 6,1 4,8 3,1 4,8 provided in connection with investments made by the subsidiaries. SubsidLater than one year but iary-to-Alecta transactions refer mainly to loan repayments and interest within five years 13,5 2,1 8,1 2,1 payments as well as dividends. Shares and participations in Group companies Later than five years – – – – are presented in Note 16. Total 19,6 6,9 11,2 6,9 Transactions with members of the Board, senior management and Total lease payments their immediate family during period 7,4 9,6 4,5 6,8 Information on remuneration of senior executives and members of the Board of which minimum lease is presented in Note 48. No remuneration was paid to family members of payments 7,4 9,6 4,5 6,8 related parties in 2017. Rental contracts outside Sweden are sublet. The lease income was SEK 1,5 million in 2017, and is estimated at SEK 2,6 million within one year and SEK 4,6 million in total after more than one year but within five years. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 95 NOTE 51 Related party disclosures, cont. Transactions with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK and the United States. In the US, these participations are owned through the The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Council for Negotiation and wholly owned subsidiary company Alecta Real Estate USA, LLC. A list of joint Cooperation (PTK) are central labour market organisations in the Swedish ventures is found in Note 18. private sector. Member organisations and unions of these central organisations Transactions between Alecta and these joint ventures refer to lending, are represented on the nomination committees which, on behalf of the ownshareholder contributions and interest payments, and are shown in the table ers, appoint members of Alecta’s Council of Administration and thus indirectly below. also of Alecta’s Board of Directors. No transactions took place between Alecta There are currently no investments in associated companies. and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK in 2017. In previous years, information funds for ITP and TGL have been paid from Transactions with the occupational pension information centres the guarantee reserve; see Note 35. In 2016, the Confederation of Swedish Collectum and Fora Enterprise and some of its member organisations transferred insurance Transactions made between Alecta and the Collectum and Fora selection portfolios from another insurance provider to Alecta. The transferred centres are based on concluded agency agreements under which the portfolios had a total value of SEK 500 million and the transfers were made selection centres undertake to perform a number of duties related to the ITP on commercial terms. plans and the occupational pension plans collectively agreed between the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish Trade Union ConfederTransactions with associated companies and joint ventures ation (Avtalspension SAF-LO). Collectum and Fora receive agency fees from Joint ventures are defined as entities in which Alecta exercises joint control Alecta for work performed under the agency agreements. Transactions with together with the other co-owners. Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt is the selection centres are shown in the table below. The agency fees have a co-owner of a number of jointly controlled real estate companies in Sweden been charged to operating expenses for the year and are shown in Note 8. Payments received Payments made Related parties Transactions 2017 2016 2017 2016 Information on transactions Swedish Group companies Interest income 118 141 – – between the Parent Company, Share of profit 80 14 – – Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, and related parties: Management fee 9 6 – – Foreign Group companies Dividends 5 788 10 906 – – Shareholder contributions provided – – 289 100 Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and PTK Information funds for ITP and TGL – – – 105 Selection centres (Collectum and Fora) Premium payments 29 386 27 148 – – Agency fees – – 133 132 Joint ventures Interest income 165 144 – – 35 546 38 359 422 337 Receivables Liabilities Related parties Balances 2017 2016 2017 2016 Information on the Parent Swedish Group companies Non-current receivables 9 272 10 380 – – Company, Alecta Pensions­ Receivables from/liabilities to försäkring, ömsesidigt’s, Group companies – – 568 57 outstanding receivables from and liabilities to related parties Accrued interest expenses – – 0 0 at 31 December Selection centres (Collectum and Fora) Receivables 1 744 1 589 – – Joint ventures Loans receivable 1 591 3 655 – – Accrued interest income 3 14 – – 12 610 15 638 568 57 NOTE 52 Significant events after the balance sheet date Alecta retains status as default option for ITP1 to remain the default option for another five years, covering the period In mid-November 2017, Alecta submitted its bid in the procurement of a 1 October 2018–30 September 2023. service provider for the management of the ITP 1 occupational pension In connection with the procurement, Alecta is further improving its Alecta scheme, and in early March 2018 Collectum announced the results of the Optimal Pension product by cutting the already low fee, to 0,09 per cent, procurement. In competition with other pension funds, Alecta was chosen and lowering the annual cap on fees from SEK 900 to SEK 600. 96 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Board of Directors’ signatures We hereby declare that, to the best of our knowledge, the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the information provided gives a true and fair view of the circumstances of the Company and nothing of material significance has been omitted which could affect the view of the Company created by the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. Stockholm, 15 March 2018 Erik Åsbrink Chairman Cecilia Fahlberg Pihlgren Christer Ågren Hanna Brandt-González First Vice Chairman Second Vice Chairman Board member Anna-Karin Hatt Per Hedelin Petra Hedengran Peter Jeppsson Board member Board member Board member Board member Magnus von Koch Martin Linder Richard Malmborg Kaj Thorén Board member Board member Board member Board member Anders Weihe Birgitta Pernkrans Mikael Persson Board member Employee representative Employee representative Magnus Billing CEO Our audit report was submitted on 19 March 2018. Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 97 Audit Report To the Council of Administration of Alecta Pensions­ auditor’s responsibility in our report on the annual accounts also in försäkring, ömsesidigt, corp. ID no. 502014-6865 these areas. We thus carried out audit procedures which have been designed to take account of our assessment of the risk of material Report on the annual accounts and consolidated errors in the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. financial statements The outcome of our audit and the audit procedures that have been carried out to address the areas described below constitute the basis Opinion for our auditor’s report. We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt for 2017. The Valuation of investment assets company’s annual accounts and consolidated financial statements At 31 December 2017, the Group had investment assets of SEK 830 are presented on pages 30–97 of this document. billion, accounting for 98 per cent of total assets. Investment assets In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in ac­­cord­ in the Parent Company were SEK 823 billion, accounting for 97 per ance with the Swedish Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act cent of the Parent Company’s total assets. Of the investment assets, and give an essentially true and fair view of the Parent Company’s SEK 827 billion is measured at fair value in the Group and SEK 808 financial position at 31 December 2017 and of its financial results and billion is measured at fair value in the Parent Company. Financial cash flows for the year in accordance with the Insurance Companies instruments at fair value are divided into different levels based on a Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated financial statements have fair value hierarchy (Levels 1, 2 and 3). Level 1 consists of financial been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Insurance Companies instruments for which quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets Annual Accounts Act and give an essentially true and fair view of the are available for identical assets or liabilities. For financial instruGroup’s financial position at 31 December 2017 and of its financial ments in Level 2, certain estimates and judgements may be required results and cash flows for the year in accordance with the Internatioto determine fair value, although the use of estimates and judgements nal Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and is much less significant than for financial instruments in Level 3. At the Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act. The Administration 31 December 2017, there were investment assets of SEK 603 million Report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and which are measured at fair value at Level 1, SEK 163 million measured consolidated financial statements. at Level 2 and SEK 61 million measured at Level 3. For the Parent We therefore recommend that the shareholders’ meeting adopt Company, there were investment assets of SEK 603 million which are the Parent Company and consolidated income statements and measured at fair value at Level 1, SEK 163 million measured at Level 2 balance sheets. and SEK 42 million measured at Level 3. Disclosures on the valuation The opinion expressed in this report on the annual accounts and of investment assets are found in Note 1 Accounting principles and consolidated financial statements is consistent with the content of Note 22 Valuation categories for financial instruments measured at the supplementary report submitted to the Audit Committee of the fair value. Information is also provided in Note 19 Classification of Parent Company in accordance with Article 11 of the Audit Regulafinancial assets and liabilities and in Note 23 Disclosures on financial tion (537/2014). instruments measured at fair value based on Level 3. Disclosures are also provided in Note 15 Land and buildings and Notes 24–28. In view Basis of opinion of the size of the balance sheet item relative to total assets, and the We have conducted our audit in accordance with the International fact that the measurement of financial instruments at Level 2 and Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing stanLevel 3 requires management to make certain estimates and judgedards (GAAS) in Sweden. Our responsibility under these standards ments, the valuation of investment assets is considered a key audit is described in the section The auditor’s responsibility. We are matter in our audit. We have evaluated the company’s process for independent of the Parent Company and the Group in accordance the valuation of financial instruments and other investment assets, with Swedish GAAS and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responand the valuation methods used, and have, where applicable, assessibilities under these standards. This includes ensuring, based on sed the reasonableness of management’s estimates and judgements our best knowledge and conviction, that no prohibited services in calculating fair values. We have tested a selection of key controls within the meaning of Article 5.1 of the Audit Regulation (537/2014) in the valuation process and have independently valued a selection of have been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its financial instruments and other investment assets. The results of this Parent Company or its controlled undertakings within the EU. valuation have been compared with management’s own valuation and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient differences have been analysed. We have also assessed whether the and adequate as a basis for our opinion. disclosures made in the financial statements in respect of investment assets are appropriate. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters which, in our professional Valuation of provisions for life insurance judgement, were of greatest significance for the audit of the annual At 31 December 2017, the Group had provisions for life insurance of accounts and consolidated accounts for the period concerned. These SEK 461 572 million, accounting for 93 per cent of total liabilities. In matters were addressed in the context of the audit of, and in the the Parent Company, provisions for life insurance were SEK 461 572 preparation of our opinion on, the annual accounts and consolidamillion, accounting for 93 per cent of the Parent Company’s liabited accounts as a whole, but we do not present a separate opinion lities. Disclosures on provisions for life insurance are provided in on these matters. The below description of how the audit has been Note 1 Accounting principles, Note 2 Significant accounting estimaimplemented in these areas should also be read in this context. tes and judgements, Note 3 Risks and risk management, and Note 36 We have fulfilled the obligations described in the section The Provision for life insurance. 98 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Life insurance provisions need to cover expected future payments of The auditor’s responsibility insurance claims. Provisions for future claims are calculated using Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance that the annual statistical methods. In view of the size of the balance sheet item accounts and consolidated financial statements as a whole are free relative to total liabilities, and the fact that the valuation requires from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to management to make estimates and judgements, the valuation of life submit an audit report containing our opinion. Reasonable assurance insurance provisions is considered a key audit matter in our audit. We is a high degree of assurance, but does not constitute a guarantee that have evaluated the company’s process for determining provisions and an audit conducted in accordance with ISA and generally accepted assessed whether material risks are covered by existing controls. We auditing standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstate­ have also assessed the suitability of the methods and assumptions ment if it exists. Misstatements can arise due to fraud or error and are used, and have made independent calculations of provisions for those considered material if they individually or jointly can reasonably be insurance classes which involve the highest degree of judgement. In expected to affect financial decisions made by users on the basis of our audit, we have engaged our internal actuaries to assist us in carrythe annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. ing out audit procedures in respect of technical provisions. As part of our audit in accordance with ISA, we use our profesWe have also assessed whether the disclosures made in the finansional judgement and maintain a professionally sceptical attitude cial statements in respect of life insurance provisions are appropriate. throughout our audit. We also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement in the annuOther information than the annual accounts and consolidated al accounts and consolidated financial statements, whether due to financial statements fraud or error, devise and perform audit procedures partly on the This document also contains other information than the annual basis of these risks and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and accounts and consolidated financial statements, which is found on appropriate as a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting pages 1–29 and 101–124. Responsibility for this other information a material misstatement that is due to fraud is higher than for a rests with the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. material misstatement that is due to error, as fraud can involve Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated financial persons acting in collusion, falsification, intentional omissions, statements does not cover this other information, and we do not incorrect information or neglect of internal control. express any opinion, or make any certification, in respect of this • obtain an understanding of that part of the company’s internal information. control system that is of significance for our audit in order to In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consolidade­v ise audit procedures which are appropriate in view of the ted financial statements it is our responsibility to read the information circumstances, but not to express an opinion on the effectiveness identified above and, in so doing, to consider whether it is materially of the internal control system. inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated financial • evaluate the appropriateness of the accounting principles used statements. In this review we also take account of other knowledge and the reasonableness of the Board of Directors’ and CEO’s estiobtained in the course of our audit and assess whether the informamates in the accounts and related disclosures. tion otherwise appears to contain material misstatements. • draw a conclusion on the appropriateness of the Board of DirecIf, based on the work carried out in respect of this information, tors’ and CEO’s use of the going concern assumption in preparing we conclude that the other information contains a material misstate­ the annual accounts and consolidated financial statements. We ment, we have a duty to report this. We have nothing to report in also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, that regard. on whether there is any material uncertainty related to events or circumstances which could cast significant doubt on the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we draw the Chief Executive Officer conclusion that there is a material uncertainty, we need to draw Responsibility for ensuring that the annual accounts and consolidaattention in our audit report to those disclosures which concern ted financial statements are prepared and give a true and fair view the material uncertainty in the annual accounts or, if such disclopursuant to the Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act and, as sures are insufficient, modify our opinion on the annual accounts regards the consolidated financial statements, also pursuant to IFRS and consolidated financial statements. Our conclusions are based as adopted by the EU, rests with the Board of Directors and Chief on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of the audit report. Executive Officer. The Board and CEO are also responsible for such However, future events or circumstances could result in a cominternal control as they deem necessary for the purpose of preparing pany being unable to continue as a going concern. annual accounts and consolidated financial statements that are free • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. annual accounts and consolidated financial statements, including In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated financial the disclosures, and whether the annual accounts and consolidastatements, the Board and CEO are responsible for assessing the ted financial statements provide a true and fair view of the undercompany’s ability to continue as a going concern. Where applicable, lying transactions and events. they are also required to disclose circumstances which could affect • obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence in respect of the the company’s ability to continue as a going concern and use the financial information for the entities or business activities in the going concern assumption. The going concern assumption applies Group so as to be able to express an opinion on the consolidated unless the Board and CEO intend to liquidate the company or cease financial statements. We are responsible for the governance, to operate, or have no realistic alternative to doing so. monitoring and performance of the audit of the consolidated The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is tasked with financial statements. We are solely responsible for the opinion monitoring, without prejudice to the other responsibilities and that we issue. duties of the Board, the financial reporting of the company. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 99 Audit Report, cont. We are required to inform the Board on, for example, the planned The CEO is responsible for day-to-day management in accordance scope, focus and timing of the audit. We are also required to comwith the guidelines and instructions issued by the Board and shall municate any significant observations made in the course of our take such actions as may be necessary to ensure compliance with audit, including any significant internal control issues that we have the company’s statutory accounting obligations and satisfactory identified. man­agement of funds. We are furthermore required to submit a statement to the Board confirming that we have complied with all professional ethical The auditor’s responsibility requirements with regard to independence, address all relations and Our objective for the management audit, and thus for our opinion on other circumstances which could reasonably affect our independ­ release from liability, is to obtain audit evidence that enables us to ence and, where applicable, take relevant countermeasures. assess with reasonable assurance whether any member of the Board Of those areas that are communicated to the Board, we determine or the Chief Executive Officer has in any material respect: which were most significant for the audit of the annual accounts and • taken any action or been guilty of any neglect that could give rise consolidated financial statements, including the most important to a liability to indemnify the company. assessed risks of material misstatement, and which therefore consti• otherwise acted in contravention of the Insurance Business Act, tute the key audit matters. We describe these areas in our audit report the Insurance Companies Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of unless laws, regulations or administrative provisions prohibit the Association. disclosure of the matter or when, in extremely rare cases, we consider that a matter should not be communicated in the audit report because Our objective in respect of our audit of the proposed appropriathe negative consequences of doing so may reasonably be expected to tion of the company’s profit or loss, and thus for our opinion on the outweigh the public interest of this communication. same, is to obtain reasonable assurance that the proposed appropriation is consistent with the Insurance Business Act and the Articles of Association. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Reasonable assurance is a high degree of assurance but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with geneOpinion rally accepted auditing standards in Sweden (Swedish GAAS) will In addition to our audit of the annual accounts, we have audited the always detect actions or neglect that could give rise to a liability to Board of Directors’ and Chief Executive Officer’s management of indemnify the company, or that the proposed appropriation of the Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt for 2017 and the proposed company’s profit or loss is consistent with the Insurance Business appropriation of the company’s profit or loss. Act or the Articles of Association. We recommend that the Council of Administration allocate the As part of our audit in accordance with Swedish GAAS, we use retained earnings as proposed in the Administration Report and our professional judgement and maintain a professionally sceptical grant release from liability to the Directors and Chief Executive attitude throughout our audit. Our examination of the management Officer in respect of the financial year. and the proposed appropriation of the company’s profit or loss is based primarily on our audit of the financial statements. We use our Basis of opinion professional judgement to decide which additional audit procedures We have conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted to carry out based on risk and materiality. This means that we focus auditing standards (GAAS) in Sweden. Our responsibility under our examination on such procedures, areas and circumstances that these standards is described in the section The auditor’s responsiare material to the business and where deviations and violations bility. We are independent of the Parent Company and the Group would be particularly significant for the company’s situation. We in accordance with Swedish GAAS and have otherwise fulfilled our review and test the decisions that have been made, the bases for ethical responsibilities under these standards. these decisions, the measures taken and other circumstances that We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient are relevant to our opinion on release from liability. As a basis for and adequate as a basis for our opinion. our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposal for appropriation of the company’s profit or loss, we have examined whether the propoResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and sal is consistent with the Insurance Business Act and the Articles of Chief Executive Officer Association. Responsibility for the proposed appropriation of the company’s Ernst & Young AB, Box 7850, SE-103 99 Stockholm, were appoint­ profit or loss rests with the Board of Directors. The preparation of a ed auditors of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt by the Council dividend proposal involves assessing whether the dividend is justifiof Administration on 10 April 2014 and have been the company’s able with regard to the equity, consolidation, liquidity and financial auditors since 1 January 2014 position requirements of the Parent Company and Group arising from the nature, scope and risks of the operations of the Parent Stockholm, 19 March 2018 Company and Group. Ernst & Young AB The Board is responsible for the company’s organisation and the management of its affairs. This involves continuously assessing the company’s and Group’s financial situation, and ensuring that the company’s organisation is structured so as to ensure satisfactory Jesper Nilsson control of its accounting, management of funds and financial affairs. Authorised Public Accountant 100 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Financial statements Auditor’s opinion on the statutory sustainability report To the Council of Administration of Alecta Pensions­försäkring, ömsesidigt, corp. ID no. 502014-6865 Engagement and division of responsibility Responsibility for the sustainability report for 2017 and for ensuring accordance with the International Standards on Auditing and genethat it has been prepared in compliance with the Swedish Annual rally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe this review Accounts Act rests with the Board of Directors. The scope of the susgives us a sufficient basis for our opinion. tainability report is defined on page 3. Opinion Scope and focus of review A sustainability report has been prepared. Our review has been conducted in accordance with Recommendation RevR 12 The Auditor’s Opinion on the Statutory Sustainabil­ity Report issued by FAR, the Swedish professional institute for accounStockholm, 19 March 2018 tants. Our review of the sustainability report has a different focus Ernst & Young AB and a significantly narrower scope than a full audit conducted in Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant Review report To the Council of Administration of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt corp. ID no. 502014-6865 We have, in our capacity as lay auditors, reviewed the operations so as to obtain reasonable assurance that the company’s operations of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt for the year 2017. have been conducted in an appropriate and financially satisfactory We performed our review in accordance with the Swedish manner, and that the company’s internal control is adequate. Insurance Companies Act and generally accepted auditing standards Our review did not result in any qualifications. in Sweden. This means that we planned and performed our review Stockholm, 20 March 2018 Niklas Hjert Lars Jansson ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 101 Governance The governance section describes Alecta’s key governance functions and processes. This section and the sustainability notes thereafter are intended to complement the report describing Alecta’s key sustainability issues on pages 12–29. Governance and organisation applicable laws and regulations. The CEO shall also ensure Good governance is fundamental to our activities. Alecta is that the Board receives reports on the performance, results a mutual pension provider, which means that we are owned and financial position of Alecta on an ongoing basis, and is by our customers – the insureds and their employers. Alecta’s kept up to date on significant operational events. The CEO’s highest decision-making body is the Council of Administrageneral decisions in the day-to-day management of the compation, which consists of representatives of our customers. The ny are normally prepared by the management team, which, in Council of Administration, which is described in greater detail addition to the CEO, consists of eight of the heads of Alecta’s on page 119, appoints Alecta’s Board of Directors, which has departments and central functions. overall responsibility for the governance of Alecta, including the company’s sustainability work. Monitoring and internal rules The Board of Directors determines Alecta’s strategic direcEveryone who works at Alecta has a responsibility to help tion and the company’s long-term operational goals. It is ensure good internal control and is required to follow Alecta’s responsible for ensuring that Alecta has appropriate corporate internal rules. The internal rules are defined by the Board of governance, risk management and internal control systems, Directors or the CEO and are revised when required or at least and adopts general governing documents for the company’s annually. All employees are informed of changes to the internal activities, including a sustainability policy. rules by their managers but are also required to keep themThe Board has appointed various committees from among selves up to date on those internal rules which affect them its members to prepare and decide on specific matters. More through Alecta’s intranet. As part of their mandatory introdetailed information on the duties and practices of the Board duction programme, new employees receive information about and on the three committees – the Presidium, Finance ComAlecta’s ethical rules. mittee and Audit Committee – which the Board has appointed Regular monitoring and reporting of outcomes are essential from among its members is provided on page 118. to effective governance, ensuring that governance processes are adapted to new requirements or criteria. The heads of The responsibilities of the CEO and management department are responsible for ensuring appropriate moniThe Board appoints Alecta’s CEO and defines the framework toring and that controls are in place in their respective areas for his or her activities. The CEO is responsible for the day-toof responsibility. The Controller continuously monitors operday management of the company in accordance with the guideational outcomes and target achievement in relation to the lines and directions of the Board and for ensuring that the adopted business and operational plans. operations are organised so that the company complies with RESPONSIBILITIES IN GOVERNANCE AND FOLLOW-UP Board of Directors Presidium Finance Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit CEO Staff functions Control functions Finance, Legal Affairs, HR, Communication and Sustainability, IT Risk Compliance Actuarial function Departments Customer, Product, Investment Management, IT 102 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Governance and sustainability A model with three lines of defence The second and third lines of defence In order to ensure adequate risk management and compliance – independent control functions with laws, regulations and internal governance documents, The control functions Compliance, Risk and the Actuarial Alecta’s risk management and internal control procedures are function (second line of defence) as well as the Internal Audit based on a model with three lines of defence. function (third line of defence) are responsible for independent company-wide monitoring in their respective areas of responsibility. These functions use a risk-based approach and therefore Compliance, give priority to activities and controls in those areas where Operations Second line Alecta’s risks are greatest. Risk management is an integral part First line Third line Risk and and support Internal Audit Actuarial functions of Alecta’s governance. To protect its customers and other functions stakeholders, Alecta applies strict standards for how risks are controlled and managed. More information on risks and risk management is provided in the Administration Report, on page 40. The first line of defence Compliance regularly reviews and assesses whether Alecta’s – operational risk management operations, the measures taken and the procedures adopted Alecta’s operating units and support functions are responsible comply with the applicable regulations, and ensures that the for the risks that arise in their respective activities, and are employees and Board of Directors receive information and tasked with identifying, evaluating, controlling and internally training on the rules. Compliance also monitors coming regureporting risks. The operating units and support functions seek lations affecting activities requiring a licence, which are subject to ensure that clear processes and procedures have been estabto supervision by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. lished, which together with the internal governing documents The Actuarial function coordinates and assures the quality of govern Alecta’s actions in various respects. Alecta’s actuarial calculations and assists the Board and CEO on matters relating to actuarial methods, calculations and assessments. In addition to the above functions, Alecta has appointed a Data Protection Officer, who ensures that the company complies with all applicable data protection laws and serves as Alecta’s point of contact with the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The Data Protection Officer is appointed by and reports to the CEO, and is assisted by two Data Protection Coordinators. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 103 Sustainability notes The sustainability notes section mainly contains descriptions of processes linked to the framework for sustainability reporting, GRI. The section also includes data which supplements the information provided on pages 12–29, and in some respects data which covers the Group as a whole. Alecta’s sustainability work Sustainability governance in Alecta’s Our sustainability work comprises three parts: day-to-day activities • fundamental legitimacy issues and risk minimisation Alecta has appointed a Sustainability Officer, who reports to • an effective and value-creating core business the Head of Communication and Sustainability in the man• the ambition to have a positive impact on society. agement team. In the Investment Management department, Alecta has appointed a Responsible Investment Officer, who works full-time on sustainability issues. These three form part of Alecta’s working group on sustainability along with further representatives from Communication, HR, Finance, Compliance and Investment Management. The Sustainability Officer works to establish greater clarity on Alecta’s priorities and coordinates the company’s sustainability work through common goals, tools and reporting. In the Investment Management department, Alecta has appointed a Governance Council consisting of the CEO, Head of Corporate Governance, Head of Investment Management, Head of Equities and Head of External Communication. Alecta’s Head of Corporate Governance drives the company’s active ownership work, with a particular emphasis on Alecta’s A committed and responsible actor in society involvement in nomination committees, shareholders’ meetA committed and responsible actor in society ings and dialogues with boards of directors. Another focus area is to develop good corporate governance practices. The GovA professional and long-term core business A professional and long-term core business ernance Council holds regular meetings and serves as a forum with a focus on supporting a sustainable pension with a focus on supporting a sustainable pension for monitoring Alecta’s sustainability work in the company’s system and on sustainable investment system and on sustainable investment investment management activities. Transparency and compliance with aligned stakeAll operations-related purchases are managed by HR, with Transparency holders’ and compliance expectations, withprinciples regulations, aligned stakeand holders’ expectations, initiatives in the area ofregulations, sustainabilityprinciples and the exception of purchases in the Investment Management and initiatives in the area of sustainability IT departments, which procure services directly. Sustainability and environmental work always form part of the tender process when Alecta purchases goods and services. In 2017, we clarified which areas are relevant for our business, and we are currently assessing how we can take a more systemGoverning documents for sustainability atic approach and follow up relevant KPIs and other indicators. at Alecta In addition to the areas identified previously in our materiIn late 2017, the Board of Directors adopted a sustainability ality analysis, which are described mainly on pages 12–29, some policy for Alecta which outlines the focus areas for the organiadditional information is provided, for example on Alecta’s sation’s sustainability commitments. The sustainability policy direct environmental impact and purchases, which several and Alecta’s active ownership policy are available at alecta.se. stakeholders have identified as a key hygiene factor in the area The other governing documents described on the following of sustainability. page are internal. 104 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Governance and sustainability Sustainability policy Investment guidelines Alecta’s sustainability policy is designed to give internal and Describe the focus and guidelines for risk-taking in the external stakeholders a general idea of how sustainability conInvestment Management department. cerns are integrated into the company’s activities. The policy provides a broad framework for those areas where we want to Risk management make a contribution and have an impact, with a focus on our The general governing document which describes Alecta’s core business. The policy also describes our support for the risk management with a focus on good risk control and UN Global Compact and its ten principles in the areas of the appropriate risk management. environment, human rights, labour and anti-corruption. The sustainability policy is an umbrella document for other, more Information security concrete governing documents, including environmental and Describes what we need to consider when handling and sustainability guidelines for Alecta’s properties and the Code disseminating verbal and written information. of Conduct. Anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism Code of Conduct financing measures Alecta’s Code of Conduct, which consists of four elements, is Describes what Alecta needs to do to protect itself from described below: being exploited for such purposes. Ethics policy Purchasing and procurement Describes how we should take an ethical approach to our Describes the procedures and division of responsibility work, business relations and investments. The ethics policy for purchases and procurement, where the emphasis is on also regulates the whistleblower function and confidentiality. efficiency and quality. Decisions on purchases must take account of the suppliers’ sustainability work. Management of conflicts of interest Identifies the risk of conflicts of interest and describes how Diversity policy we should handle conflicts of interest or situations where it Describes Alecta’s responsibility for giving all employees may be difficult to be objective. the same opportunities to develop and have a say, with zero tolerance for abusive behaviour and discrimination. Complaints handling Describes how we should respond to any complaints from Health and safety our customers. Describes Alecta’s general view on health and safety and the division of responsibilities on health and safety issues. Processing of personal data Describes the actions that we need to take to meet the requiGifts and other benefits rements of the Swedish Personal Data Act, and safeguard the Provides guidance on how employees should act with privacy of our customers and employees. regard to gifts and other benefits. Based on the Code of Business Conduct issued by the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute. Examples of other governing documents for sustainability: Environment and sustainability in Alecta’s real estate business Active ownership policy Describes the general guidelines and priorities for Describes Alecta’s active shareholder involvement and influenvironmental and sustainability work in Alecta’s real ence in Swedish listed companies. The active ownership policy estate business. describes Alecta’s position on sustainability issues, which is based on the principle that the companies in which Alecta invests must follow the international conventions and agreements that the Swedish State has entered into. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 105 Sustainability notes, cont. Stakeholders and ongoing engagement Alecta’s most important stakeholders are our customers, who CUSTOMERS – retail and corporate customers are also our owners. Dialogue is an important tool for ensuring Key concerns: A secure pension, low costs, efficient asset management, that our customers feel secure and satisfied. With so many ethical behaviour individuals as our customers, and because of the nature of our Dialogue channels: Customer service, surveys, e-mail contacts, company visits mission, we have a strong foundation in society. Over the last Alecta’s activities: few years, Alecta has given priority to ensuring that we comClear targets for efficiency and investment performance, increased transparency, membership of Global Compact municate more clearly and engage in an active dialogue with society in order to gather impressions, to share our experiences and our active investment model with others, and to influence the debate where relevant. PRINCIPALS – unions and employers Key concerns: Responsible investment, sustainability policy, fees, investment performance INTERES Dialogue channels: TO RG The Board of Directors, committees, seminars, procurements S AN IE Alecta’s activities: IT RS PR I N I Certification work in Investment Management, ME CI P R SA TO increased transparency O TH S A TI AU CU LS ON S EMPLOYEES Key concerns: YEES Training and career progression, equality, work environment, COMPE SOCIET environmental impact, ethical behaviour and responsible P LO investment DIA Y Dialogue channels: TIT EM ME Employee surveys, the intranet, internal seminars, meetings with the CEO, breakfast, lounge and other meetings OR S Alecta’s activities: PA R T N E R S Skills development plans, diversity plan, clear goals NS CO IO NSU MER ORGANI S AT PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS Mainly the selection centres for the collective bargaining areas, service providers in IT, real estate and asset management, Focused stakeholder engagement PRI Pensionsgaranti In late 2017, Alecta initiated targeted stakeholder dialogues Key concerns: Procurements, environment and sustainability with a select group of stakeholders that have a good insight into Dialogue channels: sustainability issues. This group consists of important stakeNegotiations and agreements, forums for cooperation Alecta’s activities: holders for Alecta, including corporate customers, unions and Review of sustainability issues in agreements and procurement employers, and other organisations in the industry. processes The dialogues are aimed at ensuring that the areas covered by our reports are consistent with our stakeholders’ expectations, and at garnering ideas for how to develop Alecta’s susSOCIAL STAKEHOLDERS tainability work. Key concerns: The dialogues have shown that our stakeholders attach most Knowledge about occupational pensions, stable management of pensions, climate issues, sustainable financial market, importance to sustainable and responsible investment, and active ownership Alecta’s role as a stable company in Sweden’s welfare system. Dialogue channels: What also emerges clearly is that the environment and Lectures at universities, industry dialogue, meetings with politicians, seminars, media debate relations with suppliers are areas of key concern, even though Alecta’s activities: the stakeholders’ impression is these are of relatively limited Take part in the debate on pensions, collaboration through the “Gilla Din Ekonomi” personal finance network, involvement in the impact. Alecta is expected to have well-functioning procedures EU High-Level Expert Group on Sustainable Finance for avoiding reputational risks that are linked to the environment and purchases. 106 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Governance and sustainability Materiality analysis In 2017, Alecta reviewed its sustainability activities in order to with other industry players and from enquiries in external establish a clearer structure for the activities and for monitorsurveys. The previous materiality analysis has therefore been ing. The review was based on previous materiality analyses and supplemented with environment and purchasing as an area dialogues with stakeholders. Other ideas have been garnered outside the materiality analysis but with expectations of a from business intelligence activities, exchanges of experience high level of transparency. MATERIAL TOPIC RISK BOUNDARY* ACTIVITIES KPIs Page reference A good • Loss of default option role for Impact outside the We avoid complex solutions, are • Operating expenses 14–15 Alecta organisation – impact cost-aware and make use of • CEM ranking pension at a • Customers migrate from Alecta on the customers. economies of scale to ensure that we low cost • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ offer the lowest fees in the industry. reputation For private individuals paying into a • Increased costs for society defined contribution scheme, the size of the contribution has a significant impact on the size of the final pension. Economic • Regulations that are detrimental Impact within and By providing a good, stable • Generated and 16–20, 110 value for many to the customers outside the occupational pension Alecta adds distributed value • Alecta’s legitimacy is challenged organisation, as the value to the national social security (GRI 201-1) • Collective agreement widely value that is created system and to the economy. We • CSI viewed as having a lower value benefits Alecta’s therefore have a strong focus on our • Return • Increased costs for society customers and general business goals – secure and employees as well as satisfied customers, a high level of society at large. cost-effectiveness, and a good return and strong financial position. We are also working to spread knowledge among and influence our stakeholders to help more people understand how the choices they make will affect their pensions. Responsible • Financial loss for Alecta and Impact outside the We work closely and in dialogue with • Percentage of 22–26 investment therefore for our customers, organisation through the companies that we have invested companies with who are our owners the companies and in and are involved in the work of which Alecta • Negative impact on society and properties that Alecta nomination committees. We assess has interacted the environment invests in. the companies’ activities from the (GRI FS10) • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ sustainability perspectives described, • Percentage of assets reputation for example, in Alecta’s active subject to screening ownership policy. The properties we (GRI FS11) own have a significant direct impact on the environment that Alecta is working actively to minimise. Training • Increased staff turnover Impact internally in We work continuously on skills • Hours of training 28–29 • Reduced competitiveness the organisation development with the aim of ensuring (GRI 404-1) • Less attractive as an employer through increased a continued high level of expertise in all • Performance and • Increased health problems knowledge and departments. We use mandatory skills career development among Alecta’s staff employee satisfaction development plans, knowledge reviews (GRI 404-3) as well as outside the seminars, introduction courses for new organisation, employees and regular assessments of primarily in the form our employees’ ITP expertise. of increased customer benefits. * The indicated boundaries are based on the GRI framework, where the material impact takes place within or outside the organisation. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 107 Sustainability notes, cont. MATERIAL TOPIC RISK BOUNDARY* ACTIVITIES KPIs Page reference Strong • Alecta loses the licence or is hit Impact internally, as A pension provider operates in a • Fines or sanctions 16–20, 102-105, compliance by sanctions this is the foundation carefully regulated environment and (GRI 419-1) 110 • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ for our activities. regulations are updated continuously. reputation We attach the greatest importance • General loss of trust in the welfare to ensuring compliance with laws, system and the financial system regulations, internal rules and good practices so that our customers feel secure. Customer • Violations of privacy Impact within the Alecta processes large amounts of • Complaints about 17, 110 • Financial loss for Alecta organisation in the sensitive personal information and breaches of privacy • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ processing of other customer data. We do our customer privacy reputation customer data and utmost to protect our customers’ (GRI 418-1) outside the information in all situations. organisation through the impact on customer privacy. AREAS WITH HIGH EXPECTATIONS OF TRANSPARENCY RISK BOUNDARY* ACTIVITIES KPIs Page reference Purchasing • Damage to Alecta’s brand/ Impact within the Alecta integrates environmental and • Decisions on any 111 and reputation organisation and sustainability issues in all procureKPIs will be made in • Lack of credibility outside with the ments, and reviews measures aimed 2018. Governing environment possibility of at reducing the direct environmental documents and engaging suppliers. impact of its activities. In 2018, procedures are Alecta is planning to further develop described in Alecta’s its processes in this area. reports. * The indicated boundaries are based on the GRI framework, where the material impact takes place within or outside the organisation. 108 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Governance and sustainability Partnerships and memberships Sweden Green Building Council In addition to the sustainability-related memberships The Sweden Green Building Council members’ organisadescribed previously in the report, Alecta is participating in tion promotes exchanges of experiences between different the following initiatives or organisations with a connection operators in the field of civil engineering. The organisation to sustainability: provides tools and training as well as support for developing sustainability activities. CDP (previously Carbon Disclosure Project) By supporting the work of the CDP investors seek to encourage Swesif businesses to increase transparency, improve their environSwesif is a members’ association for organisations that are mental reporting and work actively to reduce their impact on working to promote or are engaged in sustainable investment the environment. activities in Sweden, and want to spread and increase knowledge about sustainable investment. Alecta is an active memHållbart värdeskapande ber of the Board and of the Seminar Committee through its (Sustainable Value Creation) Responsible Investment Officer. A partnership among Sweden’s largest institutional investors that is aimed at highlighting the importance of taking a UN PRI structured approach to sustainability issues. The UN Principles for Responsible Investment is a global initiative for institutional investors. By signing up to UN PRI, Alecta Institutionella ägares förening has undertaken to integrate the initiative’s six principles for (Association of Institutional Shareholders) responsible investment in its activities. The association’s aim is to promote self-regulation in the Swedish stock market, for example by continuing to develop Research partnerships the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. The members are Alecta is involved in and contributes to various academic institutional shareholders and Alecta’s Head of Corporate research projects, including a study on sick leave that is being Governance has a seat on the Board. conducted by the Karolinska Institute. Alecta also supports the research activities of the Stockholm School of Economics. The Montreal Pledge An initiative in which investors pledge to measure and report Gilla Din Ekonomi the carbon footprint of their investments. Gilla Din Ekonomi [Like Your Personal Finances] is a personal finance network among public authorities, organisations and SNS businesses. The goal is to increase people’s understanding of SNS, the Centre for Business and Policy Studies, is a forum for personal finance through various educational initiatives. dialogue and exchange on key social issues based on knowledge Alecta’s Pension Economist contributes actively to these and research. The members include representatives from busiinitiatives. ness, politics, public administration and academia. MinPension Insurance Sweden The MinPension [My Pension] pension portal is a result of a Alecta is participating in various reference groups set up by partnership among different players in the pension sector that Insurance Sweden, the industry association for the Swedish is driven and funded in equal shares by the Swedish governinsurance companies, including the Sustainability and Green ment and Sweden’s pension funds. In the portal, users can log Bond reference groups. In these groups, Alecta submits opinin and view their pension, as several pension funds provide ions on proposals for consultation and engages in dialogue information to the portal. with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, Ministry of Finance and other government agencies. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 109 Sustainability notes, cont. Other disclosures and KPIs GRI Generated and distributed value (201-1) For certain indicators, only selected data is presented in the SOCIO-ECONOMIC VALUE, first part of the report, pages 12–29. More detailed information Group (SEK million) 2017 2016 2015 and comparisons over time are presented in the following Economic value, generated section. Return on capital, before operating expenses 1) 2) 53 252 37 783 39 252 53 252 37 783 39 252 GRI Employment information (102-8) Economic value, distributed FORMS OF 2017 2016 2015 Claims incurred 3) –20 353 –19 786 –19 235 EMPLOYMENT Waiver of premium, corporate customers –2 039 –1 882 –1 765 Group Women Men Women Men Women Men Refunds in the form of adjustments to earned Number of employees pension entitlement and premium reductions 4) –5 618 –3 638 –2 796 at 31 December 219 145 232 157 236 156 Salaries and remuneration –352 –409 –385 of whom in Sweden 219 145 224 153 226 152 Suppliers and partners –518 –451 –496 of whom abroad 0 0 8 4 10 4 Yield tax and income tax in Sweden and abroad, Permanent employees 217 145 230 157 234 156 and social security contributions for employees –2 594 –3 414 –1 790 of whom full-time 185 134 194 146 190 143 –31 474 –29 581 –26 467 of whom part-time 32 11 36 11 44 13 1) Includes unrealised gains/losses of SEK 25 719 million (2016: 4 074, 2015: 1 441). Temporary employees 2 0 2 0 2 0 2) In the income statement, investment management expenses and property management expenses totalling SEK 250 million (2016: 254, 2015: 287) have been Number of consultants 9 27 9 21 11 26 offset against capital returns. See also Note 8 Operating expenses. 3) Claims incurred also include refunds in the form of pension supplements and supplementary amounts, which are taken from the surplus fund, see Note 32 Equity. Other employee statistics 4) Refunds are taken from the surplus fund, see Note 32 Equity. EMPLOYEE STATISTICS Group 2017 2016 2015 Number of employees at 31 December 364 389 392 Alecta creates economic value for its customers by giving them Average age of all employees 47 48 48 a good and secure pension. It does so by generating a strong Staff turnover 1) 7.3 % 6.0 % 5.6 % return over time and by keeping the costs down. Sick leave 1) 3.4 % 3.7 % 3.2 % In the area of business in which Alecta operates, the value Percentage covered by collective that is generated and delivered needs to be viewed from a bargaining agreements 1, 2) 100 % 100 % 100 % long-term perspective. The value that is generated during the Percentage of female employees 60 % 60 % 60 % year will be distributed over many years to come and the value Percentage of female managers 50 % 44 % 46 % that is distributed during the same year has accrued over prePercentage of women in management 33 % 25 % 36 % vious years. The value that is generated and distributed therePercentage of women on the Board 31 % 23 % 17 % fore cannot be assessed on a year by year basis. 1) Refers to the Parent Company in Sweden. 2) Does not include employees in senior management. 110 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Governance and sustainability GRI Complaints about breaches of customer With the help of our new travel agency, we will in 2018 start to privacy (418-1) measure the carbon footprint of our business trips to ensure During the year, Alecta received one complaint concerning the that we are able to make more informed decisions on the choice loss of customer data. No complaints about breaches of privacy of travel in connection with customer visits or investment were registered. management activities. We will also be systematically measuring our paper consumption, and will be looking at making GRI Fines or sanctions (419-1) greater use of digital tools and work methods. A key supplier No fines or sanctions were imposed on Alecta in 2017. with regard to our internal environmental work is our cleaning firm. We use a company that is committed to improving Alecta’s environmental activities and relations its environmental performance and selects products with the with suppliers Good Environmental Choice ecolabel, and whose employees As a service provider with a centrally located office, Alecta’s are covered by collective bargaining agreements. efforts to reduce its direct environmental impact are strongly All directly owned properties in Alecta’s investment portconnected to its relations with various suppliers. Over the folio are managed principally by one external partner under years, we have improved the efficiency of resource use at our an agreement which specifies that each property must have office, which has resulted in significant financial and environan environmental plan. Our partner is also required, where mental gains. Today, our most significant environmental footpossible, to select subcontractors with collective bargaining print comes from the energy that is used in our property, and agreements. At the end of 2017, new environmental and susfrom business travel, paper consumption and food waste. tainability guidelines were introduced for our properties. In 2017, we worked on two major procurements in which In addition to the aforementioned suppliers, Alecta uses sustainability was a key dimension. During the ongoing renexternal partners mainly for training, licences and software, ovation of our head office, we made specific environmental maintenance of equipment, office products and research requirements for suppliers in the procurement of furniture, services for our investment management activities. In 2017, both in terms of chemicals use and based on our ambition to Alecta concluded transactions with 636 suppliers, of which 568 restore and reuse existing office furniture as far as possible. reside in Sweden, 49 in the rest of the EU and 19 outside the In the procurement of a new service provider to run our staff EU. Four suppliers accounted for 63 per cent of the total transcanteen, the choice fell on a company which takes a systematic action volume. approach to environmental and sustainability management, and which also wants to assist us in our own efforts in this area. At the end of 2017, we decided to purchase a new composting machine for food waste, and we are planning campaigns aimed at reducing food waste and increasing the wellbeing of our employees. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 111 GRI table About the sustainability report Alecta manages collectively agreed occupational pension plans Alecta’s sustainability report for 2017 has been prepared in Sweden. Alecta’s investment management activities comin accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s GRI prise investments in shares, debt securities and real estate. Standards, Core option. The content of the sustainability Alecta’s real estate portfolio is concentrated to Sweden. In report is presented mainly on pages 12–29 and in the form of early 2017, Alecta sold its last directly owned properties outside this supplementary in-depth information on pages 102–113. Sweden, most of which were located in the US and the UK. No The sustainability report covers the year 2017 and forms part other significant changes to the size, structure or ownership of Alecta’s annual report. The annual report and sustainability of the organisation or to its suppliers took place during the report are published annually in March. The previous annual reporting period. report was published on 31 March 2017. Calculation methods and definitions The report has been reviewed by Alecta’s auditors, GRI Disclosure 404-1: Employees refer to permanent employErnst & Young AB. ees of the Parent Company with the exception of employees on long-term leave, including employees on parental leave, sick Scope and boundaries leave or unpaid leave. The sustainability report covers the Parent Company, Alecta GRI Disclosure 418-1: Serious shortcomings refer to an Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt, and Alecta’s subsidiaries with event which constitutes a serious breach of the privacy of an the exceptions indicated below. The subsidiaries are engaged individual customer or which has prompted criticism from the in the direct or indirect ownership of real estate. The real regulators. estate companies that are joint-owned by Alecta are defined as GRI Disclosure 419-1: Serious shortcomings refer to an event joint ventures and are handled as financial instruments. The that constitutes a serious failure in relation to external reguladescription of procedures and data in the employee section on tions that has prompted criticism from the regulators. pages 28–29 covers all employees of the Parent Company while consolidated data that includes the subsidiary company WTC Contact is presented on page 110. Other exceptions to the scope are The contact person for Alecta’s sustainability report is indicated in the report. Carina Silberg, Sustainability Officer. E-mail: carina.silberg@alecta.se GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017, CORE REFERENCE COMMENT ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name 30 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 30–31, 112 102-3 Location of headquarters 30 102-4 Location of operations 112 102-5 Ownership and legal form 30 102-6 Markets served 4, 30–31, 112 102-7 Scale of the organisation 4, 31–33 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 110, 112 102-9 Supply chain 104, 105, 111 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 112 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach see comment Alecta is not engaged in manufacturing activities, but environmental aspects are taken into account in the investment activities. 102-12 External initiatives 109 102-13 Membership of associations 109 112 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Governance and sustainability GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017, CORE REFERENCE COMMENT STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6–8 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 5, 105 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 102–105, 118, 119 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 106 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 110 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 106 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 106 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 106 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 69 Note 16 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 106–108, 112 102-47 List of material topics 107–108 102-48 Restatements of information see comment No material adjustments 102-49 Changes in reporting see comment No material adjustments 102-50 Reporting period 112 102-51 Date of most recent report 112 102-52 Reporting cycle 112 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 112 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI Standards 112 102-55 GRI content index 112–113 102-56 External assurance 3, 112 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundaries 107–108 103-2 The management approach and its components 102–105 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 102–103 GRI STANDARDS INDEX 2017, CORE REFERENCE COMMENT ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 17, 110 SOCIAL TOPICS – EMPLOYMENT 404-1 Average hours of training per employee by gender and employee category 28, 112 See Scope and boundaries, and Calculation methods and definitions 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 28, 112 development reviews See Scope and boundaries SOCIAL TOPICS – CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and 110 losses of customer data 419-1 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 110 laws and/or regulations in the social and economic area FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio 23 with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or 22–23 social screening ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 113 Auditor’s review report on the sustainability report of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt To the Council of Administration of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt Introduction The audit firm applies the International Standard on Quality We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Alecta Control (ISQC 1) and therefore has a broad system for quality Pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt to review the company’s suscontrol consisting of documented guidelines and procedures tainability report for 2017. The company has defined the scope for compliance with professional ethical requirements, standof the sustainability report on pages 112–113 of this document. ards for professional conduct, and applicable requirements in laws, regulations and administrative provisions. We are indeThe Board of Directors’ and management’s pendent of Alecta Pensionsförsäkring AB in accordance with responsibility for the sustainability report Swedish GAAS and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responResponsibility for preparing the sustainability report in accordsibilities under these standards. ance with the applicable criteria, which are set forth on page The review procedures performed in a review do not enable 111 of the sustainability report and comprise those sections of us to obtain a degree of certainty that would make us aware of the sustainability reporting framework issued by the Global all important circumstances that would have been identified if Reporting Initiative (GRI) that are applicable to the sustainan audit had been performed. The conclusion based on a review ability report, and the reporting and calculation principles therefore does not have the same certainty as a conclusion defined by the company itself, rests with the Board of Directors based on an audit. and management. This responsibility also includes such interOur review is based on the criteria selected by the Board nal control as is deemed necessary for preparing a sustainabiliof Directors and management, which are defined above. We ty report that is free from material misstatement, whether due consider these criteria to be appropriate for the preparation of to fraud or error. the sustainability report, and we believe the evidence we have obtained in the course of our review is sufficient and approThe auditor’s responsibility priate for the purpose of establishing a basis for issuing the Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the sustain­ following opinion. ability report based on our review. We have conducted our review in accordance with ISAE Opinion 3000 Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews Based on our review, we have not discovered any circumstancof Historical Financial Information. A review consists of es that would give us reason to believe that the sustainability making inquiries, primarily with persons responsible for the report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in preparation of the sustainability report, and applying analytiaccordance with the above criteria indicated by the Board of cal and other review procedures. A review has a different focus Directors and management. and significantly narrower scope than a full audit conducted in accordance with IASB’s standards and generally accepted auditing standards. Stockholm, 19 March 2018 Ernst & Young AB Jesper Nilsson Authorised Public Accountant Outi Alestalo Specialist member of FAR 114 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Alecta’s governance Board of Directors Petra Hedengran 2 Born 1964. General Counsel, Head of Corporate Governance and responsible for investments in EQT funds at Investor AB. Member of the Board since 2017. Other directorships: Electrolux, the Swedish Association for Generally Accepted Principles in the Securities Market. Erik Åsbrink 1, 2 Born 1947. Chairman, Member of the Board since 2000. Other directorships: Svensk Hypotekspension AB (Chairman), Stiftelsen Cancercentrum Karolinska. Other posts: Economic Council of the Swedish Trade Federation (Chairman), the Board of Trustees of the Centre for Business and Policy Studies (SNS), Danske Hypotek. Martin Linder 2 Born 1973. President of Unionen. Member of the Board since 2016. Other directorships: PTK (Chairman), TCO. Hanna Brandt-González 3 Born 1969. Senior Advisor, Unionen. Member of the Board since 2016. Other directorships: Medlemsförsäkring AB (Chairman), TCO Development AB. Per Hedelin 3 1 Member of the Board Presidium, which also acts as remuneration committee Born 1965. CEO of Ledarna. Member of the Board since 2008. Other 2 Member of the Finance Committee directorships: Försäkringsbolaget PRI Pensionsgaranti, Bliwa Livförsäkring, 3 Member of the Audit Committee Mgruppen Svenska managementgruppen AB (Chairman), Intermezzon AB (Chairman), Djurönäset Hotell och Konferenser (Chairman). ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 115 Board of Directors Mikael Persson Born 1962. Insurance Officer, Employment Representative for SACO. Member of the Board since 2008. Magnus von Koch 2 Born 1962. Investment Management at Unionen. Member of the Board since 2010. Other directorships: Klara Norra Fastigheter AB (Chairman). Christer Ågren 1 Born 1954. Second Vice Chairman. Member of the Board since 2009. Birgitta Pernkrans Born 1969. Insurance Officer, Employment Representative for FTF. Member of the Board since 2015. 1 Member of the Board Presidium, which also acts as remuneration committee 2 Member of the Finance Committee Richard Malmborg 3 3 Member of the Audit Committee Born 1961. Director of the Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers. Member of the Board since 2003. Other directorships: PTK (Vice Chairman), SACO (First Vice Chairman), Akademikertjänst AB (Chairman). 116 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 STYRELSE Alecta’s governance Peter Jeppsson 3 Born 1957. Executive Vice President at the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Member of the Board since 2016. Other directorships: Trygghetsrådet TRR (Chairman), Trygghetsfonden TSL (Chairman), Fora AB. Cecilia Fahlberg Pihlgren 1 Born 1960. First Vice Chairman. Member of the Board since 2007. Other posts: The Committee of Inquiry into the Labour Market (Arbetsmarknadsutredningen). Anders Weihe 3 Born 1961. Chief Negotiator and Chief Legal Officer at the Association of Swedish Engineering Industries. Member of the Board since 2017. Other directorships: Trygghetsrådet TRR, Trygghetsfonden TSL, Ratio Institute. Other posts: TEKO (CEO), Teknikarbetsgivarna, Tekniktjänstearbetsgivarna. Kaj Thorén 2 Born 1944. Member of the Board since 2005. Anna-Karin Hatt 2 Born 1972. CEO of Almega AB. Member of the Board since 2016. Other directorships: Almega AB, Almega Tjänsteförbunden, Castellum AB, Trygghetsfonden TSL, Trygghetsrådet TRR. Other posts: Almega Tjänsteförbunden (Director of Association), Swedish Higher Education Authority. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 117 The Duties and Practices of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors is responsible for the organisation and The Finance Committee consists of six members. The comadministration of Alecta. The Board defines Alecta’s stratmittee adopts detailed guidelines for Alecta’s day-to-day egies and long-term targets, and is responsible for ensuring investment activities, monitors the investment activities, preadequate risk control. pares matters related to these activities that will be addressed The Board is also responsible for ensuring that there is by the Board, and makes decisions on investment-related adequate control of the organisation in respect of accounting matters which fall outside the remit of the CEO. The Finance and financial management and for ensuring that Alecta is Committee convened on five occasions in 2017. managed efficiently, that adequate internal controls are in The Audit Committee consists of four members. The place, and that there is adequate control of compliance with committee continuously evaluates and communicates to the those laws and regulations that apply to Alecta’s operations. Board its view of Alecta’s risk exposure and management’s The Board is thereby responsible for ensuring that the necesrisk management. The committee also supports the Board in sary internal regulations for Alecta’s operations are in place, monitoring and evaluating internal and external auditing proand adopts the Company’s investment guidelines, actuarial cesses, and prepares matters related to the Board’s work on guidelines and guidelines for managing conflicts of interest. assuring the quality of Alecta’s financial reporting. The Audit Each year, the Board of Directors adopts rules of procedure Committee held five meetings in 2017. for its activities and terms of reference for the Chief ExecuIn addition to the regular agenda items, the Board and tive Officer. The work of the Board of Directors is normally committees addressed the following matters during the year: evaluated once a year. An evaluation was made in autumn 2017 and the result was presented to the Preparatory Com• Alecta’s 100-year anniversary mittee of the Council of Administration in preparation for • The ITP procurement the meeting of the Preparatory Committee in March 2018, • Alecta’s funding policy at which the Chairman and Vice Chairmen of the Board also • Alecta’s communication platform participated. The work of the CEO is evaluated continuously • Alecta’s sustainability policy and a formal evaluation is made once a year. • Information security The Board held eight meetings in 2017, one of which was • The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s held in conjunction with a two-day Board seminar at which work on solvency capital requirements for occupational matters of strategic importance for Alecta were discussed. pension providers. In addition to the activities of the Board itself, the Board operates through three committees: the Board Presidium, the Finance Committee and the Audit Committee. The Board Presidium has three members: the Chairman of the Board and the two Vice Chairmen. The CEO also participates in meetings of the Presidium. The main duties of the Presidium are to administer and adopt decisions on those matters which the Board delegates to the Presidium and otherwise advise the CEO in the day-to-day management of the Company, and to prepare the agenda and decisions on matters of particular importance in preparation for Board meetings. The Presidium also acts as a remuneration committee and convenes at the initiative of the Chairman of the Board. The Presidium held six meetings in 2017. 118 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Alecta’s governance Council of Administration and auditors The Council of Administration The Council of Administration is Alecta’s highest decision-making body, corresponding to the General Meeting of Shareholders in the Swedish Insurance Companies Act. The Council’s duties include electing the members of the Board of Directors and auditors, addressing the issue of release from liability for the Board of Directors and CEO in respect of their management during the financial year, adopting the income statements and balance sheets for the Parent Company and Group, and deciding on the appropriation of the profit or loss for the year. The Council of Administration consists of 38 members and eight deputies. To ensure that the interests and views of the retirees are represented, the principle that the Council’s members should include a number of retirees who are insured in Alecta is applied. These members are appointed by the trade union organisations indicated below. Members and Deputy Members Auditors The 19 members and four deputy members of The 19 members and four deputy members Elected auditors the Council of Administration elected by the of the Council of Administration elected by Ernst & Young AB, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise for the Unionen, the Association of Managerial and Lead Audit Engagement Partner period 2017–2019. Professional Staff (Ledarna), the Swedish Jesper Nilsson Association of Graduate Engineers and the Members Council for Negotiation and Cooperation (PTK) for the period 2017–2019. Björn Alvengrip, Mölle Kenneth Bengtsson, Stockholm, Chairman Members Lay Auditors Jan Bosaeus, Solna Stefan Carlsson (Unionen), Norrköping Elected auditors Mattias Dahl, Stockholm Per-Erik Djärf (Unionen), Vadstena Niklas Hjert, Unionen Eva Dunér, Göteborg Björn Ekblom (Unionen), Svanesund Lars Jansson, Confederation Inga-Kari Fryklund, Stockholm Annika Elias (Ledarna), Göteborg of Swedish Enterprise Nils Åke Hallström, Nälden Helena Hedlund (Ledarna), Märsta Per Hidesten, Stockholm Peter Hellberg (Unionen), Bandhagen, Vice Chairman Deputy Members Göran Holm, Bromma Gunnar Henriksson (Unionen), Tullinge, also a Karin Johansson, Stockholm representative of Alecta’s retirees Kati Almqvist, Ledarna Ulf Larsson, Sundsvall Martin Johansson (Unionen), Stockholm Lisbeth Gustafsson, Confederation Ulrika Johansson (Unionen), Luleå of Swedish Enterprise Staffan Lindquist, Helsingborg Martin Lindqvist, Stockholm Gun Karlsson (Unionen), Stockholm Jan Moström, Luleå Victoria Kirchhoff (Unionen), Klagshamn Ola Månsson, Alunda Peter Larsson (Swedish Association of Graduate Kerstin Renard, Hälleviksstrand Engineers), Enskede Jan Siezing, Tumba Hans Lindau (Unionen), Sandared Ulrik Wehtje, Malmö Leif Nicklagård (Unionen), Sundbyberg Klas Wåhlberg, Västerås Annica Pettersson (PTK), Enskede Gård Kristina Rådkvist (PTK), Enköping Deputy Members Therese Sysimetsä (Unionen), Stockholm Antje Dedering, Bromma Anders Tihkan (Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers), Värmdö Hans Gidhagen, Upplands Väsby Marina Åman (Unionen), Strängnäs Jonas Hagelqvist, Stockholm Charlott Richardson, Sollentuna Deputy Members Thomas Eriksson (Ledarna), Örebro Nils-Harald Forssell (Unionen), Olofstorp, also a representative of Alecta’s retirees Mikael Hansson (Unionen), Billdal Stefan Jansson (Swedish Association of Graduate Engineers), Stockholm ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 119 Senior management Katarina Thorslund Born 1962. Deputy CEO. Head of Customer Relations. Education: B.Sc. in Mathematics. Employed since: 2003. Previous experience: Chief Financial Officer and Chief Actuary at Alecta. Previously Chief Actuary at Folksam Gruppförsäkring. Magnus Billing Born 1968. CEO. Education: LL.M. Employed since: 2016. Directorships: Insurance Sweden, Employers’ Organisation for the Swedish Insurance Industry (FAO). Other posts: The Board of Trustees of the Centre for Business and Policy Studies (SNS), the European Commission’s High-Level Expert Group on Sustainable Finance, Delegation Bostad 2030. Previous experience: CEO of Nasdaq Stockholm and CEO of Nasdaq Nordics. Ulf Larsson Born 1968. Head of IT. Education: B.A. in Business Administration. Employed since: 1998. Previous experience: Head of IT Architecture and Group Head of Infrastructure at Alecta. Previously, consultant at WM-data. Tony Persson Born 1965. Acting Head of Investment Management. Education: M.Sc. in Financial Economics. Employed since: 1998. Previous experience: SEB and the Swedish National Institute of Economic Research (NIER). Maria Wahl Burvall Born 1964. Director of Human Resources, Purchasing and Service. Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics, majoring in Economics and Statistics. Employed since: 2014. Previous experience: Economist, HR specialist and Head of HR at the Riksbank. 120 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Alecta’s governance Fredrik Palm Born 1976. Head of Products. Education: M.Sc. in Mathematical Statistics. Employed since: 2013. Previous experience: Chief Actuary at Alecta. Previously, self-employed actuarial consultant, consultant and partner of consulting firm. Martin Hedensiö Born 1964. Head of Communication and Sustainability. Education: M.Sc. in Accounting and Auditing. Employed since: 2016. Previous experience: Director of Communications at Svenska Spel, Vice President Corporate Communications Europe, Middle East and Africa at Nasdaq, Executive Partner, Head of Corporate and Financial Communications at Hallvarsson & Halvarsson, Deputy CEO of Springtime, Investor Relations Director Electrolux. Magnus Landare Born 1957. Head of Legal Affairs. Education: LL.M. Employed since: 1995. Previous experience: Lagerlöf & Leman law firm. Prior to that, Law Clerk at the Stockholm District Court. Camilla Wirth Born 1970. Chief Financial Officer. Education: M.Sc. in Business and Economics. Employed since: 2017. Previous experience: CFO Nordax Bank AB (publ), CFO Aberdeen Property Investors IIM AB, Auditor and Consultant at KPMG Financial Services. Hans Sterte Born 1961. Head of Investment Management, will take up post in March 2018. Education: M.Sc. in Business Administration and Economics, Stockholm University. Employed since: 2018. Previous experience: Most recently, Head of Asset Management at Skandia. Previously, Director of Finance at Länsförsäkringar AB. ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 121 Glossary Adjustment of paid-up values Insured PRI model Assigned refunds through an increase of the pension The person covered by the insurance contract. Rather than paying premiums to an insurance company, entitlement earned prior to retirement age. This adjustthe employer reports its pension commitment as a liabil­ ment is primarily made to compensate for inflation. Insurance contracts ity in the balance sheet. The distribution of funds begins A contract between an insurance provider and a policy only on the retirement of an employee. A credit insurAgency agreement with Collectum holder containing a significant insurance risk. ance arrangement with PRI Pensionsgaranti guarantees An agreement under which Collectum performs administhat the employees will receive their pensions even if trative services relating to the ITP plan for Alecta. Investments their employer becomes insolvent. Investment assets, cash and bank balances, and other Assets under management assets and liabilities related to investment assets (such Refund Calculated as equity, provision for life insurance and as accrued interest and rental income) at market value A surplus that is guaranteed or allocated to claims outstanding, according to the balance sheet. in the balance sheet. – the policy holders in the form of premium reductions. – the insureds, in the form of an increase of the insurCapital base Investment assets ance benefit. The insurance company is required to maintain a capital Assets having the character of a capital investment, – cost coverage for measures under the ITP plan. The base of sufficient size to be able to cover any unforeseen i.e., debt securities, shares and real estate. parties to the collective agreement have been granted future losses. The capital base consists of the difference the right to indicate how the funds should be used. between the Company’s assets, less intangible assets and Investment management expense ratio The decision on the final use of the funds is made by financial liabilities, and technical provisions. Operating expenses in the Company’s investment Alecta’s Board of Directors, provided that the Board management activities in relation to average assets unanimously agrees that the designated use is consistCapital value under management. ent with Alecta’s interests as an insurance company. The estimated present value of future payment flows. Guaranteed refunds are formally guaranteed. Allocated Management expense ratio refunds are not formally guaranteed. Client-company funds Operating expenses in the insurance business (acquisition Funds assigned to the policy holders in 1998 from the and administrative expenses) and claims settlement Risk insurance surplus generated by Alecta during the years 1994–1998. expenses in relation to average assets under manageInsurance for which the entire premium is used to proThe funds have primarily been used as pension premiums ment. The key ratio is calculated on an aggregate basis tect against risk. There is no savings component in this at Alecta and other life insurance companies. and for the pension products, excluding selection centre type of insurance. costs. Collective agreement guarantee Solvency margin If an employer that has agreed to enrol in the ITP plan Occupational group life insurance (TGL) The required solvency margin is a minimum requirement under a collective agreement subsequently fails to sign or A life insurance policy under which surviving family for the size of the capital base. Put simply, the solvency maintain the ITP agreement, fees and other benefits shall members receive a specified amount if the insured dies margin is defined as certain percentages of technical accrue to the employee to the same extent as if the before retirement. Under the collective agreement, the provisions and the Company’s insurance risks. employer had fulfilled its obligations under the ITP plan. employer is required to take out occupational group The collective agreement guarantee is administered by life insurance for its employees. Solvency ratio Collectum. Total assets at market value less intangible assets and Original ITPK financial liabilities, in relation to guaranteed commitCollective funding capital Introduced in 1977, defined contribution ITPK was at ments. The difference between distributable assets, valued at that time automatically invested in Alecta. As of 1990 the market value, and insurance commitments (guaranteed individual beneficiary has been able to make his or her Special indexation funds commitments as well as allocated refunds) to policy own choice. Those who had made no choice by year-end Funds allocated to guarantee the indexation of pensions holders and the insureds. 2007 had their ITPK invested in the default option, the or for other pension-promoting purposes. These funds original ITPK. No further money has been invested in the only become available to Alecta subject to a decision by Collective funding ratio original ITPK after 2007. the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Council Distributable assets in relation to insurance commitfor Negotiation and Cooperation (PTK). Special indexaments to policy holders and insureds (guaranteed Pension supplement tion funds are therefore not included in collective fundcommitments as well as allocated refunds). Refunds allocated to the insureds in addition to the guaring capital. anteed pension. Under the applicable actuarial guidelines, Default option the pension supplement must not exceed the increase in Technical provisions In a defined contribution plan where the employee the consumer price index for the year concerned, startProvisions in the balance sheet for an insurance compadoes not make an active choice of insurance company, ing from the date on which the first pension payment ny’s obligations arising from insurance contracts. Technithe employee automatically becomes a customer of was made to the insured. The pension supplement is cal provisions comprise the capital value of the insurance the insurance company that has been designated as the determined by the Board each year. company’s guaranteed obligations. Technical provisions default service provider in the procurement for the consist of provisions for life insurance and claims outmanagement of the plan. Policy holder standing. The party that has entered into an insurance contract Defined benefit insurance (ITP 2) with an insurance company. Total return A defined benefit pension plan is a plan under which the The return on investments, adjusted for cash flows and size of the pension is determined in advance, for example Premium rate expressed as a percentage, according to the recommenas a specified amount or a percentage of the final salary. For defined benefit insurance, the size of the premium dations of Insurance Sweden. depends partly on the applied premium rate. The premiDefined contribution insurance ums paid, including the cumulative return based on the Waiver of premium insurance In a defined contribution pension plan the size of the prepremium rate, must be sufficient to pay the guaranteed Part of the collective risk insurance provided under the mium is defined in advance, either as a certain percentbenefit during the payment period. This means that the ITP plan, waiver of premium insurance means that the age of the employee’s salary or as a specified amount. premium will be higher the lower the applied premium employer is released from paying premiums if an employThe size of the pension depends on the amount of rate. ee becomes incapacitated for work. In such case, premipension capital on retirement. ums for insurance provided under the ITP plan will be Premium reduction paid from the waiver of premium insurance and are Discount rate Distribution of surplus funds through a reduction regarded as insurance compensation. The interest rate used to calculate the present value of of premiums. Premium reduction is applied for risk future cash inflows and outflows. insurance. Distributable assets Östertälje Tryckeri AB • Nordic Ecolabel Printed Matter • Licens 3041 0342 The total market value of assets less financial liabilities, special indexation funds and guarantee reserves. Östertälje Tryckeri AB • Nordic Ecolabel Printed Matter • Licens 3041 0342 122 ANNUAL REPORT AND SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 2017 Alecta pensionsförsäkring, ömsesidigt Telephone +46 20 78 22 80 SE-103 73 Stockholm | alecta.se 8055 2018.03 Photos: Evelina Carborn, Elena Kraskowski, Ulf Huett Nilsson/Johnér bildbyrå, Alecta. Illustrations: Emily Ryan Production: Alecta Originals: Griller Grafisk Form Prepress: Bildrepro Printed by: Kampanjmakarna/Östertälje tryckeri
