@ Statement of support for the United Nations Global Compact, IKEA Group (INGIG Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) We are committed to having a positive impact on people and the planet. We will only achieve this through partnering together with others and working towards our common ambitions as a team player. IKEA Group became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2OO4 and we remain firmly committed to the initiative and its principles. Since then we have taken many steps to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption). We actively support the work of the UN Global Compact. In September 2017, we participated in the Global Compact's event Business Solutions for the SDGs , and attended the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit. Launched in 2012, the People & Planet Positive strategy has been guiding us on our journey towards having a positive impact on people and the planet. In the past year the strategy has been revised to outline ambitions and commitments leading to 2030. We look forward to taking the next big steps toward becoming people and planet positive. We will only achieve this through partnering together with others and working towards our common ambitions as a team player. We fully support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in their ambition to achieve a better world for all. As a global business, we have a role to play in contributing to achieving the SDGs. In our FY17 Sustainability Summary Report we demonstrate some of the ways we contribute to each of the goals, Our annual sustainability report describes our progress towards our sustainability goals, and includes an index with reference to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. We will continue to publicly share our efforts and results on our way forward. Yours sincerely, Jesper Brodin cEo IKEA Group (INGKA Holding B.V. and its controlled entities) IKEA SERVICES B.V Visiting address: PO.Box 42 Bargelaan 20 Telephone +31-71-565 71 00 Chamber of commerce 2300 AA Leiden 2333 CT Leiden Telefax +31-71-565 71 80 no.33.173.751 The Netherlands
