PARCO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 www.parco.com.pk Pak-Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) PAKARAB REFINERY LTD (PARCO) is a Joint Venture between the Government of Pakistan and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, incorporated as a public limited company in 1974. As an integrated energy company, PARCO is the leading player in Pakistan`s petroleum industry with major operations in refining, transportation, storage, marketing, oil supply and logistics. PARCO has the most modern refinery in Pakistan having a capacity of 100,000 BPD (representing about 25% of the country`s refining capacity), over 2000 kms of cross-country pipeline network (including its JV subsidiary Pak-Arab Pipeline Company Limited (PAPCO) with a strategic storage of over one million tons, and a rapidly expanding retail network of TOTAL PARCO (TPPL) – a joint venture with TOTAL of France. With the acquisition of Chevron’s fuel business in Pakistan, TPPL is now the third largest Oil Marketing Company in the Country. PARCO is also marketing nationwide LPG under the brand of Pearl Gas and fuel oil under the Pearl brand. High quality asphalt is also being marketed as Biturox. PARCO Pearl Gas (Pvt) Ltd (PPG), formerly known as the SHV Energy Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd is a 100% owned subsidiary of PARCO, having the largest LPG marketing and distribution network. PPGL manages storage, processing, filling and distribution of LPG. The performance of the company can be judged by the fact that it has maintained its AAA and A1+ long and short term credit rating by Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) for nineteen consecutive years. The company set another first in Pakistan when it obtained three simultaneous international certifications: ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System). PARCO has also received the Environment Excellence Awards for the last twelve consecutive years and is rated among the top 10 organizations in Pakistan for outstanding achievement in Environment Management. As a good corporate citizen, the company focuses on meeting the expectations of its internal and external stakeholders in a professional and strategic manner. PARCO not only invests in its employees, makes efforts for customer satisfaction and operates ethically, but also undertakes a wide range of projects to benefit society in areas of education, health, environment, sports, culture, community development, road safety, and natural calamities. Processing and handling hydrocarbons is our business and it comes with its share of hazards. PARCO proactively identifies, minimizes and mitigates situations that have the potential to cause harm to the health and safety of its employees, customers, service providers, communities, public and the environment. The focus and diversity of technical, social and environmental projects of PARCO speak for themselves. Our cross-country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and underprivileged communities. PARCO’s Schools & Clinics Support Program is aimed at providing basic education and health facilities. The program is an ongoing initiative in which new schools and clinics are identified and existing ones are improved by providing basic infrastructure and other necessities that are beneficial for the surrounding communities. Communities are happy that PARCO is there for help, when they need it most. PARCO has always responded passionately to the nation’s distress calls during natural calamities such as the earthquake or floods. PARCO also supports culture and heritage by patronizing indigenous music, poetry and the arts. As a member of WWF, PARCO helps in the conservation of nature, with several initiatives to its credit. In keeping with the values of the company and our traditions, PARCO makes philanthropic contributions to institutions that are making significant efforts to help the underprivileged. From producing environment-friendly products to efficient, world class engineering facilities and infrastructure, building a highly competent human capital, and major social initiatives, PARCO is doing its utmost in Providing Energy with Responsibility. CORPORATE RECOGNITION DURING 2017 PACRA Maintains “AAA” Entity Ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited for 19 Consecutive Years The Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) has maintained long term and short term entity ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited at AAA (Triple A) and A1+ (A One Plus) respectively for the past 19 years. The ratings denote the lowest expectation of credit risk emanating from an exceptionally strong capacity, for timely payment of financial commitments. President of Pakistan Award 2017 The Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FPCCI) held its 41st FPCCI Export Awards Ceremony to recognize the services of organization's contributing in the progress of Pakistan. FPCCI presents the prestigious President of Pakistan Award to an organization whose overall performance is the highest in the country. PARCO was honored with the esteemed President of Pakistan award for the sixth consecutive time. The company was selected by the jury for its Honorable Chairman of the Senate of Pakistan, Mr. Raza Rabbani presenting the award to outstanding services in refining, storage and transporting of petroleum Mr. Tariq Rizavi, Managing Director-PARCO products. Honorable Chairman of the Senate of Pakistan, Mr. Raza Rabbani presented the Award to Mr. Tariq Rizavi, Managing Director-PARCO. FPCCI Achievement Award 2017 PARCO was selected by the Jury of FPCCI for the Gold Medal in the Energy Sector. The Company has always been in the forefront fueling the wheels of economy through its uninterrupted supply of environment friendly fuels, technology transfer, employment generation, foreign exchange savings and Corporate Social Responsibility programs. This recognition reaffirms the fact that PARCO is the Energy Lifeline of the Nation. In a prestigious awards ceremony, the Federal Minister for Commerce and Textile, Mr. Muhammad Pervaiz Malik, presented the Gold Medal to Mr. Tariq Rizavi, Managing Director, PARCO. This is the fifth consecutive award Mr. Tariq Rizavi, Managing Director-PARCO received by PARCO. receiving the prestigious Gold Medal Best CEO and Organization Awards by Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP) For the fifth time in a row, PARCO has won the Best CEO Award and the Best Organization Award given by the Employers’ Federation of Pakistan for the year 2016. The awards in following categories were announced on October 19, 2017 in a prestigious ceremony held in a hotel and attended by a large number of representatives of business forums, government officials and executives of the participating companies.  Best CEO Award (across all categories)  Best Organization Award in the category of Large National Mr. Syed Zawar Haider, General ManagerCompanies Marketing & Commercial, PARCO receiving the Best CEO Award The Best CEO and Organization Awards were decided on the basis of organization’s activities and achievements in five areas namely HR Management, Employment and Industrial Relations Practices, Health, Safety and Working Environment, Corporate Social Responsibility and Vocational Training Initiatives. The Best CEO Award was received by General Manager, Marketing and Commercial, Mr. Syed Zawar Haider and the Best Organization Award was received by Ms. Sharon Dias, Deputy General Manager –Human Resource. Ms. Sharon Dias, Deputy General ManagerHuman Resource, PARCO receiving the Best Organization Award Excellence in Best HR Practices Award by Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP) Soon after winning the Best CEO and Best Organization Awards, PARCO has won yet another award from Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP). This time the award was for Excellence in Best HR Practices 2016. PARCO has won the 1st Prize in the category of “Large National Companies”. The significance of this award is that the jury was comprised of two foreign members who represented International Labor Organization (ILO). The award distribution ceremony was held on the occasion of International HR Conference 2016 organized by EFP at Marriott Hotel, Karachi. Mr. Amjad Hafeez, the then General ManagerPipeline Division, PARCO receiving the Award Winning three major awards in a span of few months speaks volume of PARCO’s professionalism in HR and validates HR’s practices. Environment Excellence Award 2017 PARCO has been awarded the 12th consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Award by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH). PARCO for the ninth consecutive time has been placed amongst the 10 best organizations of Pakistan in Environment Management. A Special Recognition Certificate for outstanding achievement in Environment Management was also awarded to PARCO by NFEH. The panel of judges voted unanimously to award the excellence certificate to PARCO for the company’s vision, environment protection policies and practices, and its Corporate Social Responsibility program. These awards Mr. Adil Aziz Khan, Deputy General Managerreflect our good management practices, the efforts of our team and our Pipeline, PARCO receiving Environment Excellence Award concern for the environment. CSR Leadership Excellence Award 2018 The 10th International Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Summit was organized at a hotel in Islamabad on January 18, 2018. The objective of the event was to recognize and promote organizations that are making outstanding contributions for a sustainable future through CSR initiatives. In a prestigious ceremony, PARCO was awarded with the 7th consecutive Corporate Social Responsibility Award for its vision and implementation through contributions in the field of CSR. As a member of United Nations Global Compact, PARCO has a clear vision to implement Sustainable Ms. Saba Ahmed, Senior Management Development Goals (SDGs) in all its spheres of business. Ms. Saba Ahmed, Executive, PARCO receiving CSR Leadership Excellence Award from Mr. Jam Kamal Khan, Senior Management Executive, Corporate Communications received the Minister of State for Petroleum Division award on behalf of PARCO from the chief guest, Mr. Jam Kamal Khan, Minister of State for Petroleum Division. Prominent personalities belonging to the Corporate Sector, Government Officials and many NGO’s were also invited in the event. First Prize for PARCO’s Corporate Garden PARCO has been winning prizes for its Corporate Garden for the past several years. During the Flower Show, PARCO secured First position for its Corporate Garden in 2017 competition held by the Horticulture Society of Pakistan. PARCO has been winning first position for several years in this competition. Fire and Safety Award 2017 PARCO is one of the leading energy providers in the country. Due to the nature of our business, PARCO has always given priority to HSE and safer modes of business and operations for the betterment of its customers, employees, community and specially the environment. Protecting our employees, assets from fire hazards has always been our top priority. The role of HSE in PARCO is crucial for eliminating and mitigating these hazards to achieve operational stability by employing policies and processes as well as training our staff to handle any Mr. Adil Aziz Khan, Deputy General Managerunforeseen events. Pipeline Division, PARCO receiving the Fire and Safety Award 2017 Recognizing our HSE initiatives, procedures, safety measures and business processes throughout our installations across Pakistan, the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) and Fire Protection Association of Pakistan (FPAP) bestowed upon PARCO the Fire and Safety Award 2017. Mr. Adil Aziz Khan, Deputy General Manager, Pipeline Division received the award on behalf of PARCO. This is the fifth consecutive award achieved by PARCO. PARCO Receives UNGC Best Practices Sustainability Award 2017 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Award acknowledges organizations demonstrating the UNGC Principles and SGDs in action through Best Practices, not just a specific CSR project or program. Reputable Pakistani Companies and institutions are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact and have committed themselves to adopting its universal Ten Principles. PARCO, an active member of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), has been awarded the UN Global Compact Best Practices Sustainability Award 2017 for the fourth consecutive time. The UN Global Compact Award not Mr. Aly Zaki Ansari, Deputy General ManagerTechnical Division, PARCO receiving the Award only acknowledges PARCO’s commitment towards strategic and sustainable CSR, but also appreciates its efforts in reporting globally the practical implementation of SDGs through its various CSR projects. The Award nominees underwent a rigorous and documented process of successive stages of short listing by multidisciplinary local and foreign experts, who assessed the performance of companies in each of the four areas of the UN Global Compact, namely Human Rights, Environment, Labor and Transparency. Mr. Aly Zaki Ansari, Deputy General Manager Technical Division, received the Award from Chief Guest, Mr. Rana Muhammad Afzal Khan, Minister of State for Finance and Economic Affairs, Government of Pakistan. The Jury appreciated PARCO’s efforts in making substantial investments in Society, especially the initiatives pertaining to Community Engagement and Employee Care. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security Communities Actions Education Health Work Safety Stakeholder Involvement &Community Investment Results Employee Development Employee Care Increasing Stakeholders’ Involvement and Developing Communities is one of the key areas where  PARCO has been continuously endeavoring to enrich its human capital by  To provide full medical cover to its employees and dependents, PARCO has  The PARCO management expects from all employees to PARCO management and its employees take keen interest. Our involvement can be gauged by the adopting new techniques and methods for developing its people. PARCO on its panel, a large number of hospitals, consultants, laboratories, strictly follow safety and housekeeping instructions initiatives that we have taken to uplift the lives of these communities in terms of providing basic helps and guides its employees, through appropriate training, to make the pharmacies across the country. which results in better living conditions but also protects necessities and self -reliance. Following initiatives were undertaken in the year 2017. best use of their talents. employees from unexpected accidents.  All female employees including trainees are eligible for maternity leave of 12 Access to Education and Health  Training Needs Analysis, Personal Development Plan and Career Planning are weeks.  PARCO has also instituted an annual ‘Safety and  Our cross-country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and formalized processes for all employees. Housekeeping Award’ which is awarded to the station  PARCO helps its employees and their families with economic protection underprivileged communities. Since 2007, PARCO has been running an extensive Schools & which has maintained the best safety standards and  PARCO provides its employees with developmental opportunities to acquire against loss of earnings in the event of an employee’s death or disability Clinics Support Program which aims at improving the education and health infrastructure in immaculate housekeeping during the year. knowledge and build up skills through training and self-development, to the occurring as a result of illness, accident or otherwise under the ‘Death & adjoining communities by supporting Rural Health Clinics, Primary, Middle and Secondary mutual advantage of the employees and the Company. The ‘Educational Disability Benefit Plan’.  PARCO ensures that Personal Protective Equipment Schools, being run by Government of Pakistan. Refund Plan’ is one such initiative intended to provide financial assistance to (PPEs) are provided to all employees. Service Providers  Till 2017, PARCO has provided assistance to more than 110 institutions along its pipeline and  Under the Company’s Wellness Program, employees in the age of 45-50 years eligible employees who wish to undertake studies or trainings not directly are also required to provide PPEs to their staff. refinery across Pakistan. Thousands of children are receiving education in PARCO supported are required to undergo medical check-up every two years and employees covered by Company initiated programs or plans. schools. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised communities` interest to enroll above 50 years are required to undergo medical examination annually to  The PARCO`s Pipeline Division had successfully  In order to encourage employees to enhance their professional competence, determine the quality and level of their health and fitness. completed more than 8.35 million man-hours without their children in these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from child labor PARCO provides membership of reputable professional bodies and Lost Time Accident (LTA) in December 2017. to primary education, raising the literacy rate. organizations which impart technical, professional and managerial knowledge Employee Family  As a standard operating procedure, communication and  During 2017, PARCO has supported different institutions for mentally challenged and deaf to the employees through the ‘Organizational Membership’ policy.  Ibn-e-Sina Hospital at Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) ensures timely medical command level is established to report security children. These institutes are managed by professional NGOs and rely mostly on philanthropic assistance to the employees and their families residing at the Refinery in  PARCO provides 1-2 years Traineeship program for Engineers, Technologists incidents, accidents, natural calamities and other risk contributions. They help these children in developing skills to manage their lives in less Housing Colony in Qasba Gujrat which is a remote area. and Business Graduates. Under this program a sizeable number of graduates situations. challenging manner. PARCO’s contributions have helped these institutes sustain their are inducted who go through a rigorous classroom and field training.  The Company also covers medical/traveling expenses of employees and their operations. dependents if the patient is suffering from such a disease which requires a  Before mobilization, Service Providers’ staff undertakes  PARCO has an extensive Management Development Program (MDP) for our Orientation & Training covering Occupational, Health, vital organ transplantation that cannot be done locally. employees. All trainings are planned and coordinated in a systematic manner Safety & Environment procedures and practices. by the Company in terms of the needs and the talents required. The training Healthy Working Environment  Toxic Gas areas are marked with toxic gas signs and no efforts are not confined to a few formal classroom courses but extend in all  PARCO is an OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety one is allowed to enter the area without proper gas directions to remove employees’ weaknesses and accentuate their strengths. Management System) certified Company since the year 2005. The Company masks. Last six years of Training Man-Hours data is given below. has been receiving National Environment Excellence Awards for the past 12  The drinking water is checked on a monthly basis to years in a row. eliminate any bacterial contamination.  PARCO’s annual Inter-Station Competition for the Best Housekeeping at Pipeline Stations and Terminals continued this year where all the Stations  All PARCO drivers are provided training annually to and Terminals were scrutinized. During 2017, PS-3/WOTS-2 at Shikarpur was comply with Road Safety Rules and Pakistan Traffic Code. awarded the Best Station Trophy.  This year, PARCO distributed school bags along with stationary items and note books to the  There are proper road markings and road safety signs  PARCO continues to provide a healthy and green working environment to its installed within all PARCO facilities and locations for children at PARCO supported government schools in Ibrahim Hyderi near PARCO Corporate employees. During 2017, the Company secured a Gold Medal with First strict compliance. Wearing seat belts is compulsory for Headquarters and nearby its Mid-Country Refinery at Qasba Gujrat. Earlier, these children Position in the Best Corporate Garden Category in a competition held by the all drivers. were using polythene bags and temporary arrangements to carry their books to the school. Horticultural Society of Pakistan. PARCO has been winning prizes for its Their parents are not able to afford new workbooks and stationeries; hence, PARCO came up  Emission testing of vehicles, diesel driven engines and with the idea of helping these children to fulfill their dire needs. The initiative has helped the Corporate Garden for the past several years. generators is carried out periodically to avoid any schools in improved attendance and schools have reported increased enrollment as well. Such  PARCO provides international quality facilities for sports including Cricket environmental hazard. initiatives help children choose education against child labor. (Floodlit ground), Hockey, Football, Volleyball, Swimming, Tennis, etc. Indoor sports facilities are also provided in a Club Complex which include Bowling  Medical tests of all employees of different age groups Alley, Gymnasium, Badminton, Table Tennis, Snooker, Squash, etc. at its Midare carried out periodically and respective treatment (if Country Refinery as well as Stations and Terminals. required) is prescribed by Company Doctor. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 2 of 17) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Contd. BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration Communities Actions Work-Life Balance Education Stakeholder Involvement & Community Investment Results Employee Family  Under the umbrella of Schools and Clinics Support Program, PARCO has supported several Basic and Rural Health Centers based in small villages near PARCO cross-country pipeline and  PARCO ensures a very balanced work environment for all employees for  The School at PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery Stations and Terminals. The clinics are providing basic healthcare to the local communities within their villages. As a result, community members are no longer required to travel for long rest and relaxation, recuperation after sickness and for attending personal (MCR) Housing Complex provides subsidized hours to the cities for basic treatment. affairs. education to the employees` children till preuniversity level. The School also has a board which  PARCO’s Mid-Country Refinery at Qasba Gujrat is surrounded by many underprivileged communities, which are deprived of the basic education and health facilities. PARCO operates a  An employee proceeding on Annual Leave may request for advance salary includes PARCO management and parents of the Community Welfare Clinic in order to provide basic health facilities to the domestic workers working at the Mid-Country Refinery, their families and other people from nearby areas. The payment for approved leave period. In addition, employees are also children. clinic is being run successfully and treats approximately 3,000 patients annually. In order to ensure sustainability of its operations, the clinic is supervised by the Company doctor and entitled to ‘Leave Fare Assistance’. provision for its operation is kept in yearly CSR budget.  PARCO has also been supporting the educational  The Company provides opportunities for employees to socialize with endeavors of its employees and their children.  In Pakistan, there are various hospitals that serve the underprivileged who cannot afford medication, hospitalization etc. Hospitals that are selected are run by NGOs with transparent professional colleagues from other organizations and other walks of life. ‘Scholarship for Children of Employees’ is operations, supervised by a proper Board of Directors and regular external audits. PARCO has helped several such hospitals through philanthropic contributions in capacity building. To facilitate this inter-relation, the Company ensures that the employees intended to support the employees by providing financial assistance to help defray the cost of their Support for Sports have the facility and use of a reputable club in the city where they are posted. This is called the ‘Club Membership’ policy. children’s professional education on the basis of a  PARCO has a decade long history of promoting sports within and outside the Company. Sports’ events like Cricket, Squash, Hockey, Volley Ball, Swimming, Water Polo, Badminton, Table formal procedure that recognizes academic merit. Tennis and Lawn Tennis and other tournaments are supported by PARCO. Since the last several years, PARCO has been a major sponsor of the Squash tournaments that has helped in  Employees posted at outstations work on ROTA System, where they work promoting young talent. The Company has been holding a cricket tournament for the Pakistan’s petroleum industry and various sports events inside the company. for 20 days and then enjoy 8 days paid leaves with their families.  Educational Awards which include a certificate  The Company has also undertaken various inter-station tournaments of Squash, Cricket, Volley Ball, Table Tennis and Lawn Tennis, etc. and cash rewards are given to school going  During 2017, PARCO sponsored 5 Non-Management Staff and 2 children of the employees, based on good Management Staff to perform “Hajj” (Holy Pilgrimage). This is done on performance in their Secondary Education. This annual basis. recognition helps motivate children to further  In the event of an employee’s or a spouse’s death, the Company provides enhance their educational performance. During transportation of the deceased and ‘Funeral Assistance’ to the family. 2017, 90 children of PARCO employees were provided Educational Awards.  PARCO has a cafeteria for employees where nutritious meals are served at more than 70% subsidy. PARCO employs 2 cooks at each Station and Terminal for cooking meals for staff.  PARCO provides financial assistance to support the non-management staff Supporting Internal Stakeholders for their daughter’s marriage and education assistance for their children.  PARCO provides education assistance to employees’ children by providing scholarships to deserving students, seeking professional education.  In February 2017, PARCO organized the Annual Family Day for all  PARCO cares for its internal and external stakeholders. PARCO provides assistance for funeral, daughter’s marriage and medical support on case to case basis. Educational awards are given to children of employees including non-management staff employees and their families where they enjoyed fun rides, puppet show, in recognition of their performance in Secondary Education. The Company also supports its service providers’ staff in many ways on case to case basis, whenever they need financial, medical or other support. All in all, PARCO acts as a Socially magic show, games, food, etc. More than 2,600 PARCONIANS and their Responsible Corporate Citizen in all possible ways to help its internal and external stakeholders. family members visited the Annual Family Day where they all spent quality time together. The event helps employees to unwind from their Increasing Self-Reliance through Vocational Training busy schedules and enjoy the whole day with their families and socialize  PARCO had been keen in investing and fostering the culture of vocational training and entrepreneurship under its CSR Program. During Phase I, the with their fellow PARCONIANS. Company provided operational support to government vocational training centers in Sindh and Punjab. Currently, there are 23 centers being aided by PARCO to fulfill their infrastructural needs and equipment requirements. This support has resulted in students getting better training on modern equipment and increasing their chances of employment.  Under Phase II, PARCO has successfully setup a Sewing and Display Center for Women at Qasba Gujrat near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. The aim of this Center is to provide advance sewing and embroidery skills to the underprivileged women who have already done basic courses in sewing. Moreover, the Center is providing six months training, which also include additional courses on personal development and building entrepreneurial skills. These courses will educate them how to use technology to get better access to markets, advertise their products to reach a wider customer base and remain updated on modern design trends. This will help them in developing profitable business models rewarding them financially and uplifting them economically. During the year 2017, a total of 38 students have passed out in two batches.  The 23 vocational training centers as mentioned above are performing well. They offer different courses for women to help them improve their standard of living by utilizing their learned skill set. This year, PARCO distributed sewing and embroidery machines to women who had completed their Dress Making & Embroidery courses from Mahmood Kot Vocational Training Institute, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. Senior PARCO officials distributed sewing machines among these women so that they can be financially independent and lead a better life. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 3 of 17) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESSES SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment PARCO makes all possible efforts to avoid complicity in Human Rights Abuses and abides by the laws of the country. Management Systems HR Management, Operations, Contract Management, Communities, etc. Actions Ethical Standards and Fair Dealings with Shareholders, Staff, Equal Opportunity Employer Women Empowerment Customers, Suppliers, Service Providers and Other External Partners Results  During the joining process, every employee of PARCO signs a declaration agreeing to PARCO`s Guiding  All appointments in PARCO are based on merit for filling approved vacant  Being an equal opportunity employer, PARCO makes efforts in taking initiatives to empower women among its internal Principles which include a complete set of guidelines on fair and ethical dealings with customers, internal and positions. Our recruitment process ensures fair and competitive matching of and external stakeholders. Some of these initiatives are given below. external stakeholders and communities. Violations of these principles are viewed seriously, have resulted in candidates with job specifications. Non-job factors e.g. gender, origin, religion,  The Government of Pakistan promulgated Protection Against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act, 2010 with disciplinary action, and in some cases have led to termination of service. Following are some highlights of and external influence are not considered. Underage employment is strictly an objective to create a safe working environment for women which is free of harassment, abuse and intimidation so PARCO`s Guiding Principles: forbidden. that they can work with dignity. PARCO enforces this Act throughout the company and has placed it on its intranet portal and notice boards to educate women at workplace about their rights. PARCO has a committee to deal with  We practice a merit-based equal-opportunity policy for recruitment and reject any influence of gender,  PARCO Job Advertisements clearly state that use of any extraneous influence will harassment complaints, take suggestions and give recommendations to the Management. Employees, including head color, caste, faith, ethnic origin or recommendations by influential persons. disqualify the candidate. of departments, are advised to report any acts of harassment, as harassment is considered misconduct, liable to disciplinary action. No case of harassment against women has been registered since the inception of the Company.  PARCO believes in tempering its policies with human values that can raise the human capital of the  PARCO provides equal career growth opportunity to both male and female Company and the Nation. employees. Females are also heading key departments and sections in the  PARCO has built and supported three schools with The Citizens Foundation – a reputable NGO working in the area of Company. The company has females working in Engineering, Finance, Projects, IT, imparting quality education – at Karachi and Qasba Gujrat, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. These schools employ all  PARCO believes that valid profits are made by good businesses through efficient services, productivity of Telecom, Marketing, HR, and Medical functions. Our target is zero discrimination female staff belonging to the nearby communities. The existence of these campuses has generated employment for operations, value addition, innovative financing and strategic management of PARCO assets, talent and in a male dominated society and industry. these local women to earn a decent living. There are 998 children receiving quality education at PARCO TCF schools. skills, while contributing to the wellbeing of the Society.  Management and Engineering Trainees, upon successful completion of their  PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program supports 110 institutions compared to 96 during last year, with 89 schools  As a professionally managed organization, PARCO ensures that all the stakeholders are provided equal and 21 clinics. Out of these 89 schools, majority are situated in the rural areas, with maximum female staff. training, are considered on merit against vacant positions, as permanent opportunities. Be it customers, employees, communities, etc. we ensure equal treatment at all levels. employees without discrimination, in case if there is vacant position.  The Community Welfare Clinic at the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery caters to more than 3,000 patients a year of which  PARCO believes in the value of transparency, openness and self-examination, and consider them as majority patients treated are women and children. safeguards against potential faults.  During 2017, 93 Trainee Engineers and 10 Management Trainees were inducted.  At the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery, the female spouses of the Company employees have formed a Ladies Club which is  Benefits, facilities and allowances, as specified in the Company`s policies are financially supported by PARCO. The club undertakes several social activities and events organized by the women  We consider our Suppliers and Service Providers as our business partners and deal with them with the same provided to all employees and their dependents without discrimination. residing at the Refinery Housing Complex. At it’s Mid-Country Refinery Housing Complex, the Company has separate fairness that we reserve for our employees and customers. housing for women. There are separate sections and timing for facilities and club sports for women.  As a Company we are acknowledged as a responsible corporate citizen in the community of business and  PARCO’s Sewing and Embroidery Center at its Mid-Country Refinery is playing an instrumental role in training women industry of Pakistan and have received multiple awards from various external stakeholder bodies as  on latest fashion design and marketing techniques to become successful entrepreneurs. During 2017, PARCO continued mentioned in the COP. its support to many well-known vocational training institutions. The basic aim of the project was to facilitate these institutions in building capacity for incorporating latest techniques in building competencies amongst Pakistani youth.  We strive for minimal impact on the environment and contribute significantly to reducing the damage done PARCO supported Vocational Training Institutes in areas near PARCO facilities and assisted 23 centers at Machike, to nature by man. Faisalabad, Kot Addu, Mahmood Kot, Qasba Gujrat, Muzaffargarh, DG Khan, Multan, Fazilpur, Shikarpur, Bubak and  We do not tolerate unsafe and hazardous-to-health work practices in transit or at the work place. Karachi. The institutes were provided help through setting up state-of-the-art computer labs for conducting various professional courses and vocational trainings pertaining to sewing and embroidery by providing electrical embroidery sewing machines and furniture.  Most of the students enrolled are women. The learned skill has helped the women in these communities; take care of their own economics after trainings from these well-equipped Vocational Training Institutes. STAKEHOLDER FEEDBACK Madiha Siddiqui Muhammad Idrees Finance Department-PARCO Marketing & Commercial Division-PARCO “In the corporate world, we speak of corporate social responsibility as a formality to be complied “Taking part as a volunteer at PARCO’s CSR initiatives has always given me pleasure with, whereas in PARCO, it is a commitment. This is reflected from its acts towards the society, and courage to contribute to the cause of education in an underprivileged stratum as I personally witnessed while visiting schools in the vicinity that had undergone a of our society. Whichever institutions I visited, I saw resilience in kids to acquire transformation; the school buildings were renovated and it created a better learning education regardless of their circumstances and their strong will to make a environment. Being an employee of PARCO I got the opportunity to intermingle with the pupils meaningful impact within their communities. Education sets the foundation on and take part in distributing school bags, stationery and books. It was a heart-warming activity that stirred up a sense of purpose and direction to becoming a more socially responsible citizen. which families, organizations, societies, democracies and nations are built. PARCO PARCO is committed to upholding its responsibility as a corporate entity of Pakistan, by uplifting as a socially responsible organization recognizes the importance of education and and ameliorating the economics and social conditions of the indigents and the deserving.” its progressive role in the development of Pakistan.” www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 4 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment PARCO believes in addressing Employee issues practically and providing the right of collective bargaining to all its workers by complete compliance to all Industrial Relations Ordinances and Laws. Management Systems HR Management, Industrial Relations, Operations, CSR Actions Freedom of Association Collective Bargaining Negotiations and Proactive Focus and Redressed Employee Grievances to Maintain a Good Organizational Climate Union Charter Signing partners Results  PARCO workers are free to form or join a trade union of  PARCO has a history of good management – employee  Employees are encouraged to voice their suggestions for improving the Company’s performance and efficiency through an ‘Employee Suggestion Program’, which is an ongoing program. The their choice without fear of intimidation or reprisal. relations. There has never been a labor strike since objective of this initiative is to provide employees an opportunity to come up with innovative and creative ideas for process improvement, cost savings, operations effectiveness, safety and PARCO`s inception, and all CBA agreements have been efficiency. Under this program, employee suggestions towards improving organizational efficiency are recognized and rewarded. Suggestions made by the employees are reviewed by the Managing  The Company complies with Industrial Relations negotiated in a friendly atmosphere. Director and the Executive Committee Members which Includes Company’s top management. Ordinance 2012. PARCO has one registered trade union  Free and fair elections of CBA were held during May 2017.  In order to obtain feedback from exiting employees on the problem areas in the Company and on the employee’s concerns, complaints and suggestions, an exit interview of all exiting employees comprising of all non-management employees Next elections will be held in May 2019. are also conducted and remedial actions are taken accordingly. represented by 10 Collective Bargaining Agents (CBA).  Management and CBA work together on many Employee  For answering queries and listening to suggestions/complaints of employees, the PARCO HR Department has a dedicated Help Desk. Development and Welfare Programs.  The Human Resource Department at PARCO regularly conducts visits of PARCO installations at remote locations, to gather employee feedback, complaints and suggestions. The HR department also conducts Employee Focus Group sessions and Organizational Climate Survey where employees are randomly selected from each department at all locations irrespective of their grade or level. The objective of these discussions is to gather information pertaining to issues faced by the employees. Station visits and Focus Group sessions for the current fiscal year have been conducted during February and March 2018. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment PARCO completely disallows any form of forced or compulsory labour in all its functions. Management Systems Business Partners, Operations Human Resource Management Actions Maintaining Industry-competitive Compensation and Benefits The Terms of Employment at PARCO Provide Maximum Freedom to Compliance by checking of Employees to Voluntarily Enter or Leave the Organization on Free Will Vendors/Suppliers/Service Providers Results partners  PARCO’s policy is to pay employees at all level salaries commensurate with responsibility. Salaries and wages are compared with prevailing salaries  PARCO`s employment contracts do not violate human rights or labor laws. PARCO does not have a  Vendors/Suppliers/Contractors are checked by PARCO, for similar work in comparable organizations. For this purpose, salary surveys are regularly conducted and salary adjustments, benefits and practice of service bonds. ensuring no forced labor is utilized for PARCO`s jobs. During revisions are accordingly granted, targeting 75th percentile of the industry. prequalification, PARCO employees visit suppliers and  Separation process, payment of outstanding dues, post-retirement benefits, etc. are done  All employment contracts can be terminated by giving notice of 30 days by either party. vendors to visually observe and report if any children are  PARCO benefits its employees with economic protection against loss of earnings in the event of separation from service through ‘Gratuity Fund’. expeditiously. employed or if forced labor is practiced. Besides this, PARCO also benefits its retired employees with ‘Pension Funds’. The widow/children of a deceased employee are also entitled to  Upon induction, all employees are provided an employee handbook which includes Human Resource receive pension. policies and procedures about hiring, training and development, compensation, benefits, leaves,  PARCO conducts open competitive bidding for services and  PARCO also has a ‘Transfer of Ownership of Company Assets’ policy aimed at increasing employee satisfaction and retention. Under this scheme, medical benefits and much more. Furthermore, an electronic version of the book is also placed on materials procurement to provide equal opportunity to all employees are allowed to purchase Company vehicles and household appliances at a nominal cost. PARCO’s Intranet Portal for instant access by the employees. The electronic version is updated as qualified vendors/suppliers. soon as amendments are made in the policies.  To assist employees in solving their transportation, housing problems and in acquiring hard furnishings for their homes, PARCO grants Car, Housing and Furniture Loans to its employees.  Employees who are availing the residence facility at the Mid-Country Refinery site benefit from allotment of Company–owned residential housing, hard and soft furnishings, household appliances, world class sports, club facilities, schooling, mosque, shopping centers, etc.  PARCO places utmost importance to the continuous services of its employees as being a factor to be recognized in terms of granting reward and recognition. The Company recognizes long and dedicated services rendered by employees and in recognition thereof has instituted suitable awards commensurate with the length of service. The table besides shows the distribution of 178 awards which have been given to employees in November 2017 on completing different periods of service: www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 6 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment PARCO forbids engagement of any form of child labour in its operations or by any of its business partners. Management Systems Human Resource Management, Operations Business Partners Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Documented Procedures Prohibit Employment Third Party Audit of Labour Conditions Inclusion of Labor Laws (that Disallows Child PARCO Assists in Enhancing Primary and Secondary Schooling to Reduce Child of Child Labour Labour) in Contracts with Business Partners Labour in its Adjoining Communities Results  No child labor has ever been employed by PARCO. Minimum age  Regular third party audits are conducted by the Labor  By asking Suppliers and Service Providers to adhere to the laws  PARCO’s has been conducting a comprehensive Schools and Clinics Support Program since 2007. The program is limit for induction is thoroughly checked by birth certificates, Directorate’s labor department, health and hygiene of the country, they are required to comply with all labor laws, focused on supporting schools and clinics at rural communities located near PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery and educational transcripts, national identity card issued by NADRA department, Employees Old Age Benefit Institution meet security and human rights requirements as well as its Stations & Terminals in the Sindh and Punjab provinces of Pakistan. (National Database and Registration Authority) and other age (EOBI), Social Services Department, Workers Children eliminate employment of underage workers.  Till 2017, 110 Schools and Clinics have been supported by developing their much needed infrastructure, verification documents; thus ensuring that there is no child labor Education, Sindh Employers Social Security Institution procurement of necessary equipment, etc. This helps them sustain their operations for providing basic facilities to across the company. and other authorities who ensure elimination of Child Labor and compliance of other requirements of Labor the communities. Out of these 110 institutions, 89 are schools where thousands of children are receiving Laws. education. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised the communities interest to enroll their children in these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. PARCO and TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – A Partnership Making Differences PARCO in partnership with the TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – a reputed NGO in Pakistan has developed three campuses i.e. two primary and one secondary school at Qasba Gujrat and Karachi. These campuses are built in under-privileged communities and impart quality education to around 998 children. These schools are making a great difference in the lives of the underprivileged in many ways. These TCF schools ensure that children remain interested at their schools and keep their maximum attendance to achieve tangible future results. In this area, TCF schools including PARCO campuses undertook following initiatives during the past one year:  Teacher training workshops were conducted during the summer holidays. They focus on refining the techniques and skills of the teaching staff.  Staff development days during the academic year were meant for teachers and principal to review their class and school plans and discuss their curriculum priorities.  Formal parent-teacher meetings were held thrice in a year. However, parents and teachers maintain an open dialogue and meet informally as well to discuss their concerns.  Regular physical education classes and sports were held during Students Week. These co-curricular activities encourage team PARCO supported Schools and Clinics since 2007 till date work, group participation and enhance the students' learning progress.  TCF celebrated Independence Day in its schools nationwide. The objective was to inculcate the spirit of patriotism and a sense Mehwish Mumtaz of national pride in our younger generation. Principal – PARCO TCF Secondary School Campus III,  International awareness days had also observed during the school year. The purpose was to develop an understanding of students on various humanitarian, cultural and social issues around the world. Qasba Gujrat Perks of PARCO’s Investment in Education “I don’t see PARCO TCF School as just  We at PARCO believe that education is a key foundation for developing a Country, PARCO has always taken initiatives to improve the a building with furniture and required quality of education in underprivileged areas across Pakistan. The Company has been supporting the government schools near its tools only. I rather see it as the future facilities with much needed infrastructure and material support. Not only this, but we have been undertaking various projects from of Pakistan with the students enrolled time to time to create a happy learning environment. here. These students would one day  Our Teachers Training program, that continued for 5 consecutive years made phenomenal progress in terms of changing the classroom create a positive change amongst culture in the government schools. Teachers have now learned easy ways to engage these energetic youngsters. This has helped their communities. At a micro level, children in increased interest in the school and above all, improvement in the attendance culture. we need such brilliance to move  The bags and caps distributions being made since the last three years have played an instrumental role in maintaining children’s ahead which will definitely create a interest in the school. At Ibrahim Hydri, Karachi, school managements have indicated that the PARCO supported schools have high positive change.” number of enrollment in the area, mainly due to the changing positive culture at the school and the support that PARCO lends. With increased enrollments, children of these areas are now able to choose school over employment in early age. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 7 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment PARCO provides equal employment opportunity and supports diversity of human capital in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Ensuring Equal Employment Enforcing Code of Workforce Diversity Merit-driven Appointments Expand PARCO`s Interaction with Technology Transfer Opportunities for All Ethics and Promotions Educational Institutions Results  PARCO offers equal opportunity to all  PARCO ensures that employees  PARCO employees come from all  PARCO discourages nepotism and  PARCO undertakes regular summer and winter internship  PARCO’s employees are competent specialists in many areas and in order to share qualified applicants on merit base, abide by the Company`s Code over the country, irrespective of every form of favoritism. Very programs for students belonging to business and engineering their expertise, they conduct internal trainings which creates continuous learning irrespective of gender or their belonging of Ethics. Every employee has domicile/origin, ethnicity, religion, conducive learning environment is disciplines where the selection of internees is done on merit. environment in the organization. to various faiths, religion, origin, to sign, at the time of gender, or any other non-job provided to all employees for their During 2017, PARCO inducted 40 interns and provided On-The PARCO offers Traineeship Program in the fields of management and engineering. ethnicity, color, caste and creed. induction, a declaration dimension. Thus there are workers career growth. The policy of the Job (OTJ) training to provide them hands-on working experience. The training ranges from 1 to 2 years and provides the candidate learning and agreeing to PARCO`s Principles of all ages, from all provinces; Company is to develop and promote  PARCO ensures that no discrimination is from the northern most cities to employees from within the  PARCO also supports research, conferences, trade fairs, exposure to different aspects of a real life working environment. Upon which include a complete set made amongst employees and to date, workshops and other events of educational institutions. The demonstrating satisfactory performance during the training period, the Trainee is of guidelines on avoiding the southernmost areas. organization through career and all male and female employees company provides technical equipment for labs of engineering inducted as an employee if a suitable vacancy exists. discrimination, ensuring fair succession planning. belonging to different religions are  PARCO is a national employer, institutions. PARCO has donated 4 Gas Turbines to the and ethical dealings with all  Hiring and promotions are done on  Since 1975, PARCO has trained 1255 Engineering and Management Trainees. This employed at all levels including senior employing people without Mechanical Engineering Departments of top four engineering internal and external number is ever increasing and shows that PARCO has not stopped inducting fresh management positions. discrimination and strictly on merit, performance and the ultimate universities of Pakistan i.e. NED University-Karachi, University of stakeholders, communities, talent even at a time when the Country was facing an economic downturn. merit, from all parts of the potential of each employee through Engineering and Technology-Lahore, Mehran University Employees are given holidays in customers, suppliers and professional and transparent HR Country. Jamshoro, Bahauddin Zakariya University-Multan. These turbines  To address the issue of scarcity of trained manpower in the country, an accordance with their religious vendors. processes. If any employee exerts are now being utilized by the universities to provide hands-on ‘Apprenticeship Program’ has also been introduced. The objective of this sixcustoms.  Despite being a petroleum industry external pressure of any sort s/he is training to the engineering students. month’ program is to provide technical training to fresh graduates and  PARCO provides employment and engineering organization, automatically disqualified and faces PARCO encourages women for disciplinary action.  Universities show keen interest in visiting PARCO’s facilities and develop/upgrade their skills. opportunity to disabled applicants and employment in all business areas the company organizes plant visits for petroleum, chemical, civil,  PARCO has a reservoir of highly skilled and experienced human capital. Please bring them in the active workforce to including the Mid-Country electrical, electronics, telecommunication, and other engineering refer to the graph below, showing our Talent Inventory in different areas. encourage their skills at work. Refinery, which is located in a and business students belonging to different universities.  See Women Empowerment in Principle 2. remote area, by providing separate accommodation for single women. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 8 of 17) ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Environment Friendly Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards Solid Waste Management Supply-Chain Results  Crude Oil is the basic raw material in any  Effluent monitoring is carried out at all Stations and Terminals and the  PARCO is a fully IMS Certified Energy Company and amongst the first in Pakistan to simultaneously achieve  Disposal of solid waste at PARCO is done in such a way that it does not affect the oil refining industry. Environmental Mid-Country Refinery (MCR). Reports are sent to Environment Protection three international certifications, that is, ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2004 surrounding environment. All the Hazardous waste from Refinery, different Stations stewardship is a prime motivation while Agency (EPA) against SMART Program. (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety & Terminals is collected at Hazardous Waste Yard present at MCR. The SOP has PARCO manages transportation of crude Management System). been devolved to disposed-off Hazardous waste. Now Online waste disposal  Impact on the environment from the refining process is controlled by from the Keamari Port in Karachi to our treating and managing emissions. Low NOx (Nitrous Oxide) burners and  Corporate Headquarters (CHQ) has successfully achieved renewal of IMS Recertification of the OSHAS procedure has been introduced in MCR which is more effective in maintaining 18001, ISO 14001 (EMS) and ISO 9001 (QMS) Standards till September 2018 following an external proper data with respect to the segregation of waste and it also helps to prompt Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) in Sulfur removal from fuel gases are examples. the paper less environment. Mahmood Kot, through 864 km long Surveillance Audit conducted by a third party certification body in July 2017.  Effluents are treated in a state-of-the-art Effluent Treatment Plant having pipeline which is approximately 400 ft  A surveillance audit of PARCO Pipeline Division was conducted by a third party certification body in  PARCO’s Mid Country Refinery, Stations and Terminals have designated capacity of 340m3/hr involving extensive chemical and biological above sea level. The pipeline ensures September 2017. procedures and areas for effective system of waste collection and segregation. treatment. The waste water from the refinery is collected and through Two drums (yellow and green) are placed in each area i.e. plant, maintenance that each drop of crude oil is transported skimming, neutralization, dissolved air floatation, aeration, clarification,  PARCO Mid-Country Refinery had its re-Certification audit on newer versions of QMS (ISO 9001:2015), EMS building, truck loading and laboratory etc. Yellow drum is designated for dumping to MCR without affecting the filtration and drying operations the effluent water is brought within (ISO 14001:2015) & OHSAS (18001:2007) standards conducted by a third party certification body in the hazardous waste and the green drum is for non-hazardous waste. environment. NEQS limits before being discharged. The treated water is reused for December, 2017.  The Solid Waste Management yard is established near the north side boundary plants after compliance with PEQS (Punjab Environmental Quality  We have Leak Detection System, Standards) is ensured. All effluents are checked and verified regularly  During IMS Certification Audit, risk assessments were conducted in which high risk areas/activities were wall of the refinery. It is a well-organized area catering for everything from spent Emergency Shutdown System, intelligent before discharging by third party EPA (Environment Protection Agency) identified and objectives were established to eliminate, reduce and minimize the risks. The process is now catalyst and chemical drums to used batteries. A third party of international repute pigging, corrosion protection, and approved Labs to comply with NEQS. continued through IMS objectives. is contracted for disposing the waste. All types of solid wastes are collected in the microwave towers for communication, waste yard and separated according to their nature. There are five separate yards  All contractors’ equipment is checked for compliance to NEQS.  Audits of housekeeping, gas masks, noise, work permits, closed sampling box, yearly third party vehicle according to the nature of waste. SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data  Various chemicals in use are stored in a well-ventilated warehouse and it emissions monitoring, bi-annually third party stack emissions and liquid effluent monitoring, ground water Acquisition) system to avoid leakages,  Scrap Yard is situated near the south side boundary wall of the refinery in front of is ensured that a minimum level of inventory is kept to minimize the monitoring within the refinery and neighboring areas are done. thefts and intermediate storage tanks at Solid Waste Management Yard. All the waste generated at the Mid-Country hazard. The chemical warehouse is equipped with deluge valve system to  Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to ensure safe environment in Refinery, Stations and Terminals is stored in the Solid Waste Management & Scrap 5 different pumping stations. suppress any kind of contamination. Plastic trays and HDPE sheets have the office areas. Any discrepancies found during the audit are analyzed for their risks on safety and yard. Environment section keeps the record of Solid Waste Management Yard.  During the year 2017, approximately 4.18 been placed under the chemical drums to meet the required level of appropriate recommendations are provided as key performance indicators. Uptill now 114 Plant Safety and Hazardous waste yard gate is kept locked and the keys are available with Fire Million Metric Tons of crude oil was protection. Housekeeping Audits of MCR have been conducted. Station round the clock. transported from Karachi to PARCO`s  In compliance of Integrated Management System (IMS) at Corporate  Annual Pipeline HSE and Housekeeping Audits ensure the same commitment towards housekeeping and  The non-hazardous waste is stored in green drums and shifted to the non-hazardous Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) at Mahmood Headquarters (CHQ), environmental sampling and testing of liquid clean environment both in operational areas and office buildings at all stations and terminals. Senior waste yard. Administration Department keeps the record of all the municipal waste Kot through an 870 km long pipeline effluent (sewerage and car wash area) and gaseous emissions Management Audit is carried out on monthly basis in which the Senior Management visits the plant and and submits the record to the Environment Engineer on monthly basis for proper network, ensuring safe and secure (generators of CHQ and Commercial buildings) are carried out against conducts its audits by utilizing their expertise and also interacts with employees to gain insights. monitoring, treatment and/or disposal. To increase awareness regarding the waste transportation. This efficient supply chain NEQS on yearly basis through an EPA certified laboratory. Liquid effluent disposal methodology a training session is conducted on regular basis. parameters include temperature, pH, chemical oxygen demand,  The refinery has been divided into 12 major units and audit teams to conduct management audits on eliminates the movement of oil tankers monthly basis. Action points are identified and sent to concerned departments for implementation. Overall  In 2017, approximately 68,460 Kgs of hazardous sludge was disposed of through an biological oxygen demand, total dissolved solids, total suspended solids,  significantly contributing in reduction of oil & grease, phenolic compounds and chlorides while gaseous emissions performance in 2017 remained 85.5 %. This objective shows a high management commitment and EPA approved facility. This is an annual recurring activity. air pollution. are tested for Co, NOx, SOx, H2S, smoke and noise. The results of the test communication with employees. during past 8 years are within the permissible limits specified in NEQS,  PARCO has been awarded the 12th consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Award by the National  In 2017, the 362 km Mahmood Kotconducted by reputable laboratories. Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH). PARCO for the ninth consecutive time has been placed amongst Faisalabad-Machhike (MFM) pipeline the 10 best organizations of Pakistan in Environment Management. A Special Recognition Certificate for transported approximately 3.61 Million  EMS (Environment Management System) Impact Assessment registers outstanding achievement in Environment Management was also awarded to PARCO by NFEH. are available at every Station, and EMS impact is assessed on regular Metric Tons of refined fuel from PARCO basis to ensure IMS conformance with ISO and EMS requirements.  Recognizing our HSE initiatives, procedures, safety measures and business processes throughout our Mid-Country Refinery at Mahmood Kot to installations across Pakistan, the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) and Fire Protection Machhike via Faisalabad where gantry Association of Pakistan (FPAP) bestowed upon PARCO the Fire and Safety Award 2017. Mr. Adil Aziz Khan, facility is available for product off-take. Deputy General Manager, Pipelines received the award on behalf of PARCO. This is the fifth consecutive This has also reduced quite a number of Fire & Safety award given to PARCO. tank lorries off the road and has improved PARCO’s Guidelines for Disposal of Hazardous Waste road safety. The hazardous waste is disposed through Environment Protection Agency (EPA)  Similarly, during 2017, the 786 km WOP approved third party on an annual basis through open bidding and stringent evaluation (White Oil Pipeline) transported criteria to comply with all the legal requirements i.e. approximately 4.78 Million Metric Tons of  EPA’s No Objection Certificate (NOC) for disposal of hazardous waste. HSD (High Speed Diesel) from Karachi to  Safe handling and transportation of hazardous waste methods and statements. Mahmood Kot.  Incineration through EPA approved facility.  Recycling of used lubricant oils through government approved reclamation plant. Effluent Treatment Plant at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery  Safety of workers for handling of hazardous waste.  Necessary packaging and labeling requirements. Mr. Adil Aziz Khan, Deputy General Manager, Pipeline receiving the Environment Excellence Award (left)  Provision of waste disposal/recycling certification and undertakings. and Fire & Safety Award (Right) on behalf of PARCO www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 10 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 (Contd.) BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 11 of 17) Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards Air Emissions Monitoring Environment Friendly Products Results  Results of some key parameters are shown below.  Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to ensure safe  Air emissions monitoring is being carried out on monthly basis through  PARCO proactively works to ensure that its products PARCO’s laboratory and bi-annually through EPA approved third party for and fuels are environment friendly. Lead free environment in the office areas. Any discrepancies found during the audit are analyzed for Carbon Monoxide, NOx, SOx, and Particulate Matter etc. The result of all Gasoline complies with the standard having sulfur their risks on safety and appropriate recommendations are provided as key performance environmental parameters remains within NEQS limits throughout the content less than 150 ppm. indicator. year. Results of some key parameters are shown below.  The 19th internal Audit was carried out in May 2017 by PARCO's Certified Auditors. About 15  With the investment of 132 million USD on a Diesel Hydro Desulfurization unit, Diesel produced by Observations were raised, out of which 10 have been closed while 5 observations are in a PARCO is on Euro II specifications i.e. less than 500 process of close out. ppm. This positions PARCO at the top in Pakistan  In 2017, process of risk assessment has been revamped and SOP of risk assessment as well as where the running standard is 5,000 ppm of sulfur in procedure of risk evaluation has been revised. All existing risk assessments are being diesel. The extracted sulfur is solidified and sold as a converted on the revised template of risk registers. In the first phase EMS and OHS risk byproduct. assessment aspect and impact registers have been revised in consultation with other relevant departments. MMT High Octane Booster Facility for Better Quality Fuel  Five IMS Systems and Procedures have been revised during this period which include Incident Reporting, HSEQ Internal Audits, Risk Assessment, Measurement and Monitoring and  MMT (methylcyclopentadienyl manganese Emergency Response Plan. tricarbonyl) is one of the viable options for refiners to  Seven forms which include Internal and External Feedback Form of Materials department, replace lost octane quality. PARCO has installed MMT Internal Audit Plan, Internal Audit Checklist and Internal Audit Report and Change High Octane Booster Facility in October 2016 to Management Process Checklist have been revised during this period. provide high octane motor gasoline with relatively less emissions. It has been proven in the world as a  The Top Management Review is a continuous monitoring process of IMS to maintain and good additive to reduce emissions of NOx and CO by enhance IMS activities as per standards to ensure its continuity, suitability, adequacy and having good combustion of fuel in the engine. effectiveness. It also provides an opportunity for improvement and the need for change. This review includes, results of internal/external audits, environmental performance of the organization, status of corrective and preventive actions, internal/external Customer Feedback, trend analysis, status of compliance with HSEQ legislative and legal requirements, follow-up actions from previous management reviews, risk assessments, major issues discussed in the departmental HSEQ meetings, EMS Training Status Review, Analytical Reports results of Effluent and others, recommendations for improvement. Last Management Review meeting was held in October 2017. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 11 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, IMS, Operations, CSR Actions Increasing Health & Safety Awareness and Performance Reduction in Pollution and Initiatives Promoting Greater Environmental Responsibility Community Environment Monitoring Results  Fire, rescue and emergency drills are conducted regularly at all PARCO locations to ensure Community Environment Monitoring National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), USA and National Safety Council, USA Membership and Programs preparedness for emergencies. Four batches of Emergency Response Team are being trained  The surrounding areas of PARCO’s facilities have a lot of independent Service Stations  Over the 18 years of refinery operation, PARCO has developed and implemented Safety systems for safe operations and safety of every year to ensure availability of trained manpower at all times. First Aid staff is trained by for trucks, tankers and other vehicles which are potential contaminants for ground personnel working at the plant. The active implementation of these systems have been recognized in the form of “Environmental” professional Fire and Rescue personnel and refresher courses are ensured periodically. Water. Realizing this environmental aspect, a comprehensive ground and soil and “Fire and Safety” Awards. PARCO has also received international accreditation through registration with the National Fire monitoring plan has been developed to ensure that no contamination in soil and water Protection Association (NFPA), USA this year. The company also renewed the National Safety Council (NSC), USA membership as a  PARCO encourages employee participation, maintained in the planning and implementation of is done, and created a base line data for continuous monitoring. It includes: member organization. OHSE-MS activities like: 1. Ambient Air Quality monitoring outside Refinery is conducted twice a year. o Job Safety Analysis for all new and critical jobs 2. Ambient Particulate Matter monitoring is also conducted twice a year. HSE Newsletters and Bulletins o Risk Assessment for Occupational Health Safety and Environment 3. Offsite Ground Water monitoring is also conducted twice a year at 10 different  The company magazine “Pulse” has a section dedicated to HSE, highlighting the promotional activities, HSE performance and new o Departmental Safety committee meetings locations. initiatives. Monthly newsletters and company magazines are used to propagate the clean environmental practices. Environmental 4. Noise Level monitoring at boundary wall are done periodically. o Incident Reporting and Investigation standards and our activities are also shared in the articles being published in these publications. During turnaround, 3 daily o Training and implementation of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) newsletters were printed and displayed at prominent locations of MCR for employee’s awareness and updated information Community’s Ground Water Monitoring o Tool Box/ Safety Talks regarding Occupational Health, Safety and Environment.  As a CSR Initiative for the local communities, we perform 3rd party (EPA certified) ground water monitoring of the surroundings of our refinery twice a year just to  Regular lectures on various health topics (e.g hypertension, obesity, diabetes mellitus, Polio, Appreciation Program for Best Environmental Practices ensure that the community nearby is using a safe underground water. There are 16 etc.) are conducted by Company Doctors. Similarly, Medical Bulletins are also issued on the different parameters i.e. pH, Color, TDS, Taste and Odor, Total Hardness, Faecal PARCO has always been at the forefront in minimizing the impact of its business operations on employees, environment, customers, Company’s intranet portal and emails are sent to all employees to increase health awareness Coliform, Coliform Organisms, Arsenic, Chloride, Sulfate, Iron, Cyanide, Lead, Selenium shareholders and communities. From producing environment-friendly products to immaculate plant facilities and infrastructure, on various topics among the employees. and Manganese from different locations nearby PARCO Mid-Country Refinery as per everything points towards the vision of PARCO “Preserving Mother Nature and Making the Environment Purer”. PARCO encourages PEQS Standards. Green Environment through: Community’s Soil Analysis  Gardening competition conducted among the employees residing in the MCR housing complex to promote green environment.  A total of 8 samples of soil are being collected to check oil and grease level in the soil More than 20 awards are given in 6 different categories on this occasion. from 1-4 feet depth. A certified third party collects these samples from various  Tree plantation activities on Environment day by employees and children. Approximately 3,000 trees are planted at housing locations within MCR and service stations around MCR. complex and refinery. Noise Survey  Appreciation Letter to employees on promoting environmental stewardship.  Comprehensive noise surveys are also carried out within all operational areas,  Environmental quizzes on yearly basis. Stations & Terminals and Refinery. Equipment and locations are identified where a  Appreciation letter to the employees on preventing spills and fires. detrimental noise level may be present. Ear muffs and ear plugs are made mandatory accordingly. Generator/ turbine housings, fired heaters, compressors and similar potentially high noise equipment are monitored periodically. Even at the  To enhance health and safety awareness among employees, trainings like Road Safety, Fire boundaries, a noise survey is carried out in order to make sure that communities Fighting, Emergency Response Planning, Anti-Terrorist Attack, Risk Assessment and Procedures surrounding our facilities are not affected by any noise generated due to operations. of Waste Management, Occupational Health and Industrial Hygiene Management, First Aid, etc. are organized from time to time. Environmental Safety Walk  Safety Walk was celebrated at MCR with great zeal and enthusiasm. The theme of this walk was “Everything in nature is about balance. Plant more trees to make environment; pollution free.” All employees and their families living in the housing complex of refinery actively participated in the event.  Mr. Syed Ali Abid Naqvi, General Manager-Refinery was the Chief Guest. All senior management from the refinery also participated in this very important event. Banners were placed at different locations on the Safety walk route to enhance safety awareness among participants in terms of Safety Behavior, Driving Safety, Fire Safety, Home Safety and Environment.  The Safety walk was followed by award distribution ceremony in which awards were given to winners and runner-ups of Plant Safety and Housekeeping Audit 2016. Prizes were also given to the housekeeping coordinators and monthly best safety slogan contest winners. Keeping in view the importance of near-miss reporting, an award was given for the first time regarding the most number of near-misses reported by any employee. An appreciation letter along with the award was also give to a Fire Supervisor for his outstanding effort in preventing a community accident after MOGAS tanker spill. PARCO efforts and prompt response was highly appreciated by civil government in preventing a major disaster. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 12 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility by keeping its operations safe and in protection of adjoining communities in case of any emergency. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Health Safety Environment (HSE) Training Programs Results HSE Training Overview at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Regular HSE trainings help to ensure employees are trained on environmental challenges, NEQS and other legal requirements. It also helps to ensure that the employees are well aware of their personal safety as well. The Company has developed a positive health and safety culture, where safe and healthy working environment becomes second nature of the individual. This also reduces the cost that would be incurred in case of accidents or occupational ill health of an employee. The main objectives are to take into account the capabilities, training, knowledge and experience of employees; and to ensure that the work-life does not causes any risks to themselves, others and the environment.  Trainings are carried out twice a week for all PARCO employees.  Trainings are based on the training need analysis, audits and incident reports.  A three-day refresher training session for Senior Management was conducted on ‘Safety Management System and its Importance’.  A comprehensive two week HSE training plan is in place for all new employees and trainees.  Emergency Response Team (ERT) was provided ERT training along with various refresher courses. These sessions were planned for over 20 days.  All contractors before mobilization on site go through detailed Orientation & Training covering both aspects of Occupational Health, Safety & Environment.  The contractual staff including labor also attends in house HSE training program once a week. On-site safety talks are carried out each morning before commencement of work.  HSE trainings were also provided to other refineries of Pakistan such as Attock Refinery Limited, Enar Petrotech’s refining facility, Fauji Fertilizer Company, etc.  Mutual Aid Partners were provided trainings on Emergency drills.  HSE trainings to the internees and students of different institutions.  Apart from the in-house trainings, IMS-MCR arranged 3 Days Internal Auditors Training for newly nominated Steering Committee Members as per ISO 19011 “Guidelines for Auditing Management Systems” based on the revised standards of ISO 9001:2015 (QMS), ISO 14001:2015 (EMS) & OHSAS 18001:2007 through Third Party Services. This session has been conducted on 23, 24 & 25 October, 2017 at HSE Training Center. Emergency Response Team (ERT) Training PARCO HSE conducts in-house ERT training on quarterly basis to train its employees from different engineering/technical disciplines. The aim of ERT training is to enhance preparedness of PARCO Employees in order to deal with the emergencies and thus increase additional vigilance and response to mitigate any emergency at the very initial level. There have been remarkable achievements at many occasions when our ERT members have proved useful by using their training skills in extinguishing a fire that had a potential of developing into a huge fire, if the response was delayed. These trainings were initiated in the year 2001 and till now 534 participants from MCR, 222 participants from Pipeline Division and 24 PPGL employees, as well as 2 contractor’s staff members have been trained in the form of batches; thus creating a huge number of ERT members which are still increasing. The participants were provided with comprehensive two weeks ERT training followed by field trainings pertaining to Fire Management System, different types of Fire Equipments installed at PARCO, use of Emergency Equipment, Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs), Life Saving Emergency Equipment, Work Permit Systems implementation, classification of Hazardous Area, operation of Fire Water Suppression System, Crisis Management, Emergency Response Plan, practical Fire Fighting Training and Fire Tender Operation. HSE Trainings for New Employees New talent management is one of the key areas for PARCO’s strategic growth and development process. In this regard, the HSE department organized a comprehensive training program for the new batch of trainees at MCR. The training program was divided in two weeks of class room sessions and practical field trainings. As a result, the new inductees are now fully trained in HSE systems and procedures and able to identify potential hazards. For analyzing the effectiveness of training, a post training evaluation test was also arranged by HSE which shows their interest in training elements and promotion of safe working culture. Training Statistics  More than 8 IMS training sessions on EMS14001:2004 were conducted during the last one year.  In 2017, Internal/External training programs in 11 categories were arranged for HSEQ. Total 1332 man-hours have been spent in these training programs which were attended by 182 employees from various departments. Environmental Training Topics  Environmental protection act 1997 to understand legal requirement and fulfill company’s obligation for companywide legal compliance  EMS 14001 requirements and implementation across the company  Punjab Environmental Quality Standard (PEQS) for front line workforce to fulfill legal compliance regarding air emissions, effluent disposal, noise monitoring, vehicle emission and ground water monitoring  Solid waste management and importance of waste segregation at source point and to find out ways and means for waste recycling, reduction and reuse  Environmental aspects and impacts assessments to find out environmental risk and its control measures  Global warming and Greenhouse gases monitoring and control  Hazards of chemicals and control measures to save human health and environment  Awareness session for contractor work force to understand environmental requirements during new and modified projects and fulfill the requirements  Environmental and safety promotion walks in community and housing complex to educate general public on environmental challenges  Environmental and safety quiz among employees to enhance general knowledge regarding environment and safety  Awareness sessions on reduction of electricity consumption to save energy and protect environment  Gardening competition in plant and housing complex  Environmental awareness session and posters’ competition in PARCO School to educate new generation www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 13 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment PARCO makes all efforts to minimize the impact of its operations on environment by utilizing technologies that are environment friendly. Management Systems HSE, Operations Actions Automated Incident Reporting System Energy Conservation Program Results  The Online Incident Reporting System (IRS) was successfully launched in January  Heaters and Boilers are the major sources of energy utilization at a refinery plant. PARCO has taken following steps for Energy Conservation and Energy Efficiency: 2012. The purpose of the online system is to combine the IRS system of Mid Country Refinery and Pipeline Division. Furthermore, vision of paperless Heaters environment was also driving force to develop this system. Now, Incident 1. Efficient heaters are being operated at above 85% efficiency 2. Regular heater efficiency monitoring program is in place Reporting System from “raising an incident report” till completion of “incident 3. Access air monitoring is done on daily basis investigation” and “implementation of recommendations” is all carried out 4. Heater efficiency monitoring is done on monthly basis online with zero paper use. For the investigation of online reported near misses, 5. To save energy and environment we have dual fire system accidents or injuries we have a standard operating procedure for incident heaters operated on furnace oil and fuel gas investigation. Boilers 1. Boilers are operated at highest efficiency above 90%  All the incidents occurring in PARCO are reported / recorded and then 2. Boilers are annually inspected and certified by government agencies investigated appropriately according to a procedure through an online IRS system company wide. Key features of the IRS System are: Heat Exchangers 1. All heat exchangers are monitored for their efficiency and energy consumption on daily basis and corrective actions are o Online reporting system – a companywide program taken to maintain the highest level of efficiency o Incident reporting criteria for major and minor incident 2. Proper schedule for equipment inspection and maintenance 3. Dismantling and overhauling of all equipment in turnaround to maintain efficiency o Information to the senior management within 24 hours o Investigation by cross functional teams Motors o Root cause analysis and recommendations  Standard specification power driven motors are used to achieve; 1. Highest levels of efficiency o Implementation verification through safety audits 2. Low energy losses o Sharing of incident learning with employees o All major international accident investigations collected are shared with Solomon Benchmarking employees during training sessions and key findings are considered during  PARCO Mid-Country Refinery has presented its systems for international benchmarking by Solomon Associates, USA in March 2013, incident investigation process. for key performance indicators: 1. Manpower utilization  Updated reports of IRS showing outstanding/unclosed incidents are reported to 2. Energy Index the Managing Director and Senior Management so that such incidents can be 3. Operation efficiency closed in a timely manner and for taking suitable countermeasures to avoid Carbon Dioxide Emission Monitoring recurrence. All leakage/ spillage incidents are followed by rehabilitation work to  CO2 emission monitoring is carried out on monthly basis and Carbon Emissions Index (CEI™) is calculated as per Solomon guidelines. restore environmental condition and legal compliance.  Although our organization CEI is very good as compared to many refineries of our region, we always strive towards the benchmark. The feasibility study for flare gas recovery system and vapor gas recovery system in this regard has already been carried out. Energy Savings at Stations and Terminals Company ensures saving of energy resources and reduce pollution by adopting suitable economical pumping configurations, gravity transfer and load management. Initiative for replacement of conventional lights with LED lights was also taken this year and approximately 550,000 KWH energy is being saved every year with installation of LED Lights at Stations & Terminals. Energy saving on account of electricity was about 3,514,400 KWH during 2016-17. Drag Reducing Agent (DRA) Treatment Drag Reducing Agents (DRA) are indigenous solution for enhancing the pumping capacity of hydrocarbon pipelines with lesser input energy. PARCO is utilizing DRA for this purpose in its 876 Km long Karachi-Mahmood Kot (KMK) pipeline and is successfully achieved the desired throughput of Crude Oil to meet the Mid Country Refinery (MCR) demand positively. Further studies and test run has been conducted which ensured KMK capacity utilization corresponds to 120% plus charging rate of MCR. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 14 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment PARCO makes all efforts to minimize the impact of its operations on environment by utilizing technologies that are environment friendly. Management Systems HSE, Operations Actions Environmentally Friendly Technologies Environmental Stewardship Results Effluent Treatment Plant  PARCO takes into account all it can to reduce emissions far below NEQS limits, develop products on Euro II standards and preserve natural habitat by diverting its oil pipeline. The 2000 km of oil pipelines traversing the  PARCO has Effluent treatment plant having a capacity of 340m3/hr. Here the waste water from all country, save thousands of gallons of fuel and reduce pollution that would otherwise have been caused by tank lorries traffic. over the refinery is collected and through Skimming, Neutralization, Dissolved Air Floatation,  The refining complex at PARCO’s Mid-Country Refinery is equipped with a state-of-the-art effluent treatment plant, low NOx (Nitrous Oxide) and SOx (Sulfur Oxide) burners and a Sulfur Recovery Unit. Aeration, Clarification, Filtration and Drying operations the effluent water is brought within NEQS limits before is discharge into local Saim Nala.The laboratory tests for effluent water are carried  Occupational Health and Safety Management and Environment Management systems in PARCO are fully complied with the National as well as International, standards such as ISO, OSHA, NEQS, NFPA, Pak EPA, API and out on daily basis and after ensuring that parameters are within the NEQS limits it is allowed to ASTM. discharge. If any parameter is not within NEQS limits then the whole batch of effluent water is diverted back to diversion tank of capacity 25,400m3, and processed again.  PARCO has a very comprehensive occupational health monitoring program to manage health of employees exposed to occupational health related risks, for example: o Noise control program (covering area noise level monitoring, noise reduction and controls, sign posting, personal exposure assessment, audiometry). Even at the boundaries, a noise survey is carried out in order to  During the year 2017, effluent water treated was 1,428,615m at a rate of 163.08m /hr. 3 3 make sure that communities surrounding our facilities are not affected by any noise generated due to operations o Equipment modification to control noise from recourse by engineering means Effluent Monitoring Plan o Dust monitoring program Daily monitoring for PH, COD, temperature, sulfates, suspended solids, total dissolved solids, BOD o Volatile organic compound monitoring monthly monitoring, third party environmental monitoring (all parameters) twice a year. Prior o Audiometric testing for noise permission is obtained from the concerned authority before disposal of liquid waste after treatment o Employees health management program into Ghazi Ghat Saim Naala.  HAZMAT document has been prepared by MCR HSE for all the chemicals used in the plant and lab. In this regard, a one page MSDS document is prepared for each chemical being used along with the factsheet of all Tree Plantation/ Horticulture chemicals. This provides a great ease for employees in considering the first aid requirements, handling and storage procedures, environmental aspects, etc. PARCO always takes keen interest when it comes to preserving and improving the Eco system. As tree plantation plays an important role in the improvement of Eco system, PARCO Mid Country Refinery Enhancement of Mahmood Kot-Faisalabad-Machhike (MFM) Pipeline Utilization keeps massive budget for Tree Plantation/Horticulture annually. In the year 2017-18, plantation of  Pak-Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) owns 364 KM long 18”/16” dia MFM Pipeline. The pipeline was originally designed for transporting High Speed Diesel (HSD) and approximately 3000 trees had been carried out. Superior Kerosene (SK) since it’s commissioning in 1997. The pipeline begins from Mahmood Kot near Muzaffargarh and terminates at Machhike near Sheikhupura.  Design installed capacity of MFM is 4.0 million Tons per annum which has been enhanced to 5.0 million Tons per annum with the injection of Drag Reducing Agent (DRA) in 2017 and it will further be enhanced to 7.0 million Tons per annum by adding Pumping Station at Kot Bahadur Shah by 2019.  To use the available spare capacity in addition to HSD, PARCO decided to pump Mogas since consumption of Motor gasoline (Mogas) in the North has increased at a faster rate and significant volumes of Mogas are being transported to Upper Punjab by road excluding Superior Kerosene for which demand has drastically declined. Accordingly, PARCO engaged an international consultant to carry out techno-economic feasibility study which concluded that Mogas can be pumped along with HSD in batches after necessary addition and modifications in MFM system. Detailed Engineering has been done, tendering process for procurement of long lead items has been in place and field construction works are in progress. After commissioning of the project, we will be able to enhance the utilization of our pipeline system to its maximum capacity. In addition, heavy bowsers traffic load on the trunk roads will be alleviated as hydrocarbons will be transported safely through pipeline system which is most efficient and safe system for transportation of flammable liquids. Weather Station Weather Hawk The PARCO Mid-Country Refinery has installed its own weather station to keep itself updated on daily WOP Optimal Utilization weather conditions and keep the record of historical data. It measures wind speed, wind direction,  PARCO’s subsidiary company, Pak-Arab Pipeline Company Limited (PAPCO) owns 780 km long White Oil Pipeline (WOP), which runs from Port Qasim (near Karachi) temperature, relative humidity, barometric pressure, solar radiation, and rain, etc. in the South to Mahmood Kot in the North, where it ties into PARCO owned 364 km long Mahmood Kot-Faisalabad-Machhike (MFM) Pipeline.  The WOP was originally designed for transportation of Crude Oil and HSD. Presently, it is only being used for the transportation of HSD and it is operating below its Hazardous Waste Sludge Pit design capacity. PARCO engaged an international consultant to conduct its feasibility study which concluded that Mogas can be pumped along with HSD in batches PARCO has developed a sludge pit having the capacity to accommodate 500 tons of hazardous waste after necessary addition and modifications in WOP system. sludge. HDPE sheet was used during its construction so that leaching of sludge and ground water contamination is avoided.  The Front End Engineering Design (FEED) & Bidding for Engineering Procurement & Construction (EPC) contract has been completed, contractor has been mobilized and field construction works are in progress. After commissioning of the project by 2019, we will be able to enhance the utilization of our pipeline system to its Diesel Hydro Desulfurization Plant Producing Euro II High Speed Diesel maximum capacity. In addition, heavy bowsers traffic load on the trunk roads will be alleviated as well.  With the commissioning of the DHDS plant at the Mid-Country Refinery in 2010, PARCO has the capability of producing High Speed Diesel conforming EURO II standards and is the only refinery in Isomerization Unit and MCR Revamp Project Pakistan to have achieved this capability. This product is helping EURO II compliant automobiles to The Isomerization Unit at the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery will convert and upgrade Light Naphtha into environmental-friendly Benzene free gasoline with reduced perform better through fuel efficiency and low emissions. sulphur and aromatic contents. This will also have an effect on increased Motor Gasoline production and will serve as a substitution for imports, and greatly offset the requirement of expensive imported Motor Gasoline. The construction will begin in the year 2018.  During 2017, the DHDS plant at PARCO has processed more than 1.1 million metric tons of High Speed Diesel on EURO II specifications. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 15 of 17) ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment PARCO does not allow any form of corruption and monitors its business transactions with internal and external stakeholders to eliminate this malpractice. Management Systems All Corporate Functions Actions Corporate Governance Transactions with Suppliers, Contractors, Service Providers Elimination of Discrimination Results  Compliance with Statement of Ethics and Business Practices is pursued at all levels and locations.  Since the commencement of PARCO`s operations in 1974, there has been no instance of extortion  Elimination of discrimination during selection of Vendors/Contactors/Service Providers by check and or bribery. balances against introduction of discriminatory conditions.  All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of the Company.  Compliance with the Company’s Financial Authority Manual specifying fiscal limits for transactions  Pre-qualified Vendors/Contractors list is periodically updated through advertisements placed in at various levels and positions.  Compliance with regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan. newspapers and evaluations based on predetermined criteria.  Company Procurement Policy is approved by Board of Directors.  No discrimination is made on basis of gender, religion, caste, origin, etc., while hiring an employee.  PARCO employees, if found involved in corruption in any form or contravening with any Company Policy on Ethics, Finance, Procurement, HR, Operations or any other function, face disciplinary action. Such deviations HR policies are transparent and merit based where there are no influences or pressures as mentioned  Any form of extortion and bribery, given or taken, is a very serious misconduct according to the HR in Principle 6. can lead to termination of service and are reflected in the employee’s performance appraisal. Policy of the company and the concerned employee is liable to be terminated for such misconduct.  PARCO has IMS, HSE, Environment, CSR, Financial, HR and other audits done to ensure compliance with best practices and ethical standards.  PARCO has an Internal Audit Department which conducts periodical audits for procedural  PARCO has NEVER been involved in any court case related to corporate malpractices or corruption or bribery, compliance and reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. etc.  Separate committees are constituted for transparent and merit-based prequalification, quotations opening, tender opening, etc.  We adhere strictly to the internationally accepted Accounting Principles, SECP (Securities and Exchange Commission of Pakistan); the Country’s Financial/Tax/Labor/Environment and other national and provincial  Development of Annual Procurement Plan and plans for contractual work and services by external legislations. Service Providers which are pre-approved by the Company and subsequently monitored in monthly and quarterly management review meetings.  PARCO developed and implemented a comprehensive Business Continuity Management Plan (BCP). The scope of the document is to have risk assessment of core business areas, identification of contingencies that can lead  All contracts, business activities, operations, procurement, etc., are subject to Internal and to loss of business reputation, credibility, a companywide or a national crisis and resources that need to be External Audit. mobilized for business continuity while establishing the structure, responsibilities and communication necessary for crisis management. Business Continuity Management is a holistic process that a framework for  To ensure transparency, sealed bids are invited against request for quotations, except for building organizational resilience with the capability for an effective response. It safeguards the interests of proprietary items. key stakeholders, reputation, brand and value-creating activities.  Purchase Orders are issued to technically compliant commercially lowest bidders for procurement.  BCP is a documented collection of procedures and information that is developed, compiled and maintained in readiness for use in an incident and enables PARCO to continue to deliver its critical products and services.  Centralized Procurement with due diligence.  At PARCO, transparency in all our operations and management systems is considered top priority and ensured  PARCO is not allowed to commit any terms and conditions with any Supplier/Service Provider at all levels. against any law of Pakistan.  Payment to any Supplier/Service Provider/Contractor is made after proper inspection by the concerned Department and confirmation of acceptance.  The IMS department at PARCO takes periodical feedbacks from different vendors on PARCO’s performance and their treatment. Vendor’s grievances are heard and dealt with due care.  To maintain the transparency of the process, end users are not permitted to have a direct contact with the vendors and contact is only through materials function, prior to award of procurement.  In exceptional cases, where it’s deemed necessary, price negotiations are carried out by a Committee approved by Managing Director. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2018 (Page 17 of 17) Corporate Headquarters Korangi Creek Road, Karachi-75190, Pakistan UAN: (021) 111-392-567, Ext: 2270/2179 Email: info@parco.com.pk Designed and Developed by PARCO Corporate Communications Team Web: www.parco.com.pk For further information/queries, please email at salmanzakir@parco.com.pk
