. To UN Global Compact Date: March 8, 2018 Dear Sirs, I am pleased to confirm, that BPI Bramming Plast-Industri A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the area of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jesper Brix CEO Bramming Plast-Industri A/S Vardevej 9 • DK-6740 Bramming • Denmark • T: (+45) 79 57 10 00 • bpi@bpi.dk • www.bpi.dk • Bank: Danske Bank • VAT no.: DK78709111 Together we can reach far COMMUNICATION Issued by: BPI Marketing Date: March 8, 2018 3. edition ON PROGRESS 2017 This COP covers the time period: 1.1.2017-1.1.2018 I. HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR BPI supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and promotes human rights standards internally and throughout all business. Equal opportunities for all employees irrespective of gender or ethnicity continue to be part of our HR-philosophy and humanity attitude. We hire, remunerate and promote employees on the basis of skills, competences and performance – not according to gender, religion nor race. During 2017 we have initiated and achieved the following actions in our factory in Poland a. Improved organizational set-up for health, safety and environmental b. New lay-out in hard moulding with improved work environment and H&S c. Collaboration with security company which uses disabled employees in workforce II. ENVIRONMENT The company engages in targeted and systematic efforts to continuously protecting the environment through energy and material optimization, pollution prevention, waste minimization and environmental management. In 2017 we took the following corporate steps: d. FSC certification and supporting the promotion of responsible forest management worldwide. Our factory in Poland e. Energy audit successfully completed Q3-2017 f. Environmental report from Cowi in 2016 with recommendations for improvements, and subsequent realization during 2016 and 2017 g. Environmental friendly packaging solutions with several customers (re-usable materials) COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 III. ANTICORRUPTION An essential part of BPIs company policy as well as our Code of Coduct define that: • None of the company’s employees give or receive unjustified advantages from local or foreign public officials or employees in private companies • No form of extortion or bribery or favoritism to or from employees or organizations is tolerated Full or partial neglect of the principles in the overall company policy or the Code of Conduct, or serious violation of local laws and regulations may, in its extreme, cause an interruption of the cooperation with BPI or a dismissal of the employee. The company grew up with this cultural mind set and business attitude, and it has never been necessary to set up a closer or more intensive monitoring or control of individuals or departments. The management is handling this subject with an appropriate and reasonable surveillance. To all Polish employment contracts, a specified point to impress upon our attitude and zero tolerance towards corruption has been added, and communication towards subsuppliers has been intensified. Outcome A large part of the above points have caused improved working environment, reduced energy consumption, less environmental impact and CO2 emissions as well as further engaged and healthier employees. Our ongoing initiatives within above fields are representing our unambiguous business attitude and adds to our track record of being a professional and fair business relation to our customers and cooperation partners. Encl.: CSR overall policy COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017
