Drottninggatan 2 Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm Tel +46 8 700 17 00 Reg No SE 556008-3585 Stockholm March 2018 Communication on Progress 2017 Ratos signed the UN Global Compact in 2013. As part of our commitment to this initiative, I am pleased to report on our activities and progress in our Communication on Progress for 2017 and to reconfirm our support for the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This report covers the fiscal year 2017, and consists of this letter and an extract from our annual report 2017, including an index with page references to the GC principles (and GRI indicators). In the extract, we outline our approach to integrating the principles into our active ownership and give examples or actions and activities taken by us and our portfolio companies during the year to progress our work. With this communication, we want to emphasize our ambition to continue to integrate the Global Compact principles into our business: into the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Best regards Jonas Wiström CEO Ratos AB SUSTAINABILITY AND RESPONSIBLE OWNERSHIP – EXTRACTS FROM THE ANNUAL REPORT 2017 This is Ratos Ratos is an investment company that acquires, develops and divests unlisted Nordic companies. The common denominator for the companies that Ratos acquires is a clear development potential with focus on growth and profitability. VISION Ratos is to be the first choice as a partner for developing companies INVESTMENT STRATEGY Ratos invests in unlisted medium-sized Nordic compacompany in question must have a minimum growth nies. The enterprise should have an established business potential of SEK 0.5 billion in equity value over the next model, in which Ratos recognises clear development five years. The upper investment interval is SEK 2 billion potential. The goal for new acquisitions is that the in equity value. RATOS’S BUSINESS MODEL ACQUISITIONS DEVELOPMENT DIVESTMENT Medium-sized companies Ratos’s goal is to generate value by developing Ratos has a flexible ownership with clear potential for successful companies. We lend the innohorizon and stays on as owner development, tested business vativeness, experience, expertise, 2. Fo as long as we contribute to the models and employees with contacts and capital needed to cu development of the company es cre s strong drive are interesting realise the potential of the comu a ue and meet our return target. 1.V val investment opportunities for panies in which we invest. Our al on on We endeavour to combine Ratos. Ratos primarily invests primary focus is to work together ti long-term sustainable growth in unlisted companies in the with the companies’ executive DEVELOPMENT with the highest possible Nordic countries and ideally management to increase growth MODEL nce return. in partnerships with entrepreand improve profitability. The o na neurs and other stakeholders development of the companies in 4. T ol er bo ov who see the advantage of our terms of environmental, climate and x 3. G flexible ownership horizon and social sustainability is a prerequisite for active ownership model. long-term economic value creation. FINANCIAL TARGETS Company-specific return target (IRR) of a minimum of 15% RATOS’S VALUES Entrepreneurial since we encourage original Committed and dedicated in our Responsible since we have high approaches, curiosity and harness opportunibusinesses, companies and the people who lead demands on business ethics and weigh in the ties, conduct business and build companies. and work at Ratos and its companies. consequences of the decisions we are involved in for people and the environment. Ratos’s portfolio Ratos’s portfolio consists of 14 medium-sized Nordic companies, with the largest segments in terms of sales being Industrials, Construction and Consumer goods/Commerce. A detailed description of each company is presented on pages 28-43 in Ratos’s Annual Report 2017. SALES BREAKDOWN BY SEGMENT – INDUSTRIALS – Aibel A leading Norwegian supplier of maintenance and modification services as well as newbuild projects in oil, gas and renewable energy. Diab A global company that manufactures and develops core material for sandwich composite structures including blades for wind turbines. HL Display An international supplier of products and solutions for in-store communication and merchandising. 29% LEDiL A leading global supplier of high-quality secondary optics for LED lighting. – CONSTRUCTION – HENT A Norwegian construction company that focuses on new construction of public and commercial real estate. 28% airteam airteam offers high-quality, effective ventilation solutions in Denmark. – CONSUMER GOODS/COMMERCE – Plantasjen The Nordic region’s leading chain for sales of plants and gardening accessories with more than 120 stores in Norway, Sweden and Finland and a primary focus on consumers. Gudrun Sjödén Group International design company with a unique, colourful style and clear sustainability profile. Jøtul One of Europe’s largest manufacturers of cast-iron stoves and fireplaces with global distribution through its own sales organisations and via distributors. 26% Oase Outdoors Danish company that designs, produces and sells high-quality camping and outdoor equipment. – TECHNOLOGY, MEDIA, TELECOM – Bisnode One of Europe’s leading providers of decision-support solutions. By transforming data into insight, Bisnode helps decision makers to make smart decisions. Kvdbil 13% Sweden’s largest independent online marketplace offering broker services for second-hand vehicles. – CORPORATE SERVICES – Speed Group 2% A Swedish service provider in staffing, warehousing and logistics management with supplementary services in production, recruitment and training. – HEALTH CARE – TFS 2% A global service company that performs clinical trials on behalf of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical device industries. Adjusted for the size of Ratos’s holding. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2017 1 The year in brief 2017 was an eventful year for Ratos, which launched an updated strategic agenda, completed the divestment of Nebula, Serena Properties and Sophion Bioscience (part of Biolin Scientific), and sold its remaining holding in Arcus, which was listed in 2016. In addition to this, important activities were conducted in our portfolio companies. A redemption of the outstanding preference shares was made at a total redemption amount of SEK 1,300m. During the year, impairment losses totalling SEK 550m were posted on the book values of Diab and HL Display. In December, Jonas Wiström was appointed as new CEO and Per-Olof Söderberg as new Chairman of the Board. Read more about this eventful year on pages 4-5. 14 companies with SEK 32 billion in sales, SEK 1.6 billion in EBITA, LAN IN 1 F D 13,200 employees and W OR A 4 N Y CO Y D M PA N WE E 7 S N 4 company divestments CO ES 1 MP AN I CO MP ES I AN Includes divestment of Nebula, Serena Properties, parts of Biolin Scientific and sale of the remaining MAR EN 1 2 shares in Arcus. In 2016, an agreement was signed for the divestment of AH Industries.The sale was D K completed in March 2017. CO MP ES I AN Dividend* Return (IRR) Exit gains Profit 2.0 12% 596 658 per Class A and B share average in the SEK from companies m SEK before tax m * Proposed dividend for 2017 past five years Earnings trend, SEKm 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Profit/loss before tax 658 -890 892 1,367 1,083 of which, Profit/share of profits from companies 679 295 664 392 602 of which, Exit gains portfolio companies 596 1,672 1,101 1,390 895 of which, Impairment portfolio companies -550 -1,895* -565 -250 -308 Earnings per share after dilution 0.72 -1.79 1.29 3.22 2.13 Equity (attributable to owners of the parent) 9,660 11,283 12,882 14,027 13,778 * Attributable to owners of the parent. 2 Ratos 2017 Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos as owner Committed and active partner Ratos’s goal is to develop successful companies. A committed and active owner, we invest in Nordic, primarily unlisted enterprises. Each investment situation is unique, and even if the companies operate strategically, operationally and financially independent of each other, there is a common denominator for our activities. Ratos’s focus is to contribute to long-term and sustainable operational development based on common values. Our ownership model is based on four cornerstones: 1. Values 2. Focus on value creation Ratos’s actions are based on the core values of When we invest in a new company, a thorough entrepreneurial, committed and responsible. and ambitious strategy and business plan is Entrepreneurial because we in our companies want prepared, with clear business targets for to stimulate curiosity, original approaches, change development and financial effects. We support and reinforce the will to exploit opportunities. the companies’ executive management in cultiCommitted since we want to work closely with key vating the conditions for increased growth and people in the companies, develop ideas and act better profitability. Ratos has a flexible ownership together. horizon, which is most often five to ten years. Responsible since we have high demands on We strive for long-term, lasting effects business ethics and always weigh the in our work with the companies and consequences of the decisions we take part in driving sustainability are involved in for people and 2. Fo development in the companies cu the environment. Those with s cre s in which we are active. whom we do business will ue a ue be able to trust us, want to 1.V val choose us and return to us. al on on ti DEVELOPMENT MODEL nce 4. Tool box o na 3. Governance Through its organisation 4. T ol er A distinct and transparbo ov and industrial networks, ent structure for corporate Ratos contributes experience x 3. G governance is always introof operational development and duced in companies in which also capital to its companies. This we invest. A board is appointed is done in part via board work, in part consisting of people who bring strathrough daily contacts between key people tegic expertise and industrial experience. in the companies and Ratos’s employees, as well as The chairman of the board is recruited externally. in forums organised by Ratos in which employees Management has clear and complete operational from different companies meet and exchange best mandate and responsibility. In parallel with a formal practices. Ratos’s organisation contains experience corporate governance, we want to create a close accumulated in such areas as strategy processes, collaboration and common agenda for the compabusiness analysis, acquiring and divesting company’s development. We do so through our troikas nies, financing, accounting, communication and (CEO, chairman of the board and Ratos’s company purchasing/sourcing, which contribute to the comexecutive) which efficiently prepare key issues and panies’ development. can serve as a sounding board for the CEO. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2017 3 CEO’s comments Determined approach based on Ratos’s position of strength will yield results 2017 was characterized by a weak performance in the company portfolio, company divestments, the presentation of an updated strategy and reduced costs in Ratos AB. I, Jonas Wiström, took over as CEO of Ratos in December. I am delighted and feel a great sense of commitment having returned to an operational role. The past year There are many solid examples of instances when Ratos 2017 was a year when the company portfolio as a whole has generated substantial value as an owner by working performed below expectations, particularly during the effectively with its holdings. The most recent example second half of the year, despite a good macroeconomic that made an impression on me is Nebula, which we sold situation in most markets. However, several companies in 2017 as a company that was significantly stronger than did perform well, such as Bisnode, airteam and Gudrun when we acquired it. Sjödén Group. Aibel, a company that is active in an As an owner, we also help our companies develop extremely tough market, improved its earnings through their sustainability agendas, thereby contributing to successful project deliveries. Our portfolio company long-term value creation. This year, all of our companies GS-Hydro declared bankruptcy in 2017. Over the course will prepare a sustainability report and most of these are of many years, the company’s competitive position and in accordance with the GRI standards. Sustainability conprofitability had steadily weakened, the outlook was dire sists of three key components: environmental sustainabiland Ratos had provided considerable capital contributions ity, social sustainability and economic sustainability. I have for several years. Taking all this into account, Ratos’s manseldom seen any conflict among these. On the contrary, agement and the Board deemed it irresponsible to make they are prerequisites for each other. We bring this to the further capital contributions in the company. table in our company development. In 2017, several steps were taken to create a stronger Ratos looking ahead. In June, we presented an updated Returning to the role of CEO strategic agenda that means we will concentrate our I feel a strong drive and commitment to being back behind holdings to fewer sectors, and retain certain companies the wheel and working operationally again. It has been longer with lower debt over time. In future, dividends on less than one year since I stepped down from an operathe Ratos share will be based on stable cash flows from tional CEO role. I did not accept the job out of a sense of the portfolio companies instead of on exit gains. We have duty but because I believe in Ratos and feel passionately streamlined the organisation, thereby lowering central about the development of companies. administration costs, and redeemed all outstanding prefTo start, I will focus on learning more about Ratos, our erence shares. portfolio companies and their respective markets. I want In line with our concentration on fewer sectors, we to get to know our company management teams and how sold the real estate company Serena Properties. We we exercise corporate governance at Ratos. My experialso sold the cloud service supplier Nebula. Both Serena ence as corporate director has taught me the importance Properties and Nebula were investments that surpassed of first understanding in order to make oneself underour return target. stood, and that the answers are often to be found within the company. During this period, Ratos’s complete focus Ratos – a continuously changing company will be on our current portfolio of companies. Ratos is a company that has a fantastic history. It has played, and will continue to play, a prominent role in NorLeadership and profitability dic business and community development. The definition of a good leader is one who gets good Throughout its long past, dedicated owners have results and does so persistently. I believe that to do walked alongside the company. The Ratos brand is strong so one must be surrounded by a team that represents and we have attracted considerable interest from our different skills and expertise as well as different perspecoperating environment. tives and personalities. In short, a heterogeneous team of 4 Ratos 2017 Sustainability and responsible ownership employees who have the courage to say what they believe Ratos moving forward but who also have the conviction to carry out decisions Ratos has been in business for more than 150 years. It that may not have been what they themselves proposed. is inevitable that we will face challenges and obstacles. An open culture of this sort makes us better at solving It has happened before and there is every chance it will challenges together. This, in turn, means that we can happen again. Steering Ratos into the future will take a develop as individuals and have fun at work. That’s also lot of work. important. It is my opinion that we have, in the past, sold several All long-term value creation is fundamentally built good companies too early and held on to lesser compaon a relationship of trust. This applies both to the stock nies for too long. It is vital that we do not confuse long market in relation to Ratos, but also to the trust between term with protracted. In fact, we need to accelerate. a company executive and the management/board of the Today’s markets and business environments change very portfolio company. Trust is established over time, but can fast. I therefore firmly believe that execution is far more erode quickly. important than long-term strategy plans. My task is clear: I believe that our single most important task is to to increase shareholder value. ensure that we have the right people in place in the Ratos has everything it needs to reverse this profitabilportfolio companies’ management teams. Nothing is ity trend. From many perspectives, we have a strong brand, more critical to the success of a company than its manageare financially strong, have long-term principal owners and ment – even if the sector in which the company is active talented people working for us. A concerted effort that is important. To quote Warren Buffett, “When a manleverages our actual positions of strength will produce agement with a reputation for brilliance tackles a business results in the long term. Of this I am certain. with a reputation for bad economics, it is the reputation of the business that remains intact.” We need to become even better at understanding the market conditions under which our portfolio companies Jonas Wiström operate. CEO Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2017 5 Sustainable value creation Ratos generates value by driving positive development in its companies. We are convinced that there is a strong connection between sustainability and long-term value creation. As a responsible investor and owner, it is Ratos’s ambition to promote sustainable development and awareness related to sustainability issues in the company’s own organisation as well as in the portfolio companies. For Ratos, responsible ownership means active ownership website for a presentation of the materiality analysis), the that includes sustainability issues. This work is based on the following sustainability aspects have the highest priority Global Compact’s ten principles for sustainable business and for Ratos: the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), which  o business with good business ethics, including D Ratos signed in 2013. Since 2015, Ratos has been reporting anti-corruption in accordance with GRI and this year’s report follows the Ensure sound corporate governance and transparency GRI Standards (see page 16-17 for reference index). Develop and involve our employees Drive corporate responsibility in the companies, includSignificant sustainability issues and our stakeholders ing managing ESG risks and opportunities Ratos’s most significant sustainability issues are identified through intelligence gathering, industry analysis and a Ratos’s direct impact is slight in relation to the portfoprocess that weighs in the different stakeholders’ priorilio companies’ impact, which is why Ratos’s work as a ties and highly relevant issues for the operations and value responsible investor and owner has top priority. At the creation. In 2016, structured interviews with stakeholders same time, the owner company’s (parent company’s) and discussions in Ratos’s management group were held own sustainability agenda is a prerequisite for its ability to ensure the correct focus. This mapping forms the basis to act as a responsible owner and drive the sustainability for Ratos’s prioritisation of key issues. The materiality agenda in Ratos’s companies, where financial strength and analysis is still deemed relevant, which was confirmed by resilience are critical cornerstones for Ratos’s ability to informal stakeholder meetings during 2017. conduct its operations and develop companies. Refer to Ratos’s key stakeholder groups are prioritised accordthe financial reports for more details. ing to their influence on Ratos’s financial, environmental and social aspects and are described in the table below. Responsibility, governance and follow-up Ratos’s active ownership necessitates a clear division of Stakeholders Method of interaction responsibility and follow-up. Ratos’s CEO has the overall responsibility for Ratos’s sustainability strategy and initiaEmployees at Interviews with representatives in connection with stakeRatos holder dialogues in 2016 tives. Ratos’s operational sustainability efforts are defined Staff meetings, performance reviews and coordinated by the Sustainability Committee and repStructured discussion groups focusing on Ratos’s values, resentatives from both the investment organisation and corporate culture, processes and future development business support. Each investment manager is responsible Employees of Interviews with representatives in connection with stakeholder dialogues in 2016 for ensuring that sustainability is included on each compaRatos’s companies Meetings within Ratos’s annual functional forum (CEO, ny’s management and board agendas. CFO, HR, Sustainability, etc.) The CEO and management of each company have The companies’ Interviews with representatives in connection with stakeoperational responsibility for the company’s sustainability management holder dialogues in 2016 work through direct delegation from Ratos’s management. groups and Group-wide assessment of the work of the board board members An instruction regarding the companies’ work with sustainability, risk and compliance describes Ratos’s expectations. Owners and Interviews with representatives in connection with stakeinvestors (see holder dialogues in 2016 Each company board is ultimately responsible for ensuring page 25 for Active in surveys from or dialogues with organisations the company complies with applicable laws, guidelines and Ratos’s such as CDP, RobecoSAM, Vigeo and Sustainalytics policies. Each company has an established process that largest owners) General meetings Dialogues and individual meetingz enables the board to follow up sustainability efforts and as of 2014, all companies that Ratos has owned for more than Other No proactive dialogue, available for discussions as needed one year present an annual sustainability report. NB: Companies refers to subsidiaries. In its associated companies, Ratos can exert influence to a different extent, which is why demands and processes can vary. Key activities in 2017 Training for the companies’ sustainability managers in For Ratos, sustainability means sustainable development sustainability reporting and GRI through active responsible ownership. Based on the dialogue L aunch of Ratos’s guidelines for sustainability reporting with stakeholder and the materiality analysis (see Ratos’s in the companies 6 Ratos 2017 Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos’s Sustainability Day for the companies’ sustainethics, and counteracting bribery and corruption. An ability managers assessment is made of the company’s current efforts to Training and support for compliance managers regardaddress these risks, during which the company’s policies, ing GDPR processes and activities are evaluated. Since maturity in Analysis of the companies’ work on sustainability, comsustainability issues among medium-sized companies is pliance and risk initiatives (questionnaire) generally low, the assessment of the company’s values, culture and management is very important. A compiled Ratos as responsible owner due diligence is part of Ratos’s final decision material Integrating sustainability factors into the investment proahead of the investment decision and constitutes a recomcess and ownership results in better understanding of all mendation for the future ownership process. the risks and opportunities to which a company is exposed. A broadened perspective provides insights regarding the Ratos’s exclusion criteria: company’s strategic and operative risks, such as in terms Ratos does not invest in companies that of exposure to assets that risk becoming obsolete, potenoperate in the arms industry tially disruptive industrial change, etc. Understanding and cause serious environmental damage produce or are actively involved in the supply of pornography analysing various sustainability aspects can also generate produce tobacco products greater confidence in a company’s strategic possibilities, Ratos’s policy: for example, through a presence in sectors that can be expected to have positive momentum and benefit from As guidance in the assessment of new investments and in work with existing sustainability trends. For the companies in which Ratos companies, Ratos has policies for invests, the ambition is that, over time, they will establish a breaches of international conventions how Ratos is to exercise climate consideration good standard for sustainability, continuously improve their sustainable agenda and ensure a sustainable strategy. During the year, Ratos used negative screening, meaning Sustainability is an integrated part of the investment proit assessed investment possibilities in relation to Ratos’s cess and exercise of our ownership role. This work is based exclusion criteria. Ahead of all final bids in 2017, an assesson a number of relevant policies and guidelines established ment of risks related to sustainability was made as part by Ratos’s Board of Directors (see the Code of Conduct, of due diligence, which resulted in a recommendation to the Policy for Sustainability and Responsible Investments proceed with the acquisition. However, no acquisitions and the Environmental Policy on Ratos’s website). were made in 2017. Acquisitions Development Ratos always conducts an evaluation of potential acquisiRatos invests in several industries and our companies are tions in relation to its established exclusion criteria. The affected by many different risks and opportunities related assessment of a potential investment includes an analysis to sustainability. We therefore have common requireof the company’s position in terms of the transition to a ments for the portfolio as well as focusing on material sustainable economy, meaning the company’s exposure to issues for each company. Ratos’s expectations are based long-term trends, such as the change to renewable energy, on relevant legislation, respect for international conventhe sharing economy, electric vehicles, new materials, tions and the principles of the Global Compact. The base increased requirements on transparency, etc. The compafor the companies’ sustainability work should constitute ny’s risks and activities relating to key sustainability areas identifying significant sustainability issues, a strategy and are investigated, which entails an identification of risks in process for the work together with set targets, anchored the company’s operations or value chain connected with in the company’s board. All Ratos companies submit a environmental and climate impact, employees, social sustainability report annually to their respective board responsibility, respect for human rights and business of directors and Ratos. As part of the effort to further SUSTAINABILIT Y IS INTEGR ATE D INTO R ATOS ’ S OPE R ATIONS SCREENING/LEADS ACQUISITIONS DEVELOPMENT DIVESTMENT Screening vs. exclusion criteria Mapping and analysis are K  ey sustainability issues included in the Support in the exit process A ssess position, long-term strategy and part of the decision maownership agenda and business plan (communication pertaining commercial effects terial for Ratos’s Board of Establish a sustainability agenda to sustainability, risks, etc.) A ssess risks and practices, map sustainDirectors and infrastructure in the first 12-18 ability-related risks and opportunities months In-depth due diligence employing expert S upport to holding team and compasupport as needed ny as needed/requested Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2017 7 GENE R AL TARGETS FOR R ATOS ’ S RESPONS IBLE OWNE RS HIP E FFORTS General targets Status and activities 2017-2018 Ratos and the companies are to be considered attractive employers in each target group Ratos works to ensure that all companies follow up and prioritise this. Dedicated, motivated employees Employee surveys were conducted at Ratos in 2017. Safe workplace Before acquisition, all new investments are subject to sustainability or ESG screening. Established processes and tools exist. No acquisitions made in 2017. All Ratos companies have an established sustainability plan (pertains to companies Ratos has owned for at least the number of years stated) S ustainability agenda established with top issues and activities Of the companies Ratos has owned > 1 year, 93% have an established (company > 1 year) sustainability agenda S ustainability goals established and followed up (company > 2 years) Of the companies Ratos has owned > 2 years, 90% have sustainability goals Annual sustainability report (company > 1 year) Of Ratos’s companies, 100% had a sustainability report for 2017 Sustainability report in accordance with GRI (majority-owned large companies) Of Ratos’s majority-owned large companies, 100% reported in accordance with GRI The board is ultimately responsible and involved: all company boards have In 100% of the companies we owned > 1 year, the board presented and discussed defined the sustainability goals and follow up on the initiatives at least once a year. the company’s sustainability efforts during the year. For each company: reduce the climate impact and energy consumption Implementation of climate reporting in progress or will start in all companies that per SEK of sales during the holding period. meet the size requirement stipulated in legislation. This is included in GRI, since it is deemed relevant for the individual portfolio company in the GRI analysis. develop the companies’ work in line with the EU directive Parent company’s sustainability efforts and Swedish legislation on sustainability reporting, Ratos At Ratos, we want to practice what we preach and further introduced a requirement in 2017 on sustainability reportadvance our positive reputation in the market, which ing in accordance with GRI for all large majority-owned requires that we conduct business using good business companies (see table above). ethics, ensure good corporate governance and develop Ratos primarily invests in medium-sized companies, and engage our employees. In environmental and climate which generally have a lower level of maturity regarding matters, Ratos wants to be a positive role model for its sustainability and limited infrastructure for structured companies, even though its direct impact is limited. sustainability work. Accordingly, the focus of development work after acquisition is to identify significant sustainabilDo business with good business ethics and culture ity issues and to establish steering documents, areas of Ratos’s reputation and the opportunity to do sound responsibility, resources, processes and tools. To bolster business rests on good business ethics. Ratos’s internal each company’s sustainability efforts during Ratos’s ownerpolicies, such as the Code of Conduct and guidelines for ship, each holding team and board of directors has an ongoshare transactions, and processes for ethics and regulaing dialogue with the management team and sustainability tory compliance, are basic requirements for long-term managers in the companies and specific support is provided confidence from the market. Active efforts are required for certain matters. Every year, Ratos organises network to ensure that the company’s values and ethical rules permeetings for various functional groups, during which meate all operations and that all employees understand the Sustainability Forum serves as a platform for sharing and comply with the Code of Conduct adopted by Ratos’s knowledge and experience. To facilitate the companies’ Board of Directors. When they are hired, new employees work, there are, for example, framework agreements for are trained in Ratos’s Code of Conduct and other related whistleblowing systems and climate reporting systems. Of policies. Other employees participate in training as the 18 companies included in Ratos’s portfolio at the start required, for example, in conjunction with changes to the of 2017, Ratos interacted with all companies (100%) on the law or regulations. Ratos had no incidences of the Code matter of sustainability, with the exception of AH Indusof Conduct being breached and has not been fined or tries, which was divested in the first quarter of 2017. received any other sanctions due to violations of laws or regulations. During the year, three whistleblowing reports Divestment were received, which were managed in accordance with Ratos has an active exit strategy, which means that we are Ratos’s whistleblowing process. not a permanent owner. When divesting a company, we want to ensure good survival for the company in question. Ensure sound corporate governance and transparency In 2017, the Board of Directors of the Ratos subsidiary Ratos values and aims for a high level of transparency. GS-Hydro filed for bankruptcy, something that had never We also believe that sound corporate governance creates previously happened in Ratos’s history. This was a difficult value and is a requirement for good ownership work. decision that was carefully considered, but was based on Ratos’s corporate governance and communications Ratos’s responsibility to its shareholders and, following are continuously developed to ensure high quality and thorough evaluation of the situation, the conclusion was far-reaching confidence from the market. See pages that it would have been irresponsible to continue investing 51-59 for more information about Ratos’s corporate capital in the company. governance. 8 Ratos 2017 Sustainability and responsible ownership Develop and involve our employees following up on our emissions, an awareness is generated as Ratos places great importance on strategic talent developwell as the possibility to reduce our consumption of energy ment and supply, better equal opportunities and diversity, and consumables and optimise business travel. Face-to-face and a sound occupational environment and health, including meetings and networking are fundamental to our ability to work-life balance. do business, which is why critical business trips will continue See pages 10-13 for more information about Ratos’s to be prioritised. Climate compensation has been paid for all employees and how Ratos addresses these issues. air travel since 2014 and, since 2016, Ratos only uses electricity labelled as a good environmental choice. Ratos’s total Climate impact emissions from the parent company amounted to 0 tonnes The adjustment to a climate-neutral world, in line with (46) of CO2e in 2017 after climate compensation. the Paris Agreement, is a matter that affects everyone. In addition to operating the companies in its portfolio, Ratos Total emissions, tonne CO2e/yr 2017 2016 2015 endeavours to assume responsibility for reducing its own Business trips 232 254 248 climate impact, which primarily comprises emissions from of which, air travel 216 230 207 business flights. The internal environmental work is based on Head office (the building) 16 20 27 Ratos’s Environmental Policy and environmental plan. Ratos’s of which, electricity consumption 3 3 3 parent company is not subject to any specific environmental Other (incl. annual report calculated from a general LCA perspective) 6 2 4 legislation. Ratos’s CEO is responsible for follow-up. Ratos reports its climate impact according to the Total before climate compensation 255 276 279 Greenhouse Gas protocol (GHG). By measuring and Total after climate compensation 0 46 72 HL Display – future-proof product offering Partnerships enable the development of environmentally material or the development of entirely new materials, lead to compatible and more sustainable products. the desired improvements from a sustainability perspective. HL Display is an international supplier of products and soluIn cooperation with the Royal Institute of Technology tions for in-store communication and merchandising, and its (KTH) in Stockholm, new materials with a lower environcustomers include grocery retailers and brand manufacturmental impact are being developed for use in the compaers. HL’s main input good is plastic, in particular, PVC. Given ny’s products. Eight new materials have been identified for that oil is a raw material used in plastic and this can have a further testing and production is expected to be scaled up in significant environmental impact, HL has initiated several 2019. HL also has a strong partnership with the Mid Sweden strategically important development projects related to raw University in Sundsvall. Joint research is being conducted into materials. The projects are operated in cooperation with exnew, more sustainable materials based on cellulose. pert organizations and are aimed at creating more sustainable and climate-adapted products for HL customers. “In our work to develop completely new materials and products, To identify how existing products can be improved from it is invaluable to have access to the expertise that exists at, for a sustainability perspective, HL, in cooperation with the example, KTH and IVL. As a company today, it is difficult to have IVL Swedish Environmental Research Institute, conducted a specialist knowledge in a wide range of fields, which means cooplife-cycle analysis to map out the environmental and climate eration is becoming increasingly important. Together, we can find impact of HL’s products from cradle to grave. Having a clear new solutions faster, while also contributing to a more sustainable view of the current situation makes it easier to ensure that the world,” says Peder Clason, Group Marketing Director and company’s development choices, such as the use of recycled head of sustainability issues in HL’s management group. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2017 9 Responsibility for environmental and climate impact Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time Policy/environmental plan. Each company has a delegated and essentially impacts all countries, industries and comresponsibility to comply with relevant environmental legispanies. Climate change will have an increasing effect on the lation/standards, ensure that environmental permits exist, value of various assets and companies’ possibilities to grow and so on, and ensure adequate processes and activities to and be profitable in the long term. Reducing climate impact address the identified risks and negative impact. is a requirement for stable future economic development. The companies’ sustainability reports contain a comAs an owner, we can support our companies in develpilation of energy consumption (kWh), relative energy oping sustainable and “climate smart” products and serconsumption, waste management and water consumption. vices, and advocate for a greater focus on energy efficiency Measurement and follow-up of greenhouse gas emissions and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We also have a is a key tool for reducing climate impact. On 31 Decemresponsibility to ensure that the companies develop susber, 40% of the companies that Ratos owned >2 years had tainable strategies that embrace and support the transition implemented or were in the process of implementing a that the business world will go through. system for reporting their carbon footprint in accordance A number of Ratos’s companies have risks relating to with the GHG protocol. environmental and climate issues by having, for example, Share of companies (<1 year) operations in areas with a rising frequency of extreme Share of companies (>2 year) that have environmental weather (such as flooding) or operations aimed at customthat have CO2 reporting: certification (ISO14001): ers in the field of fossil fuel extraction. See page 30-43 40% 36% for comments on each company’s significant sustainability issues and risks and the management of these. All of Ratos’s companies are to identify their respective environmental impact and implement an Environmental Assuming responsibility for employees in our companies and the risk of discriminatory behaviour. Certain companies have risks related to future talent supply. See page 30-43 for comments on each company’s significant sustainability issues and risks and the management of these. A positive and safe work environment, employee commitment, talent development and equality are priority issues for Ratos, as are respect for human rights and reasonable working conditions. As an owner, Ratos makes it clear that international conventions, human rights, and employee rights and conditions must be respected, which is stipulated in Ratos’s Code of Conduct. The companies are to implement a code of conduct in line with Ratos’s Code. Based on identified risks, the companies implement relevant guidelines and secure processes and activities for implementation, including preventive health and safety work. The annual sustainability reports contain, for example, information on sick leave and the share of women in senior positions. The Ratos Group has 13,200 employees, who all contribGroup employees per geographic area 2017 ute to the implementation of Ratos’s development plans in Rest of the world 1% Sweden 20% each company. Competent and committed employees in Rest of Asia 4% good health are a prerequisite for the implementation of North America 2% Ratos’s ownership agenda. Most (90%) of the employees work in the Nordic countries or elsewhere in Europe, Norway 38% Rest of Europe 16% while 7% are employed in Asia, primarily China. Several of Ratos’s companies have operations that put China 4% Finland 2% employees at a greater risk of personal injury. Other risks Poland 4% relevant to Ratos’s companies comprise psychosocial health Germany 5% Denmark 4% 10 Ratos 2017 Sustainability and responsible ownership Social responsibility, including respect for human rights Social responsibility comprises many areas, including Ratos’s Code of Conduct clearly stipulates that internamaking demands on and monitoring sub-contractors tional conventions, human rights and employee rights in such areas as respect for human rights, absence of and conditions must be respected. These principles must forced labour and reasonable working conditions. be reflected in the companies’ own codes of conduct Several of Ratos’s companies have suppliers and partand in the work and demands relating to suppliers and ners in other countries where there is an elevated risk other parties in the value chain. Ratos’s Code of Conof violations of human rights or employee rights, which duct also includes other aspects of social responsibility. is why these issues have a prioritised position in the Each company has a delegated responsibility to conduct companies’ supply chains. Other risks in social responsirisk analyses and due diligence, establish policies, probility related to Ratos’s companies include lack of quality cesses and activities related to significant sustainability and safety in products or services. See page 30-43 for issues and risks in its area. comments on each company’s significant sustainability issues and risks and the management of these. Sound business ethics, counteracting bribery and corruption Ratos is convinced that sound ethical values and reguof anti-corruption programmes. All companies are to latory compliance create the conditions for long-term perform corruption risk analyses as part of their comsurvival. An assessment of the risks related to corruption prehensive risk mapping and management, and establish and irregularities is conducted regularly as part of Ratos’s preventive routines and processes that are risk-specific. annual risk mapping. Preventive work includes guidelines for employees, About half of Ratos’s companies are considered to training programmes for persons in positions of risk, and have an elevated risk of corruption based on their presimposing demands and following up on business partners. ence in geographic markets with elevated risk (according During the year, Ratos also strengthened its follow-up to Transparency International) or through operations in processes concerning the companies’ compliance with exposed industries. See page 30-43 for comments on laws, including anti-corruption efforts. each company’s significant sustainability issues and risks As of 2016, Ratos’s general rule is that all companies and the management of these. are to have an externally run whistleblowing system in The Code of Conduct that Ratos’s companies impleplace to guarantee anonymity and full integrity. On 31 ment contains written business ethics and anti-corruption December 2017, 60% of the companies that Ratos owned instructions. Ratos’s instructions governing sustain>1 year had implemented or were in the process of imability, compliance and risk contain principles for the plementing such a system. companies’ work on anti-corruption and the development Ratos – the portfolio companies are equipped through network meetings and training As part of its activity to drive the development of the sustainability reporting was held, with a focus on GRI, companies’ sustainability work, Ratos already imposes a which is the most widely employed framework for susrequirement for sustainability reporting on the boards tainability reporting today. Representatives of the compaand owners of the companies. Most of Ratos’s companies received information on the new law, how a report nies are subject to the new EU directive and Swedish is compiled and what it should contain. The participants legislation on company sustainability reporting, with a developed a plan for their companies’ reporting through requirement for external sustainability reporting for practical exercises and with expert support. At the netcompanies of a certain size, which applies for the first work day for the companies’ sustainability coordinators time in the 2017 financial year. in September, a follow-up discussion was held, giving the To assist the companies and ensure a high standard companies the opportunity to share experiences and ask of reporting, Ratos offered support and practical guidquestions. Ratos has also compiled a written guide with ance during the year. In May, a one-day workshop on examples from other companies as support. Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2017 11 We at Ratos People make the difference In all business operations, value is created by people. Attracting, developing and retaining skilled employees and talent is imperative to Ratos and to our companies’ ability to deliver and realise long-term success. Therefore, a major priority for us is that we and our companies are attractive employers. The Ratos Group has about 13,200 employees worldThe power of teamwork wide who work for one of the 14 companies that make Each company has a team which normally consists of two up Ratos’s portfolio of companies or in Ratos’s own Ratos employees, one of whom is company executive, organisation. In the parent company, approximately with one or more as a member of the company’s board. 24 individuals were employed at the beginning of 2018, The composition of the team and its team spirit is key. 13 of whom work in the investment organisation responTogether with the companies’ management and boards sible for development of the companies and finding new we draft ambitious business plans to create growth and investment opportunities. In addition, 11 Industrial Adviprofitability, and to realise our return target. sors are associated with the operations. Ratos’s CEO and management group are responsible for the employNetwork with Nordic business experience ees’ work situation and talent development. Our Industrial Advisors act as advisors in investment processes and during operational development of the Focus on the right skills companies, and are often board members in the comThe investment organisation is staffed with people who panies as well as members of our Advisory Boards. have extensive experience in operational development Furthermore, we work with an extended network of and strategic analysis, people who often have a backqualified advisors who have long-standing business expeground as management consultants or from operative rience from all the Nordic countries. To further broaden roles. They are continuously involved in investment proand improve our Nordic contact base, we have Advisory cesses, and lead the work in Ratos’s companies together Boards in Denmark, Finland and Norway made up of with each company’s board and management. Ratos’s people with many years of business experience. They organisation also includes people with expertise in comact as Ratos’s representatives and share their knowlmunication, legal matters, financing and accounting. edge of local business life and contacts in their individual During the year, the investment organisation connetworks since the Nordic countries differ in several tinued the previously initiated project aimed at working respects, including corporate structure, sector distribuin a more sector-oriented organisation. Among other tion and business culture. things, the sector division will lead to a more structured approach in acquisition activities and comprises six different sectors, namely consumer goods/commerce, construction, industrials, energy, technology/telecom/ media and healthcare. Age distribution 2017 Average parental leave 2017 Number of permanently employed per age category, Ratos head office Number of months of parental leave (rolling 12 months, mean), Ratos head office 15 15 12 10.5 months 8.7 months 10 10 6 3 2 2 1.8 months 5 5 1 2.7 months 0 0 < 30 years 30-50 years > 50 years 2016 2017 2016 2017 Women on parental leave Men on parental leave 12 Ratos 2017 Annual Sustainability Report 2017and Weresponsible at Ratos ownership Ratos’s values Entrepreneurial since we encourage Committed and dedicated in our Responsible since we have high demands original approaches, curiosity and harness businesses, companies and the people on business ethics and weigh in the conseopportunities, conduct business and who lead and work at Ratos and its quences of the decisions we are involved in build companies. companies. for people and the environment. Employees, type and function at Ratos’s head office as of 31 December 2017 Number and proportion based on the type of employment in relation to gender. The information below has been obtained from Ratos’s salary system. Women % Men % <30 years 30-50 years >50 years Permanent employment 1) 10 38% 16 62% 3 18 5 Management group 1 17% 5 83% 4 2 Investment organisation 2) 2 18% 9 82% 1 9 Business support 7 78% 2 22% 2 5 3 Total 10 16 Ratos’s Board of Directors 3 43% 4 57% 7 Boards in the companies, excluding Ratos’s investment organisation 18 31% 41 69% Employees who have resigned 10 6 12 4 New employees 2 2 1 2 1 1) All employees are full-time employees. Ratos employed four interns during the year, with temporary employment terms of approximately six months. 2) At the beginning of 2018, two individuals had stepped down. As CFO of Ratos, I have a diverse and engaging role. A wide variety As Investment Director and company executive at Ratos, I have a varied of issues land on my desk: everything from financial reporting and foland stimulating role. Together with the boards of directors and manlow-up of how our portfolio companies are performing to a multitude agement of the companies I am responsible for, we drive operational of specific and complex accounting questions. I am driven by working development. Ratos brings experience, competence, networks and capital with the breadth of issues that my job entails, internally at Ratos and to create increased growth and improved profitability. in relation to our portfolio companies. Accordingly, I work strategiSucceeding as an owner requires mutual trust between management, cally and with a long-term approach, but also with a focus on resolving the board of directors and the owners. My view is that Ratos’s contribution challenges on a short-term basis. makes a huge difference to the companies in which we are involved. For I support the holding teams through transactions and in various our companies, we serve as an active sounding board that sets demands situations where my financial knowledge and expertise are of help. and ensures there is a comprehensive strategy in place, with ambitious Historically, Ratos has operated under constant change and developoperational goals for development. We are perceived as a reliable partner ment, which means that we as a finance department have needed, and that challenges the status quo by providing new perspectives. Ratos is able still need to be, adaptable and flexible. This places additional demands to employ a flexible ownership horizon, which I believe is a prerequisite for on us as a team, a challenge that makes my job particularly dynamic ensuring long-term and sustainable development of a company. and exciting. Nebula is one of our most recent examples, in which Ratos has succeeded well as an owner in continuing to develop a successful entreCarina Strid preneur-driven company, while at the same time creating major value CFO for our shareholders. Johan Rydmark Investment Director SustainabilityWe andatresponsible Annual Report ownership Ratos Ratos Ratos 2017 13 The Ratos spirit actively works to make the return to work after parental Ratos’s actions are based on our core values – entreleave smooth and straightforward. As of 2015, statistics preneurial, committed and responsible. Through good concerning to what extent parental leave is taken are business ethics, we ensure that those with whom we compiled and monitored. In 2017, of those on parendo business will be able to trust us, want to choose us tal leave, women were on leave for an average of 2.7 and return to us. These values define how we work and months and men for 1.8 months. interact with each other and our stakeholders. To gain access to and harness the skills of a deep pool of talent, Ratos advocates equal opportunities and Attractive employer diversity. Historically, Ratos has had a relatively equal In all enterprise, value is created by people, which is why gender balance in terms of the total number of employit is a major priority for us that we, and our companies, ees as well as in the investment organisation in relation are attractive employers. We actively work to build to the industry, although this comparative figure is lower networks of individuals with complementary and exciting this year. skills and make sure that we find the right person for the While there is normally no risk for serious physical right job. injury at Ratos’s office, there is a risk for stress-related Ratos has a structured approach for attracting, illnesses. Ratos takes a preventive approach by encourdeveloping and retaining skilled employees and talent as aging health-promoting activities, for example, by offerit is imperative to Ratos and our companies’ ability to ing fitness subsidies, health insurance, and preventive deliver and realise long-term success. We offer attrachealth exams. tive opportunities for personal growth and development through interesting and diverse tasks as well as the Sharing best practices opportunity to create value and do business. Every year, Ratos conducts a number of initiatives to Talent and leadership development programmes are stimulate the transfer of knowledge and exchange of regularly offered based on identified individual and colbest practice between different companies, sectors and lective needs. All employees (100%) have annual formal employees through, for example, Network Days, Chairperformance reviews. man Forum, CEO Summit, CFO Summit, CR Forum, HR Forum and Ratos Talent Award. 0.3% Involved in community development Sick leave is generally low Ratos’s community involvement is founded in our 150and in 2017 was: year history where long-term responsibility is a natural part of our operations. Ratos strives to contribute to a world where people have the opportunity to make Ratos endeavours to provide a good work-life balance. a difference by changing and developing companies, All of Ratos’s employees work full time, but other sectors and society. Through an established cooperation alternatives are available and are determined by employwith Inkludera Invest, which takes social innovations to ee preference. The option exists to structure working market through strong social entrepreneurs, as well as hours to achieve a work-family life balance along with the Stockholm School of Economics and SNS, we focus additional possibilities to work from home. Ratos enour community involvement on organisations close to courages parental leave for both men and women, and our business and from which we gain a mutual exchange. Distribution, investment organisation 2017 Distribution, the companies’ boards 2017 (excluding Ratos employees and employee representatives) Women 18% Men 82% Women 31% Men 69% 14 Ratos 2017 Report 2017and Sustainability Annual Weresponsible at Ratos ownership Ratos Talent Award Malin Höök in the category Committed Six years ago, Ratos established the Ratos Talent Award Bisnode as a way of recognising the many talented individuals working at our companies. The ability to implement “Malin is a Bisnode knight. Through passion and dediambitious plans in our companies hinges on having the cation, she has led people all over Bisnode in our fight experience, expertise and commitment. Therefore, HR against our old legacy and make new clients join our new and talent development are prioritised issues for us as solutions. She has brought together people from Sales, owners. Operations, Customer support and Product and made Entrepreneurial, Committed and Responsible comthem act together and reach results they are proud of. prise Ratos’s core values – values that we believe are Especially in Sales, her never-ending love for selling and for critical in our efforts to be the best at developing comwinning with customers has been a key inspiration to new panies in the Nordic region. We are confident that there customer sales in segments where we used to have no are many employees in our companies who are good role new sales at all. Malin has consistently stepped up when models when it comes to these qualities, which is why others step down. She is a change agent for Bisnode’s they were the criteria for this year’s Ratos Talent Award. strategy and lead from the front.” The year’s winners are: Nikolai Kolderup Finstad Juha Röyhkiö in the category Responsible in the category Entrepreneurial LEDiL Speed Group “Juha created the application team from the beginning “Already from start Niko has shown extreme committhat now is an industry differentiator, but he has also been ment, skill and good business acumen. Niko was the one elemental part of building an r&d process that ensure that who was leading the Speed team to create the technical the products are high quality and practical to use for the solution for Luna where Speed Group succeeded to be customer. Juha is an inquisitive and relentless researcher the first 3PL operator in the Nordics with an Autostore. of new technologies and methods to make things better, The value of the contract period inclusive prolongation is constantly gaining more know-how, learning new ways to estimated to a value of approx. SEK 400m which makes improve, and putting his knowledge to action. He does it to one of the largest outsourcing bids in the Nordics not ask too many questions, he’s too busy giving answers. during 2017. Niko has also in a very short time proven to Besides being a beloved co-worker, Juha is a responsible be a popular colleague that respect other individuals in a multi-tasker with deep and wide expertise, and a great very good way and always have time to help and support mentor for those who aren’t.” other people in the organization.” SustainabilityWe andatresponsible Ratos Ratosownership Annual Report Ratos 2017 15 Companies overview Ratos’s portfolio of companies is made up of 14 companies that together employ some 13,200 employees with combined sales of approximately SEK 32 billion and EBITA of approximately 1.6 billion on an annual basis, not adjusted for Ratos’s holding. The companies are active in different sectors, and operate strategically, operationally and financially independent of each other. The common denominator for these companies is the existence of an apparent company-specific growth potential that is realised by focusing on long-term value creation. Information about the companies’ operations, market position, financial key figures and growth potential can be found on pages pages 30-43 in Ratos’s Annual Report 2017. Development of the company portfolio Sales breakdown by segment TECHNOLOGY/MEDIA/TELECOM 13% CORPORATE SERVICES 2% For full-year 2017, sales in the company portfolio deBisnode, Kvdbil Speed Group clined -2%, while EBITA increased 4% from SEK 1,008m to SEK 1,048m, pro forma and adjusted for Ratos’s holdings. Bisnode and Aibel contributed the largest earnings INDUSTRIALS 29% CONSTRUCTION 8% Aibel, Diab, HL Display, LEDiL improvement in the portfolio. HENT, airteam CONSUMER GOODS/ COMMERCE 26% HEALTHCARE 2% Gudrun Sjödén Group, Jøtul, TFS Oase Outdoors, Plantasjen Summary of Ratos’s companies Cash flow from Interest-bearing Net sales in EBITA in operations in the net debt in the Ratos’s SEKm the portfolio the portfolio portfolio A) portfolio holding 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017-12-31 2017-12-31 2017-12-31 Aibel 2,992 3,474 102 15 190 706 32 airteam 1) 571 535 54 32 79 67 70 Bisnode 2,484 2,416 277 159 277 1,094 70 Diab 1,382 1,456 1 105 22 743 96 Gudrun Sjödén Group 2) 238 214 25 21 26 -31 30 HENT 5,300 5,829 190 174 99 -484 73 HL Display 1,424 1,397 42 66 48 496 99 Jøtul 875 832 -15 0 49 436 93 Kvdbil 346 321 30 37 20 141 100 LEDiL 3) 257 242 71 70 40 242 66 Oase Outdoors 4) 321 331 42 36 27 218 78 Plantasjen 5) 3,960 3,650 217 230 366 2,077 99 Speed Group 359 393 17 24 -2 -20 70 TFS 529 475 -4 38 7 23 60 Total adjusted for Ratos’s holding 21,037 21,565 1,048 1,008 1,247 5,707 Change -2% +4% All figures in the above table are based on Ratos’s holdings. In order to facilitate comparisons between years and provide a comparable structure, where appropriate some holdings are reported pro forma. Pro formas are presented below. A)  Cash flow from operations, excluding paid tax and interest, but including cash flow from investments and divestments of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, respectively. 1) airteam’s earnings for 2016 are pro forma in terms of Ratos’s acquisitions, and for new financing and Group structure. 2) Gudrun Sjödén Group’s earnings for 2016 are pro forma in terms of Ratos’s acquisition. 3) LEDiL’s earnings for 2017 are pro forma in terms of the changed assessment under IFRS, which has led to the capitalisation of Ledil’s product tools and accordingly, an EBITA improvement of SEK 15m for 2017. No pro forma figures were calculated for 2016. 4) Oase Outdoors’ earnings for 2016 are pro forma in terms of Ratos’s acquisition, and for new financing and Group structure. 5) Plantasjen’s earnings for 2016 are pro forma in terms of Ratos’s acquisition, and for new financing and Group structure. 16 Ratos 2017 Annual Report 2017and Sustainability Companies responsible overview ownership Sales breakdown and employees by geographic market % of the Ratos Group’s sales Nordic countries 75% 66% % of the Ratos Group’s employees Western Europe Eastern Europe 14% 15% 2% 9% North America Rest of the world 2% 2% 7% 8% Sales development EBITA margin % % 15 30 10 25 5 20 15 0 10 -5 5 -10 0 -15 -5 l am e D l il iL s jen up S Sjö G S il jen am iL l tu e lay s iab up T l be be Sjö G iab tu db or TF TF db D Jø od or EN od dé ud Jø D ro dé ud Kv as te LE sn isp do D ro Ai Ai te sn n ru G nro Kv LE do as nt G n ru G n nt Pla air Bi D ut d G H air Bi H EN up ut Pla d ro L H O ee H L T O ee up e as Sp D isp lay e as Sp O O 2016 2017 Sustainability indicators Share of Share of Code of External Sustainability Average number women production units CO2conduct in line whistleblowing Report in accordance of employees on the Board with ISO 14001 reporting with Ratos’s system with GRI standards 3,594 0% 100% Yes Yes Yes Yes 193 25% 0% No No No Yes 2,097 20% 0% Yes Yes Yes Yes 1,373 25% 86% Yes Yes Yes Yes 329 67% 0% Yes Yes No No 877 33% 100% Yes Yes No Yes 1,006 25% 75% No Yes Yes Yes 534 33% 0% No Yes Yes Yes 173 25% 0% Yes Yes Yes No 113 20% 0% No Yes No No 87 33% 0% No No No Yes 1,368 50% 0% No Yes No Yes 707 25% 70% No Yes Yes Yes 738 33% 0% No Yes Yes Yes 13,189 Financial performance in accordance with IFRS Ratos’s company portfolio, the companies overview includes certain The Ratos Group’s net sales for 2017 according to IFRS amounted financial information that is not defined in accordance with IFRS. For to SEK 23,059m (25,228), corresponding to a decrease of 9%, and a reconciliation of the alternative performance measures used in this operating profit totalled SEK 1,081m (-235). To facilitate a comparison report with the most directly reconcilable IFRS measures, refer to between periods and enable follow-up of the ongoing performance of www.ratos.se. Companies Sustainability and overview Ratos responsible ownership Annual Report Ratos 2017 17 GRI Index Ratos’s sustainability reporting refers to the 2017 calendar year. This of implementing GC’s principles. This index describes where the GRI report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: and COP information can be found in Ratos’s 2017 Annual Report. Core option. Ratos has used relevant sections of GRI Sector DiscloThe sustainability report is prepared based on GRI’s principles sures, Financial Services. This is Ratos’s second sustainability report in order to determine content and ensure quality. The report covers according to GRI and Ratos intends to report annually. Ratos as an investment company, meaning the parent company In line with the Global Compact (GC) commitment, Ratos Ratos. Ratos has a significant ownership in the portfolio companies. submits a Communication on Progress (COP) that presents the task However, a key principle in Ratos’s owner model (described in Ratos’s GRI STANDARDS INDEX CORE LEVEL WITH FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR DISCLOSURE Page in Ratos’s Annual Report UNGC Indicator/disclosure 2017 Comments principles 102: GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 2017 Organisation profile 102-1 Name of the organisation 2 102-2 Operations, brands, products and services 2, 3 102-3 Location of headquarters 126, back side 102-4 Countries served by the organisation 1 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 46 102-6 Markets served by the organisation 1, 3, 18, 28-29 102-7 Organisation scale 18, 20-21, 28-29 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 20-21 102-9 Supply chain Ratos’s purchases include services and products to office operations in Stockholm and consultancy in the acquisition and sales processes as well as development procedures. Suppliers operate primarily in the Nordic countries. 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 46-47 102-11 Precautionary principle 122 The precautionary principle is followed and refers to assessment and management of sustainability risks in connection with investments. 102-12 External initiatives 14-15, 17, 19, 122-123 102-13 Membership of organisations 14-15, 122 The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Swedish Venture Capital Association and Swedish Leadership for Sustainable Development. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4-5, 14-17 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles and ethical guidelines 10, 14-22 10 Governance 102-18 Governance 14, 51-58 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 14 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Ratos has not entered into any collective agreements. 3 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 14 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 14 102-44 Key topics raised through stakeholders 14 Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 72-73, 80-81, 112 102-46 Process for defining report content and topic boundaries 14, 123 102-47 List of material topics/sustainability issues 123 www.ratos.se/globalassets/global/04_hallbarhet/dokument/ ratos-vasentlighetsanalys.pdf 102-48 Restatements of information This is Ratos’s third sustainability report according to the GRI Standards. No significant changes have been made related to the information provided in earlier reports. 102-49 Changes in reporting See above. 102-50 Reporting period 122 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017-03-20 102-52 Reporting cycle 122 102-53 Contact person for the report Jonas Wiström, CEO +46 8 700 17 00 Helene Gustafsson, Head of IR and Press +46 8 700 17 00 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 122-123 102-55 GRI content index 122-123 102-56 External assurance The sustainability report is not subject to external review. 18 Ratos 2017 Sustainability and responsible ownership owner policy) is that each company acts strategically, operationally Stakeholder dialogues and materiality analysis are the basis for Ratos’s and financially independent of each other. Furthermore, Ratos is not sustainability issues. Ratos’s direct impact is considered very slight in a perpetual owner to its companies, but instead has an active exit relation to the portfolio companies’ impact, which is why reporting Rastrategy, which means that the composition of the portfolios changes tos’s work as a responsible investor and owner has top priority. “Withevery year. An active sustainability programme for Ratos’s parent in the organisation” refers to the parent company Ratos. “Outside the company is a prerequisite for Ratos’s ability to develop companies and organisation” refers to Ratos’s companies and their operations as well their sustainability performance during the period of ownership. as other parts of the value chain. See also index per aspect. SIGNIFICANT ISSUES, GOVERNANCE AND TOPIC-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Page in Ratos’s Annual Report UNGC Indicator/disclosure 2017 Comments principles 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 2017 – BOUNDARY RATOS’S PARENT COMPANY 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 14, 17 3-6 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 22 3-6 development reviews 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 2017 – BOUNDARY RATOS’S PARENT COMPANY 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 14, 17-18, 123 3-6 405-1 Diversity of Board of Directors, governance bodies and employees 21, 60-61 3-6 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION 2017 – BOUNDARIES RATOS’S PARENT COMPANY, HOLDINGS AND OUTSIDE THE ORGANISATION; BUSINESS PARTNERS 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 15, 19, 56-58 10 205-1 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 19 10 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 2017 – BOUNDARY RATOS’S PARENT COMPANY 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 15, 19, 56-58, 123 10 419-1 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary During the year Ratos has not been issued 10 sanctions for noncompliance with laws and rules in the social and material fines or received any other sanctions economic area due to violations of laws or regulations. RATOS’S OWN SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES – BOUNDARY RATOS’S PARENT COMPANY Product portfolio 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 3, 14-19 1-10 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio based on the investment portfolio – region, 3, 15-16, 18-19, 1-10 scope, sector 28-29 Active ownership 103-1 103-3 Sustainability governance 14-19, 47 Voting is used as an integrated part of gover1-10 nance of the portfolio of companies, where environmental and social issues are included. FS10 Share of the companies that the organisation has interacted with 16 1-10 on environmental or social issues Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2017 19 Shareholder information Annual General Meeting 3 May 2018 The Annual General Meeting of Ratos AB (publ) will be held at 2:00 Calendar p.m. CET on Thursday, 3 May 2018 at Skandiascenen at Cirkus, Djurgårdsslätten 43-45, Stockholm. 3 May 2018 Annual General Meeting 3 May Interim Report, January–March 2018 Participation 17 Aug Interim Report, January–June 2018 To be entitled to participate in the business of the Meeting, 25 Oct Interim Report, January–September 2018 shareholders must Reports can be accessed on Ratos’s website directly after publibe recorded in the register of shareholders maintained by Euroclear cation and are issued in Swedish and English. The annual report Sweden AB on Thursday, 26 April 2018, is sent by post to shareholders who have so requested. notify the company of their intention to attend no later than Thursday, 26 April 2018. Publications can be ordered at www.ratos.se or by post: Ratos AB Notification Box 1661 Out of consideration for the environment and to become more efficient SE-111 96 Stockholm through the use of digital services, Ratos has this year chosen to not issue invitations to the Annual General Meeting by mail. e-mail: info@ratos.se Notification of participation may be made via www.ratos.se via phone +46 8 518 15 50 weekdays between 9.00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. in writing to the following address: Computershare AB, “Ratos årsstämma 2018”, Box 610, 182 16 Danderyd. When notifying participation please state name, personal/corporate registration number, postal address, daytime telephone number and the number of assistants, if relevant. Nominee registered shares In order to be entitled to participate in the Meeting and exercise their voting rights, shareholders whose shares are registered in the name of a Shareholder contact nominee must temporarily re-register their shares in their own names. Such registration must be effected at Euroclear Sweden AB no later Helene Gustafsson than Thursday, 26 April 2018. Shareholders are requested to inform Head of IR and Press their nominees in good time prior to this date. Tel: +46 8 700 17 00 e-mail: info@ratos.se Dividend and record date The Board proposes an ordinary dividend for the 2017 financial year of SEK 2.00 (2.00) per Class A and Class B share. The record date for the right to receive dividends is proposed as 7 May 2018 and dividends are Contact details expected to be paid from Euroclear Sweden on 11 May 2018. Board and Nomination Committee Ratos AB Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm e-mail: info@ratos.se Production: Ratos in cooperation with Wildeco Ekonomisk Information Photographs CEO, Board of Directors and organisation: Karl Nordlund Aibel’s photographs: Øyvind Sætre Translation: The Bugli Company Ratos AB (publ) corp. reg. no. 556008-3585 20 Ratos 2017 Sustainability and responsible ownership Sustainability and responsible ownership Ratos 2017 21 Ratos AB (publ) Drottninggatan 2 Box 1661 SE-111 96 Stockholm Tel +46 8 700 17 00 www.ratos.se Reg. no. 556008-3585
