ULSTEIN GROUP 2017 REPORT GLOBAL GOALS FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In September 2015, countries adopted a set of goals to end poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all as part of a new sustainable development agenda. The goals came into force on 1 January 2016. For the goals to be reached, everyone needs to do their part. Ulstein Group has decided on four goals to be prioritised in our work. QUALITY EDUCATION GENDER EQUALITY Ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote Achieve gender equality and empower all women lifelong learning. and girls. • Ulstein will aim to foster skilled and engaged • Ulstein will secure equal career possibilities across employees gender in our companies • We will support lifelong competence building • As of today, we have equal numbers of women and for our employees men in the Group Management and Board of Directors. • The combination of experience and formal We will continue to foster female leadership competence is critical for our innovation and business • For decades, we have aimed to inspire girls to choose activity mathematics and science as school subjects • Our work with the Family Life Project in cooperation with SOS Children’s Villages in Angola will secure kindergarten and school attendance for vulnerable children and give self-sustainable communities INDUSTRY, INNOVATION LIFE BELOW WATER AND INFRASTRUCTURE Build resilient infrastructure, promote sustainable Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and industrialization and foster innovation. marine resources. • Ulstein provides efficient, safe and reliable products • Our aim is to design and construct vessels for deand services to our customers manding operations while maintaining a keen eye on • Through innovation of future-oriented products and the environment services we contribute to sustainable development • We allocate resources to innovation and new deve• We have entered new market segments for lopment. This includes new types of vessels or renewable energy solutions that help the customers increase their value, • We develop fuel-efficient ships to move heavy goods while improving fuel efficiency, reducing emissions traffic from the motorway to the seaway and doing less harm to environment • We innovate to develop new solutions for environmentally sound marine and maritime activities UN GLOBAL COMPACT WE ARE COMMITTED Ulstein Group’s stakeholders trust on our professional competence and integrity. Ulstein Group is committed to work in accordance with responsible, ethical and sound business principles. Our business principles are based on our visions and values that are set out in our Code of Conduct and our policies regarding compliance and Corporate Social Responsibility. The content of these policies is the foundation for our business and its purpose is to reflect and outline our vision and values and to function as a script to affect the attitudes and the culture within the company. HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, policy and goals Ulstein Group’s Code of Conduct is a ethical guidelines. It is the responsibility same value. No discrimination of any foundation for our vision and values, and of every manager to ensure that the kind is accepted, for example on the functions as a script to positively affect Code of Conduct is communicated to grounds of gender, race, religion or the attitudes and the culture within the and examined by all employees. sexual orientation. Ulstein Group aspires company. to be a corporation that develops Our statement of Human Value is: diversity and equality.” All employees should be familiar with the “All members of Ulstein Group have the In accordance with the Norwegian committee where ethical dilemmas with children’s rights. Also, we Working Environment Act, the may be put up for discussion. support activities for children and company has established Guidelines youth in our local communities in for notifications, and an Ethical We support NGOs working Norway. Implementation Measuring outcomes All compliance documentation is Through our collaboration with SOS Monitor the mandatory training in available in our Quality System. Children’s Villages Norway we Compliance and Code of Conduct support families and communities Awareness raising & training of Measurement of notifications to in becoming self-sustainable, so employees towards the Code of Ethical Committee they can provide for their children in Conduct. the future. Biannual Reports from SOS Training program for new Children’s Villages: The Family Our latest engagement is the Family employees. Strengthening Program is providing Strengthening program in Lubango, Angola. support for living and education for Dilemma training program to be 109 families, including 577 children. established. LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals In Norway, labour rights and the right to much uncertainty and temporary and to prevent and reduce sickness absence, collective bargaining are strongly permanent lay-offs, the cooperation with encourage return to work, improve regulated by law. The corporate strategy the trade unions is a critical input factor. working environments and promote is to work in compliance with local legal In these situations, we strive to maintain inclusion. requirements in the different countries good working conditions for our where we have companies and activities. employees and run processes in Annual objectives are set out in the compliance with legal rights and fair respective companies to reduce the There is a strong tradition in Ulstein to treatment of people. present sickness absence, employee work for co-determination and to turnover and injuries in the production maintain a good dialogue between Our Personnel Handbook covers policies (LTI value). management and trade unions. The concerning our employees’ rights, company encourages membership of benefits and responsibilities. Ulstein Group has a policy requiring trade unions for its employees. manning suppliers to adhere to the Our Norwegian companies are members Labour principles. In Norway, negotiation committees are of the governmental agreement established to represent the employees regarding an inclusive working life (IA in yearly wage negotiations. Employees Enterprise). are represented in the Boards of our The agreement is based on a protocol Norwegian companies. between employer/ trade unions and the In the current market situation, with authorities for a joint effort Implementation Measuring outcomes In each company with trade unions, a The IA-agreement and the follow-up Sickness rate for Ulstein Group should forum is established for collective from staff and management have not extend 4.5%. bargaining between the management resulted in a further decreased rate of H-value in the Shipbuilding area should and the trade unions. sickness absence and LTI. be less than 9. A Corporate Committee, equally Feedback and improvement system The voluntary employee turnover represented by management and and increased focus on reporting of should not exceed 7 %. union members, will have 4 meetings unwanted incidents are implemented. per year to discuss cooperation and Implemented feedback system in all The company has an Occupational companies. common issues. Health Service in compliance with NorA Salary policy is established, and wegian Environment Act. Increase feedback on unwanted there is a flexible working incidents and HSE observations. In each business area, an HSE annual arrangement for our employees. Avoid legal cases in restructuring report and an action plan are estabAll employees are entitled to medical lished and followed up. processes. insurance. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees, temporary personnel and board members of Ulstein Group and subsidiaries . Ulstein also has a separate Code of Conduct applicable to its business partners including suppliers, distributors, agents and joint venture partners. It is the responsibility of every manager to ensure that Ulstein’s Code of Conduct is communicated to all employees and to promote and monitor compliance. References to Ulstein, Ulstein Group or the Company should be understood as Ulstein Group ASA and its direct and indirect subsidiaries. ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals Our goal for HSE: Ensure 100 % statutory rules and regulations are less harm to the environment. compliance with HSE-related adhered to. Ulstein must be a We seek to challenge conventional procedures and requirements. responsible company with regards to wisdom and deploy both proven and how it affects the environment.” new technologies in alternate ways, From HSE Policy in Ulstein Group: Ulstein will take gradual, measurable with a keen eye on the environment. “Ulstein will strive for all activities and steps towards making its products, Examples are the X-BOW® and products to have the lowest possible processes and operations more X-STERN® hull design elements and negative effect on the environment.” sustainable. Under the direction of the hybrid propulsion systems. Code of Conduct, each organisational We deliver designs and solutions for unit, whether fully or partly owned, will Important project drivers in our areas such as the exploitation of take necessary actions to ensure energy innovation processes are renewable energy and for sustainable efficiency in its operations and secure development of environmentally tourism and transport. proper recycling of materials. sound products focused on reducing environmental footprints, developing From Code of Conduct: “The We aim to develop vessels that help safer operations and increasing the Corporation must have an internal the customers to increase their value, operational windows for the vessels. control system that ensures that all while reducing emissions and doing Implementation Measuring outcomes Our vessels are developed to satisfy Increased awareness of energy Analyse and measure effects of international environmental and consumption in our buildings and design choices: safety standards and regulations, facilities. such as EEDI, ESI or Polar Code. Measurement of electrical energy Improvement of our records of consumption in our buildings and We aim to minimize the footprint of substances in products used in the production facilities our vessel designs. One of the main production. Efficiency and fuel consumption drivers is minimizing emissions to measurements are conducted on air and water through novel system Our ships are equipped to reduce built vessels to verify the theodesigns. We develop and build hazards to the crew, the vessel and retical calculation analyses done in vessels with solutions for the environment. This includes the design stages. These measurealternative energy sources and new collision and grounding avoidance, ments are used to improve the next methods of storing and transferring fire and flooding countermeasures, generation of vessel designs. energy through modern battery and reduced pollution risk in the event of Ulstein is also conducting field capacitor technologies. We use low damage, Inventory of Hazardous studies on board Ulstein designed power and high efficiency solutions. Materials and HSE-focused designs. vessels in operation to improve All efforts are neatly and holistically We use modern ship systems performance and operability for the designed into complete ship featuring low power consumption and new generation of vessels. systems. less use of cabling. Extensive use of The Environmental aspect is an We design and build vessels with analogue cabling is substituted by integrated part in Project Charters on-board waste management digital solutions. for Innovation projects. systems, ballast water treatment Cooperation with the Green Efficiency and onshore handling of waste. Percentage of offshore vessels Norway knowledge hub to develop delivered with CLEAN and CLEAN We use environmentally friendly joint environmentally sound products. DESIGN classification. materials in the product innovation and production. High vessel score on the ESI Index. ANTI CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals Commitment to comply with all laws of corruption. Guidelines on whistleblowing and and regulations. Corruption undermines all kinds of anti corruption, exposure of business undertakings and destroys economical disloyalty, and routines Principles for Corporate Governance free competition. in connection with misconduct and approved by Ulstein Group Board of It is destructive for the reputation of the irregularities, are a part of the digital Directors. company and puts the company and Personnel Handbook. From Code of Conduct: each individual at great risk.” ”Ulstein Group disapproves of all forms Implementation Measuring outcomes Policy on anti-corruption towards Reported notifications to the Ethical Documentation of training and suppliers and customers. committee. attendance in compliance session. Risk assessment procedures for Registration of gifts and relation Dilemma training. high-risk areas of corruption. activities. Training of employees. NOTE FROM THE CEO Ulstein Group ASA supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and operation of our company. With this COP we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Gunvor Ulstein CEO Ulstein Group ASA
