Sustainability Report 2016 Near halving of CO2 emissions from own transports Swedish experts discuss climate impact, animal welfare and veggie trend Resumed investments in solar panels AXFOOD HÅLLBARHETSREDOVISNING 2016 | ii Contents Axfood at a glance 1 Axfood at a glance Axfood works with passion for food and people. Our strength is developing and 2 Discussion: CEO and driving successful food concepts in the Swedish market. Through commitment and Head of Sustainability responsibility for the environment and sustainable development, we create profitable 4 Matkassen report – the key to growth. sustainable development Expert insight: The Axfood Group includes the Willys and Hemköp grocery store chains. 6 L et stores show the way to Hemköp also includes retailer-owned stores, and Axfood Närlivs collaborates with climate-smart food the Tempo, Handlar’n and Direkten formats. In addition, Axfood Närlivs serves 7 Animal health – distinct value-added convenience retailers. B2B sales are conducted through the Axfood Snabbgross 7 Fair winds for innovative food cash and carry chain. Dagab is responsible for the Group’s assortment development, purchasing and logistics. 8 Axfood’s business 8 Vision, mission and values 1,083 #2 50.1% 9 Business model 10 Value chain 12 Strategic objectives 14 Work areas Axfood collaborates with Axfood is n ­ umber The principal owner 15 Sustainable products 1,083 stores, of which 263 two in the ­Swedish is Axel Johnson AB, with 18 Transports are Group-owned. food retail market, 50.1% of the shares. 20 Climate and energy with a market share 24 Responsible suppliers of approximately 21%. 29 Employees 33 Corporate social responsibility and influence “Three challenging issues for the 36 Organization and governance of food retail industry are climate sustainability work impact, green proteins of the 38 Targets and target achievement of sustainability programme future, and animal welfare. 42 Our stakeholders and key issues To take a closer look at these issues 44 Materiality analysis Axfood has invited experts to share 46 About this report their insights in these areas. 48 GRI Index Stefan Nyström, Head of Climate Department About this report Åsa Domeij, Axfood AB (publ) publishes an Head of Sustainability, tel. +46-8-553 99 000, at the Swedish Environmental annual sustainability report that describes its work toward being a asa.domeij@axfood.se Protection Agency, comments leader in sustainable development, where environmental and social on the climate issue. issues are integrated in operations. This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Animal welfare is discussed by Reporting Guidelines, Core option, and also constitutes Axfood’s Bo Algers, who is a driver of Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. reforms in the area of animal All data pertain to Group-owned retail and wholesale operations durwelfare and the use of antibiotics. ing the 2016 calendar year, unless indicated otherwise. For further information on the Sustainability Report and reporting principles, see Anna-Kajsa Lindell and page 46. This report is an English trans­ Anders Wallerman, from of lation of the Swedish original. In the event of any discrepancies, the the company Food for Progress, Swedish version shall govern. describe new innovations in vegetarian food.” AXFOOD AT A GLANCE Net sales Operating profit Willys is Sweden’s leading discount grocery chain, offering a wide assortment and 196 stores. Willys aspires to develop the discount grocery segment by offering Sweden’s cheapest bag of groceries as well as the cheapest bag of 23,164 SEK m 922 SEK m organic groceries, both in physical stores and online. Hemköp offers a wide product assortment that gives cus6,171 SEK m 260 SEK m tomers value for money and a rich selection of fresh products. With 67 Group-owned stores and 118 retailer-owned stores, Hemköp aims to inspire passion for food and make (excl. franchise stores) it easy for customers to find good meal solutions. Axfood Närlivs is a leading B2B wholesaler in Sweden. The company serves customers with varying needs in 2,880 SEK m External three distinct segments: Handlar’n & Tempo, Convenience, and the wholly owned Axfood Snabbgross cash and carry 2,884 SEK m Total 202 SEK m chain, with 22 stores. Dagab is the support company for the Group’s purchasing 11,092 SEK m External and logistics operations, Dagab is responsible for an efficient product flow, from assortment development and purchasing to warehousing and distribution. Warehousing is conducted 42,319 SEK m Total 670 SEK m at seven distribution centres. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 1 DISCUSSION: CEO AND HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY “We dare, we want to, and we can” What was Axfood’s most important accomplishment in 2016? What challenges await? And what do departing CEO Anders Strålman (AS) and Head of Sustainability Åsa Domeij (ÅD) feel the proudest about after nearly a decade of close cooperation on sustainability issues? “Axfood’s distinctive The most important event in 2016 was without a doubt publication of the Matkassen What can you say about the Matkassen 2030 report? sustainability image 2030 report – Axfood’s contribution to a AS: Matkassen 2030 lays out our ambitions for more sustainable food strategy for Sweden. the concrete steps we must take to live up to the is a competitive AS: In summer 2016 we laid out our strategy for expectations our customers and society have for advantage!” more sustainable trade in Sweden and for a susus. We dare to be a driver of this issue and to tainable society by 2030, and in doing so we help others that do not have any goal for a suschallenged the politicians. This put pressure on tainable future. the political parties to come to an agreement on ÅD: And not just goals, but also concrete a food strategy for Sweden. And they listened, actions. We have put a spotlight on what the busifor in the cross-bloc agreement that was then ness sector and politicians should be working on. reached in January 2017, Axfood received valiWe dare to voice our opinion on important socidation for its assertion that Swedish value-­ etal issues by widening our focus from the speadded is important for competitiveness. cific issues we deal with to what we feel the politicians should also be doing. The Matkassen 2030 report has given us the means to influence the debate in an entirely different way than previously. We’ve stuck our neck out, quite simply. Has Axfood’s role as a societal actor changed during the nearly ten years you have worked together? AS: Yes, absolutely. Åsa joined us at Axfood in 2008, but as the Company has improved and gained more and more talented people, Åsa is no longer our sole voice for these issues. I would assert that Axfood is today the best of all of Sweden’s food retailers when it comes to being engaged in the societal debate. And that’s because we dare, we want to, and we can. What more happened in 2016 that shows Axfood’s societal involvement? ÅD: After Matkassen 2030, the solar energy tax stands strongest in my memory – or the “idiot tax”, as I called it – which was introduced on 1 July for production of solar energy for own use. Here we actually got the government to reconsider. Then there’s the matter of reducing the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry – an issue that we continue to advocate strongly for. We even visited the European Parliament to help raise this issue. AS: What we want, and need, is for the politicians to take a long-term perspective and to make decisions that steer development toward a more sustainable society. Here in Sweden we have also talked with various government agencies in order to make them aware of issues that affect our industry. 2 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 DISCUSSION: CEO AND HEAD OF SUSTAINABILITY ÅD: Finally, we mustn’t forget the “From Sweden” product marking, for which we were one of the initiative-takers. As a result of the clarity that this has provided, more and more consumers are buying dairy products made in Sweden, which is good. We will always be transparent and help consumers by clearly indicating where products come from. Willys and Hemköp launched e-commerce in 2016. How sustainable is e-commerce, actually? AS: We have great potential to improve our ­climate impact through e-commerce, but the challenge is in logistics. Home deliveries must be coordinated, just like we have done with deliveries to our stores. There should only be one delivery vehicle per area, not for every actor. Not until this happens will we achieve a lower environmental impact. What are your views of 2017? What are the greatest challenges? ÅD: Many of the issues that were on the table in 2016 will remain in 2017. Among other things we will continue to promote our concrete suggestions for Sweden’s new food strategy. AS: One issue that needs to be looked at is material recycling. The plastics recycling system we have today does not work well and must be made better. ÅD: On the products side, we need to cona driver of these issues! In terms of our assortment I’d say the decision to stop selling red“What we want, tinue securing the supply chain. For example, listed fish was important for me. It was hard – and need, is for we are working further to improve animal welfare. It’s a matter of achieving better oversight suddenly there was a lot we had to stop selling. And then, of course, our decision to begin the politicians to of imported meat and finding suitable certificacharging deposits on fruit juice bottles. This take a long-term tions. was a small first step that had a ripple effect once all of the other major producers followed perspective and to And the greatest challenge? suit. Hopefully the deposit system will be able make decisions ÅD: Refrigerants in stores. These are without to include even more products in the future. a doubt our greatest climate challenge and are AS: When Åsa joined us and enlightened that steer developthe single-largest source of environmental many of us in the Executive Management, she ment toward a impact in the Group. More and more products was also surprised that those of use who were in the assortment require refrigeration, and we a little older still had a lot of knowledge about more sustainable are gradually replacing refrigerator and freezer agriculture and production. We have always society.” units in the stores with CO2 -neutral systems, had deep and engaging discussions over the but this takes time. years. And in the end we always reached a ­consensus. At the AGM in March Anders Strålman Even though I am now handing over the will step down as President and CEO of reins for Axfood’s operations, I am convinced Axfood and be succeeded by Klas Balkow. that sustainability will continue to be an imporIn other words, it’s time to do a “book-­ tant part of Axfood’s strategy. Axfood’s distincclosing” on Anders and Åsa’s close coopertive sustainability image today is a competitive ation on sustainability issues. What are advantage! you most proud of? ÅD: It would still have to be our ongoing ­Matkassen 2030 initiative. It is grand and overarching – and it is important that we dare to be AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 3 MATKASSEN 2030 Matkassen report – the key to sustainable development The business sector, politicians, authorities and customers must work together for sustainable development in the food retail industry. For us at Axfood, the key to success lies in the groceries that the nearly three million customers buy every week at our stores. Grocery shoppers today are looking for sustainfood waste in half and that individual consumability. We want to share this insight with proers need to be better at deciding if food is fit for ducers and decision-makers in Sweden. Toward consumption or not. this end, in 2016 we published a report, Matkassen 2030, as our contribution toward a susPromote Swedish value-added tainable food strategy for Sweden. This is also and innovation in line with Axfood’s ambition to be a positive Swedish farmers are pioneers in adopting enviforce for change in society. ronmental practices and safeguarding animal The Matkassen 2030 report presents five welfare. In addition, Swedish consumers generareas that Axfood believes are especially ally prefer foods sourced in Sweden. But value-­ important for a sustainable food strategy for added such as low use of antibiotics, grazing Sweden. requirements for cows, and high standards of food safety need to be made even clearer for cusEncourage sustainable consumption tomers and be marketed as competitive advanConsumers want to make sustainable choices. tages – not least in order to help boost exports of This can be seen in the growing demand for Swedish foods. organic and vegetarian foods as well as in the Highlighting Swedish value-added, refining keen interest in labels such as Fairtade and and processing primary ingredients, and Rainforest Alliance. At the same time, there investing in innovation and development are are many challenges. A third of all food prosome of the most important things we can do to duced in the world ends up wasted, consumppromote Swedish competitiveness in the food tion of meat is high, diet-related health probindustry. There is enormous potential in refined lems are common, and much of what we eat has products that can generate increased export a substantial climate impact. revenue and more jobs. Opportunities for more Axfood believes that everyone in Sweden highly developed water conservation methods has the right to wholesome, good, attractively should also be explored. priced and sustainable food. The food industry Examples of initiatives that are needed can make a contribution by guiding consuminclude continuously informing consumers ers toward sustainable choices, creating attracabout what Swedish value-added entails, suptive offers that give value for money, providing porting product innovations, developing busiclear and engaging information in stores and on ness models that make Swedish value-added packaging, and inspiring consumers to make pay off, developing sustainability concepts, supbetter environmental choices, lower their meat porting research and exports, and promoting consumption, choose healthier alternatives and the sustainable use of water. reduce food waste. Working to raise the status of frozen food is View the countryside as a resource also a central issue, since frozen vegetables A flourishing and growing countryside is a prehave a high nutritional value, they do not requisite for Sweden’s development and growth. require transport by air, and they result in less Despite this, one out of four stores in rural comwaste than fresh vegetables. Axfood is already munities has had to shut its doors during the taking action to reduce food waste (see page 22). last ten years. When stores disappear, other But individual efforts are not enough. We think services also tend to disappear. that Sweden should have a national goal to cut 4 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 MATKASSEN 2030 Axfood believes that investments are needed to More stores within a walking or biking disdevelop community services, infrastructure, tance from homes must also be established, and broadband and public transport in rural areas. fertilizers need to be produced using biomass It should also be possible to develop food stores instead of fossil fuels. Another important measin rural communities to serve as a central meeture is to exempt solar energy produced for own ing point in the town, with a range of services use from taxation. that go beyond what is typically associated with Axfood is making contributions on many leva grocery store. Effective supply of food retail els, including as a participant in the Swedish products to countryside stores is essential. In government’s Fossil-free Sweden initiative and this respect Axfood has a key role to play. We in the Haga network, which advocates for profhave a 50% share of the food retail market in itable business and enterprise without a clirural areas, compared with just over 21% mate impact. nationwide. Handlar’n and Tempo stores are our most common format. Sustainable production that improves Axfood believes that the rural development both organic and conventional farming subsidies that were introduced in 2016 should The agricultural system we have today cannot continue for at least ten more years. They are support the world’s population in a sustainable crucial for the survival of many of our grocers manner. We need food production that works to in rural areas in the years immediately ahead; the benefit of biodiversity, avoids chemical pestithey have even enabled a number of stores to be cides, develops innovative, sustainable methods, re-inaugurated during the year. and does not use antibiotics in healthy animals. It is also important to promote initiatives Axfood envisages that organic farming will that attract tourists to the countryside and to continue to gain traction and at the same time prevent small parcels of farmland from being contribute to technological development that developed for other purposes. other aspects of agriculture can benefit from. Sales of organic products are expected to conA fossil-free Sweden and green proteins tinue rising. Organic farming has immense Climate change is one of the greatest challenges potential both for increased sustainability as of our time, and “cattle and cars” are two of the well as returns. This higher level of production biggest problems. We must eat less meat and find may also lead to higher demand for labour. climate-smarter ways to transport ourselves. Examples of initiatives that Axfood believes Axfood wants to see a Sweden with lower are needed include goals for organic consumpmeat consumption and food production that is tion in the public sector, requirements for lower not dependent on fossil fuels. To reach this goal, use of antibiotics, transitional subsidies for tractors and product transports must be able to farmers interested in changing over to organic operate on fossil-free fuels. Consumption of production, and a reform of the EU’s organic meat must be reduced by increasing the offerregulations with the goal of developing organic ing of affordable food based on green proteins. agriculture. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 5 EXPERT INSIGHT exper ts n Let stores show the way Three insights o th en eir share ging issu stry: chall retail ind t, es u fo r to climate-smart food o d a c the fo ate imp and cl i m lfar ofe al we s anim n protein Choose vegetables, fish and chicken. Eat less red meat. Buy organic products g r ee r e . utu the f and choose Swedish products over foreign ones. This is Stefan Nyström’s advice to someone who wants to eat climate-smart. It may sound simple, but making the right choices among the multitude of options available in grocery stores today is anything but easy. Fortunately, the food that is best for the climate is also good for your health, so what is preventing us from eating climate-smart? I think that the power of habit is great and that we need help navigating. The offering of food products is immense, and different foods affect the climate in different ways. Is a steak better than a sausage? Are organic tomatoes from Spain better than conventionally grown Swedish ones? What about soy, which has been grown on land that was once rain forest and is transported half way around the world? Should I choose organic chicken from southern Sweden or lamb from the island of Gotland? Because when we buy organic foods, it also I feel that food companies can do a lot to affects other choices we make, and environStefan Nyström help us make climate-smart choices in grocery mental issues become a natural topic of converstores. They work with food and interact with sation both at work and at home at the breakmillions of consumers every week. Who could fast table. Recycling becomes a given, the car be better-suited? becomes an environmental car, we reduce our Through marketing, information, offers and energy consumption at home – and so on. by influencing suppliers, Axfood and its indusI would also like to see climate-certified food try colleagues are in an ideal position to steer in stores, that is, a system of marking foods our choices in the right direction. that helps consumers choose what level of cliMoreover, I am convinced that when we buy mate impact they are willing to make through organic milk, it has greater value than that their choice of products. The hamburger chain which is directly coupled to the actual ­product. Max is a good example. They show the climate impact of their menu items. The consumer can plainly see that a hamburger has a much higher climate impact than a chicken or fish sandwich, for example. But is it really profitable to invest in organic, locally produced and preferably vegetarian food instead of relying on imported meat that can be sold for a lower price and probably in larger volumes? Yes, there is no question in my mind. Research clearly shows that it is the observant, curious, innovative and responsible companies that endure in the end and are the most profit­ able long-term. They are prepared for change – both in the climate and in other areas – and thereby have great opportunities to adapt to new conditions. Stefan Nyström Head of Climate Department Swedish Environmental Protection Agency 6 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 EXPERT INSIGHT Animal health – distinct value-added in Swedish meat Swedish consumers attach a premium to animal welfare in their choice of foods. For Axfood this issue has long been a high priority. Bo Alger, Professor Emeritus in Animal Hygiene at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences in Skara, Sweden, is Sweden’s most eminent expert in the field. What is his view of the current situation for Swedish animal welfare? What’s so good about Swedish meat? The extensive use of antibiotics in animals risks “We have a lot to be proud about. Compared contributing to antibiotic resistance in people as with the rest of the EU, we have made great well. How can we reduce the use of antibiotics in progress. Animal health is a distinct value-­ animal production? added in Swedish meat, and it could be mar“Poor animal environments lead to stressed keted abroad to a much higher degree than animals with poorer immune defence. Animals what has been done thus far.” become sicker and more antibiotics are used. By raising animals in an environment that In what ways is Sweden ahead of the rest they are biologically suited for, the need for of the EU? antibiotics decreases. We are good at this in “Swedish producers follow the rules that are in Sweden. Antibiotic use must also be registered, place, in contrast to many producers in other controlled and limited, which is also standard EU countries. Sweden has long had stricter practice in Sweden today.” rules for animal health, and the issue has been debated extensively in the media. Swedish conCan you name a few other measures that you sumers also have higher demands, even though think are needed for improved animal health? other EU citizens are also increasingly showI hope that the food retail industry will embrace ing that they care about animal welfare.” what I call the “ACC” system for meat. A stands Bo Algers for “judicious use of Anti­biotics”, C stands for Is awareness increasing, even at the EU level? “no animals in Cages”, and C stands for “no “Yes, things are moving in the right direction, Castration”. I have presented this to Axfood but it is going frustratingly slow. The politiand they were positive. The politicians have a cians need to act more forcefully.” great responsibility, but I also think that food inspirers, celebrity chefs and gourmet restaurants need to take a greater responsibility and talk more about the importance of good animal husbandry.” Fair winds for innovative food Food should be good – both for ourselves and for ingly good it is – good for the planet, nutritional, the environment. Interest in vegetarian and easy to prepare and filling. Food that does not innovative foods currently has the wind in its put an excess burden on Earth’s resources and sails. Two pioneers in this area are Anders that will allow the soon 9 billion people on the Wallerman and Anna-Kajsa Lidell at the complanet to fill their tummies. We see both pany Food for Progress, which has developed the Oumph! and Beat as important tools for creatbean-based product “Beat” and the soy-based ing a good life for people.” product “Oumph!”. Axfood is taking part in this development and Here is what Anders and Anna-Kajsa have has a number of innovative foods in its assortto say about what they are trying to achieve ment, including the Hej Vego vegetarian series, with Food for Progress: where Food for Progress is one of the producers. “We want to create food that is so good that Of course, the Group’s stores also offer innovative Anna-Kajsa Lidell people will be inspired to share a meal with products from other producers as well. their friends and talk about it. About how amazAXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 7 axfood's BUSINESS Vision, mission and values Axfood will be Sweden’s best food retail company Axfood’s vision – to be Sweden’s best food retail company – will be achieved by developing an attractive and sustainable assortment, maintaining a high level of innovation for enhanced customer benefit, and reaching more consumers, both through strategic locations of its physical stores as well as online. Long-term approach, customer focus and responsibility are the essence of Axfood’s strategy for profitable growth. Axfood’s foundation The house below illustrates Axfood’s foundation. At the bottom are the Group’s core values, which permeate everything we do. The Group’s strong brands are driven by a shared strategy for profitable growth. VISION Through profitable growth and innovative thinking, Axfood will be Sweden’s best food retail company. MISSION Axfood’s business mission is to develop and run successful food retail concepts based on clear and attractive customer offerings. GREATER CUSTOMER PROFITABLE EFFICIENCY AT BENEFIT GROWTH EVERY LEVEL STRATEGY ENTERPRISING AND KNOWLSUSTAINABLE EDGEABLE EMPLOYEES SOLUTIONS STRONG BRANDS CORE VALUES • The store is the stage • We dare • We are aware • You are important • Together we are strong 8 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 axfood's BUSINESS Business model Distinct processes for offering good and sustainable food for everyone Axfood’s business model is built upon three processes. Every small detail in the process is important for the Company’s success. Hundreds of steps and decisions are taken along the way, from initial supplier contact to when a product ends up in the customer’s basket. At every step, value is created for Axfood and its stakeholders. 1 Choice of suppliers, price negotiations, and purchasing Attention to detail begins with the assortment Axfood’s joint-Group assortment and purchasing function allows it to offer good prices and high quality. Suppliers and the assortment are decided on and negotiated centrally for all of Axfood’s stores. Each store thereafter can adapt its assortment to local demand. 2 Logistics Striving for optimal operations Efficient logistics create conditions for favourable and profitable growth. Other centrally important areas include efficient use of energy and sustainable transports for reduced climate impact and better economy. 3 Stores, customers and passion for food Giving customers freedom of choice and creating an inspiring in-store experience Key aspects in creating inspiring stores include attentive customer service, an expansive selection of fresh products, smart store layout and a distinct sustainability profile. Customers’ needs and prefer­ ences steer the product selection. Axfood strives to offer customers a wide assortment of highly innovative products that give them value for their money, not least when it comes to its private label products. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 9 axfood's BUSINESS Different types of capital1) • Natural resources Value chain • Plant • Relationships By using a wealth of resources and capital that are refined in Axfood’s • Knowledge operations, value is created for the Group’s various stakeholder groups. • Financial capital • Intellectual capital The descriptions below provide some insight into initiatives that are 1 Capital Activities Product and business development •Continued development of established processes for • A smart checkout solution with paperless receipts is innovation and product development based on input offered to stores in the Tempo and Handlar’n formats. from customer surveys and insight work. • Focus on attractively priced sustainable and healthy • Private labels with distinct identities and products products. that provide value added and offer value for money. • Continuous testing of private label products to ensure • Effective cooperation with suppliers who are keen quality that is at least as good as well known brands, on developing the offering. on top of being healthy and distinctive. • Greater commitment to more sustainable packaging. • Development of a platform for and launch of e-commerce. Purchasing •Financial strength to develop the assortment and • At every step of the purchasing process, conscious be an attractive partner to suppliers with ambitions choices are made based on responsibility, quality in sustainability and attractively priced products. and price. • Knowledgeable buyers with high standards for • Axfood’s private label offering is quality-assured sustainability. through both internal and external controls. • Clear frameworks and risk mapping for risk • Adapt the assortment to the growing number of assessments of suppliers. customers born outside Sweden. • Joint assortment and purchasing function in 2 the Group and for certain products via Nordic or ­European purchasing organizations. Warehousing •High turnover rate and low level of tied-up capital. • Approximately 75% of products go from suppliers •1,435 employees at seven warehouses with focus on to stores via Dagab, which results in good control effective planning, warehousing and logistics. and economies of scale. •Smart warehouses with high energy efficiency and • Reduce environmental impact by boosting energy renewable electricity. efficiency and sorting waste. • Work with district heating companies to look into the possibility of being a net seller of surplus heat. Transports •138 trucks fuelled with diesel based on renewable • During the year Axfood gradually changed over ingredients. to using HVO fuel. •Follow-up system for reducing vehicle emissions • Pilot initiative with external transport firms and fuel costs. to measure their carbon footprint for Axfood’s •Drivers with training in eco-driving. deliveries. •Axfood’s nationwide organization that enables efficient deliveries to independent stores, especially in the countryside. 3 Retail/B2B customers •The Axfood Group has a total of 381 stores in • Following a halt to investments in solar panel 161 municipalities across Sweden. systems due to a newly instituted solar panel •Normally SEK 650–750 m is invested yearly in new tax, Axfood resumed its capex plans for solar stores, maintenance and IT. panel systems after the government reversed its •Approximately 83% of product orders from stores position on the tax. are made via Autoorder. • To accelerate work on reducing food waste during •Axfood’s stores employ 6,266 people with a passion the year, prices were cut on products in stores and drive for customers and food. with short best-by dates, and left-over products •54% women and 21% of employees with an inter­ were donated to charity organizations. national background vouch for diversity and innovation. 35% of employees are younger than 26. 1) Axfood has drawn inspiration from the value creation model provided in the integrated reporting (IR) framework, which is based on these six types of capital. 10 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 axfood's BUSINESS broken down into the three processes in Axfood’s business model. The colours of the bullet points before the resources refer to the different types of capital: natural resources, plant, relationships, knowledge, financial capital and intellectual capital. Results Value Product and business development Society Social security costs, pension costs, • During 2016 the private label assortment was expanded with 50 new organic income taxes, value-added taxes, alcohol products and more vegetarian products, lactose-free alternatives, and glutentaxes, withholding taxes free products. • Private label products have a lower price level than their name-brand SEK 2,833 m counterparts. • Essentially all private label products containing meat, and charcuterie and fish products, have country of origin labelling. Purchasing • A total of 54 social audits were carried out in 2016. Suppliers • First draft of Axfood’s strategy for living wages. Cost of goods for sale • Launch of IP Sigill Arbetsvillkor, an industry certification for working conditions for which Axfood was an initiative-taker and supported. SEK 31,654 m • Position statements and responsibility in practice, e.g., active exclusion of alcoholic ice cream from the assortment. • Complementing of the product assortment with large packs of spices from regions such as northern Africa, the Middle East and Afghanistan. Warehousing • In 2016 Dagab handled approximately 2 billion products and turned over its Employees inventory every 12th day. Salaries and remuneration • In connection with the construction of a new transit warehouse for perishables in Jönköping, the warehouse will be highly automated. SEK 3,597 m • Charging posts for refrigeration of trucks while idle result in lower emissions and efficient product loading and unloading. Average number of employees 9,211 Transports • Deliveries are made to some 7,000 stores and customers nationwide. • 72% of all fuel used in 2016 was based on renewable ingredients. • More than 300 stores in the countryside are supplied with Axfood products. • CO2 emissions from own transports decreased by 49% per tonne of trans­ Axfood ported goods in 2016. Total capital expenditures SEK 580 m Retail/B2B customers • Axfood uses store and warehouse rooftops to generate renewable electricity for its own use from solar panels. The solar panel systems generate the greatest output during the summer months, when the stores need the most electricity Shareholders for refrigeration of products. During the year Axfood’s solar panels generated Dividend (proposed by approximately 180,000 KWh of electricity. the Board of Directors) • Every week some 3 million customers shop at a Willys or Hemköp store. SEK 1,259 m • Hemköp’s customer programme has more than 1 million members, and ­Willys Plus has 2 million members. • During the year, newly established stores created 135 new jobs. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 11 axfood's BUSINESS Targets and target achievement Axfood’s strategic targets support the strategy of achieving profitable growth while driving work with environmental issues and committed employees who are to reflect the diversity of society at large. Financial targets Operating margin, % Target: Long-term operating margin of 4%. 5 Outcome: 4 In 2016 the long-term target was 3 reached, with an operating margin of 4.4%. 2 1 0 12 13 14 15 16 Operating margin Target Environmental targets Climate impact – CO2 emissions1) Target: Axfood will be climate-neutral by 100,000 0 0 2020. The climate impact from own operations will decrease by 75% by 75,000 -25 2020 (base year: 2009). 50,000 –52 -50 Outcome: From 2009 through 2015 Axfood –64 –73 decreased its climate impact by 73%. 25,000 -75 0 -100 09 13 14 15 16 2) 1) Through better data collection, historical figures have been CO2 emissions, tonnes of CO2 adjusted compared with the year-end climate data from equivalents the Haga Initiative. Change vs. base year 2009, % 2) The outcome for 2016 is dependent on the residual mix, Target which will be published later in 2017. Employee targets Equal opportunity, % Target: Axfood will have an even gender 50 balance in management positions over the long-term, i.e., men and 40 women will be represented within a range of 40%–60%. 30 20 Outcome: Axfood has met its long-term tar10 get at the mid-management level; in other management positions 0 11 12 13 14 15 16 the share of women was 32%. Share of women in management positions Target 12 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 axfood's BUSINESS Equity ratio, % Target: Dividend in relation to profit, % Target: An equity ratio of at least Axfood’s dividend policy sets 50 150 25% during all quarters. the goal that the shareholder dividend shall be at least 50% 40 120 Outcome: of profit after tax. 30 The equity ratio as per 31 90 December 2016 was 39.1%, Outcome: 20 and the target was achieved 60 The Board of Directors proposes during every quarter. an ordinary dividend of SEK 6.00 10 30 (5.00) per share, corresponding to 0 0 85% of profit after tax. In the 12 13 14 15 16 12 13 14 15 16 preceding year an extra dividend Equity ratio Ordinary dividend as % of profit of SEK 4.00 per share was also Target Target paid. Electricity consumption, % Target: Share of organic sales, % Target: Axfood will reduce its Organic products as a share of % 5 energy consumption by 15% 10 total net sales will amount to per square metre by year10% by 2020. 0 16 17 18 19 20 end 2020 (base year: 2015). 8 Outcome: –5 6 Outcome: Organic products accounted for –10 Axfood increased its energy 4 6.8% of net sales in 2016. Organic consumption in 2016 by products accounted for 9.3% of –15 0.7% per square metre. 2 total for Hemköp and 6.0% for Willys. –20 0 12 13 14 15 16 Total electricity consumption, Share of organic sales kWh/sq.m. Target Target Diversity, % Target: Work attendance rate, % Target: By 2020 at the latest, at A work attendance rate among 25 least 20% of Axfood’s man100 Axfood’s employees of at least agers will have an interna­ 95%. 20 tional background. 95 Outcome: 15 90 Outcome: The work attendance rate in 2016 10 In 2016, 11% of Axfood’s 85 was 93.9%. managers and 21% of 5 employees came from an 80 international background. 0 12 13 14 15 16 More than 30 languages are 75 12 13 14 15 16 Share of managers with international spoken within the Group. Work attendance rate background Target Target AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 13 WORK AREAS Axfood’s six sustainability work areas Axfood’s ambition is to be a leader in sustainability and to dare to be at the forefront of new technical solutions and ways of working. This work is channelled through six work areas. The amount of food thrown out by Swedish households corresponds to 500,000 tonnes of climate-affecting emissions. That is the equivalent of the emissions every 15 18 year from 200,000 cars. Sustainable products Transports Axfood shall facilitate choices for conscious conAxfood shall reduce its climate impact from sumers by offering an environmentally adapted transports and travel. assortment of sustainability certified products, extensive animal welfare standards, practical solutions, and good consumer information. 20 24 Climate and energy Responsible suppliers Axfood shall reduce the climate impact from its Axfood shall promote respect for human rights, own operations caused by the handling of goods, workers’ rights, and care for the environment transports, energy and use of premises. among suppliers and business partners. 29 33 Employees Corporate social respon­ Axfood shall create a work environment that sibility and influence promotes employee involvement, diversity and Axfood shall address social needs through its opportunities to develop. business operations and give customers opportunities to get involved through cooperation with charitable organizations. 14 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Sustainable products Taking care to ensure that everyone has access to good and sustainable food Axfood aims to guide and inspire customers to make good and sustainable choices. By challenging traditions and thinking along new lines, Axfood wants to make it possible for more people to have access to good food products. Customers should feel secure that Axfood is advocating for issues that are raising the standard in the entire industry – and that its private label products are the foremost proof of its work in this area. Meet demand for food produced in Sweden ingredients. The sausage, which comes in two Studies show steadily growing consumer interflavour variants – mung bean and barleycorn – Axfood is an advocate of raisest in Swedish food products and ingredients. is a climate-smart alternative since some of the ing the status of frozen food In spring 2016 Axfood released its first products meat is substituted with plant-based proteins. and hopes that its industry bearing the new industry-wide Swedish counAll of the ingredients are high-quality, and the peers will do the same. For try of origin label Från Sverige. Axfood was one barleycorn sausage is made of 100% Swedish example, frozen vegetables of the initiative-takers behind the new label ingredients. The mung bean sausage received have a high nutritional conand launched 258 private label products during a silver medal in the 2016 Swedish Charcuterie tent and do not require air the year with the marking. The first of these Championships. transport. Moreover, waste was Garant milk, followed by large parts of the is kept to a minimum with dairy assortment. This has also entailed that Quality meat guaranteed frozen products. Axfood has repatriated certain production of Axfood strives to offer customers a varied assortGarant products that was previously conducted ment of high quality products. Aside from the in other countries. For example, for “hushålldistinct vegetarian trend, Axfood is committed sost” cheese, butter and crème fraîche, foreign to offering sustainably and responsibly produced primary ingredients have been replaced with meat. All fresh meat from Garant is 100% Swedish, Swedish ones. The blue and yellow label guides which is something customers attach a premium consumers toward products with Swedish valto. Starting in 2017 all processed meat products ue-added, such as food safety, good animal care, will also be made exclusively from Swedish stringent environmental standards and low use meat, with a few exceptions. In cases where of antibiotics. there is a compelling connection to the product’s origin – such as dry-cured prosciutto from Italy Continued increase for veggie – Garant will offer high quality products from alternatives such regions and countries. The industry-wide Swedish During the year the assortment of vegetarian country of origin marking for products continued to grow – especially with New requirements for third-party food produced in Sweden. respect to the number of products that are comverification of animal care peting as alternatives to meat. For example, Axfood has previously conducted a mapping of Garant introduced vegetarian burger patties, vegthe various certifications that exist for animal #2 etarian mince, and pulled veggie based on wheat. care in various countries and requires that antiAn annual survey of changed food habits biotics are not used in healthy animals. In 2016 among people in Sweden shows a continued Axfood upgraded its standards so that all suppliupward trend for vegetarian food. Nearly one in ers of primary meat ingredients must have two (45%) Swedish consumers stated that they third-party verification of animal care. These eat vegetarian one or more times a week, and standards will be gradually introduced in pace many say they plan to increase the frequency in with the renegotiation of existing agreements which they eat vegetarian. The biggest reasons and for agreements with all new suppliers. Sweden is Number Two in they cite for this are care for the environment In late 2016 comprehensive animal care the world in sales of organic and climate change, according to the survey, inspections were conducted at six farms in products. which was conducted by Sifo under commission Ireland. In addition, an audit was performed on by Axfood. Axfood’s behalf of a supplier of Garant cold cuts Axfood’s sales of vegetarian products, i.e., from Italy, a family-owned company that was refrigerated and frozen plant-based protein able to show it abided by the same Swedish substitutes, increased by 37% in 2016. standard regarding the use of antibiotics. Further, during the year Axfood visited two Debut for veggie sausage suppliers in Denmark with a specific focus on Axfood has launched an organic sausage that antibiotic use. consists half of meat and half of vegetable AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 15 WORK AREA – SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Sustainable seafood in all stores Antibiotics may not be repeatedly administered Read more at Axfood has set a goal for 2020 to sell only fish to all animals in a given age category. If this is www.garantskafferiet.se and shellfish that has been approved by WWF done, the situation must be corrected, otherwise and is included on its green list. All fish and Axfood will not sell the product. Prime veal is shellfish that is certified according to the MSC, an example of a product that Axfood does not ASC or KRAV standards meet this requirecarry in its assortment for this reason. ment, which certifies abundant fish populations and responsible and sustainable fishing pracFairtrade cacao in Axfood’s chocolate bars tices that also take environmental concerns As a complement to its existing Fairtrade seal, into account. Since 2008 none of Axfood’s store the Fairtrade organization has created a certifichains sell fish on WWF’s red list. cation that verifies that the primary ingredient of a product is Fairtrade certified, but not all of Country of origin labelling, organics the other ingredients. This primary product proPriorities 2017 and certifications gramme is focused on products such as cotton, • Continue developing the For Axfood’s private label products containing cacao and sugar, enabling more products to qualrange of charcuterie prodmeat, the country of origin of the main ingredient ify for Fairtrade certification. This is helping to ucts sourced in Sweden as well as the meat is marked on the product. boost sales volumes for smaller producers. All important risk crops are to be sustainaAxfood was the first Swedish retailer to work • Continue launching bility certified. This applies especially for priwith Fairtrade’s primary product programme vegetarian products mary ingredients such as coffee, tea and cacao, to buy cacao for the new line of Garant choco• Continue development which are considered to be clearly encumbered late bars that was launched in 2016. of organic products with social and environmental challenges. All • Perform at least three Garant-branded tea and coffee comes from Wealth of information in Garant cupboard inspections of meat Rainforest Alliance certified or Fairtrade certiTo meet customers’ growing interest and need suppliers based on risk fied plantations. Since 2009, all palm oil used in for information about product origins and proor volume Axfood’s private label products is compensated duction, Axfood has started “the Garant cup• Implement the SIN list through offsets. The use of certified palm oil is board” website, garantskafferiet.se. The aim for non-food products. increasing gradually, which is thereby reducing is to increase transparency toward customers. (SIN stands for “Substitute the need for offsets. All soy used in the Group’s On the website customers can read about all It Now”. ChemSec (the private label products must be either certified of the more than 1,200 products in the Garant International Chemical or offset through certificates. Tinned, frozen or assortment, including some 240 organic items. Secretariat), which maindried vegetables are to be certified according to The descriptions explain where the products tains the list of chemicals integrated production or similar standards by come from, how they have been produced, and that are judged to be envi2017 at the latest. whether they are organic or have some other ronmentally hazardous, Axfood’s organic meat is to be KRAVcertification. They also describe Axfood’s conducts lobbying work labelled. Hemköp sells only organic bananas. views on packaging, ecology, health, and more. to get more compounds According to the research firm TNS Sifo, when listed that are covered Requirements for use of antibiotics choosing products at a grocery store Swedish by REACH, the EU Axfood does not sell any meat in which anti­ consumers feel that the most important factors chemicals regulation) biotics have been used for growth-enhancement from a sustainability perspective are to avoid purposes. In addition, for the Group’s private chemicals and pesticides, promote good anilabel products, antibiotics may only be used mal welfare, and to be able to see the country under order and documented by a veterinarian. of ­origin on the packaging. Climate-smart family chooses Hemköp The Hallströms, a family of five, volunteered in October 2016 to live as climate-smart as possible during a one-year period. They want to see if – by making conscious choices and using smart solutions – they can reach the UN’s highly set carbon footprint target of one tonne of CO2 per person by 2050. Today the average person in Sweden is responsible for 10–14 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. The Hallströms have made climate-smart renovations to their home, they drive electric and hybrid cars, and during the 12-month period they will get their groceries from Hemköp. Hemköp is supporting the family in its undertaking by providing inspiration for how to eat well and climate-smart at the same time, such as by eating foods when they are in season and making sure that they use everything in their refrigerators and cupboards. “Shopping at Hemköp will make a big difference,” says the family patriarch, Anders Hallström. “They have a large selection of organic and local products.” 16 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS Key data per store chain Hemköp Willys Willys Hemma 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Number of organic products 1,418 1,538 1,212 987 880 712 753 665 422 Organic products as % of total food sales 9.3 8.1 6.0 5.9 5.1 3.5 7.5 6.6 4.5 Number of Fairtrade certified products 155 155 114 87 82 67 76 65 46 Fairtrade certified products as % of total food sales 0.79 0.78 0.89 0.86 0.81 0.53 1.20 1.14 0.80 KRAV-certified meat, % of total meat sales 6.8 5.8 n.a. 2.8 3.0 n.a. 5.0 5.4 n.a. Number of hypoallergenic products 963 951 995 798 755 795 558 504 503 Quality standards TYPE OF PRODUCT SUPPLIER REQUIREMENT1) Household chemical products, cosmetics and hair care products ISO 9001 or GPM Vegetables, root vegetables and fruit Certification according to Global GAP or similar Vegetarian Certain non-food items, such as toys and electrical appliances Documentation and certificate of CE marking Products designed for contact with food Certification that the product is made with material approved in accordance with Normpack’s rules 1) Suppliers that have not completed certification can request dispensation if they can present a credible timetable for certification. spaghetti Quality assurance of private label products 2016 2015 2014 Bolognese Private label product recalls from A more climate-smart stores 24 26 24 Product recalls from stores, other 76 96 58 variant of a Swedish Share of private label product supplifavourite, spaghetti ers approved according to GFSI, % 99 99 99 Bolognese, is easy to make with Garant vegClearer standards for toys, cleaning to the requirements from the start. Since Axfood gie mince and organic items and packaging has been working actively with various markbean pasta. The veggie While Axfood sells primarily food products, the ings, such as Bra miljöval (“Good Environmental mince, one of the latest Group also markets other non-food items under Choice”), several potentially controversial subproduct launches in the its private labels, such as household cleaning stances have already been phased out, which is Garant vegetarian products or products in various types of packfacilitating the process. assortment, is high in aging. All such products are subject to the EU’s protein and can be seaREACH regulations for chemicals, while food Less food waste with the right packaging soned and shaped just and hygiene items are covered by specific regFood waste is a global challenge. Considering like classic minced ulations governing prohibited substances. An that nearly all of the food we eat today has been meat. Garant organic equally clear set of regulations is lacking packaged in some way, packaging design plays bean pasta is gluten-­ for other types of products. a key role in preserving the contents all the way free, made from The non-profit organization ChemSec mainto end consumers’ homes from packing house, organic soybeans, and tains the so-called SIN list, which includes comwarehouse and store shelf. In a development contains fewer carbs pounds that have been proven in research to be project entitled “Packaging systems for reduced but more protein and hormonally disruptive or carcinogenic. During food waste”, which Axfood has participated in fibre than ordinary the year Axfood’s buyers and category heads from the start, the goal is to identify the pasta. received training in the SIN list, with the goal to amount and cause of waste throughout the phase out all compounds on the SIN list by 2022. value chain and to develop new and innovative These requirements have been communicated to packaging solutions that reduce food waste. all suppliers, while all new suppliers are subject Read more about the project at innventia.com. Axfood first in Sweden with Fairtrade’s product programme Axfood was first in the Swedish market to work with Fairtrade’s new primary product programme by buying cacao for a new line of Garant chocolate bars. In doing so Axfood is supporting cacao farmers in the Dominican Republic and contributing to development of the villages nearby the plantations. The Garant chocolate bars, which were launched in 2016, come in eight different variants, of which two are organic. None of the chocolate bars contain any ingredients with e-numbers – just high quality ingredients. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 17 WORK AREA – TRANSPORTS Transports Focused work for lower environmental impact Through various measures during the year Axfood has succeeded in lowering the environmental impact from goods transports – above all through a concerted strategy to purchase HVO fuel and a focus on changed behaviours in transport work. In autumn of 2016 Axfood began quantifying the environmental impact also from external hauliers. Greater access to HVO Long-haul transports within Sweden Axfood has a fleet of 138 (135) delivery trucks, As part of the Group’s efforts to reduce carbon The business sector should which account for roughly half of product delivemissions, in September 2016 Axfood started use electric hybrid vehicles to eries to stores. In 2016 Axfood gradually began using rail for distribution of fruits and vegetaa greater extent for product using HVO fuel in 133 trucks and 100 trailers bles to Norrland, Sweden’s northernmost provdeliveries in cities. At the when possible. HVO is made from 100% renewince. In addition, certain transports of products same time, Axfood wants polable ingredients. It is a synthetic diesel that is from Sweden’s southernmost province, Skåne, iticians to solve the problem produced through hydrogenation of plant-based to the distribution centre in Jordbro outside via the EU’s state support fats and/or waste animal fats. Through a new Stockholm are also now being done via rail. rules so that economic mechagreement with a fuel supplier nearby Axfood’s anisms can be used effecdistribution centres, access to HVO fuel has Smarter planning in many ways tively to enable a full-scale increased significantly, which had a direct The new fleet management system that was put changeover to renewable impact on carbon emissions from goods transin operation in 2015 has contributed to better fuels by 2030. ports during the year. follow-up and opportunities to influence driving, The warehouse in Backa (Gothenburg) had including the ability to monitor fuel consumpthe most successful conversion to HVO fuel durtion. The system encourages a softer driving ing the year, where 100% of the trucks and technique (so-called eco-driving) and results in trailers were fuelled using HVO by year-end. At less wear and tear on vehicles. Weekly follow-ups other hubs in Axfood’s logistics chain, the drivhave helped identify various behaviours and how ers are urged to incorporate HVO fuel into their they affect fuel consumption, such as excessive route planning. One challenge is that a number speed and driving styles. The various units’ of refrigeration units are still not approved for results have been compared and analysed. use of 100% HVO. If these trucks are fuelled Based on these follow-ups, drivers have then with HVO, the refrigeration units must be received training on the impact of driving styles. fuelled separately. Another form of improvement during the year In 2016 CO2 emissions from the Group’s own concerns how the trucks’ refrigeration units are fleet decreased by 49% per tonne of goods. operated during loading of goods at warehouses. Previously, there was a “hidden” level of combusResearch into alternative fuels tion, as the trucks used their engines to power As an alternative to HVO fuel, the trucks can the refrigeration units. At the warehouses in use other types of biodiesel. Compared with Backa and Jordbro, today electricity charging conventional diesel, these result in lower emisposts are used exclusively. This has resulted in sions of carbon dioxide and soot particles, but carbon-efficient operation of the refrigeration slightly higher emissions of nitrogen oxides. units instead of allowing the trucks to idle while During certain periods in 2016 Axfood essenalso reducing noise levels, which is positive tially eliminated the use of traditional, fossil-­ especially for loading during night hours. based diesel fuel in its own fleet. Instead, only alternative fuels with various percentages of Mapping of external hauliers renewable ingredients were used, which has Axfood also uses external hauliers to meet its clearly increased awareness in the Group’s transport needs. In autumn 2016 Axfood inititransport operations. ated a pilot test with a number of external haulSince 2014, in cooperation with Volvo, iers to measure their carbon footprint. They Axfood has been testing the use of liquid petroreport their data using a tool created by the leum gas (LPG) in two trucks. During the year Swedish Association of Road Transport Compasteps were also taken to look into the possibility nies, which measures the environmental of using electric hybrid trucks for transports of impact of transports based on the various types smaller volumes in the operations. of fuel used as well as type of truck. This work is expected to be rolled out across a broader 18 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – TRANSPORTS front in 2017, and over time Axfood will be able CO2 emissions – business travel1) to monitor the environmental impact from all 2016 2015 2014 external hauliers. CO2 air travel, tonnes1) 678 655 627 Priorities 2017 CO2 rail travel, tonnes1) 0 0 0 • Investigate the use of Online meetings CO2 car travel, tonnes 427 489 527 e-vehicles for deliveries The Axfood Group is taking measures to reduce 1) Pertains to business travel booked by travel agencies. of small volumes business travel, such as by using digital meeting platforms. Apart from the benefits to the • Measure and quantify natural environment, reducing travel also conthe environmental CO2 emissions – transports1) tributes to a better work environment. Fewer impacts from external trips give employees greater opportunities to 2016 2015 2014 hauliers Total CO2, tonnes 5,309 9,433 9,636 achieve a sound work/life balance. For necesCO2 kg/tonnes of goods 8,7 16,9 20,0 sary travel, rail or coach is to be prioritized over CO2 kg/SEK m in sales 375,1 709,8 835,8 air travel. All air travel is climate-compensated. No. vehicles in own fleet 138 135 137 In 2016 conference calls and video meetings No. vehicles with breath increased by 78%, and travel by personal and alcohol ignition interlock devices 138 135 137 company cars on business decreased. Axfood’s 1) Pertains to delivered value using own fleet. company cars meet the criteria for classification as environmental cars established in 2012. Axfood’s delivery fleet Newer delivery vehicles have a lower environmental impact. Axfood’s fleet is modern, and more than 96% of the vehicles meet EURO class 5 or 6. HVO 136 trucks LPG 2 trucks Positive test of hybrid truck As part of its efforts to achieve the Group’s ambitious climate targets, Axfood has begun testing transports of goods with electric hybrid trucks. One advantage of an electric hybrid is that fuel consumption can be reduced by up to 18% in city traffic. Moreover, for shorter distances the trucks can change over to 100% battery operation – for up to 2 km. But the battery’s main function in a hybrid is to assist when needed the most. When a hybrid vehicle operates solely on the battery, there is no engine noise – which is appreciated above all by people in residential areas nearby delivery routes. Apart from being quieter, the ­battery gives a hybrid vehicle a power boost from a stopped position. Following positive results of the hybrid truck trial, the plan is to initially add a hybrid truck to the delivery fleet for inner-city deliveries and continue evaluating its use. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 19 WORK AREA – CLIMATE AND ENERGY Climate and energy New thinking and broad perspective creating new opportunities Climate work at Axfood is a matter of continuous improvements and innovations. During the year the decision was taken to continue investing in solar energy, and the Group continued its work with energy efficiency improvements. Axfood is also working across a broad front to reduce its climate impact, such by reducing food waste and changing over to fossil-free plastic bags as well as conducting advocacy work for a sustainable food strategy for Sweden. Optimization and efficiency improvement c­ onsumption in relation to net sales decreased, Grocery stores account for approximately 4% of and for the stores electricity use per square Priorities 2017 total energy consumption in Sweden. Refrigerametre also decreased. However, in the ware• Identify additional stores tor and freezer displays are the largest users of house operations, electricity consumption rose with rooftops suited for electricity. At the same time, these units generslightly due to greater utilization of warehouse solar panel systems ate heat that can be recycled to create a compremises. Total electricity consumption rose in fortable indoor climate for customers and staff. 2016, mainly attributable to sales growth, • Packaging that is betterAxfood’s warehouse in Jordbro is already greater activity in stores associated with a suited for material hooked up to the district heating network, and larger number of customers, and a higher share recycling Axfood is now studying the opportunity to sell of perishables that require refrigeration. its surplus heat back to the network. In 2016 Axfood presented a new, long-term The systematic work on improving efficiency target for energy consumption which calls for and lowering energy consumption through small the Axfood Group to reduce its electricity conimprovements and smart solutions is ongoing sumption by 15% per square metre by year-end continuously. One example is the requirement 2020, from the base year 2015. that all new stores be fitted with LED lighting. In existing stores as well, technology is being Solar energy in Jordbro installed to measure and control freezer displays After the Swedish government reversed its and ventilation systems. Such technology proposition regarding a tax on solar energy, Axfood vides helpful documentation on which to base resumed its work on installing a solar panel decisions for further investments in energy-­ system at its warehouse in Jordbro. It is estiefficient equipment. mated that the system will generate 100,000 Technology is also being used to optimize the kWh of electricity per year, and similar systems energy used by refrigerator and freezer d ­ isplays have already been installed on the rooftops of and to ensure that these systems are coordithe warehouse in Backa and of Willys stores in nated with the store’s ventilation so that surLänna and Kungsbacka. Investments in solar plus heat is recycled instead of being vented out panel systems are continuing, and Axfood is of the building. now looking into which additional stores Measures such as these have been instruaround the country are mental in the work on lowering energy suited for having a solar Change in solar ­consumption. During 2016, total electricity panel system installed. energy tax. See p. 33 Electricity consumption for Group-owned stores and wholesale facilities1) 2016 2015 2014 Retailing, MWh 238,902 232,810 224,990 Wholesaling, MWh 29,063 27,577 28,744 Total, MWh 267,965 260,387 253,734 Electricity consumption (kWh) in relation to net sales (SEK), % 0.62 0.63 0.66 Number of stores 258 262 259 Electricity consumption kWh/m2, stores 360 361 383 Electricity consumption kWh/m2, wholesale facilities 209 196 205 CO2 emissions (tonnes) in relation to net sales (SEK m), %2) n.a. 12 66 Total CO2, tonnes2) n.a. 4,891 25,435 1) Electricity consumption is calculated on a like-for-like basis for units that had electricity consumption for the full year during the respective comparison years. 2) Data on the residual mix for 2016 will be published later in 2017. 20 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – CLIMATE AND ENERGY In its Matkassen 2030 report Axfood urges politicians to create a tax exemption for solar energy produced and used by the same building. #2 Matmissionen fulfils great need In 2015 Axfood, in partnership with Stadsmissionen, took the initiative for Matmissionen, a social supermarket at which members can shop at discounted prices. Operation of the store was interrupted for about six months during the year because it was burned down during the spring. The police have classified the fire as arson. After the store was resurrected in a buildMatmissionen is opening is ing that previously housed a Willys in Veddesta outside Stockholm, approximately 25 tonnes second store in early 2017. of food have been sold to financially disadvantaged people. In a short period of time the store has attracted more than 2,000 members, who can buy products for about a third of the ordinary retail price. Apart from helping to reduce food waste, the store provides a financial helping hand to people in financial difficulties and also provides job training. In early 2017 Matmissionen is opening a second store, also in the Stockholm area. In the short time that the store has been in operation, it has become clear that demand is high. Customers queue up outside the store early in the morning before opening, and membership is growing steadily. Matmissionen’s staff feel a great sense of appreciation from the store’s customers. Fresh products are in particularly high demand. Through Matmissionen, more people are getting an opportunity to try new products and vegetables that they otherwise would not have considered due to their price. Refrigerants a continued challenge The ever-greater share of perishables, which require refrigeration to stay fresh, affects not only energy consumption, but also emissions After 2020 it will no longer be possible to refill refrigerants that have a significant climate impact. Recalculated to CO2 equivalents, emissions -73% Axfood has reduced its from refrigeration systems. The refrigerants from the use of refrigerants in Axfood’s stores, carbon footprint by 73% that are used in refrigerators and freezers are warehouses and own trucks in 2015 amounted since 2009. subject to an unavoidable amount of leakage, to just under 11,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. and in 2015 refrigerants were the single largest The total climate impact is based on 2015 figsource of emissions to air. In pace with the ures, since complete documentation from the replacement of refrigerator and freezer units, refilling of refrigerants in 2016 will not be the climate impact reduces, since the newer available until later in 2017. units use environment-friendly refrigerants. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 21 WORK AREA – CLIMATE AND ENERGY Climate impact 2015 In terms of volume, corrugated board and soft Lower environmental Owing to a time lag in the Energy ­Markets plastic are the dominant fractions. Material impact from plastic bags. Inspectorate’s reporting on the residual mix in fractions that cannot be recycled are sent off for Read more on p. 34 Sweden, Axfood will not be able to assess the cliincineration. The extent to which Axfood sorts is mate impact from stores that are not the direct expressed as the weight of combustible material electricity customers until mid-2017. The residin relation to net sales. A low share of combusual mix consists of the breakdown of fossil-, tible material indicates a high share of sorting renewableand nuclear power–based electricity and recycling. In 2016 both Willys and Axfood that remains after factoring in electricity used recycled more material, measured both in terms by customers that have actively chosen their elecof tonnes as well as in relation to net sales. tricity source. Since 2009 all buildings in which Axfood is the electricity customer use electricity Combustible waste 20161) from renewable sources. During the year Axfood Axfood Willys Snabb­gross requested renewable electricity also for its other stores. All property owners except for one have 2016 2015 2016 2015 either switched over or have stated their intenCombustible waste from stores, tonnes 9,103 10,238 614 751 tion to switch over to renewable electricity. Combustible waste Axfood’s total, direct climate impact is based (tonnes) in relation to store sales (SEK m), % 40 46 21 27 on the residual mix together with emissions from refrigerants, transports and business 1) Moving 12-month figures with a one-quarter time lag. Hemköp is currently conducting a quality assurance of its reporting system. travel. In 2015 this amounted to 26,653 tonnes of CO2 equivalents, which is a decrease of 44% Increased recycling leads to climate compared with 2014. The biggest part of this gains when other follow suit decrease can be credited to the fact that most One way of increasing recycling of the packages stores in which Axfood’s stores are not the direct that Axfood produces – and in such way reducing electricity customer changed over to renewable the need for virgin material and the climate electricity contracts. impact from the production process – is to have deposits. In 2015 Axfood was the first food retailer Measurability of waste in Sweden to voluntarily introduce deposits for Recycling is essential in an increasingly circular bottles of concentrated fruit juices, which resulted economy and decisive for reducing Axfood’s cliin the recycling of 70% of the concentrated fruit mate impact. Sorting of various material fracjuice bottles sold under Axfood’s private labels tions is even more important in stores than in in 2016. Most producers of concentrated fruit warehousing due to the smaller size of packaging. juices in the Swedish market changed over to Axfood sorts waste into nine different fractions: the deposit system in 2016. • soft plastic • hard plastic Reducing food waste is climate-smart • glass Every year more than 600,000 tonnes of food in • metal Sweden is tossed out unnecessarily, which rep• corrugated board resents an unnecessary burden on the environ• paper ment. Axfood is working with several initia• organic material tives to reduce food waste. • combustible material In 2016 the store chains worked actively on • environmentally hazardous waste partnering with local charity organizations that can take care of food left over from stores instead of it being wasted. In all, some 80 stores Climate impact – CO2 equivalents 2015 are currently involved in such partnerships. The consumer campaign #svinnsmart (“waste4% smart”) is another initiative for encouraging Refrigerants customers at Willys stores to buy products with 18% Transports1) short “best-before” dates and thereby reduce Electricity consumption 43% waste. Willys has set a goal to cut food waste in Business travel half within five years. 35% 1) Pertains to Group-owned delivery vehicles. 22 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – CLIMATE AND ENERGY Charity instead of waste 250 tonnes Many of Axfood’s stores and warehouses are cooperating with charity organizations and/or Matmissionen. It is estimated that through these partnerships Axfood donates some 250 tonnes of food every year to good use instead of being wasted. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 23 WORK AREA – RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS Responsible suppliers Groundwork and collaboration – for better conditions in the supply chain The food industry as a whole is facing major challenges to ensure and contribute to sustainable and responsible conditions in the supply chain. One of these challenges lies in the complexity of the various countries’ conditions. Axfood puts high demands on suppliers’ sustainability aspects and works preventively as well as practically to deal with deviations – often in collaboration with other actors that have depth of knowledge about local conditions or with other industry players to create pressure for change. Improved social dialogue in Thailand ­ tockholm to share additional experiences and S In spring 2016 Axfood visited a number of find a joint path forward. suppliers in Thailand in continuation of the One major challenge from a human rights Catch period: 17 June 2016 work that was begun back in 2014 to check the perspective entails the recruiting costs that working conditions at the suppliers and their migrant workers often have to pay to agents subcontractors. Among other things, Axfood who broker the jobs. The fee is rarely in proporhas driven the issue of allowing suppliers’ tion to the workers’ pay and creates a debt trap employees to participate in committee work for for many migrant workers. Based on experience stronger rights. At one of Axfood’s suppliers the from Thailand and in line with the UN Guiding Migrant Workers Rights Network organization Principles on Human Rights, Axfood is now has lent its support to migrant workers, which working on a plan for how the Company is to act resulted in them being able to choose their own with respect to these issues. representatives and engage in a dialogue with their employer on the conditions in the factory New certification of secure working Fishing method: Purse seining – something that is very uncommon at Thai conditions for guest workers workplaces. Against the background of an initiative that In Thailand Axfood also actively partici­ was started in autumn 2014 by Axfoundation, pated in BSCI and ILO’s roundtable discussion Axfood and Martin & Servera, the Swedish on improvements for migrant workers in fruit and vegetable industry – together with ­T hailand’s food industry. The initiative gathSigill Kvalitetssystem – has devised a new ered some 100 representatives of producers, standard, IP Arbetsvillkor (“IP Working buyers, civil society, unions and authorities Conditions”). The aim is to create more secure for a full-day event in Bangkok. In October, working conditions for the some 20,000 guest ­A xfoundation and the Swedish retail trade workers from primarily Romania, Poland, Fishing area: Western Pacific organization Svensk Dagligvaruhandel Ukraine and the Baltic countries who come Ocean then held a similar round­table discussion in to Sweden each year to work in the fruit and Traceable tuna Tinned tuna is an affordable and nutritional food that has always been a popular ingredient in salads and healthy dishes. Unfortunately, a lot of tuna is fished illegally, and to come to grips with the problem various certifications and markings have been established. Garant has chosen to certify its tuna according to MSC (the Marine Stewardship Council), to assure that the tuna have been caught in an ethical and sustainable manner. In addition, in 2016 a special traceability code was introduced that allows consumers to see where the fish came from and how it was fished. By visiting the website garantskafferiet.se/tonfisk, customers can enter the code printed on a Garant tuna fish label. They will then find out where the tuna was caught, what type of fishing method was used, and the name of the captain of the fishing boat, among other things. 24 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS Better terms for growers of Garant Fairtrade coffee The coffee beans in Garant organic coffee are Fairtrade certified, which means that the farmer is guaranteed a set, minimum price and that the cooperative (made up of a number of farms in the region) receives a premium. The cooperative allocates the premium to various initiatives designed to improve life and conditions for the farmers. In Colombia the premium is currently financing road improvements in the steep and rugged mountainous terrain. It is also being used to pay for healthcare costs, so that the growers and their families always have Integrated access to basic care. In Honduras, strong focus is on further education in coffee growing and in running a business. Opportunities are even being provided for online university courses. Production A large share of growers in Colombia are women, who have the opportunity to take out microloans to invest in beekeeping and sustainability-focused tourism projects. (IP) IP (Integrated Production) is an independent vegetable industry. The standard can be used The aim is to provide training for both managstandard for certificastarting in January 2017 and will be applied by ers and labourers in working conditions, work tion of food safety, aniAxfood. If a grower is certified according to IP environment and social dialogue and thereby mal care and environArbetsvillkor it entails among other things that improve working conditions at workplaces. A mental responsibility all employees – including hired-in labour and total of 970 persons have completed the trainfor companies in the seasonal workers – are entitled as a minimum ing, corresponding to just over 90% of the food and flower industo the collectively bargained minimum wage, employees at the seven suppliers that have used tries. IP Arbetsvillkor a reasonable housing standard and regulated the tool. A review of the results shows that is the first standard in working hours. Axfood will thereby be able to those who have completed the training have Sweden to be estabhave a better assurance that the requirements good knowledge about their basic rights and lished for labour law. in the Group’s Code of Conduct, including good working conditions, but that there is a great working conditions, will be adhered to at all need to increase knowledge about how dialogue levels. In 2020 all relevant suppliers are to be and negotiations are to take place between certified according to the new standard. employees and employers. Axfood is therefore planning to add more in-depth information More training for suppliers about social dialogue to the training tool and to During 2016 Axfood continued to implement a conduct the training with additional suppliers. digital training tool among suppliers in China. There is still potential for improvement in the AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 25 WORK AREA – RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS area of health and safety. Axfood plans to The aim is to increase the farmers’ knowledge increase the focus on health and safety in 2017 about the quality of rice, prices, and how to by following up and providing clearer support organize themselves and raise their status in to the suppliers. the supply chain and thereby improve their conThe same tool is also being used by an increasditions. Based on the experiences gained from ing number of Swedish purchasing companies. this project, methods will be developed that can also be used among a broader group of farmers. Studying opportunities to be a driver of living wages Reduced use of pesticides in fruits Axfood is still in an early stage of dealing with and vegetables Axfood is a strong proponent the issue of living wages. In 2016 Axfood comDuring the year Axfood drew up a specification of politicians introducing a missioned two research projects to specifically list of pesticides that suppliers of fresh fruit and transitional subsidy to enable look into opportunities and where the Company vegetables are to phase out from their producmore farmers to convert to can have the greatest impact. Preliminarily the tion globally. The response from the growers organic farming. Axfood also results point to a number of alternatives: being has been positive. The list is based on a compiwants politicians, within the a driver of living wages through sustainability lation of Pesticide Action Network’s list of hazframework of Sweden’s rural certifications such as Fairtrade, engaging in ardous compounds and compounds that are development programme, to direct trade, or through cooperation with banned in the EU. On top of these Axfood has stimulate a changeover to unions, for example. Axfood envisages that a watch list of additional compounds that have biodiesel in agriculture. functioning negotiation mechanisms will be in been determined to be potentially hazardous to place that will enable employees to have more health and the environment. Axfood is working influence over their pay levels. BSCI audits are on wide-scale implementation of the list in 2017, allowing Axfood to gather a greater amount of with the goal of having it complete by 2020 at information also with respect to living wages. the latest. In previous risk analyses Axfood has identified social and environmental risks in rice proOnly Fairtrade certified roses from Hemköp duction in Pakistan, including indebtedness, Starting in February 2016 Hemköp sells only poor knowledge about pesticides, and children Fairtrade certified roses at all of its stores who are prevented from attending school. In throughout Sweden. The Fairtrade seal repre2016 Axfood drafted a plan for an 18-month sents an independent certification that creates Garant Fairtrade certiproject supported by Sida (the Swedish Internaconditions for growers and workers in countries fied chocolate bars. tional Development Cooperation Agency) in with widespread poverty to improve their workRead more on p. 17 cooperation with a major supplier, the charitaing and living conditions and stop child labour. ble organization Oxfam and Axfoundation Hemköp’s roses come from Fairtrade certified focusing of rice farmers. The project will progrowers in East Africa. vide training in sustainable farming to farmers with smaller rice plantations in ten villages. Sustainability assessment in purchases of private label products Risk analysis Supplier requirements (primary products/countries) for working conditions Axfood conducts analyses of primary prodAxfood makes demands on the working ucts and countries in which risks may exist. conditions that suppliers must satisfy (Axfood’s Code of Conduct). 26 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS Axfood’s suppliers production in some 30 risk countries. These Axfood has some 1,500 suppliers around the also include a large number of subcontractors world. Approximately 74% of these have compathat Axfood is continuously mapping in its nies registered in Sweden and account for effort to identify producers for which risks surroughly 85% of Axfood’s sales. But these Swedishrounding sustainability issues may be the registered companies also sell products that are greatest. imported from various parts of the world. The map on page 28 shows examples of typical source Sustainability requirements early countries for certain selected products. in purchasing process Axfood’s purchasing organization is being Systematic mapping of risks trained to create better conditions for purchasMapping of risks in the supply chain is coning decisions that integrate social and environducted in a number of different dimensions mental dimensions in tendering processes. This such as climate, water, child labour and union is especially important for tenders for primary rights. More than 40 primary products have products from countries that are judged to have been mapped to date, and more will be added high sustainability risks. The underlying analover time. Axfood has some 400 suppliers of its ysis is based on assessments performed by the private label products, of which about 150 have World Bank and the BSCI (Business Social Selection process Step 1: Screening Step 2: Mapping Step 3: Evaluation The supplier must show how it is adhering The supplier must report on the entire A selection is made based on to Axfood’s Code of Conduct in its producproduction chain as well as on where a sustainability assessment. tion chain. Axfood acknowledges certificasocial and environmental risks may exist, ­Priority is given to ­suppliers tions, social audits (BSCI, SA8000, and on what actions have been taken to with good sustainability SEDEX, and others) and collective agreemitigate these risks. The level of knowlwork. Suppliers with defective ments. Collaborations with NGOs and edge and measures are taken into ­controls are excluded from the unions are also acknowledged. Verificaaccount. The assessment ties back to purchasing process. tions are requested. Axfood’s own risk analyses. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 27 WORK AREA – RESPONSIBLE SUPPLIERS Countries of origin for some selected products Salmon from Vegetables, meat, eggs and Norway dairy from Sweden Vegetables from the Netherlands Tomatoes, pasta, apples Nuts from the USA Vegetables from Spain and Mediterranean delicacies from Italy Non-food products Soy from Rice from Pakistan from China Japan Grapes from India Sweetcorn from Thailand Bananas from Costa Rica Cacao from Ivory Coast Roses from Kenya Melons from Brazil Avocados from Apples from South Africa Tiger shrimp Chile from Australia Compliance Initiative). Suppliers must show improve conditions in the value chain. Through that they are conducting systematic work on BSCI, Axfood reports on its social audits in a Priorities 2017 adhering to Axfood’s Code of Conduct. joint database and can access results of other • Living wages and social All new suppliers from countries with high audits. A total of 54 (48) audits were performed dialogue in supply chain sustainability risks are to be graded according in 2016. • Water risks in supply to their level of risk and sustainability work, Axfood’s decision to conduct a social audit of chain and must be approved by Axfood’s supplier cona particular supplier or producer is based on trol function. For purchases of private label specific criteria that weigh in such factors as • Focus on migrant worker products in risk countries or high-risk categorisk country and high-risk industry. Since 2015 issues in Europe and ries, supplier assessments based on sustainamost social audits are performed via BSCI. Thailand bility aspects are now an early part of the selecThe inspection is begun with a meeting with tion process. the supplier’s management on-site at the plant Existing suppliers are also analysed accordalong with a review of Axfood’s and BSCI’s ing to the new sustainability requirements, codes of conduct. Numerous documents are either on a regular basis or through reassessreviewed, such as time cards, payroll slips, and ment of suppliers’ social and environmental employment contracts. responsibility prior to renewal of their conThe production facilities are inspected, and tracts. interviews are conducted with employees. At the end of the process, the inspectors discuss Social audits any deviations with the supplier’s company Axfood’s Code of Conduct is the foundation for management, and an action plan is drawn up the Group’s work with suppliers and is to be on how to remedy the deviations. Examples of implemented in all of the Group’s operations. measures can include a requirement that social The Code is based on recognized conventions for security contributions be paid, that work hours human rights, working conditions and the envibe shortened, or that improvements be made to ronment. Axfood is a member of BSCI, in which the work environment. numerous companies are working together to 28 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – EMPLOYEES Employees Practical perspectives create scope for development and diversity During 2016 Axfood continued to analyse its operations in an effort to identify structures that enable various competencies and backgrounds to develop within the Company. The results of the year’s employee survey are proof that this work, combined with the employees’ drive, can make Axfood even better. Promoting diversity through On track towards goals practical measures Axfood’s employees are to reflect the diversity In the Matkassen 2030 One prerequisite for success with diversity work of customers and society in general. A good mix report Axfood urges politiin an organization is that there is a culture and of competencies and perspectives leads to better cians and decision-makers to behaviours that are inclusive. But without pracresults throughout operations. Twenty-one per adopt a national goal to cut tical conditions and structures that are inclucent (19) of Axfood’s employees come from an food waste in half. Axfood is sive, this work is without effect. Axfood is contininternational background. Axfood has a diveralso challenging actors in the uing its work on identifying and implementing sity target that calls for 20% of all managers food retail sector to more practical conditions that create room for diverto come from an international background by actively inform customers sity. As an example, during the year salaried 2020. In 2016, 11% (12%) of managers came about alternative ways to use employees were given the opportunity to switch from an international background. food that is often wasted and days with shortened working hours (normally a to clearly inform customers day before a holiday), after obtaining approval Equal opportunity part of work about the difference between from their manager. Employees can thereby use Equal opportunity is a key part of Axfood’s “best-before” and “use-by” these shortened work days for other holidays diversity work. Axfood’s long-term goal is to dates. than the traditional Swedish ones. This gives achieve a balance between women and men in Axfood the opportunity to offer greater flexibilmanagement positions within the range of ity to employees, who can choose themselves 40%–60%. The share of women on the Execuwhat suits them best. tive Committee is 40% (36%). Among staffs and Since previously Axfood has worked on givcompany management, 37% (34%) are women, ing employees with varying learning styles and and one in three store managers is a woman. dyslexia an opportunity to participate in the The total share of women in management positraining offered by the Group on different tions in 2016 was 32% (30%). terms. By offering tools that make texts more Every three years Axfood conducts a mapaccessible, more employees are now finding a ping of salaries within the Group to prevent path forward in their career development. unreasonable differences in pay and other terms of employment between men and women. Salaries and terms of employment are set in Successful cooperation with Samhall By continuing to develop its cooperation with Samhall, Axfood is strengthening and developing the Group’s workplace culture. The interaction with Samhall employees is helping to counter preconceived notions and prejudices while increasing knowledge and understanding. During the year Axfood’s agreement with Samhall was expanded, creating the opportunity for more Samhall employees to work at Axfood – primarily in cleaning – but also as hired-in store staff with the potential to become Axfood employees. Starting in spring 2016, part of the cooperation with Samhall entails that Axfood provides training to the employees, which has opened opportunities for them to apply for jobs at Axfood or other retailers. To date 513 individuals have completed training at Samhall, and of them, 248 work for Axfood today. Thus far the e-learning courses on working in the various areas of the business attracted 324 trainees. Another 11 training occasions are planned for the first half of 2017. The courses have received high marks from the participants. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 29 WORK AREA – EMPLOYEES accordance with collective agreements. In 2016 Axfood a participant in Jobbsprånget a mapping of salaries was performed for the For some time the Royal Swedish Academy Group during the same period. No unreasonaof Engineering Sciences (IVA) has been ble differences were discovered. conducting the Tekniksprånget (“Technology Leap”) initiative together with the business Success for neutral recruitment sector to create internships for young engimechanisms neers. In 2016 Axfood joined a new initiative During 2016 Axfood registered nearly 83,000 called Jobbsprånget (“Job Leap”), which is a applicants for jobs advertised within the Group. third-party partnership between the Swedish This represents a doubling in the number of Migration Agency, the Swedish Public Employapplications compared with a year ago. The proment Agency and IVA. Through this initiative portion of men and women applicants was 41% businesses offer internships in various areas and 59%, respectively. Axfood is moving toward to newcomers and adapt the internships to the a system in which applications go via the newcomers’ varying competencies and backGroup’s recruitment system and are handled grounds. As a first step, Axfood has offered by the employee support function, instead of internships in its HR department. To assist allowing stores or warehouses to accept spontain this Axfood has drawn up a distinct compeneous applications on-site. This is making the tency profile and recruitment process. recruitment process more neutral and more focused on competence and potential. Of total Employee satisfaction scores applicants in 2016, roughly 49% indicated that – important validation they have command of some other language For Axfood it is important to be able to offer an than Swedish and English. attractive workplace. Axfood’s employer brand is growing steadily stronger, owing in part to Inclusive environment for newcomers internal mobility and the Company’s focus on at stores diversity. Axfood’s employees are proud to work Axfood is working actively to include and give for Axfood. The Group’s sustainability work – people opportunities to gain practical experilike the recent initiative focusing on food waste ence in the job market. This issue is valued – is helping to strengthen this sense of pride. highly by store managers, as a survey carried The 2016 employee survey had a full 98% out during the year shows. At Willys and response rate, with an Employee Satisfaction Hemköp, 90%–95% of stores offered internIndex score that remained at a high and stable ships during the year. More than half of the level of 92 for the entire Group. One area that stores indicated that the internships led to contributed to employee satisfaction was follow-­ employment. One in three stores have together ­up and constructive performance reviews. This offered nearly 200 internships for newcomers is welcome validation of the focus in recent or asylum-seekers. years on implementation of performance 30 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – EMPLOYEES reviews in stores. The implementation rate of The trainee spots are paid full-time positions, performance reviews is measured in connection but 25% of their time is spent in training – the with the employee survey and showed a level of rest of the time they are out in the stores. This 73% in 2016, compared with 65% in 2014. can be a first step into a career role and gives Most companies in the Group have noted a young talents a chance to see what opportupositive trend regarding their reputation as an nities exist within the Group. The training attractive employer. courses are conducted online under the direction of Handels Yrkesnämnd (a retail trade In the Matkassen 2030 Developing with us and through us career foundation) and the Axfood Academy. report Axfood highlights Employees can grow and develop with Axfood, that Swedish value-added in and those interested are encouraged to explore Countering societal trend of ill-health the environmental area and new opportunities within the Group. Toward Axfood is working to prevent ill-health and animal welfare are strong this end Axfood offers training in many differincrease the work attendance rate, which was competitive advantages for ent areas – from productand operations-­ 94% (94%) in 2016. In recent years Axfood has Swedish food production. specific training to leadership. Through interseen a trend in sickness-related absenteeism nal channels employees can take part in the that reflects the general trend in society. To opportunities offered by Axfood – at stores, break this trend, focus is being strengthened warehouses, or offices. During the year career on this societal problem through active particdevelopment placards (see example in inset) ipation in a programme called Omtag Hälsa were posted at all workplaces as a simple and (“Health Reboot”). During the year Axfood’s clear way of conveying to employees without health work resulted in a central procurement own work computers the opportunities that of company health services and rehab training exist for continuing education and other forms for all managers. The aim is to be able to offer of development. The material is used as support all employees in the Group the same access to in performance reviews and the individual healthcare and to create a clearer work proaction plans that managers and employees forcess and better tools for managers. Leadership mulate together, whether it concerns a course has a major impact on health work. The goal is in the Axfood Academy, job rotation or an to make it easier for managers to act early on expansion into new areas of responsibility. signs of ill-health among employees. Axfood’s work environment and health work Young at Axfood – experience for life are integrated as a natural part of operations Being young and gaining work experience can and are conducted in cooperation between be a challenge. Talented and committed people employers, employees and the unions. Axfood are needed in the retail sector, and Axfood prioritizes constructive health initiatives, offers an abundance of instructive and dynamic diversity and safe work environments. Work workplaces. Within the framework of the Ung i environment activities are planned and organAxfood (“Young at Axfood”) youth trainee proized in such a way that they are a natural part gramme we offer one-year career training posiof the daily operations. tions at any of the Group’s Willys or Hemköp The Group has a work environment team stores throughout Sweden. Every month entails with representatives from the central union a new assignment in one of the store’s different Group team, the wholesale and retail operadepartments, and every trainee has a supervitions, and the Group staffs. All operations have sor during the course of the programme. an occupational safety ombudsman. Training 2016 spent in training on 1,662 3,521 128 employees days training occasions were completed by 34,227 e-learning courses 5,927 employees AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 31 WORK AREA – EMPLOYEES AXFOOD’S CORE VALUES Core values serve as foundation events is an important indication that Axfood Axfood has five core values that serve as a fountakes violations and unethical behaviour seridation for employee behaviours and guide them ously, and employees can report anonymously in their actions. The core values aim to facilithrough an external party. Reported cases are tate employees in their decision-making and in handled by a whistleblower committee of four setting priorities. Through knowledge-sharing, persons who are appointed by the Group CEO. training and dialogue within the Group, The store is Axfood’s core values serve as a dynamic tool in the stage the organization and as inspiration and guiding principles for decisions and action. The core values serve as the foundation for Axfood’s leadership and active employeeship. Age structure, permanent employees Whistleblower function provides symbolic value Age Axfood promotes an open culture in which 50– employees are not afraid to discuss challenges with an open mind. In 2016 a whistleblower system was introduced for the types of matters 30–49 that employees are hesitant to bring up via We dare the ordinary channels. These include serious –29 improprieties such as corruption or bribes, and violation of competition rules or other laws. -3,000 -1,800 -600 600 1,800 3,000 They also include environmental violations or Women, number discrimination. The opportunity to report such Men, number Employee statistics 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Work attendance rate, total, % 93.9 94.0 94.6 94.8 95.0 Retail, % 93.9 94.1 94.8 94.9 95.1 Wholesale, % 92.3 92.8 93.4 93.7 93.9 We are Staffs, % 96.4 95.9 96.4 96.7 98.7 Employee turnover rate, % 13.8 10.4 12.7 8.9 9.1 aware Men/women, % 12.2/14.8 9.5/11.2 12.2/13.0 8.0/9.6 8.7/9.4 Age category –29, % 21 15.7 16.5 12.7 13.0 Age category 30–49, % 8.9 6.9 10.1 6.7 6.7 Age category 50–, % 10.7 9.5 12.9 8.7 8.9 Average service time, years 9.5 9.8 10.3 9.8 10.5 Total number of permanent employees1) 8,733 9,362 8,561 8,402 8,125 Number of full-time employees 4,439 4,637 4,422 4,386 4,367 Number of part-time employees 4,294 4,725 4,139 4,016 3,758 Average number of employees2) 9,211 8,803 8,481 8,285 8,021 Number of men 4,223 4,008 3,913 3,837 3,341 Number of women 4,988 4,795 4,568 4,448 3,913 Number of training days 3,521 3,464 4,506 4,300 5,000 1) All employees are covered by collective agreements. 2) Based on 1,920 working hours per year. You are important Together we are strong 32 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate social responsibility and influence Positive force in society – not least in sustainability Axfood’s operations affect and intersect with many different actors in society every day. This generates knowledge and insight into a number of issues in which Axfood can make a difference through its voice or within the framework of its day-to-day activities. By identifying needs in society Axfood is also identifying areas for innovation and development that can inspire others. Matkassen 2030 – a food strategy New hope for the future for countryside for Sweden stores – as local meeting places In the Matkassen 2030 report The food industry has long advocated for stable Axfood has consciously driven the issue of rural Axfood urges politicians and and predictable business-policy playing rules. development and continues to promote the food authorities to support susDuring the 2016 Almedal Week public policy retail sector in sparsely populated areas tainable development forum Axfood presented its Matkassen 2030 through Axfood Närlivs. During the past ten through taxes and fees that report – the Group’s recommendations for years one in four stores in the Swedish countrydo not merely go into the Sweden’s food strategy – to provide a business side has disappeared, and with this other local state’s coffers, but that also perspective to what is needed in Sweden going services have also disappeared, such as package reward sustainable solutions forward. The report sets forth 79 concrete and pharmacy pick-up services, which presents and choices. The report urges suggestions for more sustainable food consumpa major challenge to small communities in the politicians to engage in effection. The suggestions concern, among other countryside. Together with independent retailtive and long-term cooperathings, focusing on Swedish value-added and ers, who account for a large share of grocery tion with the business sector involve undertakings for business as well as for stores in rural areas of Sweden, Axfood has to promote the form of innopoliticians and authorities. More information made a plea to the government for a plan on how vation and social structure about the Matkassen 2030 report is provided the conditions for these stores can be improved. that is needed to enable more on pages 4–5. A number of the report’s recIn 2016 a state rural development subsidy sustainable foods in the ommendations are also summarised in boxes was created which is helping to create better future. throughout this report. conditions for growth and jobs, but also ensure In early 2017 the Swedish government accessibility and services at countryside stores. presented a national food strategy that applies Of the stores that have received rural developuntil 2030. Many of the topics covered in ment subsidies at year-end, more than half Matkassen 2030 are also addressed in the govwere customers of Axfood Närlivs. ernment’s food strategy, including food waste, productivity, the importance of processing and Solar energy tax under the microscope innovation, and protecting Swedish farmland. On 1 July a new tax on solar energy was instiHowever, Axfood sees a lack of clarity in the tuted. The tax entailed that electricity genergovernment’s strategy about the importance of ated from solar panels on a building was to be upholding Swedish value-added and its importaxed even though the electricity was used by tance for competitiveness. Nor does the strategy the same building. This law risked counteractinclude any concrete economic mechanisms. In ing the parliament’s goals for renewable energy order for the food strategy to be implemented and, over time, for a fossil-free Sweden. It also in practice it is crucial that a concrete plan of inhibited private investment in solar panel sysaction is drawn up along with controls of its tems, and due to the how the tax rules were forimplementation. mulated, skewed competition. Going forward Axfood will actively call on After Axfood had engaged the European the government in an effort to advocate for the Commission in a dialogue, which clarified that views of the business sector in the formulation the tax was not motivated by the EU’s state supof the action plan. port rules, the Swedish government changed its Be waste-smart for the During the year Axfood, together with stance regarding this policy. The government environment. Axfoundation, visited members of Swedish govthen decided to provide a tax incentive for the Read more on p. 22 ernment with a plea for politicians to take a solar energy tax and announced an overhaul harder stance on the antibiotics issue within with the goal that companies like Axfood that the EU. With the support of its food strategy the use solar energy only for their own operations government will now drive the issue at the EU would instead be exempted from any solar level in an effort to address the excessive use of energy tax. Moreover, the government increased antibiotics in animal husbandry, which is one of the investment subsidy by a factor of eight for the biggest public health challenges of our time. solar panels during the three-year period. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 33 WORK AREA – CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Axfood thereby resumed its expansion of solar limits, taxes or marketing restrictions that panel systems on warehouse and store rooftops. otherwise apply for alcoholic beverages. Axfood Priorities 2017 and other actors in the Svensk Dagligvaruhan• Influence action plan for Call for responsible use of antibiotics del retail trade organization approached the Sweden’s national food There is a strong connection between the use of Public Health Agency of Sweden and adopted strategy antibiotics in society and effective care. Without a voluntary age restriction for the products. effective medicines, certain infections can be Axfood subsequently opted to refrain entirely • Advocate for regulations difficult to treat – and even life-threatening. from selling alcoholic ice cream products. against the excessive use In EU meat production large amounts of antiTo create clarity in the rules for these new of antibiotics biotics are used. In fact, more antibiotics are products, Axfood and its industry colleagues • Promote the expanded use administered in healthy animals than to treat informed the Minister for Public Health about the of solar panel systems human infections. Part of the reason is that anineed to close a clear legal loophole. After receiving • Rural development mals are often treated group-wise when individwarning signs from food retailers, the Minister • Advocate for truly sustainual animals become ill. Finland and Sweden are announced in September that alcoholic ice cream able recycling of plastics the exceptions in the EU, where the use of ant­i­ will become regulated. biotics is considerably more restrictive owing to initiatives by both farmers and veterinarians. SOS Children’s Villages and Since the same antibiotics are used in animal Save the Children husbandry as for human health, the risk for antiThrough Willys’ and Hemköp’s bottle and can biotic resistance has risen, whereby the anti­ deposit machines, customers can donate their biotics lose their effect. Axfood is working deposits to SOS Children’s Villages and Save together with Axfoundation to combat the threat the Children. On top of customers’ donations, in Matmissionen – a store posed by antibiotics to public health by raising December Willys doubled this amount with a that does good. awareness throughout the industry about the matching donation. In total Willys and Hemköp Read more on p. 21 threat and about what measures food retailers donated more than SEK 5.7 m to these relief and producers can take. For example, during the organizations during the year. year Axfood and Axfoundation arranged an antiIn 2015 Hemköp began working in a threebiotic seminar in the EU parliament. year project together with SOS Children’s Villages and Stockholms Stadsmission, which is Age limit for alcoholic ice cream providing support to EU migrants of Romanian Through its stores and their daily interactions descent. The aim of project is to help parents and Axfood has the opportunity to quickly see new their children reunite in Romania, with the goal consumption patterns and identify risk conof finding a transnational model for helping and sumption. The alcoholic ice cream products that empowering this exploited group of people so that were launched on the market during the year parents can stay with their children in Romania. caught the attention of young customers and are an example of how Axfood acted upon an Industry-wide agreement on plastic bags area of risk consumption. The laws governing Sweden’s plastic recycling system is facing a chalfrozen products do not cover alcohol, and thus lenge posed by the fact that many plastic packalcoholic ice cream was not covered by the age ages are not 100% recyclable. Axfood has driven Hope for the future in Norråker In the town of Norråker, in the northern reaches of Sweden’s Jämtland province, Ida Collin runs a combined general store and country inn. For her, the state rural development subsidy – as much as SEK 300,000 – is making an enormous difference. It has created the opportunity to hire staff, invest in expansion of the business, adapt the store’s accessibility for disabled patrons, and offer more services, such as a pharmacy pick-up outlet, home delivery of groceries, and taxi services to and from the store. How important is this for your store, and why? “It is extremely important for us to be able to make these necessary investments. For example, our refrigerant system will be phased out in a few years, and we will have to replace it. The support will also lead to greater sales and is instrumental in getting us to dare to test new ideas. We can that people believe in us and want to invest in our survival. try a new product category to see if it will sell, or try new This support will mean a lot for our store!” ideas to see if they work. If they don’t we have a buffer now. Plus, it is very important for our selfesteem – now we know 34 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 WORK AREA – CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY an initiative together with FTI, Sweden’s nationwide recycling system, to differentiate the fees for various types of packaging. Axfood believes that plastic packaging that is 100% recyclable should have lower fees. In addition, Axfood has been a driver in the industry behind eliminating the use of petroleum-­based plastic bags. During the year an industry-wide agreement was reached with all of the major food retail companies to change over to plastic bags made of bioplastics or renewable plastics. The goal is to entirely eliminate the use of fossil-based bags in the food retail industry by engaging all the support of all members of the Swedish Trade Federation. Collaboration and transparency In order for Axfood to be a positive force in society it is important to advocate for issues that affect its operations. As a first step, Axfood takes a position and acts itself where possible. If consensus is needed or if its own actions could have a wider effect with the participation of more actors, Axfood involves industry colleagues or trade organizations. Axfood believes it is important to then inform and engage politicians and decision-makers in a dialogue. For matters concerning competitive neutrality or shared interests in business policy matters, both nationally and at the EU level, Axfood often works through the retail trade organization Svensk Dagligvaruhandel. For Axfood, transparency is a responsibility issue that involves informing consumers in stores about how they can make sustainable choices as well as enabling them to monitor Axfood’s work via its website, and giving stakeholders an opportunity to share their views on Axfood’s operations and sustainability work. Dialogue is a way of informing stakeholders, but also of soliciting their views and building a platform for strategic development of sustainaThe store as integration platform bility work. The span of dialogues varies from informal contacts to direct collaborations and Axfood’s many stores offer job opportunities even for newcomers who do covers a range of organizations in the area of not yet have a perfect command of the Swedish language. Axfood has sustainability, including the Swedish Society developed various types of language support to enable prospective for Nature Conservation, WWF, Greenpeace, employees to get a foot in the door and gain practical in-store experiFair Action, Animal Welfare Sweden, Animal ence. Axfood also offers a multitude of opportunities for continuing eduRights Sweden and Diversity Charter. In addication and development. The key is in matching individuals who idention, Axfood has a cooperation agreement with tify with Axfood’s core values and have an interest in food retail and WWF on seafood issues. store operations with the many opportunities within the Group. The Haga Initiative is a business network Axfood’s stores also create opportunities to meet and interact with cusfor learning and opinion-shaping. Axfood is a tomers and colleagues on a daily basis, which contributes to faster lanco-founder of the network, which through its guage learning. At Axfood’s various chains there are countless good members is working to reduce carbon emissions examples of matching where individuals have chosen to lock arms and and highlight the climate issue through ambidevelop with Axfood. tious strategies for curbing climate change. In 2016 Axfood invited representatives from all of Sweden’s political CSR Sweden and the Network for Sustainable parties to visit our various operations and see how we are working with Business are another two network organizations integration. At Hemköp’s Torsplan store, for example, they got the that Axfood is engaged in. Axfood also particichance to meet Driton Jusufi, fruits and vegetables manager. Driton pates in the “Sustainable Grocery Store Chain” came to Sweden in 2000, and after only a half-year he was hired and put initiative, which is coordinated by WWF, and the in charge of a store department. Hemköp’s Torsplan store is also the organization Organic Sweden, which promotes home base for Mahmoud Gholam, a trained bakery chef from Iraq who the consumption and export of organic products. today is in charge of the store’s bakery department. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 35 ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE Organization and governance of sustainability work Axfood’s sustainability work is an integral part of the Company’s business model and governance. This work rests upon a foundation of Axfood’s core values and Code of Conduct as well as the Company’s sustainability programme. Axfood works with sustainability matters in a have their own environmental ambassadors, business-driven manner and integrates them who assist their respective organizations in in all aspects of operations. Conducting prevenachieving goals. tive work to the greatest extent possible and Axfood conducts continuous competence adhering to the precautionary principle are enhancement activities to raise employees’ fundamental aspects in this work. knowledge about sustainability issues and Responsibility for overarching strategies, Axfood’s commercial benefit of being an indusgoals and actions, and follow-up rests with the try leader in this area. Executive Committee and Head of Sustain­ ability. To ensure that this work is conducted in Sustainability programme an integrated fashion, the individual compaAxfood’s sustainability programme is an impornies and divisions within the Axfood Group tant governance tool for the Group’s work and have operational responsibility for their own constitutes the Group’s sustainability policy. The sustain­ability work. The persons with operaprogramme describes the goals that have been set tional responsibility are the respective compaand includes a set of key ratios for monitoring in nies’ presidents or divisional managers. the areas of sustainable products, transports, Sustainability coordinators, who propose energy and use of premises, responsible suppliers, goals and activities as well as make sure that employees, and animal welfare. The targets are these are conducted, have been appointed in all monitored yearly, and every year the programme companies (Willys, Hemköp, Axfood Närlivs, is updated in pace with continuing work and the Axfood Snabbgross and Dagab) and all major formulation of new targets. departments (quality, purchasing, IT and HR). This work is coordinated by the Head of Sus­ Code of Conduct, policies and guidelines tain­ability and is conducted through active diaAxfood is to conduct its business in accordance logue, ad hoc meetings with parts of the netwith generally accepted business practice and work based on specific topic areas, and through high ethical standards in all of the Group’s relaa strategic review at least once a year. In additionships with stakeholders. The Axfood Group tion, all Willys and Axfood Snabbgross stores Code of Conduct serves as a foundation for all 36 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE activities and lays out the requirements and and are also to be signed by employees in the expectations that Axfood has on its employees, Group who have the right to authorize paysuppliers and business partners. The Code is ments or who in some other way can influence based on recognized conventions for human purchasing decisions for products or services. rights, working conditions and the environment. The ethical guidelines are an extensive docPertinent employees – mainly buyers – ument that describes various situations and receive detailed training in what the Code of activities, and how employees are to deal with Conduct requires of a person in charge of qual­ them. They also include legal references and ity. All employees are informed about the Code definitions. By signing them the employees perthrough e-learning. sonally certify that they will comply with the Suppliers certify in writing that they will rules they lay out. The employee’s immediate adhere to Axfood’s Code of Conduct in connecsupervisor and the companies’ respective HR tion with purchases, or alternatively, Axfood departments are responsible for answering accepts the supplier’s code of conduct. Buyers questions or explaining matters that may be are responsible for ensuring that suppliers unclear. adhere to the Code of Conduct, while the qual­ In 2016, 905 (1,010) employees signed under ity assurance department supports and overthe guidelines. sees this work. In 2016 a whistleblower system was insti­ Axfood’s Code of Conduct is accessible on tuted within the Axfood Group. A few issues axfood.se in Swedish and English versions, reported in 2016 resulted in action being taken, however, the content can also be conveyed to and an action plan has been drawn up for all of suppliers in other languages, such as Chinese, these cases. During the year Axfood did not Russian and Spanish. obtain knowledge about any attempts at bribery among employees or about suspected cases Additional Group-wide guidelines and policies of corruption. include: • ethical guidelines on the offering and accepting of bribes, and corruption • the employee manual • the environmental policy CEO • the purchasing policy Executive Committee • the work environment and health policy At the time of their hiring, all newly hired salaried employees certify in writing that they have acknowledged Axfood’s ethical guidelines. Axfood’s The ethical guidelines are updated every year sustainability work Sustainability Head of coordinators Sustainability Environmental ambassadors Axfood’s operations AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 37 ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE Targets and target achievement in sustainability programme The table below outlines the shortand long-term targets that have been set in Axfood’s sustainability programme. With only a few exceptions, all of Axfood’s targets have couplings to Sweden’s environmental objectives and the UN’s development goals. All of the Swedish environmental targets are reflected in Achieved In progress Target not achieved Coupling to Sweden’s Coupling to the UN’s Target environmental objectives development goals Results 2016 Status Sustainable products – Axfood & Dagab By 2020 at the latest, Axfood’s store chains will sell only green-listed 14. Life below water seafood products. 8. Flourishing lakes and streams 10. A balanced marine environment, flourishing coastal areas and archipelagos Axfood and Axfood’s store chains will work actively to highlight good 1. Reduced climate impact 12. Responsible consumpsustainability choices. tion and production By 2022 at the latest, the requirements that Axfood has today for Inte2. Zero hunger grated Production (IP), Global GAP or other equivalent system for fruits and vegetables will also be met for its private label products that ­contain primary vegetable ingredients. 1. Reduced climate impact 4. A non-toxic environment 13. A varied agricultural landscape By 2020 at the latest, Axfood’s private label products (Garant, Garant 16. A rich diversity of plant 12. Responsible consumpEkologiska varor and Eldorado) will include information about the priand animal life tion and production mary ingredients’ country of origin in all categories with certain exceptions, such as composites without a clear primary ingredient. In 2016 Dagab will have formulated expanded requirements for which 12. Responsible consumppesticides are permitted in the fruits and vegetables category in countion and production tries outside the EU, which all suppliers must meet by 2020 at the latest. 1. Reduced climate impact 4. A non-toxic environment 13. A varied agricultural landscape Dagab will avoid chemical compounds included on the SIN list in 4. A non-toxic environment 12. Responsible consump­products and packaging (e.g., Bisphenol). The goal shall be achieved tion and production by 2022. Since 2009 all palm oil included in private label products has been 12. Responsible consumpcompensated for via certificates. This compensation will be gradually tion and production changed over to the use of certified palm oil. • In 2016 100% of the palm oil used in Garant and Fixa private label products shall be certified. 1. Reduced climate impact • For the Eldorado private label, all palm oil shall be certified by 2017 16. A rich diversity of plant and at the latest. animal life By 2020, suppliers of private label products will use only certified palm 12. Responsible consumpoil or, alternatively, compensate for use through certificates. tion and production 1. Reduced climate impact 16. A rich diversity of plant and animal life By 2020, suppliers of private label products will use only certified palm 12. Responsible consumpoil or, alternatively, compensate for use through certificates. tion and production 1. Reduced climate impact 16. A rich diversity of plant and animal life All primary ingredients in the Garant and Eldorado assortments with 2. Zero hunger major social risks (such as cacao, tea and coffee) will be certified accord­ing to some form of sustainability certification (Fairtrade, ­Rainforest Alliance or UTZ) by 2017 at the latest. 38 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE Axfood’s sustainability programme. While most of the UN’s development goals are relevant for Axfood, “Responsible consumption and production” and “Climate action” are the two most important. The sustainability targets are monitored yearly, either through key ratios or by checking on the progress of the work. Achieved In progress Target not achieved Coupling to Sweden’s Coupling to the UN’s Target environmental objectives development goals Results 2016 Status By 2016 at the latest, all conventional bananas will be covered by some 2. Zero hunger sort of sustainability certification, except for in cases of shortages. By 2020 Axfood’s private label products will have sustainability 2. Zero hunger ­certifications (Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance or UTZ) for at least three ­additional risk products (e.g., nuts, sugar, spices) This target applies primarily for products sold under the Garant private label. Axfood will strive to have environmentally adapted packaging for all of 12. Responsible consumpits private label products (such as FSC-labelled paper, tin cans only in tion and production exceptional cases, and only material that works in the recycling system). Packages and products that are difficult to recycle will be avoided. 1. Reduced climate impact 12. Sustainable forests Axfood’s companies will reduce the share of combustible residual 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action Willys: -6% pts products in relation to sales. Axfood Snabbgross: -6% pts Sustainable products – Willys Willys will continue to offer the cheapest bag of organic groceries. 12. Responsible consumption and production 1. Reduced climate impact 4. A non-toxic environment 13. A varied agricultural landscape In 2016 Willys will increase its share of organic food sales to 6.5%. 12. Responsible consump6.0% tion and production 1. Reduced climate impact 4. A non-toxic environment 13. A varied agricultural landscape In 2016 Willys Hemma will increase its share of organic food sales 12. Responsible consump7.5% to 7.5%. tion and production 1. Reduced climate impact 4. A non-toxic environment 13. A varied agricultural landscape Willys will strive to dramatically reduce food waste in stores and has 1. Reduced climate impact 12. Responsible consumpthe ambition to make improvements from year to year. tion and production Sustainable products – Hemköp By 2020 Hemköp will increase its share of organic food sales to 15%. 12. Responsible consump9.3% tion and production 1. Reduced climate impact 4. A non-toxic environment 13. A varied agricultural landscape Hemköp’s retailer-owned stores will adhere to sustainability decisions 1. Reduced climate impact 12. Responsible consumplike the Group-owned stores. tion and production By 2017 at the latest Hemköp will phase out petroleum-based plastics 1. Reduced climate impact from its central assortment of shopping bags, also in retailer-owned stores. 12. Responsible consumption and production 13. Climate action AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 39 ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE Achieved In progress Target not achieved Coupling to Sweden’s Coupling to the UN’s Target environmental objectives development goals Results 2016 Status Sustainable products – Axfood Närlivs By 2020 Tempo will increase its share of organic food sales to 6%. 12. Responsible consump4.3% tion and production 1. Reduced climate impact 4. A non-toxic environment 13. A varied agricultural landscape Animal welfare Private label organic meat and charcuterie products will be certified 16. A rich diversity of plant 12. Responsible consumpprimarily according to KRAV, and secondarily to the EU organic certifiand animal life tion and production cation. Axfood’s private label products (Garant, Garant Ekologiska varor 16. A rich diversity of plant 12. Responsible consumpand Eldorado) will include information on the country of origin of and animal life tion and production the primary meat ingredient. For imported private label meat products, introduction of a require16. A rich diversity of plant 12. Responsible consumpment for animal welfare certification or equivalent will begin by 2016 and animal life tion and production at the latest. By 2025 at the latest, all suppliers of private label products will meet 16. A rich diversity of plant 12. Responsible consumpthe requirement for animal welfare certification or equivalent. At least and animal life tion and production 70% will meet this requirement by 2020 at the latest. Meat from pigs that are castrated without anaesthetics will be 16. A rich diversity of plant 12. Responsible consumpdiscontin­ued from Garant products by 2016 at the latest. For the other and animal life tion and production private label assortment, including Eldorado, by 2018 at the latest. By 2020 Dagab will use only suppliers of private label products that 16. A rich diversity of plant 12. Responsible consumpwork actively for reduced use of antibiotics according to specific criteand animal life tion and production ria. By 2020 at the latest, this requirement will also be communicated to suppliers of brand-name products. By 2020 at the latest, Hemköp’s sales of organic meat will amount to 12. Responsible consump6.8% 15% of total meat sales. tion and production 1. Reduced climate impact 4. A non-toxic environment 13. A varied agricultural landscape Use of energy and premises The Axfood Group will reduce the climate impact of its own operations 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action by 75% by 2020 and be climate-neutral (base year 2009). The Axfood Group will reduce is energy consumption by 15% per 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action square metre by the end of 2020 (base year 2015). For investments in store refrigeration systems, climate-friendly 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action refrigerants will be used. The Axfood Group will use ecolabelled office machines (computers, 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action printers and copying machines) when such alternatives exist. Dagab will begin measuring CO2 emissions also from subcontracted 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action transports from warehouses to stores. By 2020 at the latest, Dagab will reduce its electricity consumption in 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action relation to sales by 15% (base year 2015). Transports Dagab will reduce CO2 emissions from its delivery fleet by 20% by 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action -49% 2020 (base year 2015). The Axfood Group will reduce the number of business trips by air by 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action 15% by 2018 at the latest (base year 2015). All company cars will be environmental-classed. 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action Employees will conduct more travel-free meetings by: 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action +78% increasing the use of teleconferences by 5% compared with 2015 confer­ence increasing the use of web conferences by 8% compared with 2015 calls and video confer­ ences 40 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE Achieved In progress Target not achieved Coupling to Sweden’s Coupling to the UN’s Target environmental objectives development goals Results 2016 Status Suppliers By 2016 at the latest, Dagab will adopt a strategy for ensuring living 1. Zero poverty wages for workers in the supply chain. By 2030, eradicate poverty as far as possible in Axfood’s supply chain 1. Zero poverty for its private label products by ensuring that the people who work in manufacturing and farming earn more than the UN’s poverty level. By 2020 at the latest, the strategy for living wages will lead to Axfood being 1. Zero poverty able to monitor the progress on living wages. The strategy applies primarily for purchases of primary products for Axfood’s private label products. By 2020 at the latest, all relevant suppliers of private label products 8. Decent work and and their subcontractors will be included in an accredited social fol­economic growth low-up system (BSCI, Fair for Life, SEDEX or similar) or, alternatively, be parties to collective agreements with recognized union organizations. By 2020 at the latest, Axfood’s initiatives in identified risk products will 17. Partnerships for have improved both social and environmental conditions in three the goals source markets. By 2020 at the latest, all suppliers of private label products will report 1. Reduced climate impact 13. Climate action annually on their climate measures. By 2020 at the latest, Axfood will have methods for evaluating how 6. Clean water and suppliers in regions with water shortages are reducing their water use. ­sanitation 3. Natural acidification only 7. Zero eutrophication For all purchasing of private label products in risk countries/risk cate8. Decent work and gories, the selection process for suppliers will include sustainability ­economic growth aspects. By 2020 at the latest, Axfood will have integrated enhanced sustaina1. Reduced climate impact 12. Responsible consumpbility criteria for e.g., water and for the chemical and climate impact of tion and production products in the tendering process. By 2016 at the latest, Dagab will identify purchasing markets for pri16. Peace, justice and vate label products with an elevated corruption risk and address this strong institutions with a specific programme. In 2017 Axfood will begin implementation of a whistleblower system 16. Peace, justice and among retailers and suppliers. strong institutions Employees By 2020 at the latest, 20% of Axfood’s senior executives will come 16. Peace, justice and 11% from an international background. strong institutions A minimum of 75% of Axfood’s managers will be recruited internally, and a minimum of 10% will be recruited externally. Have a high work attendance rate of at least 95%. 94% Maintain an Employee Satisfaction Index score of at least 90. 92 Achieve an even gender balance among Axfood’s senior executives, i.e., 5. Gender equality 32% women that men and women will be represented within a range of 40%-60% by 2020. All employees will have completed basic environmental training. By 2017 at the latest, all pertinent employees will have completed an 16.Peace, justice and activity coupled to Axfood’s ethical guidelines, with focus on corrupstrong institutions tion. No employees will feel that they have been discriminated against at 16. Peace, justice and n.a. work. strong institutions AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 41 ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE Our stakeholders and key issues Every day Axfood interacts with thousands of stakeholders around Sweden and the entire world. The issues that are perceived by these stakeholders as being the most important, together with the knowledge of Axfood’s ­employees, provide guidance to Axfood in its sustainability work. Through an open dialogue in which Axfood is priorities in its sustainability work are aligned receptive to the surrounding world’s expectawith stakeholders’ expectations. Axfood’s In the Matkassen 2030 report Axfood urges politicians and tions and our stakeholders’ needs, we can constakeholders are largely in agreement about authorities to facilitate developtinue to develop our operations in the desired attaching greater value to knowing that the ment for local entrepreneurs, direction. Such a dialogue is a prerequisite for products that are sold in stores are of high qualsuch as through better access to achieving our ambition to be a leader in susity, with minimal use of pesticides and chemieducation in food preparation tainability and dare be a forerunner with cals. They also want assurances that the aniand processing as well as in marketing. A good example of such is respect to new technical solutions and ways mal-based products they buy have been proEldrimner (the National of working. duced with care for the animals. It is important Resource Centre for Food Crafts), Axfood’s most important stakeholders are that producers offer a good work environment which provides knowledge, supthe groups of people who are affected most by and decent working conditions. While this port and inspiration for food craftsmen throughout Sweden. and/or affect the Company’s operations: cusapplies at the supplier level, work environment tomers, employees, owners, suppliers and sociand health are also significant factors in stores. ety at large. In addition, handling of food in stores with as Read more about the little food waste as possible is a central issue. materiality analysis Assortment and consumer responsibility Good business ethics and integrity with respect on pp. 44–45 most important issues to risks for corruption – not least in the purchas­ During 2015 Axfood conducted a structured ing operations – is another important issue for stakeholder dialogue to ensure that Axfood’s stakeholders. 42 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE Stakeholder overview Stakeholders Channels for dialogue Important issues Axfood strives to offer its customers a wide • Consumer contact • Use of pesticides and chemicals range of environmentally adapted, healthy • Focus groups • A nimal welfare and safe products at competitive prices. • Annual consumer survey together • A nti-corruption and bribery with Nepa. The 2016 survey had • Work environment, working Read more about customers’ growing 4,615 respondents (4,884) conditions and health interest in environmental and health • Leaflets, customer magazines, • Certification of critical food issues, along with some of the initiatives information on websites ingredients Customers that Axfood took during the year, on • Social media • Country of origin and pages 15–17. trace-ability Axfood wants proud and committed • Daily status meetings and interaction • Work environment, working employees, and to be a collaborative • Employee get-togethers and conferences conditions and health and effective organization. • T raining • Organic food • Internal surveys in specific areas • Attract and develop employees Read more about Axfood’s active work (2016: internships) • Use of pesticides and chemicals with its employees on pages 29–32. • Bi-yearly employee survey, including • A nti-corruption and bribery Employees Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) and Net Promoter Score (NPS) • A nnual performance reviews By making demands and engaging • Separate meetings in the purchasing • A nti-corruption and bribery in dialogue, Axfood strives to raise process • Use of pesticides and chemicals the level of its suppliers’ sustainabil• Supplier assessments within the • Healthy food ity work. framework of business networks, such • Work environment, working as “Sustainable food chain” conditions and health Read more about Axfood’s c­ ontinuously • Special dialogue projects, e.g., for soy • Country of origin and ongoing dialogue with suppliers on and palm oil trace-ability Suppliers pages 24–28. • A nnual supplier meetings for all suppliers with Axfood’s management • T raining of suppliers’ employees in risk countries • Social audits. A total of 54 audits were carried out in 2016 (48) Axfood shall create enduring value • One-on-one investor meetings • A nti-corruption and bribery for its shareholders by exercising • Webcasts/conference calls in • Attract and develop employees corporate social responsibility. connection with interim reports • Use of pesticides and chemicals • P resentations and investor • Organic and healthy food luncheons, seminars and other • Energy consumption gatherings • Favourable, sustainable return Owners • R oad shows in Sweden, the UK, • Food waste France, Germany and the USA Axfood shall actively strive to contribute to • Personal meetings with decision-­ • Use of pesticides and chemicals society by influencing and being responsive. makers in Sweden and the EU • A nti-corruption and bribery This stakeholder category includes every• P resentations at conferences and • A nimal welfare one from stakeholder organizations, politiother gatherings • Country of origin and cians and decision-makers to people who • Membership in trade organizations, trace-ability are not customers of Axfood. like the Swedish Trade Federation • Work environment, working People who are not yet customers have simand Svensk Dagligvaruhandel conditions and health Society ilar priorities to Axfood’s customers. How-ever, • Dedicated public affairs officer • Healthy food existing customers prioritize healthy and since 2015 • Certification of critical primary locally produced food to a greater extent. food ingredients Axfood is engaged in continuous dialogues and partnerships during the year with various organizations in the area of sustainability. Stakeholder organizations prioritize, above all, issues related to ­products and the assortment, and the ­supply chain. Read more about Axfood’s dialogues and active opinion-shaping work both nationally and at the EU level, on pages 33–35. AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 43 ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE Materiality analysis The results from the previous materiality analysis were analysed in 2016. The aim of the analysis is to ensure and confirm that Axfood’s priorities in its sustainability work are aligned the expectations of the Company’s stakeholders. The materiality analysis also provides guid­ This web-based questionnaire was completed ance to Axfood in its sustainability reporting by a total of 2,122 respondents from various and serves as the foundation for reporting in stakeholder categories: owners, employees, cusaccordance with GRI G4 Core. The analysis is tomers, non-customers and suppliers. All validated yearly. of the issues were ranked as important or very important for Axfood. In the analysis, the Implementation results of the various stakeholder categories Through an ongoing dialogue with the stakewere weighted, so that the responses from all holder groups during the year Axfood was able of the categories had the same weighting. to validate the previous materiality analysis. The results from the survey, together with This validation largely confirmed the results Axfood’s sustainability programme, identify from the more extensive materiality analysis the issues of most importance for Axfood’s that was conducted in 2015. The process sustainability work. involved an internal workshop with representatives from Axfood’s operations, which used the Material issues UN’s Sustainable Development Goals as a Issues that are material for Axfood reflect the starting point for an analysis and discussions issues that have been assigned high priority by about which sustainability issues are most relestakeholders as well as issues that are the most vant for Axfood from a strategic perspective. material for Axfood from a sustainability perTogether with other prioritized issues spective, but also based on which sustainability brought up through dialogue with stakeholder issues are the most material for Axfood overall organizations and other interests during the in view of Axfood’s business strategy and comyear, a questionnaire was prepared with 25 petitiveness. Axfood has made varying progress questions in six categories: in its strategic work with material issues. • Assortment and consumer responsibility What these issues all share in common is • Climate impact that they are not only addressed and have an • Business culture impact within the organization, but that work • Responsibility as an employer with them is conducted to a great extent in • Responsibility in the supply chain cooperation with suppliers. Axfood reports in • Corporate social responsibility accordance with the GRI framework for all material issues. Apart from the most material issues, there are numerous issues that Axfood informs about in its sustainability reporting, but which are not considered to be material by stakeholders nor by Axfood. See the figure on page 45. 44 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ORGANIZATION AND GOVERNANCE Material issues for Axfood Animal welfare Pesticides and chemicals Axfood shall contribute to improved animal Axfood shall advocate for the avoidance of husbandry, such as by advocating for reduced ­hazardous chemicals and pesticides in food use of antibiotics in meat production. production. Anti-corruption and bribery Reduced climate impact Axfood shall counter all forms of corruption and Axfood shall have efficient transports and sortbribery, among other things through training. ing systems, embrace innovative solutions for preventing food waste, and advocate for Control of the supply chain climate-smart food production. Axfood shall advocate for decent working conditions among its suppliers and greater traceability, Sustainable products and actively strive for more sustainable producAxfood shall offer healthy and organic foods tion of ingredients such as palm oil and soy. in which critical primary ingredients such as palm oil and soy are certified. Efficient use of energy Axfood shall have energy-efficient stores, such Work environment, working conditions as by investing in low-energy refrigerator and and health freezer displays. Axfood shall offer a safe and healthy work environment with working conditions that are Equal opportunity and diversity in line with the going rate in the market. Axfood shall reflect the diversity of its customers and have an even gender balance and a broad international background among its employees and managers. Inform Report Report and focus • Attract and develop employees • Anti-corruption and bribery • Pesticides and chemicals • Eco-labelling and/or social certification • Work environment, working • Animal welfare • Favourable, sustainable return conditions and health • Efficient use of energy • Consumer information about sustainable • Equal opportunity and • Sustainable products choices diversity • Control of supply chain • Locally produced food • Reduced climate impact • Community impact • Use of water • Charity High Medium Materiality AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 45 ABOUT THIS REPORT About this report For the ninth year in a row, Axfood is reporting its sustainability work in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines, G4 Core level. REPORTING PRINCIPLES ment will be introduced gradually for existing Axfood’s sustainability reporting coincides with suppliers and immediately for all new suppliers. the Company’s financial year and covers the period 1 January–31 December 2016. The data Material fractions pertain to Group-owned retail operations, with Contractors that collect material fractions from 263 stores (Willys and Hemköp), and wholesale Axfood’s stores register the volume in Axfood’s operations (Dagab and Axfood Närlivs). At presservice vendor portal, which also serves as the ent, franchise stores (the so-called retailer-­ basis for invoicing. Based on this information, owned stores) do not report sustainability data the weight of combustible material in relation to centrally to Axfood and are therefore not included net sales is reported. This key ratio indicates the in the reporting. The same applies for external extent to which Axfood’s stores sort their waste. transport contractors in the wholesale operaA low share of combustible material entails that tions. In this respect the report does not differ a high share of material is sorted and recycled. from previous years’ reports and methodologies. Axfood strives to ensure that as little material The report is structured in accordance with possible ends up in the combustible fraction. the GRI principles, which entails that it is to During the year, the reporting system for comprovide a comprehensive picture of operations, bustible waste at Hemköp was not able to prowhere the content is determined by the aspects vide satisfactory documentation for a calculathat are the most material for Axfood’s operation, which is why Hemköp does not report this tions and for the Company’s stakeholders. key ratio. The materiality analysis described on page 44 has served as the basis for the choice of GRI Climate impact – carbon emissions indicators, where every material aspect has Axfood’s climate impact from its own operations been matched against at least one GRI indicaconsists mainly of CO2 emissions. The following tor, which is shown in the GRI index on pages factors are included in calculations of climate 48–51. The index also includes comments on impact: omissions or incomplete data. The report is not • climate impact of refrigerants subject to external verification. The preceding • CO2 emissions from transport of distributed report was published in February 2016. goods and business travel Since Axfood is a signatory of the UN Global • electricity consumption in own stores and Compact’s ten principles on human rights, warehouses labour, the environment and anti-corruption, the sustainability report constitutes Axfood’s On account of the fact that external data (the Communication on Progress. residual mix) for 2016 was not available at the time Axfood’s sustainability report was pubMEASUREMENT AND CALCULATION lished, the Company’s climate impact for 2016 METHODS cannot be reported. Once the residual mix for Sustainability data for Axfood are compiled 2016 has been made public, Axfood will report on centrally. Reporting is done by sustainability the year’s climate impact in future interim coordinators or by employees in expert funcreports. tions. Figures pertaining to sales and employees are taken from HR and accounting systems. Refrigerants Calculation of the climate impact of refrigerants Pesticides in Group-owned stores, warehouses and own Pesticides are a new area that will begin to be delivery vehicles is based on the replenishment analysed, and therefore no data is available. of refrigerants during the year. Emissions are Axfood is reviewing which certifications are recalculated to CO2 equivalents, based on the available and will thereafter choose the prodGHG protocol. For a more detailed description of ucts that it will concentrate its work on. the calculation method, see Hagainitiativet.se. Animal welfare Transports In 2016 Axfood upgraded its requirement that all CO2 emissions pertain to delivered goods using suppliers of meat ingredients must have a thirdown vehicles from warehouses to stores and are party verification of animal welfare. This requirebased on the use of various fuels, data provided 46 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 ABOUT THIS REPORT by fuel suppliers, the total volume of goods include both EU organic and KRAV-certified delivered in tonnes, and the share that is disproducts. By vegetarian products is meant tributed using own vehicles. refrigerated or frozen vegetarian protein substitutes, i.e., ready-to-eat food products, such as Electricity consumption tofu and Quorn. They do not include frozen or All premises (stores, warehouses and offices) in refrigerated vegetables, legumes or bread. which Axfood is the direct electricity customer use green electricity; in other words, the electricEmployees ity consumption has no CO2 emissions. After putThe average number of employees is a measureting pressure on the property owners of stores ment of all time for work attendance including located in shopping centres or for which Axfood paid leave, less overtime, divided by 1,920 for some other reason is not the electricity cusworking hours per year. tomer, at year-end 2015 only one store remained The average service period is calculated as that does not use or has plans to change over to the sum of permanent employees’ time renewable electricity. The corresponding number employed in years (31/12/2016 – date hired) a year earlier was ten stores. If an electricity cusdivided by the number of permanent employees. tomer does not make an active choice of the source Employee turnover is calculated as the numof its electricity, its electricity will be sourced from ber of permanent employees who ended their the so-called residual mix. The more customers employment during the year in relation to the that actively choose cleaner electricity sources, average number of permanent employees as per the dirtier the residual mix will be. The level of 31 December 2016. CO2 emissions in the residual mix varies from The work attendance rate is calculated as year to year. Data on the residual mix in 2016 will the number of hours worked in relation to the be available later in 2017, and thus the climate scheduled working time. impact of Axfood’s electricity consumption in 2016 By an even gender balance in management cannot be reported. positions is meant that men and women are repCalculation of total electricity consumption resented within a range of 40%–60%. By manis based on the total area of stores and wareagement position is meant that the person has houses in relation to net sales. When sales directly subordinate employees. increase, more energy is used. Having an international background is one measure of diversity. Axfood uses the same Business travel definition as Statistics Sweden, i.e., that the Calculation of the climate impact of business employee him-/herself or both parents were travel is based on all identified modes of transborn outside of Sweden. port: air (booked via travel agencies), rail, airport shuttle, taxi, company car, rental car, or Suppliers personal car. Axfood’s travel policy requires that Social audits pertain to suppliers of private business travel be booked via the Group’s conlabel products in risk countries. Axfood uses tracted travel agency. The climate impact of the same definition of risk country as BSCI, hotel stays and travel by local mass transit is which in turn is based on the World Bank’s not included. ranking of selected parameters. Sustainable products Quality assurance/product safety Axfood strives to offer sustainable products in its Product recalls are announced when a product assortment. Examples of more sustainable prodis judged to pose a health or environmental ucts are organic products, vegetarian protein risk. Recalls are communicated to the general substitutes and healthier product variants, but public via press release. also products certified by such organizations as Rainforest Alliance, UTZ and Fairtrade, or SIGNIFICANT CHANGES SINCE THE according to IP or Global GAP. The aim is to PRECEDING REPORTING PERIOD, increase the share of sustainable products and OR EXPLANATIONS to adopt higher standards for the entire product No significant changes were made since publirange. Examples of healthy products are vegetacation of the 2015 Sustainability Report. bles, fish, shellfish, seeds, low fat dairy products and Keyhole-labelled products. Axfood measures the share of organic product sales and sales of vegetarian alternatives in proportion to total food sales within the Group. Organic products AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 47 GRI INDEX GRI Index The following index references where obligatory standard disclosures and selected indicators from the materiality analysis are reported in this report or in the Annual Report (AR). Standard Disclosures Description Page reference Comment/Omissions Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from CEO and Chairman 2–3 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Inside cover G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 1 G4-5 Location of the headquarters Back cover G4-6 Countries in which the organization has operations Inside cover, AR 52 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 48–49 G4-8 Markets served Inside cover, 1 G4-9 Scale of the organization Inside cover, 1 G4-10 Total workforce 32 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining 32, AR 54 agreements G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 26–28 G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period AR 45, 101 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary principle is addressed 36 G4-15 Externally developed charters, principles or other initiatives Inside cover, 15–17, 24–26, 29–30, 35 G4-16 Memberships of associations 15, 28, 35 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities covered or not covered by the report 46, AR 96 G4-18 Process for defining the report content 44–45 G4-19 All material Aspects identified 44–45 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization for each material Aspect 44–47 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each material Aspect 44–47 G4-22 The effect and reasons for any restatements of information provided 46–47 in previous reports G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope 46–47 and Aspect Boundaries 48 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI INDEX Description Page reference Comment/Omissions Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups 42–43 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 42 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 42–43 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 42–43 engagement, and how the organization has responded Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 46 G4-29 Date of most recent report 46 G4-30 Reporting cycle 46 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside cover G4-32 Choice of “in accordance” option, GRI Content Index and reference 46, 48–51 to external assurance G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 46 assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Governance structure 36–37 AR 68 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles, standards, codes of conduct and codes of ethics 8, 36–37 AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 49 GRI INDEX Specific Standard Disclosures Issue in Axfood’s Material Aspects, DMA and Indicators in materiality analysis Page reference Comment/Omissions materiality analysis ENVIRONMENT Energy G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Efficient use of energy 40, 45, 46–47 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 13, 20 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 20 Reduction of energy consumption as a result of conservation and efficiency G4-EN6 20, 22 initiatives Emissions G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Reduced climate impact 38–41, 45, 46–47 G4-EN15 Gross direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 20–22 G4-EN16 Gross energy indirect GHG emissions 21–22 G4-EN17 Gross other relevant indirect GHG emissions 22 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity ratio 20 G4-EN19 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions, and amount of reductions achieved 20, 22 Effluents and Waste G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Reduced climate impact 39, 45, 46 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste, per type of disposal method 22 Products and Services G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Reduced climate impact 38–41, 45, 47 G4-EN27 Report quantitatively the extent to which environmental impacts 10–11, 15–17 of products and services have been mitigated Transport G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Reduced climate impact 40, 45, 47 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other 10–11, 19 goods and materials used in operations Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 26–28, 36–37, Control of supply chain 38–41, 45, 47 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria 26–27, 41 G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the sup26, 15–17 ply chain, and actions taken SOCIAL Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Equal opportunity and 41, 45, 47 diversity Work environment, G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by 32 working conditions age group, gender and region and health G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 29 or part-time employees 50 | AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 GRI INDEX Issue in Axfood’s Material Aspects, DMA and Indicators in materiality analysis Page reference Comment/Omissions materiality analysis Occupational Health and Safety G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Work environment, 41, 45, 47 working conditions and health G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint-management 31 worker health and safety committees G4-LA6 Types and rate of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, 32 and total number of work-related fatalities by region Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Equal opportunity 41, 45, 47 and diversity G4-LA12 Composition of board and management, and breakdown of employees 29, 32 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Equal opportunity 41, 45, 47 and diversity G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee 29–30 category Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 26–28, 36–37, Control of supply chain 41, 45, 47 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using labour practices criteria 26–27, 41 G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices 24–27, 41 in the supply chain, and actions taken Human Rights Non-Discrimination G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Equal opportunity 41, 45, 47 and diversity G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No reported incidents. Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 26–28, 36–37, Control of supply chain 41, 45, 47 G4-HR10 Percentage of significant suppliers and subcontracted suppliers screened 26–27, 41 using human rights criteria, and actions taken G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the sup24–28 ply chain, and actions taken Society Anti-Corruption G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 36–37, 41, 45 Anti-corruption and bribery G4-SO4 Percentage of employees that have received training in the organization’s 37, 41 anti-corruption policies and procedures G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 37 Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Animal welfare 38–40, 45, Pesticides and chemicals 46–47 Healthy food G4-PR1 Percentage of product and service categories for which health and safety 15–17 impacts are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant product and service categories assessed Product and Service Labelling G4-DMA Sustainability governance of material Aspects 12–13, 36–37, Healthy food 38–40, 45, 47 G4-PR3 Type of information about products and services required by the orga-niza16–17, 34 tion’s procedures for product and service information labelling, and percentage of products and services subject to such information requirements AXFOOD SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 | 51 Everyone in Sweden should have the right to good, wholesome, attractively priced and sustainable food. Axfood AB Willys AB Hemköpskedjan AB Axfood Närlivs AB SE-107 69 Stockholm SE-412 86 Gothenburg SE-107 69 Stockholm SE-107 69 Stockholm Visitors’ address Visitors’ address Visitors’ address Visitors’ address Norra Stationsgatan 80C Falkenbergsgatan 3 Norra Stationsgatan 80C Norra Stationsgatan 80C Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Tel +46-31-733 31 00 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 info@axfood.se info@willys.se info@hemkop.se info@narlivs.se www.axfood.se www.willys.se www.hemkop.se www.narlivs.se www.snabbgross.se Dagab Inköp & Logistik AB Axfood IT AB Axfood AB SE-107 69 Stockholm SE-107 69 Stockholm Shared Service Center Visitors’ address Visitors’ address SE-551 93 Jönköping Norra Stationsgatan 80C Norra Stationsgatan 80C Visitors’ address Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Tel +46-8-553 990 00 Bataljonsgatan 12 info@axfood.se info@axfood.se Tel +46-36-36 41 00 info@axfood.se
