REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 COMPAGNIE PLASTIC OMNIUM Incorporated in France with limited liability and issued capital of 9,058,603.20 euros Headquarters: 19, boulevard Jules-Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France Registered in Lyon, no. 955 512 611 – APE business identification code: 6420 Z 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT including • the Annual Financial Report • the Corporate governance and Sustainable Development Report This Registration Document was filed with the French financial markets authority (Autorité des Marchés Financiers – AMF) on March 12, 2018 pursuant to Article 212-13 of the AMF's General Regulation. It may be used in support of a financial transaction if accompanied by a short form prospectus endorsed by the AMF. This document was prepared by the issuer and is binding on its signatories. Pursuant to article 28 of European Commission Regulation (EC) No. 809/2004, the following information is included by way of reference in this Registration Document: • the consolidated financial statements and Statutory accounts for the year ended December 31, 2016, and the corresponding auditors’ reports appearing on pp. 94-202 (inclusive) of the 2016 Registration Document filed with the AMF on March 20, 2017 under the reference number R. 17-007; • the consolidated financial statements and Statutory accounts for the year ended December 31, 2015, and the corresponding auditors’ reports appearing on pp. 83-171 (inclusive) of the 2015 Registration Document filed with the AMF on March 24, 2016 under the reference number R.16-011. A TALK WITH LAURENT BURELLE, 05 2017 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS (AFR) CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE 5.1 Comments on the Statutory Accounts 211 OFFICER AND JEAN-MICHEL SZCZERBA, 5.2 Income Statement 212 CO-CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 4 5.3 Balance Sheet 213 5.4 Notes to the Statutory Accounts 21 4 01 PRESENTATION OF PLASTIC 5.5 5.6 Five-Year Financial Summary Subsidiaries a nd Affiliates 227 228 OMNIUM AND ITS BUSINESSES 5.7 Statutory Auditors’ report  1.1 2017 Key figures 7 on the financial statements 230 1.2 History and development of the Group 9 5.8 Special Report of the Statutory Auditors 1.3 Organization chart 12 on Related Party Agreements 1.4 Significant events 13 and Commitments 234 1.5 Business and strategy 14 1.6 Research and Development (R&D) 16 06 RELATIONS WITH THE FINANCIAL Risk factors a nd control (AFR) 19 1.7 COMMUNITY AND SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE 02 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (AFR) 6.1 Financial communication 237 2.1 R  eport from the Board of Directors on 6.2 The Plastic Omnium share 238 corporate governance 29 6.3 Timetable for financial communication a nd shareholders’ timetable 240 03 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3.1 Plastic Omnium’s CSR approach 65 07 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING 3.2 Solutions for clean, connected mobility 72 7.1 Agenda 242 3.3 Responsible entrepreneurs 76 7.2  ext of the Resolutions Submitted T 3.4 Care for people 82 for Approval by the Combined 3.5 Sustainable production 93 Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018 243 3.6 Methodology 101 7.3 Board of Directors’ Report on the 3.7 Cross-reference table 103 Resolutions Presented to the Combined 3.8 Report by the Statutory Auditors, Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018 250 appointed as the independent 7.4 Report by the Statutory Auditors third-party (MR) 107 on the authorization to allocate free shares 253 PREAMBLE TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 08 OTHER INFORMATION Financial indicators 111 8.1 G  eneral information about the company 255 List of regulated information  04 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 8.2 published during the last 12 months 258 STATEMENTS (AFR) 4.1 Comments on the Consolidated Financial Statements 113 09 NOTES 9.1 Cross-reference tables 260 4.2 Outlook and Post-balance Sheet Events 116 9.2 Glossaries 265 4.3 Balance sheet 117 4.4 Income statement 119 4.5 Statement of comprehensive income 120 DECLARATION BY THE PERSON 4.6 Changes in equity 121 RESPONSIBLE FOR THE 4.7 Statement of cash flows 122 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT (AFR) 269 4.8 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 126 4.9 Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 205 AFR : Annual Financial Report MR : Management Report A TALK WITH Laurent Burelle, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer What’s the greatest challenge of the changes we’re seeing in the automotive industry? Laurent Burelle: Supporting the urban mobility revolution. The automobile needs to play a responsible and highly innovative part in tomorrow’s city. We’re working on this energetically with and for automakers. Jean-Michel Szczerba: There’s a double revolution under way: technological, with major changes in propulsion and the introduction of autonomous cars; and social, with car sharing. Plastic Omnium’s goal is to keep up a steady pace of innovation and move forward more rapidly. The connected electric car is making headway. How is Plastic Omnium positioned? L. B.: Our products already incorporate an impressive number of patented innovations designed to meet environmental goals and we’re backing hydrogen for the electric car of the future. In connectivity, one of Plastic Omnium’s key capabilities is integrating sensors and radar devices in bumpers. Our engineers were already experts in aerodynamics and materials, and they’re now also experts in smart on-board systems. The scope of our work is expanding and our added value is increasing. J.-M. S.: The move from safety to smart systems is a natural step for Plastic Omnium. New energy, on the other hand, is a new field for us and we’re taking a very proactive approach. We’re setting up a New Energies division, which will have 130 engineers to start with, and “We have we’re building a dedicated research center in Brussels. what it takes We’re also working within the Hydrogen Council and strategically acquiring companies that manufacture new to succeed in the energy solutions, to be ready in time. unprecedented revolution shaping up in the automotive sector.” 4 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT All this calls for substantial capital investment. How do you combine growth and independence? J.-M. S.: Our 2017-2021 investment program does indeed come in at around €2.5 billion. We’re just as determined to stay independent as we are to grow. To achieve our growth target, we focus on quality, industrial excellence, management discipline and “We build on improving profitability year by year. our identity as L. B.: The projected divestment of the Environment a growth-oriented, Division is part of this strategy. The automotive market innovative has driven the Group’s growth over the past ten years, so the Environment Division’s share of our revenue declined. company that The projected divestment is designed to secure the division’s long-term future and reinforce our chances of has a strong set success in the unprecedented revolution shaping up in of values.” the automotive sector. We have what it takes to do this. How do you manage to attract top engineering talent? J.-M. S.: Working with the world’s largest automakers to reinvent the automobile is very exciting! We build on our identity as a growth-oriented, innovative company that has a strong set of values. L. B.: Reinventing the automobile is as good as reinventing the world. We’re living at a time of wholesale transformation that puts a premium on imagination and enterprise. And those are the two things that have driven the Plastic Omnium story for the past seven decades. and Jean-Michel Szczerba, Co-Chief Executive Officer PLASTIC OMNIUM 5 01 PRESENTATION OF PLASTIC OMNIUM AND ITS BUSINESSES 1.1 2017 KEY FIGURES 7 1.6 RESEARCH AND D  EVELOPMENT (R&D) 16 1.2 HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT O  F THE GROUP 9 1.7 RISK FACTORS A ND CONTROL (AFR) 19 1.7.1 Principal Risk factors 19 1.3 ORGANIZATION C  HART 12 1.7.2 Procedures of internal control 1.4 SIGNIFICANT E VENTS 13 and risk management 23 1.7.3. Financial risks related to the effects 1.5 BUSINESS AND S  TRATEGY 14 of climate change 27 2017 Key figures 1.1 2017 Key figures 54% Europe/Africa 01 PRESENTATION OF PLASTIC OMNIUM 26% AND ITS BUSINESSES Change in economic revenue Breakdown North In millions of euros of economic revenue America by region 17% Asia 8,001 3% South 6,936 America 2016 2017 Change in consolidated Operating margin Net Profit – Group share revenue In millions of euros In millions of euros In millions of euros and as % of consolidated revenue and as % of consolidated revenue 641 6,768 425 558 5,857 312 9,5% 9,5% 5,3% 6,3% 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Economic revenue corresponds to consolidated revenue, plus revenue from the Group’s joint ventures, in proportion to their percentage of ownership: BPO, HBPO and YFPO for Plastic Omnium Automotive. The figure reflects the operational and managerial realities of the Group. Consolidated revenue, in accordance with IFRS 10, 11 and 12, does not include the Company’s share of the revenue of joint ventures, which are accounted for by the equity method. Operating margin includes the share of profit of entities accounted for by the equity method and the amortization of acquired intangible assets before other operating income and expenses. PLASTIC OMNIUM 7 2017 KEY figures Capital expenditures and projects Net debt / shareholders’ equity In millions of euros and as % of consolidated revenue In millions of euros and Net debt/shareholders’ Equity as % 457 1,761 402 1,516 800 563 53% 32% 6,9% 6,8% 2016 2017 2016 2017 Net debt Shareholders’ equity Free cash flow NET DEBT / EBITDA In millions of euros and as % of consolidated revenue In millions of euros and Net debt / EBITDA ratio 933 241 800 810 186 563 4,1% 2,7% 1.0 0.6 2016 2017 2016 2017 Net debt EBITDA Capital expenditure and projects refer to acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net of disposals, the net change in advances to suppliers of fixed assets and investment subsidies received (see Cash Flow Statement and Note I.5 to the consolidated financial statements, line E: “Net cash used in operations”). Free cash flow corresponds to the operating cash flow, less tangible and intangible investments net of disposals, taxes and net interest paid +/– variation of the working capital requirements (cash surplus from operations). Net debt includes all long-term borrowings, short-term loans and bank overdrafts less loans, marketable debt instruments and other non-current financial assets, and cash and cash equivalents. Shareholders’ equity includes operating grants. EBITDA corresponds to the operating margin plus the share of profit of associates and joint ventures before depreciation and operating provisions. Gearing is the ratio of net debt to equity. 8 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 1.2 History and UMDP’s waste bucket business was the starting point for the development of a range of products and services by Pierre 01 development o  f the Group PRESENTATION Burelle, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Plasticomnium, OF PLASTIC OMNIUM including waste container rental, maintenance and cleaning. This AND ITS BUSINESSES is now the backbone of the Environment Division. T h e C o m p a n y ’s o r i g i n s s t r e t c h b a c k t o 1 9 4 6 , w h e n Over the following two years, Pierre Burelle simplified the two Plasticomnium set up business at the rue du Louvre in Paris. The companies’ product ranges by selling off certain businesses. Company then had three employees and Pierre Burelle was the UMDP’s La Mouche plant in Lyon became the waste container Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Its first products were pipe management center for the Lyon area and the starting point of fittings, dehydrator spark plugs, and other plastic automotive the current Environment Division. parts (Jaeger). 1966 At this time, injection molding machines were characterized by The current corporate identity was adopted, with a new logo the weight of the part produced. In 1949, the Company had five designed by Raymond Loewy and with Plastic Omnium written as molds, with the largest able to produce a 250-gram part. two words. 1952 1968 The Company moved to rue du Parc in Levallois-Perret. Plastic Omnium acquired Gachot’s fluorinated resin division and 1954 set up a plant in Langres dedicated to this activity, which became the 3P Division. The Company borrowed to buy a mold capable of making 1,200-gram parts, a serious challenge for a company of this size. The 1970s 1963 The 1970s saw the start of the Company’s international expansion with the creation of one subsidiary an year, including Spain in New premises in Langres (Haute-Marne) were built to keep pace 1970, Germany in 1972, the United Kingdom in 1973, and the with the significant growth in business. United States in 1977. 1965 1974 Plasticomnium took control of UMDP (Union Mutuelle Des A Group holding company was set up, Compagnie Plastic Propriétaires Lyonnais), a company listed on the Lyon stock Omnium. exchange. The two companies merged and Pierre Burelle became Chairman and Chief E xecutive Of ficer of the new entity. In 1974, the Group acquired a 2,500 metric ton injection-molding Plasticomnium’s stock market listing dates back to this merger. machine, followed in 1982 by a 10, 000 metric ton machine, both records in terms of power for the time. UMDP was a septic tank cleaning and sanitation company. PierreÉmile Burelle, a civil engineer and graduate of the École des 1983 Mines in Paris, took over its management in 1877 at the age of New headquarters were built on Avenue Jules Carteret in Lyon, 29. and the Berges du Rhône development was built in Lyon on the Under his leadership, the Company installed an extensive pipeline site of the former La Mouche plant. network to carry sludge from the La Mouche plant in Lyon to local farmland and market gardens. This 55 km network led to the 1984 creation of spread cropping. • The “Ludoparc” playground and public garden equipment After 1914, with the development of sewer systems, Pierre-Émile concept was launched. Burelle refocused the business on waste bucket rentals. He died • Metroplast, a rotational casting subsidiary, was set up in in 1926. Two of his sons were involved in the management of Chalon-sur-Saône. UMDP: Jean Burelle, who died in the war in 1915, and Charles, who headed the Company until 1965. In that year, Pierre Burelle, 1986 the son of Jean Burelle and the grandson of Pierre-Émile Burelle, Plastic Omnium’s acquisition of the L andr y group and acquired a majority stake in UMDP on the Lyon stock exchange. Techniplaste Industrie led to the creation of the “Fuel Systems” Activity. 1987 Jean Burelle became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Compagnie Plastic Omnium; Pierre Burelle became Honorary Chairman and remained a Director. PLASTIC OMNIUM 9 History and development of the Group In the 1990s, the Group continued to extend its geographic 2007 reach internationally with the creation of new subsidiaries and The Group celebrated its 60 th anniversary with a gathering of with acquisitions: 1,000 people in La Défense (Paris). • Zarn, in the United States, which operated 4 container plants, • Auto exterior joint ventures were launched in China, with was acquired in 1991 and then sold in 2001; Yanfeng Visteon. • Vasam, a fuel tank manufacturer based in Madrid and Vigo, • Majority-owned auto exterior joint venture was launched in was acquired in 1994; India, with Varroc. The Group took full control in 2012. • Reydel, a dashboard and door panel specialist with operations • Also during the year, the Company acquired German-based in France, Spain, Italy and the United Kingdom, was acquired in Sulo, Europe’s second largest waste container group. 1996 and formed the basis of the Plastic Omnium Auto Interior Division that was sold on to Visteon in 1999. • Lastly, 2007 saw the acquisition of Signature, the European leader in highway signage and markings, from Burelle SA, the In the 2000s, the Company continued to grow with a targeted parent company, and the launch of a partnership with Eurovia acquisition and partnership strategy, and established a (Vinci) in the same segment. presence in Asia. It also stepped up its spending on R&D. 2008 2000 The Performance Plastics Products (3P) Division was sold. Saw the creation of Inergy Automotive Systems, a 50/50 joint venture with Solvay that became the world’s largest fuel systems 2010 manufacturer. The Company bought out Solvay’s 50% stake in the Inergy 2001 Automotive Systems joint venture. Laurent Burelle became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Since 2010, the Company has continued to expand in fast Compagnie Plastic Omnium. growing regions, through a combination of organic growth and acquisitions. 2002 2011 • ∑-Sigmatech, the Company’s global R&D center for exterior automotive components, was inaugurated in the Lyon area. The Company acquired Ford’s fuel system production assets in the United States, and the Polish auto exterior plants of its • The 3P Division’s pipe fitting business was sold. competitor Plastal. 2003 2012 • Saw the acquisition of Beauvais Diffusion, a selective waste Saw the creation of 2 majority-owned fuel system joint ventures, collection company in France. one in China with BAIC, and the other in Russia with DSK. 2004 Sale of Signature’s German and French operations to Eurovia, as • The Company acquired waste container specialist Temaco, in well as the unwinding of cross shareholdings. France, from Groupe Sita and sold Plastic Omnium Médical. 2013 • Plastic Omnium and two German automotive equipment manuThe Group added to its presence in high growth regions with the facturers, Hella and Mahle-Behr, set up a joint venture named opening of 5 new plants in China, bringing the number of indusHBPO, the global leader in complex front-end automotive trial facilities in this country to 19. module design, development, assembly and logistics. 2014 2006 Continued international development with nine new plants The Company acquired control of Inoplast, a manufacturer of entering production in North America (United States, Mexico), components and products made with composite materials and China and Russia to fulfill all the orders in the Automotive thermoplastics for cars and trucks. Division. R&D activities were strengthened with the opening of α-Alphatech, Auto Inergy Division’s global R&D center in Compiègne, France. Sale of its highway signage business in Switzerland, Signal AG, by the Environment Division. 2015 The Group continued its development strategy in dynamic markets by opening nine plants in China, the United States, Germany, South Korea and Russia. 10 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT In November, the Group opened a development center for its automotive business in Tokyo (Japan). 2017 On June 6, 2017, Plastic Omnium celebrated its 70th anniversary 01 PRESENTATION In December, the Group announced that it had signed a at the Grand Palais, in Paris, with more than 1,500 guests. OF PLASTIC OMNIUM AND ITS BUSINESSES Memorandum of Understanding with the Faurecia Group to Committed to assisting carmakers worldwide and to developing acquire its Exterior Systems business (bumpers and front-end its own industrial capacity in regions where automotive producmodules) for an enterprise value of €665 million. tion is on the rise, Plastic Omnium continued to expand its pres2016 ence in these regions by opening 2 new plants during the year (1 in Mexico and 1 in China) and acquiring one existing plant in The Group continued its development in growth markets, opening China. 4 plants during the year (2 in Mexico, 1 in the United Kingdom, and 1 in China). In September, Plastic Omnium announced that it planned to dispose of its Environment Division in order to concentrate excluIn July, the Group finalized the acquisition of Faurecia’s Exterior sively on the worldwide development of its automotive business. Systems business subject to selling seven Faurecia plants as required by the European Competition Authorities. At end 2017 In December, the Group announced the receipt of a firm offer The Group and its joint ventures employed nearly 33,000 people from Flex|N|Gate, an American group, for the 7 plants in question in 127 plants and 24 R&D centers in 31 countries worldwide. (4 in France, 1 in Spain and 2 in Germany) on the basis of an enterprise value of €200 million. PLASTIC OMNIUM 11 Organization chart 1.3 Organization chart SIMPLIFIED ORGANIZATION CHART (DIRECTLY HELD CAPITAL) BURELLE SA 57.57%* COMPAGNIE PLASTIC OMNIUM 100%** 100%** 100%** 100%** 100%** 100%** 100%** Plastic OmniumAuto Compañia Plastic Omnium Plastic Omnium Plastic Omnium Plastic Omnium Plastic OmniumAuto Inergy  Holding Inc Exteriors SA Plastic Omnium GmbH Environment BV SAS (Shanghai) Co Ltd United States France Spain Germany Nederlands France China N ENVIRONMENT N AUTOMOTIVE * 71.91% VOTING RIGHTS. ** THE % VOTING RIGHTS IS EQUAL TO THE % HOLDING. Compagnie Plastic Omnium has two core businesses, Automotive €740 million in 2017 (Plastic Omnium’s share), through its and Environment. network of 26 assembly plants in 11 countries. The Automotive Division manufactures and sells automotive body YFPO is a joint venture 49.95% owned by Compagnie Plastic components and modules, and automotive fuel systems through Omnium and is China’s leading manufacturer of auto exterior its worldwide network of plants. Its customers are exclusively components. Its 2017, economic revenue stood at €458 million carmakers. (Plastic Omnium’s share). YFPO employs some 4,200 people in its development center and 19 plants in China. The Environment Division manufactures and sells a complete range of products and services in the waste containerization and BPO: joint-venture 50%-owned by Compagnie Plastic Omnium, the urban design segments. Its main clients are either local authoricompany is the economic leading Turkish manufacturer of exterior ties or waste collection companies. On September 20, 2017, body parts. Its 2017 economic revenue stood at €36 million Plastic Omnium announced that it planned to dispose of its (Plastic Omnium’s share). Environment Division in order to concentrate exclusively on the worldwide development of its automotive business. The Plastic Omnium Group is organized around the holding companies or holding countries indicated in the organization chart above, which own shares of the local operating subsidiaries. The activity of these local operating entities primarily depends on their local market; therefore, they have the assets and liabilities necessary for their activity but they do not have strategic assets. All Group entities are directly or indirectly wholly owned and controlled by Compagnie Plastic Omnium, with the exception of the following entities which are owned jointly with partners. HBPO is a joint-venture owned in equal proportions by Compagnie Plastic Omnium, Hella and Mahle-Behr. The world leader in front-end modules, HBPO generated economic revenues of 12 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 1.4 Significant events PLANNED DISPOSAL OF THE ENVIRONMENT DIVISION 01 PRESENTATION OF PLASTIC OMNIUM AND ITS BUSINESSES On September 20, 2017, Plastic Omnium announced that it RECORD FINANCIAL RESULTS planned to dispose of its Environment Division in order to concentrate exclusively on the worldwide development of its 2017 was a record year. All of the Group’s financial aggregates automotive business. posted strong growth to reach historic highs. Historic business of the Plastic Omnium Group, the Environment Division had revenues in 2017 of €335 million or 4% of Plastic Omnium’s economic revenues. Profitable and cash-generating, it CONSOLIDATION OF THE AUTOMOTIVE is the European leader in waste containerization, employing EXTERIORS SYSTEMS BUSINESS ACQUIRED 1,800 people in 12 countries. IN JULY 2016 This project reflects Plastic Omnium’s decision to concentrate all of its human and financial resources on its automotive business. On July 29, 2016 Plastic Omnium acquired the Exterior Systems A world leader in exterior components and modules, fuel systems, business of the Faurecia Group. Consolidation of this business, and pollution-reduction systems, the Group is pursuing its which represents a billion euros in revenue and 5,000 people, strategy of profitable growth in sustainable mobility. has been completed. The organizations have been completely merged. 3 plants were closed: 2 front-end module assembly plants in the United States in late 2016 and 1 exterior parts production plant in Brazil in February 2017. Industrial rationalizaASSET DISPOSALS tion also lay behind the closing of 2 paint lines in 2 plants in Germany in 2017. Nearly 800 people in total left the Group’s On March 31, 2017 in accordance with the decision of the employment. European Commission, the Group finalized the sale to the American group Flex|N|Gate of the French exterior systems operations and the German front-end module operations acquired in 2016, at an enterprise value of €200 million. TWO NEW PLANTS COMMISSIONED AND ONE ACQUIRED Plastic Omnium also sold, on June 30, 2017, its truck composites business, which had annual revenues of about €200 million in Plastic Omnium is committed to supporting carmakers worldwide France, Mexico and China and employed 1,500 people. and to expanding its industrial capacity in high-growth regions for auto production. It continues to strengthen its footprint in these regions. DEVELOPMENT OF OPEN INNOVATION In 2017, Plastic Omnium launched an exterior body parts plant in San Luis Potosi, Mexico, which supplies General Motors and Plastic Omnium has emphasized, and diversified, its innovation Daimler, as well as a fuel-systems plant in Chongqing, China, strategy by bringing out new, disruptive solutions and new busiwhich supplies Hyundai. ness models in order to conform its development to the mobility of the future. YFPO, a joint venture 49.95% owned by Plastic Omnium, acquired an exterior body parts plant with a local partner, and this company Thus the Group committed €20 million as a co-sponsor in a new provides exterior parts to the FAW group. fund, Aster VI, of the venture capital firm Aster Capital. The purpose of this fund is to invest in Europe, North America, Israel In total, the Group has an industrial footprint of 127 factories and Asia in young innovative companies in the areas of new worldwide. energy, connected mobility, innovative materials and digital In addition, 6 plants are currently under construction: 2 in India, transformation. 1 in Slovakia, 1 in Morocco, and 2 in the United States, including This investment follows on from the €20 million committed in the plant in Greer, South Carolina. This plant is the pilot facility of 2016 to an equity position in ΞPO-CellTech, a company created the industry 4.0, which will position Plastic Omnium on the cutting with the Israeli group Elbit Systems, in the area of fuel cells for edge of new production methods combining robotics, algorithms tourism vehicles. This could amount to €100 million 3 years from and artificial intelligence. These processes will then be rolled out now. in all our plants, significantly improving the Group’s manufacturing efficiency. PLASTIC OMNIUM 13 Business and strategy Plastic Omnium is also going to start construction on a new innoSHARE BUYBACK & CAPITAL – REDUCTION vation and advanced research center in Brussels, Δ-Deltatech, OF COMPAGNIE PLASTIC OMNIUM making an investment of €50 million in new forms of energy, such as hydrogen. Over 200 engineers will start work in this center in In their meeting of July 20, 2017, the Board of Directors voted to early 2019. cancel 1.5 million treasury shares as of August 14, 2017. After Plastic Omnium also announced the launch of a program to this cancellation, the percentage of control of Burelle SA comes expand and digitalize its worldwide R&D center for exterior from 57.01% to 57.57%. components and modules, ∑-Sigmatech, outside Lyon. In 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium bought back a total of Finally, the Group plans to launch its new Asian fuel system 1,580,000 of its own shares (1.05% of its share capital) for a testing and development center in Wuhan, China, – ω-Omegatech –, total of €53,6 million (or an average share price of €33,90). At which will open in 2019. December 31, 2017, it held 2.19% of its own shares. The Group is also pursuing this innovation policy through partnerships with leading universities, such as MIT in the United States, Technion in Israel, and DTU in Denmark. 1.5 Business and strategy STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS IN HYDROGEN Compagnie Plastic Omnium is a manufacturing and services PROPULSION company that partners carmakers and local authorities through its two businesses – Automotive and Environment. It operates Plastic Omnium announced in December 2017 that it had worldwide on 4 continents (see page 143, comments on the completed 2 strategic acquisitions in the area of hydrogen fuel consolidated financial statements, for the breakdown of revenue cell propulsion: by region). • Swiss Hydrogen, a Swiss company based in Fribourg, specialThe Automotive Division, which accounted for 96% of 2017 izes in the design and production of energy-management and economic revenue, or €7,665.1 million, and 95% of 2017 consolienergy-control solutions in fuel cell systems dedicated to dated revenue, or €6,433.0 million (see page 140 comments on mobility (“balance of plant”); the consolidated financial statements), holds leadership positions in 2 business segments. The key market is global automo• Optimum CPV, a Belgian company based in Zonhoven, specialtive manufacturing, which amounted to 92.1 million vehicles in izes in the design and production composite filament for high 2017, up by 2.2% from 90.2 million vehicles in 2016 (source: IHS pressure hydrogen storage. January 2018). All of these businesses, which are intended to be completed in the The Auto Exterior Division is ranked number one worldwide for coming months and which already include more than 130 engineers, exterior components and modules(1), manufactured mainly from are combined into a new entity and department called “Plastic injected polypropylene and composite materials. The Division Omnium New Energies” within the Storage and Propulsion – designs and produces a wide array of parts and modules Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy Division. including: bumpers and energy absorption systems, front-end modules, and products made from composite materials, especially tailgates. As a reminder, in 2016 the Auto Exterior Division FINANCING ACTIVITIES was strengthened with the acquisition of Faurecia’s Exterior Systems business. The transaction has reinforced the Group’s In June 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium placed a €500 million leadership position in the market for exterior components and bond issue with European investors. This bond issue, without modules. The Auto Exterior Division delivered over 29 million covenants or rating, matures in 7 years and has a 1.25% coupon. painted bumpers in 2017, representing 16% of the global market. This market share was 8% in 2010 and has risen organically due The proceeds from this issue will be used for the Group’s general the Division’s expansion in high growth regions, especially China, financing needs. It strengthens the Group’s financial structure by where it had a 23% share of the market in 2017. Its 2 main extending the average maturity of its debt and diversifying its competitors are Magna, a Canadian group with 7% market share, sources. and Motherson-SMP, an Indian group with 4%; (1) In-house analysis using IHS data. 14 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 35% of global bumper production remains in the hands of carmakers. Active in the decorative component segment, the With 6 plants in Europe (France, Germany and Spain) and 1 R&D center in France, the Environment Division is the world leader in 01 PRESENTATION Auto Exterior Division designs customized, high value-added, waste containerization through its three main lines: OF PLASTIC OMNIUM multi-material solutions that integrate both functionality and AND ITS BUSINESSES • containers, via the production and sale of household waste safety performance, making vehicles lighter and reducing carbon receptacles, containers, composters, and underground and emissions. semi-underground containers; The Auto Inergy Division is the world’s leading manufacturer of • associated services, from maintenance and cleaning to incenblow-molded polyethylene fuel systems(1). Combining integrated tive-based invoicing systems to help local authorities manage safety and emissions control, fuel systems must serve a number waste more cost-effectively and efficiently; of functions: refueling, storage, ventilation, engine supply and fuel level gauge systems. In 2017, the Auto Inergy Division produced • urban equipment, via a wide range of urban equipment for 22 million systems for a 22% share of the global market. Its three communal areas such as waste disposal locations, schoolmain competitors are Kautex, a subsidiary of US-based Textron, yards, play areas, parks and train stations. It also has an YAPP, a Chinese group, and TI Automotive, an English group, in-house styling unit, which has developed “Your City, Your which have market shares of 15%, 11% and 10% respectively. Design”, a unique offer that allows municipalities to customize Metal fuel tanks still account for 20% of the global market, equipment to suit their specific environment. offering substantial growth potential for the expected replaceThe Company has two fundamental strategic objectives: to ment of metal with plastic, particularly for safety and weight increase production capacity in fast-growing markets, and to step reasons. Growth in the Auto Inergy Division’s market share, which up investment in research and development in order to meet went from 16% in 2010 to 22% in 2017, is due partly to increases market demand for lighter vehicles and reduced emissions and in this type of substitution but is also attributable to the heavy waste. capital expenditures made to locate the business in high-growth regions. The Auto Inergy Division also develops and market SCR Both of the Company’s core businesses operate in growing emissions control systems that enable diesel vehicles to elimimarkets. nate up to 95% of their NOx emissions and up to 8% of their In the Automotive business, production by the world’s carmakers carbon emissions. is forecast to increase by an average of about 2% a year in the The two automotive businesses are present across four continext four years (source: IHS January 2018). Global vehicle nents through a network of 121 local plants. Just-in-time delivproduction is set to rise from 92.1 million units in 2017 to eries, the large size of components and – in the case of bumpers 101.2 million in 2021: of these 9.1 million additional units painted the same color as the bodywork – their fragility, means produced, China should account for 4.0 million units, or more production must take place close to the carmakers’ plants. than 40% (and that would represent 30% of global car production However, as they do not use the same production techniques or by 2021). Asia, excluding China, should account for 1.6 million raw materials, each business has to have its own plants. additional units, Europe should account for 1.6 million units, and North America will account for 0.7 million units. Accordingly, the In 2017, Plastic Omnium’s Automotive business and its joint first strand of Plastic Omnium’s development strategy is to ventures employed nearly 31,000 people and supplied nearly all support this growth with targeted investment in new plants. This of the world’s carmakers. German carmakers accounted for 35% is leading to changes in the location of the Company’s main of 2017 Group economic revenue ahead of American (25%), Asian production centers. In February 2018, the Group operated 121 (22%) and French (16%) carmakers. automotive plants with the following breakdown : 18 were in The Environment business, the disposal of which was announced North America , 41 were in Asia, 54 were in Europe and 8 were in on September 20, 2017, accounted for 4% of Group economic South America/Africa. revenue, or €335.5 million in 2017 (see page 140 comments on In the Environment segment, rising living standards in emerging t he consolidated f inan cial st atements), and had over markets will generate an increase in waste produced, and conse1,800 employees. quently a growing demand for waste containerization solutions, a trend that will help to drive expansion in Plastic Omnium’s business. (1) In-house analysis using IHS data. PLASTIC OMNIUM 15 Research and Development (R&D) Alongside volume growth in Plastic Omnium’s global markets, AUTOMOTIVE DIVISION there will be an increase in the demand for more environmentally friendly products, driven by new regulations especially in mature markets in Europe and North America. The second strategic Stricter environmental regulations objective is therefore to increase research and development Building lighter vehicles resources to respond to this demand. To reduce vehicle mass, and thus reduce their CO2 emissions levels, Plastic Omnium is developing and producing body parts and modules out of plastic. Its plastic parts and modules are 1.6 Research and 30% lighter on average than metal and boast excellent mechanDevelopment (R&D) ical performance as well as high crashworthiness. Making lighter parts is especially important for hybrid and electric vehicles in that they offset battery weight while optimizing vehicle range. At the same time, Plastic Omnium’s engineers have offered An integral part of the Group’s long-term strategy, innovation carmakers passive and active aerodynamic optimization solutions, supports the Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s performance and its enabling an additional reduction in carbon emissions. The technolreputation as a leader in automotive equipment and services for ogies developed by Plastic Omnium can generate savings of 10g/ local authorities. km of CO2 or a 10 km extension in range for electric vehicles. The manufacturing requirements of the vehicles of tomorrow will The energy mix revolution be driven by factors such as tighter global regulations, new environmental standards, the emergence of “smart cities” and new Plastic Omnium is the leader in both traditional (gasoline or ways of using data in connected cars (concerns relating to safety, diesel) and hybrid energy storage systems. While the traditional the environment and technology) that will encourage the systems still accounted for most vehicles in 2017, by 2030 hybrid sustained use of light and more complex materials. engines will represent close to 45% of cars on the road (as compared with 6% in 2017). In addition to these two major In 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium allocated €400 million, i.e., ongoing innovation areas, Plastic Omnium is developing alterna6% of its consolidated revenue, to R&D. tive energy solutions such as hydrogen storage and fuel cells. The Group boasts 24 centers across the world (23 for the Automotive business and 1 for the Environment business) with An increasingly connected world 2,000 engineers of 20 different nationalities who are dedicated The market for connected cars continues to grow. According to a to finding innovative solutions that meet the strictest environstudy by PWC(1), this market will quadruple between 2015 and mental standards. As a result of this focus on R&D, the Group 2020, to €115 billion in revenue, primarily benefiting 2 areas: manages a portfolio of more than 3,700 patents, including 141 safety (€47 billion) and driver assistance (€35 billion). Plastic filed in 2017. Omnium’s growth strategy is in line with these changes. Currently, Today innovation is supported by the following structure: Plastic Omnium bumpers include up to 50 high-tech components to augment human senses and make driving simpler and safer. Innovation With its expertise in integration of functions and unique perforis up to mance in the electromagnetic transparency of plastics, Plastic Omnium is contributing to the development of the tomorrow’s all of us smart cars. Its exterior parts will include numerous radar and Overseen by the Scientific Director and supported by the Automotive Strategic other sensors, with ever-improving design and protection. Analysis Committee (CASA) Plastic Omnium’s vision for the 2030 concept car Plastic Omnium is already imagining the car of the day after 4 research In permanent contact with tomorrow. Lighter and smarter, it is being developed by working in centers explore long-term trends 20 development centers synergy between the Group’s various areas of expertise. Plastic Omnium also confirms the commitments it has made to safety and sustainable mobility. Living Body – designed using a biome∑-Sigmatech -Alphatech I-Itech ∆-Deltatech that design complex, customer-focused Exterior products Propulsion Information New energies systems tric approach that imitates nature – gives us a view of a safer, and modules systems Technion (Israel), cleaner, smarter, and higher performing vehicle. 3,500 MIT (United States), DTU (Denmark) engineers WITH TECH START-UPS 6% of revenue invested PO-CellTech WITH 4,000 (fuel cell) Aster fund INFLUENCERS (energy transition and As part of the mobility of the future) Hydrogen Council, Patents portfolio a global organization to promote hydrogen (1) Source: Strategy Study&PWC’s “Connected Body Report 2016”. 16 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Living Body communicates with its environment thanks to illuminated signs integrated into its structure (signals that respond -innovative grille: Plastic Omnium developed a manufacturing process that integrates modern radar technologies into an 01 PRESENTATION autonomously to the environment: blinking at pedestrians or even innovative grille with 3 functions: a chrome surface that is OF PLASTIC OMNIUM messages to vehicles through the tailgate), while at the same compatible with radar (which was previously impossible), a AND ITS BUSINESSES time protecting the environment: de-icing function that guarantees functioning in all weather, and integrated lighting signature, thanks to flexible optical • A more aerodynamic vehicle: the Company’s expertise in aerofibers; dynamics benefits fuel economy. The materials adapt, depending on the vehicle’s speed, to decrease its wind surface • a lighter, interactive tailgate: made from high-efficiency area through movable front wings and rear spoilers. This innocomposite materials, this next-generation tailgate is about 30% vation will also lead to an improvement in battery cooling and lighter than steel. In addition to being lighter, the Plastic drag coefficient, decreasing fuel needs and increasing vehicle Omnium tailgate integrates numerous aerodynamic and interautonomy; active functions. • Non-polluting waste emissions: the vehicle functions using the The tailgate can display messages in order to communicate combined action of fuel cells and hydrogen. Thus, air penewith its environment. Numerous informational messages may trates into the car, reacts with the hydrogen in the fuel cell to be displayed on a transparent area. This area can also display create electricity, and feeds the vehicle’s electric motor, personalized signs if the driver so chooses. without any polluting emissions: Living Body’s only waste Through the solutions developed by the Company, the tailgate product is water. The vehicle is 100% clean; interacts in three ways: • A less energy-consuming vehicle: the components and struc-facial recognition unlocks the vehicle using special software; ture of the frame and the floor are lighter, to enable the fuel cell and hydrogen tanks to be optimally integrated. The vehicle is -the “touch and open” and “touch and stop” system works lighter, thus consuming less energy and increasing its range. through conductive paint; Plastic Omnium also innovates to create more enjoyment for -detection of obstacles prevents damage when the trunk is drivers by constantly improving vehicle efficiency: opened. • dynamic driving without harming range; The tailgate has improved aerodynamics thanks to an active spoiler and a lateral deflector enabling better passage of air • higher performance driving; along the roof line. The drag coefficient is improved by 3 to 4%, • complete freedom without compromise. The vehicle’s range will for a reduction in carbon emissions of 1 g/km. Furthermore, a be 800 km due to hydrogen propulsion, which requires only 3 mobile diffusor integrated into the rear bumper extends under minutes of charging. the floor, improving the drag coefficient by another 3% and reducing carbon emissions by another 1 g/km. To respond to carmakers needs, Plastic Omnium has developed innovative products: In addition, in a context of increasingly strict environmental standards, the Group is supporting carmakers’ emission-reduc• an ever-smarter bumper with: tion strategies: -radar integration: the smart bumper developed by Plastic • solutions for hybrid engines: Plastic Omnium offers solutions Omnium optimally integrates radar. Radar is an integral part specifically adapted to rechargeable hybrid vehicles. INWIN is a of the bumper and perform at their best thanks to plastic fuel system that resists the increase in gasoline vapor presmaterials that are permeable to magnetic waves; sure when the vehicle is running in electric mode, thanks to its -shock detection and absorption system: thanks to a optimized architecture. TANKTRONIC® offers simplified, innovapatented engineering approach, Plastic Omnium’s bumpers tive architecture, with an innovative E-valve that is guided elecoffer a shock-absorption module that incorporates multiple tronically. This system permits optimal function at a low cost; functions, from the integration of innovative detection • clean diesel with SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction): the systems to improved impact management. It also includes implementation of SCR technology into diesel vehicles results an active aerodynamic system, which reduces carbon emisin efficient removal nitrous oxide (NOx), complying with the sions by 2 g/km. This new module alone replaces seven strictest regulations. This technology consists of spraying separate pieces: it is lighter, contributing to the reduction in AdBlue® into the exhaust pipe. Upon contact with the gases carbon emissions (5 kg lighter, for a reduction of 0.5 g/km in that result from diesel combustion, a chemical reaction breaks carbon emissions); down nitrous oxide emissions into nitrogen and water vapor; PLASTIC OMNIUM 17 Research and Development (R&D) • the water injection system: developed by Plastic Omnium’s acquisitions in 2016 and 2017, annual research and operating teams, this technology can be used in any type of gasoexpenses of approximately €20 million. line-powered vehicle. Initially designed to improve engine Furthermore, Plastic Omnium committed to invest €20 million in performance, water injection significantly reduces fuel 2017 in Aster, a venture capital fund specializing in the energy consumption and, therefore, carbon emissions (by about 15%). transition and future mobility solutions. Finally, Plastic Omnium is designing a system for storing hydrogen under pressure. The gas is stored in Type IV bottles (tanks made of composite materials and plastic) designed to resist strong ENVIRONMENT DIVISION internal force. The bottle is comprised of a 5 mm watertight, thermoplastic liner and a thick carbon fiber structure. It is Research in waste management focuses primarily on materials designed to resist the mechanical stress generated by the tank’s and the optimization of existing products. The Environment internal pressure. Plastic Omnium’s R&D department has been Division is massively increasing the share of recycled polyethconducting research for several years into a technology that can ylene in its worldwide production of containers: which grew from now offer tanks compressed at 700 bars. With 2 tanks holding 20% in 2007 to 70% in 2017. It already offers a line of 100%-recy60 liters each, the vehicle has a range of 800 km. cled wheeled bins made from regenerated materials from a One of the innovations Plastic Omnium is working on is to supply variety of sources (e.g. used bins, manufacturing rejects, polyetha vehicle’s electric engine using a fuel cell, which converts the ylene bottle flakes) as well as a “Green Made” line of HDPE oxygen and hydrogen in the bottles into electrical energy. The manufactured from nonfood grade sugar cane. advantage of this system is that the only waste products are The other strand of the Environment Division’s R&D consists of water and heat. These next-generation fuel cell systems, services, primarily assistance to local authorities to optimize their combined with hydrogen tanks, are much lighter than traditional budgets and improve the effectiveness of their sorting and recybatteries, despite offering the same range (800km) and rapid cling so that ultimately the fraction of non-reusable waste is recharging (3 minutes). Fuel cells, combined with hydrogen tanks, reduced. Plastic Omnium is the only player to offer integrated will enable electrical vehicles to solve their range and charge-time data management services, based on efficient hardware and problems as well as the climate conditions that currently limit software computer systems. These include RFID chips to track their development. equipment, access control and telemetry systems to measure In 2016, together with the Israeli company ELBIT Systems, Plastic container fill levels, and embedded weighing system on collection Omnium formed a fuel cell start-up called ΞPO-Celltech. A joint trucks. The systems collect and send the data securely to the research center opened in Césarée, Israel, in mid-2016. Plastic Plastic Omnium Customer Service Center and local authorities. Omnium brings its automotive know-how in electronic systems They are processed to improve waste container management, and fluids management to the enterprise. Plastic Omnium’s analyze sorting performance or optimize collection routes in real know-how is being combined with improvements already develtime. oped by ELBIT Systems to create a fuel cell containing very few The Innovation and Digital Department set up in 2016 enables precious metals. Plastic Omnium Environment to speed up research in connected Accelerating its innovation strategy, the Group created Plastic objects and user-based applications. Omnium New Energies, a subsidiary of Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy, dedicated to the development of future energies, in particular in the area of hydrogen fuel cell propulsion. In December 2017 the Group completed the acquisition of 2 companies with strong technological content in this area for a total enterprise value of approximately €20 million: • Swiss Hydrogen, a Swiss company based in Fribourg, specializes in the design and production of energy-management and energy-control solutions in fuel cell systems dedicated to mobility (“balance of plant”). • Optimum CPV, a Belgian company based in Zonhoven, specializes in the design and production composite filament for high pressure hydrogen storage. These different actions, combined with joining the steering committee of the “Hydrogen Council”, have positioned Plastic Omnium as a player in electric propulsion. The entity Plastic Omnium New Energies, whose mission will be strengthened in the coming months, already has more than 130 engineers and represents, in addition to the €50 million of 18 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 1.7 Risk factors In particular, Compagnie Plastic Omnium could encounter difficulties integrating the companies acquired, their technologies, 01 and control (AFR) PRESENTATION product ranges and employees. Compagnie Plastic Omnium may OF PLASTIC OMNIUM also be unable to retain or develop strategic clients of the AND ITS BUSINESSES acquired companies. 1.7.1 PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS Risk management Compagnie Plastic Omnium takes great care to put resources in Compagnie Plastic Omnium has reviewed the risks that could place dedicated to integrating acquired companies and sets have a material adverse effect on its business, financial position, detailed objectives for these, broken down into action plans. or results, and considers that there are no significant risks other Particular care is taken to ensure the swift implementation of than those listed below. Plastic Omnium’s systems in acquired entities, in order to effectively manage these action plans and measure the achievement of objectives. Operational Risks Information technology risk Risk related to automotive programs Identification of risk Identification of risk The day-to-day activities of Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s busiEach automotive program has risks which could reduce its profitness lines and support services could be affected by the unavailability from that initially expected. The risk in particular affects ability of critical IT systems, mainly due to system breakdown, programs incorporating innovations, which could necessitate network failure, damage to infrastructure or internal or external higher levels of investment and/or expenses by Compagnie malicious acts. Plastic Omnium than initially forecast, in order to reach the level Risk management of quality required. In addition, each automotive program is The Information Systems Department, with the support of senior subject to risks in terms of manufacturing volumes, which depend management, has placed increased emphasis on systems on a wide range of factors, some of which are regional in nature, standardization and consolidation, and continues to upgrade IT such as economic activity, carmaker production strategy, and network production infrastructures, business applications consumer access to credit and the regulatory environment, but and workstation services. Management pays special attention to also on factors specific to each vehicle, such as the attractivethe incorporation of new technologies and to the availability and ness of its design. integrity of Company data. Risk management The security of technical systems, applications and networks is Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s commitment to diversifying its addressed at the outset of strategic projects and followed up by businesses and increasing the number of automotive programs regular audits and self-assessment programs. represents a key component of its strategic vision that significantly reduces exposure to geographic and other risks. The Automotive Division has more than 78 customer brands in Industrial and Environmental Risks 40 countries, comprising nearly all of the world’s major carmakers and serving different market segments and two distinct product Health, Safety and Environment Risk families. This Division has continued to diversify its exposure to Identification of risks global automotive production markets with the launch of 126 new Like any industrial activity, Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s sites are programs in production in 2017. exposed to risks such as workplace accidents, occupational In terms of commitments, all new projects are subject to a highly illnesses, environmental damage (pollution), non-compliance or detailed approval process. The largest projects must be authorthe tightening of regulatory requirements applicable in the area of ized by Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s senior management. Once a HSE. Such events may generate additional costs or investment project has been accepted, a structured operational and financial expenses for Compagnie Plastic Omnium in order to remedy the monitoring system is set up to track it. situation, comply or in respect of any sanctions. Risk related to acquisitions Risk management With regard to health, safety and the environment, Compagnie Identification of risk Plastic Omnium has introduced a policy that is described in the Compagnie Plastic Omnium periodically carries out external “Sustainable development” section of this document. Rolled out growth operations through acquisitions that may be of a signifiworldwide, this policy is based on a shared vision, a structured cant size across the Group. management system, regular reporting and an ongoing certificaThese acquisitions are decided on the basis of assumptions, tion program. notably, objectives relating to synergies and future results, which It is overseen by Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s Executive may not be achieved in the timescales or to the extent initially Committee, which examines individual subsidiaries’ performance expected. PLASTIC OMNIUM 19 Risk factors and control (AFR) every month, via the specific reporting system set up to help drive In terms of risk management, the Divisions have set up struccontinuous improvement. tured customer-risk monitoring and debt collection processes. The DSO ratio was 59 days in 2017. Receivables over six months A dedicated organization comprised of front-line Health, Safety past due amounted to €18 million net of provisions. Lastly, in all and Environment HSE facilitators is responsible for supporting businesses, review procedures are carried out before the results and coordinating its deployment. This network of experts is led by of bids are issued, in particular to ensure a balanced portfolio of Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s HSE Department, backed by central customer receivables, in line with a target profile defined and HSE managers at the Division level. Final responsibility for continually monitored by Compagnie Plastic Omnium senior managing health, safety and environment risks lies with the management. Division senior management. At December 31, 2017 the risk of non-recovery was low and Ongoing corrective and improvement action plans have been involved only a non-material amount of receivables more than introduced and included in the programs to obtain ISO 14001 twelve months past due (see Note 6.3.1 to the consolidated and OHSAS 18001 certification for industrial facilities. These financial statements page 187). plans foster wider adoption of best practices. They include training on ergonomics, the Man-Machine interface and the tools Supplier risk of the in-house Top Safety program, along with compliance for Identification of risk machinery and equipment. Default by a major supplier, in particular a supplier of specific Compagnie Plastic Omnium also has its own management components for which rapid substitution is difficult, given the system. Promoted by the Executive Committee, it relies on five work and time necessary to accredit a new supplier, could entail a management priorities, or road-maps: leadership, motivation, change in production for Compagnie Plastic Omnium or generate skill, the pursuit of excellence, and working conditions. A specialadditional costs impacting Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s operized Group Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) committee ating margin. comprised of several Executive Committee members is overseeing its implementation. Risk management In 2017, OHSAS 18001 certification was renewed for Compagnie Consequently, all automotive suppliers must be accredited Plastic Omnium’s system for centrally managing the safety of according to meticulously defined operational, financial and people and property. regional criteria. For approved suppliers, these criteria are then regularly monitored by the Purchasing and Quality Assurance Departments, with Credit and/or Counterparty Risk the help of specialized agencies. At risk suppliers are subject to special monitoring and when necessary safety stocks are put in Customer risk place. Identification of risk The Environment Division has more than one supplier for the Compagnie Plastic Omnium cannot rule out the fact that one of most important materials. It also constantly monitors a number of its customers could find itself in financial difficulty that prevents it major suppliers with support from corporate units and, as from respecting certain commitments. needed, from outside agencies. Risk management Lastly, operating units are especially vigilant in this area. They A balanced division of revenues by carmaker has improved in focus on effectively anticipating and managing breakdowns in the recent years. In 2017 the breakdown was as follows (published supply chain that, while infrequent, can ultimately develop rapidly. data): In 2017, Plastic Omnium had no major supplier failures with • German carmakers: 35% of Automotive revenue; significant consequences related to a breakdown in logistics processes. • American carmakers: 25% of Automotive revenue; • Asian carmakers: 22% of Automotive revenue; • French carmakers: 16% of Automotive revenue; • other carmakers: 2% of Automotive revenue. The breakdown of the customer base is shown in Note 3.1.4.3 to the consolidated financial statements (page 144). 20 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Liquidity risk Identification of risk Currency risk Identification of risk 01 PRESENTATION OF PLASTIC OMNIUM Compagnie Plastic Omnium must have access, at all times, to Compagnie Plastic Omnium is exposed to exchange rate fluctuaAND ITS BUSINESSES adequate financial resources not only to finance operations and tions, in particular where its manufacturing sites purchase raw the investments required to support its growth, but also to withmaterials and components or sell their production in currencies stand the effects of any exceptional developments. other than their accounting currency. Risk management Risk management Since 2012, Plastic Omnium has raised funds from the market on Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s business relies primarily on local various occasions with the situation at December 31, 2017 as plants: by producing locally what is sold locally, the Group has follows: little exposure to currency fluctuations, aside from currency translation adjustments for the financial statements. • a EuroPP (private placement) of €250 million in 2012 and maturing in December 2018; Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s policy is to minimize the currency risk on transactions involving a future inflow or outflow of funds. • a public bond offering of €500 million issued in 2013 and Nonetheless, if a transaction does give rise to a material currency maturing in May 2020; risk, it is hedged by a forward currency contract. The subsidiary • a Schuldschein (private placement) of €300 million in 2016, involved places this hedge with the central treasury or, with the and maturing in June 2023; latter’s approval, locally. • a public debt placement of €500 million issued in 2017 and Interest rate risk maturing in June 2024. Identification of risk In addition, Compagnie Plastic Omnium has confirmed unsecured medium-term bank lines of credit that are not subject to any Interest rate risk is due to fluctuations in interest rates, in financial covenants. At December 31, 2017, the average maturity particular those applicable to that part of debt financed at floating of these lines of credit was 4 years. Moreover, Compagnie Plastic rates, and could result in an increase in the cost of finance. Omnium has entered into commercial receivables assignment Risk management agreements with an average term of two years. At December 31, 2017, 93% of the Group’s debt was financed at At December 31, 2017, available medium-term facilities covered fixed rates. Plastic Omnium’s financing needs through 2021. To eliminate or limit the impact on its income statement of a rise Lastly, Compagnie Plastic Omnium has a commercial paper in interest expense from variable-rate instruments, Compagnie program. All of the medium-term and short-term lines of credit are Plastic Omnium used interest rate hedges such as swaps and with leading banking institutions. caps. Note 5.2.8.1 to the consolidated financial statements lists these hedges. The breakdown of financial assets and liabilities is shown in Note 6.4.2 to the consolidated financial statements. Thus at December 31, 2017, unhedged interest rate risk was accordingly not significant (see Note 6.6 to the Consolidated The cash positions of Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its financial statements). Divisions are monitored daily and a report is submitted once a week to Senior management. Raw materials price risk Compagnie Plastic Omnium has performed a specific review of its Identification of risk liquidity risk and considers that it is in a position to meet its Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s operations use large quantities of upcoming debt maturities. plastic, steel, paint and other raw materials which are subject to price changes that could have an impact on its operating margin. Market Risks Risk management To limit the impact of price fluctuations, Plastic Omnium has Disclosures about market risks are also provided in Notes 6.2, negotiated price indexation clauses with most of its automotive 6.5 and 6.6 to the consolidated financial statements. customers or, failing that, regularly renegotiates selling prices. Compagnie Plastic Omnium centrally manages the treasury of its subsidiaries through Plastic Omnium Finance, which manages liquidity, currency and interest rate risks on their behalf. The market risk hedging strategy, which involves entering into onand off-balance sheet commitments, is approved every quarter by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. PLASTIC OMNIUM 21 Risk factors and control (AFR) The Environment Division, as part of its proactive sustainability Division and ISO 9001 for the Environment Division. These policy, manufactures its products using over 80% recycled plastic, organizations and processes have been widely used in industry which by its nature is scarcely affected by price swings. For the for many years, especially in the automotive sector. remainder, the division negotiates annual price contracts with its These risks fall into the area of contractual liability and are suppliers. covered by specific insurance policies. Taking these measures together, Compagnie Plastic Omnium considers that raw material price changes do not have a material Competition risk impact on its operating margin. Identification of risk Non-compliance with competition law regulations by one of its employees (in particular, an agreement with a competitor Legal Risks regarding the fixing of sales prices, sales conditions or the Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s Legal Affairs Department is sharing of markets) could expose Compagnie Plastic Omnium to supported, as needed, by local advisors and a network of correpenalties that could be imposed by the competition authorities. spondents in the main countries. The Department helps operRisk management ating and corporate units, in all their on-going and exceptional Compagnie Plastic Omnium introduced a Code of Conduct in operations, to prevent, anticipate and manage legal risks relating 2010 to ensure compliance with competition law, making sure to the business, as well as being responsible for claims and litigathat all employees who work in sales and purchasing were trained tion. when it was introduced. Compagnie Plastic Omnium has since At the date of this report, there is no dispute or lawsuit and no maintained its training efforts every year, with training sessions governmental, legal or arbitration proceeding (including all organized regularly in various geographical regions where the proceedings of which Compagnie Plastic Omnium is aware, which Group operates. All sales and purchasing employees have been are pending or with which the Group is threatened) that might invited every year since 2013 to participate in these e-learning have, or has had during the past twelve months, a negative sessions concerning the Group’s Code of Conduct. material effect on the financial position or profitability of the Plastic Omnium Group. Other risks Intellectual property risk Identification of risk Tax risk Compagnie Plastic Omnium is mainly exposed to a risk of misapThe complex, international structure of Compagnie Plastic propriation of know-how, as both a victim and an offender, which Omnium means comprehensive monitoring is needed to keep could give rise to disputes. abreast of tax requirements, issues and risks. These risks concern in particular international transactions, in respect of Risk management which the tax administrations increasingly require more informaResearch and Innovation are major priorities for Compagnie tion, to which the Group intends to respond, or concerning knowlPlastic Omnium, in both the Automotive and Environment edge of local constraints, to which the Group must adhere. Divisions. A structured approach of actively monitoring and Consequently, Compagnie Plastic Omnium has put into place a investigating prior claims enables the Company to manage and Tax Department, which works in close collaboration with the protect its intellectual property rights. Extensive policies have Accounting, Legal, and Finance Departments. Comprising three been established in respect of patent filings for the innovations separate units in charge of tax affairs at entity, Division and that result from research and development. Despite the measGroup level, it is supported by a network of tax experts at headures taken, including research into prior claims, Compagnie quarters and in the main countries as well as by corporate and Plastic Omnium cannot rule out the possibility of prior intellectual local advisors. The Department ensures that subsidiaries fulfill property claims and of the risks of litigation that might result. their tax obligations in compliance with local laws and regulations Risks related to the quality of products and services and provides them with the support and expertise they need to sold carry out all recurring and non-recurring operations related to tax issues. Identification of risk Compagnie Plastic Omnium is exposed to the risk of warranty and A regular tax reporting system allows current and deferred taxes liability claims from customers in respect of the products it sells from all of the tax entities controlled by Compagnie Plastic and services it provides. Compagnie Plastic Omnium is also Omnium to be monitored and managed, and helps to ensure that exposed to the risk of third-party product liability claims. the consolidated financial statements are prepared rapidly and to a high standard. A transfer pricing documentation system Risk management ensures that transfer prices within Compagnie Plastic Omnium With regard to product and process quality, the Divisions have are effectively monitored and managed, and contributes to the implemented dedicated organizations and reliable processes quality of fiscal management and reducing potential risks in this whose robustness and effectiveness are systematically tested by field. These two information systems and management processes certification procedures ISO/TS 16949 for the Automotive 22 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT are supplemented by other country-specific tools and provide necessary information to users. cannot provide an absolute assurance that the Company’s objectives will be achieved or that all risks will be eliminated. 01 PRESENTATION This set of means and resources enables the corporate Tax Compagnie Plastic Omnium is actively working to reinforce its OF PLASTIC OMNIUM AND ITS BUSINESSES Affairs Department to provide assurance to senior management internal control and risk management systems as part of a that all tax obligations, issues and risks inherent in the complex continuous improvement process that relies in particular on the international structure of an expanding business group are closely Implementation Guide to the Reference Framework for Risk monitored. Management and Internal Control Systems of the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF). Insurance and Risk Coverage Scope of this report This report describes the internal control system of Compagnie Compagnie Plastic Omnium has put in place a global program of Plastic Omnium, the parent company of the Plastic Omnium Group. insurance benefiting all the subsidiaries in which it has a majority It therefore focuses on the procedures intended to guarantee the interest. This program is coupled with local coverage in all counreliability of the consolidated financial statements and the tries where the Company is located. The program is intended to Company’s control over entities in which it has a majority interest. cover the main risks that can affect its operations, results or assets and includes: Compagnie Plastic Omnium regularly reviews and assesses the operations of significant investments over which it exercises joint • property, casualty and business interruption insurance; control, and uses all of its influence to ensure that these entities • operating and product liability insurance; comply with its internal control requirements. • environmental liability insurance; • as well as insurance against specific risks such as shipping, Summary description of the internal control travel, vehicles, etc. and risk management system The levels of cover and the insured amounts are appropriate for the types of risk insured and take into account conditions in the Organization insurance market. Compagnie Plastic Omnium is built around two Divisions: • Automotive Division (Auto Exterior and Auto Inergy Divisions); • Environment (Environment Division). 1.7.2 PROCEDURES OF INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT Under the super vision and control of Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s senior management, these two autonomous Divisions are each responsible for implementing the means and resources Management System Objectives of the necessary to achieve the financial targets set in their annual Company’s internal control and risk budgets approved by senior management. management system Organization of the internal control and risk management system Definition and objectives of internal control and risk management The internal control and risk management system deployed within the Group is based on the rules and principles of its internal Internal control and risk management are the responsibility of control framework and the implementation of processes aimed at senior management, and require the involvement of all stakecontinuously improving the management of the main risks to holders in the Company, in accordance with the tasks assigned to which it may be exposed. them. Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s internal control and risk management systems are designed to ensure: The organization of the system involves all Company employees. However, its oversight and controls are performed by the following • compliance with applicable laws and regulations; seven key functions: • effective and controlled implementation of guidelines and • the senior management, the Risk Management Department objectives set by senior management, particularly with regard and the Internal Control Committee, which monitor the system; to risk; • the operational management teams of each Division, corporate • the smooth running of Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s internal departments and the Internal Audit Department, which repreprocesses, particularly those relating to the safeguarding of sent three distinct levels of control; the Group’s assets in the broadest sense; • the Board of Directors. • the reliability of financial information; The senior management of Compagnie Plastic Omnium sets the • the commitment of Company employees to shared values and guidelines for organizing and running the internal control and risk a shared vision of the risks they are helping to control. management system. Internal control and risk management systems play a critical role They are assisted in this task by the Executive Committee, which in Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s management. However, they has management and decision-making powers with regard to the PLASTIC OMNIUM 23 Risk factors and control (AFR) Company’s business. It is composed of the Chairman-CEO, Group Internal Control Rules and Procedures: Compagnie Plastic Co-CEO, the Chief Operating Officer, the Deputy CEO and Director Omnium has a set of rules that define the roles and responsibiliof Strategy and Development, Deputy CEO and Director of ties of the senior management, the corporate departments of Finance, General Secretary – Legal Director and Chairman of the Compagnie Plastic Omnium and the operational departments of Internal Control Comittee, Director of Human Resources, Director its Divisions and subsidiaries in the following areas: of Communication, Scientific Director and the Executive Directors • Legal Affairs and Corporate Governance; of various Divisions. It meets once a month to review the Group’s business performance and recent developments, and to discuss • Human Resources; its outlook. It addresses cross-business issues such as sales • Treasury (financing and routine transactions); and marketing, organization, investment, legal and human resources issues, safety and the environment, research and • Sales; development, mergers and acquisitions, and financing. Each • Purchasing (operations and capital expenditure); month, it analyzes the results and balance sheets of all Divisions • Inventory and Supply Chain; and subsidiaries, including trends in respect of capital expenditure and working capital compared with the situation of the prior • Automotive Projects; year and monthly budget projections. It also reviews three-month • Accounting and Taxation; forecasts for the consolidated income statement and balance sheet, and plays a pro-active role in steering the Group’s manage• Production and Quality; ment. It also validates updates of current-year forecasts. Every • Real estate; June, it analyzes the strategic five-year plans for each Division • Information Systems; and the Group. These plans are then used in preparing the budget, which is definitively adopted in December each year. • Health, Safety and Environment. The Internal Control Framework The rules cover routine and non-routine business operations alike. They are a single and comprehensive reference framework The cornerstone of Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s internal control designed to ensure that the internal control procedures implesystem is its Internal Control Framework, which sets out the rules mented by the Group are both consistent and appropriate. In a and principles applicable to the companies it controls. It number of cases, they include procedures that describe their comprises a Code of Conduct, the Group’s Internal Control Rules application. and Procedures and an Accounting and Financial Procedures Handbook. The Accounting and Financial Procedures Handbook: Compagnie Plastic Omnium has an Accounting and Financial Procedures The Code of Conduct: in addition to its economic responsibilities, Handbook prepared in accordance with IFRS standards. These Compagnie Plastic Omnium attaches great importance to human accounting procedures are applicable to all consolidated comparights and rules conducive to sustainable development. nies. Compagnie Plastic Omnium is a signatory of the UN Global Compact, a set of principles that stand alongside the Plastic As part of a process of continuous improvement in terms of Omnium Code of Conduct to exemplify the spirit of responsibility internal control, the Internal Control Framework is subject to that has always encouraged the Group’s commitment. Together, additions, and is updated regularly to reflect established practhese texts highlight the values governing individual and collective tices, as well as changes in organization and the applicable reguconduct that Compagnie Plastic Omnium aims to promote, and lations. which determine the fundamental principles in which the rules and procedures of its internal control system are rooted. In 2010, Compagnie Plastic Omnium adopted a Code of Conduct on practices governed by competition law, which has been circulated throughout the Group as part of a compliance program. The Code of Conduct applies to Compagnie Plastic Omnium and to all the affiliates in which it holds a majority stake. Plastic Omnium does everything in its power to encourage other affiliates to establish rules of conduct consistent with the provisions of the Code. It is the responsibility of senior management, members of the Executive Committee, divisional CEOs and plant managers to ensure that all employees are aware of the contents of the Code, and that they have sufficient resources to comply with its provisions. In return, the Code requires individual employees to behave in a way that demonstrates a personal and ongoing commitment to complying with the prevailing laws and regulations, and with the ethical rules it lays down. 24 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Risk management The main risks to which Compagnie Plastic Omnium is exposed Compagnie Plastic Omnium has a centralized Internal Audit Department that is part of the Corporate Risk Management 01 PRESENTATION Department and reports to the Corporate Secretary. It also OF PLASTIC OMNIUM are described in Chapter 1.7.1, “Principal Risk Factors”. This reports regularly to the Internal Control Committee, which is AND ITS BUSINESSES section also describes the key measures and processes used to responsible for overseeing internal control procedures. It effectively prevent and manage these risks. conducts assessments of the general system, and ensures the The risk management system incorporates, as part of the organiefficiency of its implementation. zational framework presented in this report, a process of mapping The Internal Audit Department conducts audits on a scope and analyzing the main risks facing the Company, the purpose of covering all subsidiaries, whether or not Compagnie Plastic which is to verify the pertinence of approaches implemented at Omnium exercises control. At the conclusion of each audit, it Group level and to take action to strengthen or complement makes recommendations to the audited units, which respond existing approaches. At Group level, this process is led by the with appropriate action plans subject to systematic monitoring by Risk Management Department in conjunction with the operational divisional management teams. The annual internal audit plan is management teams and corporate departments. based on criteria relating to how often audits are performed and The system is overseen by senior management. to each entity’s risk and control environment. Each new entity is audited within one year following its formation or acquisition. For Control activities example, all of the entities acquired in 2016 from Faurecia were Compagnie Plastic Omnium seeks to combine accountability and audited in 2017. None of the audits performed in 2017 revealed independence of judgment at the three levels responsible for any serious weaknesses in the internal control and risk managecontrolling its operations and its risk management system: the ment system. operational management departments, corporate departments The Internal Control Department oversees annual internal control and the Internal Audit Department. self-assessment campaigns, launched in 2006. The questionThe operational management teams implement the structures naire design is based on the Implementation Guide to the AMF and resources necessary for the satisfactory implementation of Framework. It is both an effective assessment tool and a means the rules and principles governing internal control in their respecof raising the awareness of local organizations. tive activities. They are tasked in particular with assessing the Note that the application of international safety, environmental pertinence of remedial measures implemented as a result of and quality assurance standards, in addition to the audit of our assignments undertaken by Internal Audit. They are also responinsurance companies and our customers, gives rise to regular sible for identifying the risks inherent to their own activity and for specialized audits conducted by independent bodies. At taking reasonable steps to control them. December 31, 2017, 90% of the eligible facilities that were at The corporate departments, namely Human Resources and least 50%-owned had earned ISO 14001 certification and 79% Sustainable Development, Corporate Finance and Information were OHSAS 18001-certified. Systems, and Legal Affairs, have the broadest powers in their areas of expertise, and under the supervision of senior manageInformation and communication ment, to establish rules and procedures applying within The internal control rules and procedures are available to Compagnie Plastic Omnium. They are tasked with coordinating employees on the home page of the Group’s intranet portal. and monitoring the activities of their functional networks with a However, the internal control system is deployed largely through view to protecting the interests of the Group and all its stakeformal documents, awareness raising, training programs and holders. reporting processes conducted by the corporate departments. In the particular area of internal control and risk management, These activities, which include the self-assessment referred to they are responsible for analyzing the risks inherent in their activabove, allow local management teams to appreciate senior ities and for defining the appropriate structures and systems to management’s profound commitment to internal control ensure their smooth running. They prepare and update the processes. Internal Control Framework and cross-business approaches to Finally, the relaying of information on the preparation of financial risk management. In doing so, they are required to ensure the and accounting data is subject to specific processes described adequacy of the Internal Control Framework in respect of later in this report. prevailing standards, regulations and laws, and to implement the appropriate means for relaying the information they produce. PLASTIC OMNIUM 25 Risk factors and control (AFR) Oversight The consistency of the Group’s financial statements is guaranteed by the use of the same accounting standards and a single Senior management, assisted by the Risk Management chart of accounts by all Group entities. The standards and chart Department, is responsible for the overall oversight of the of accounts take into account the specific characteristics of the Company’s internal control and risk management processes. subsidiaries’ various businesses. They are laid down by the The Risk Management Department exercises a critical oversight Accounting Standards and Principles Department, which is part of role concerning the internal control system as part of its specific the Accounting and Tax Department and is the sole entity with remit. It reports its analysis and recommendations to senior authority to change them. management, to which it reports directly, as well as the Internal This consistency is further ensured by the coordinated manageControl Committee. It is also responsible for the process of idenment of information systems that contribute to the preparation of tifying business risks undertaken at Group level, and coordinates the financial information of each Group subsidiary: the use of a the preparation of the ensuing risk management plan. single software application guarantees that reporting and The Internal Control Committee coordinates the internal control consolidation processes are standardized and applied consistsystem, and ensures that it runs smoothly. It is chaired by the ently. Moreover, based on a software package recommended by Compagnie Plastic Omnium Corporate Secretary. Its other the Group, the various Divisions have developed integrated members include the Head of Human Resources, Deputy and management systems and rolled them out across almost all of Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Internal Control, the Head of their plants, thereby helping to ensure that the information used Risk Management and Internal Audit, the Internal Audit Manager, in the preparation of financial statements is properly controlled. the Chief Executive Officers and the Chief Financial Officers of the Consolidated financial information is prepared for the following Divisions. It is tasked with ensuring the quality and effectiveness key processes: of the system. It relays the decisions and recommendations of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to whom it reports its • weekly cash reporting; findings. Its composition gives it the authority to coordinate the • monthly reporting; efforts of all actors involved in internal control and risk management in each Division or corporate function. • interim and annual consolidated reporting; Lastly, the Board of Directors reviews all of the major assump• annual budget. tions and strategies laid down for Compagnie Plastic Omnium by These four processes apply to all subsidiaries controlled directly senior management. It reviews the broad outlines of the internal and indirectly by Compagnie Plastic Omnium. control and risk management system and acquires an understanding of the various procedures involved in the preparation Financial reporting and control procedures and processing of overall and financial information. Each subsidiary is responsible for producing its own accounts. First-tier controls and analyses of subsidiaries’ financial statements are performed locally. Second-tier controls are performed Internal control relating to the preparation centrally in each Division. Third-tier controls are performed by the of financial and accounting information Finance Department. Reporting is done on a monthly basis. It is submitted to senior Basis of preparation of the Group’s financial management one week after the close of the monthly accounts, information and is reviewed by the senior management and analyzed by the The Finance Department is responsible for ensuring that the Executive Committee. The reporting package comprises an preparation of the Group’s financial information is consistent. As income statement broken down by function, with an analysis of such, it is tasked with: production costs, overheads, and research and development • laying down financial and accounting standards for the Group, expenditure. It also includes a full cash flow statement, business in accordance with international standards; forecasts for the subsequent three months and a set of environmental and safety indicators. The information is prepared at • determining the policy in respect of the preparation of financial Group, Division and subsidiary level. The reporting provides information; comparisons between the various items – monthly actual, year-to• coordinating information systems used for the preparation of date actual compared with prior-year actual and current-year financial and accounting data; budget, and provides an analysis of material differences. • reviewing subsidiaries’ financial information; The budget process begins in September each year. Budgets are then submitted to senior management in November and validated • preparing financial information for the Group’s consolidated in December, before being presented to Compagnie Plastic financial statements. Omnium’s Board of Directors. The budget package comprises an income statement, cash-flow statement and data concerning return on capital employed for each subsidiary and Division for the year N+1. 26 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT “Revised” forecasts are regularly produced to allow remedial measures to be made with a view to ensuring that initial budget To improve the internal control and risk management system, the Company will continue to apply the procedure for tracking 01 PRESENTATION targets are met. They also allow senior management to report progress on implementing recommendations issued by the OF PLASTIC OMNIUM reliably on changes in the situation. Internal Audit Department. AND ITS BUSINESSES The budget is based on the rolling four-year business plan approved in July of each year by senior management, which includes Income Statement and Balance Sheet projections for 1.7.3. FINANCIAL RISKS RELATED the four years following the year in progress. It also takes into TO THE EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE account the sales, industrial and financial strategies of the Group and the Divisions. For several years, carmakers have been committed to plans Compagnie Plastic Omnium is responsible for managing the aiming at continuously reducing greenhouse gas emissions for medium-term financing requirements of all the subsidiaries new car launches. Compagnie Plastic Omnium anticipated this controlled by the Group, while Plastic Omnium Finance covers development very early and has, for several years, made it a key short-term financing needs. Through Plastic Omnium Finance, the feature of its Research and Development strategy. This strategy Group centralizes its cash management and has set up a daily resulted in multiple innovations and proven know-how (reducing cash-pooling and netting system for all Group subsidiaries in all the weight of the vehicle, improving aerodynamics, fuel systems countries where local rules allow this practice. Through Plastic adapted to the constraints of hybrid vehicles, etc.), which enabled Omnium Finance, the Group has set up a global cash-pooling and Compagnie Plastic Omnium to offer carmakers products and netting system for all Group subsidiaries in all countries where functions that contribute directly to their emission reduction local rules allow this practice. In addition, intragroup receivables targets. These innovative products constituted one of the key and payables are netted monthly. In this way, it manages funding components of Compagnie Plastic Omnium business growth over streams and verifies cash positions on a daily basis. the last few fiscal years and contributed to its financial performances. In this context, Compagnie Plastic Omnium considers In general, subsidiaries cannot negotiate external financing that market developments related to the low-carbon energy arrangements without the prior authorization of the Work planned strategy of the automobile sector do not lead to any major finanin 2016 Group’s Central Treasury. cial risk. On the other hand, following the success achieved over Plastic Omnium Finance is also responsible for controlling all the last few years, Compagnie Plastic Omnium is capable of currency and interest rate hedging transactions. intensifying its innovative efforts in these very areas, which Cash reports are sent to the Senior management on a weekly should continue to constitute one of the key drivers to achieve the basis. They provide an analysis of the cash position of each high growth targets announced for the next few years. Division, and of the Group as a whole, together with comparisons As far as its activities are concerned, as described in chapter 3 with the prior year and the budget for the current year. (Sustainable Development) of this document, as part of its No material incidents or significant changes occurred in 2017 low-carbon emission strategy, Compagnie Plastic Omnium is that could have compromised the effectiveness of the internal going to continue developing its Top Planet program launched in control system described above. 2007, which aims mainly at reducing its energy consumption. Over the next few years, the development of this program should lead to the general implementation of good practices in all its Work planned in 2018 activities and with investments offering quick return on investment based on the energy savings generated. In this respect, As part of a process of continuous improvement of its internal Compagnie Plastic Omnium is not exposed to major financial control system, Compagnie Plastic Omnium plans to upgrade a risks. number of procedures in order to enhance their relevance and Finally, Compagnie Plastic Omnium believes that it is not exposed encourage operational staff to appropriate them. This approach, to major financial risks that would result from the physical impact in which the Risk Management Department and the Internal of climate change on its facilities. Control Department play an important role, covers internal control procedures, accounting and financial, and risk management procedures. The Internal Audit department will conduct 38 audits in 2018 (the same number as in 2017). PLASTIC OMNIUM 27 02 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (AFR) 2.1 REPORT FROM THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS  2.1.3 Equity capital 57 ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29 2.1.4 Information about shareholders 62 2.1.1 Composition and conditions for the preparation and organization of the work of the Board of Directors 29 2.1.2 Compensation of members of the Board of Directors and of the executive directors 47 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance 2.1 Report from the 2.1.1 COMPOSITION AND CONDITIONS FOR THE PREPARATION AND ORGANIZATION Board of Directors on OF THE WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS corporate governance 2.1.1.1 Rules applicable to the governance In accordance with the provisions of articles L. 225-37 et seq. of the Board of Directors of the Code de commerce, this chapter includes information on the composition of the Board of Directors and on the condiComposition of the Board of Directors 02 CORPORATE tions for the preparation and organization of its work, and any Pursuant to article 11 of the Company’s bylaws and article GOVERNANCE restrictions that the Board of Directors may have placed on the L. 225-17 of the Code de commerce, the Board of Directors of powers exercised by Senior management. This report restates Compagnie Plastic Omnium is composed of up to 18 members. the provisions applicable to the determination of compensation and benefits of all kinds granted to executive directors. At December 31, 2017, the Company is governed by a Board of Directors composed of 15 members: the Chairman and CEO, the This report was presented to the Appointments Committee and Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer, the Chief the Compensation Committee for the sections that fall under Operating Officer, 12 directors. their areas of responsibility. Thereafter it was approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting of February 14, 2018. The directors have additional experience (international, financial, industrial, commercial expertise, etc.) with some having former, in-depth knowledge of Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its envir­ onment. Compagnie Plastic Omnium seeks to increase the diversity and international experience of its Board of Directors. The quality and diversity of the personalities making it up guarantees the balance of powers within the Board. The term of office of each director is three years, and is renewable. Directors are appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting for three-year terms expiring at the close of the Shareholders’ Meeting called during the year in which their term expires to approve the accounts for the previous fiscal year. The Board of Directors includes 6 independent Directors (see paragraph “Directors’ independence in office – Conflicts of interest”); the percentage of independent Directors is therefore 40%, in compliance with the recommendations of the AFEPMEDEF Code. The Board of Directors includes 7 women directors out of 15, which is a representation rate of 46.6%, in compliance with article L. 225-18-1 of the Code de commerce which establishes the principle of gender balance within Boards of Directors. Internal Rules The Internal Rules of the Board of Directors, which set out the rights and duties of directors, as well as the way in which the Board of Directors operates, was amended by the Board of Directors on December 15, 2017. They are also published on Plastic Omnium’s website. PLASTIC OMNIUM 29 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Information about the Directors in office Age Primary role Date of 1st End of current appointment term Mr. Laurent Burelle 68 Chairman and CEO 1981 2018 of Compagnie Plastic Omnium Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba 57 Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer 2010 2018 of Compagnie Plastic Omnium Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié 71 Chief Operating Officer of Burelle SA 1987 2018 Mrs. Éliane Lemarié 72 Chairman of the Supervisory Committee of Union 2009 2018 Industrielle Mr. Jean Burelle 79 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Burelle SA 1970 2018 Mrs. Anne Asensio 55 Vice Chairperson Design of Dassault System 2011 2020 Mrs. Félicie Burelle 38 Deputy Chief Executive Officer – 2017 2020 Strategy and Development Director of Compagnie Plastic Omnium Mrs. Anne-Marie Couderc 68 Company Director 2010 2018 Mrs. Amélie Oudéa-Castera 39 Chairman of the Rénovons le sport français association 2014 2019 (Let’s renew French sports) Mrs. Lucie Maurel Aubert 55 Vice Chairperson and Deputy Chief Executive Officer 2015 2018 of Compagnie Financière Martin Maurel Mrs. Cécile Moutet 45 Director of Compagnie Plastic Omnium 2017 Mr. Jérôme Gallot 58 Managing Director of JGC 2006 2018 Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk 74 Founder and Chairman of AutoValue GmbH 2009 2018 Mr. Vincent Labruyère 67 Chairman of Financière du Centre 2002 2020 Mr. Alain Mérieux 79 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Institut Mérieux 1993 2018 30 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Laurent Burelle In 1977, he was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Plastic Omnium SA in Valencia (Spain), going on to become Chairman French and Chief Executive Officer. From 1981 to 1988, he served as Professional address: Head of the Environment-Urban Systems Division, before Plastic Omnium – 1, allée Pierre Burelle becoming Vice Chairman and Chief E xecutive Of ficer of 92300 Levallois-Perret Compagnie Plastic Omnium in 1988. He has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Compagnie Plastic Omnium since Laurent Burelle is a graduate of the Federal Institute of July 2001. Laurent Burelle was appointed Chairman of AFEP in Technology (ETH) in Zurich, and holds a Master of Science Degree in Chemical Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of May 2017. Furthermore, he is director of the Fondation Jacques Chirac. 02 CORPORATE Technology (MIT). Laurent Burelle is a Commandeur de la Légion d’honneur. GOVERNANCE He began his career with the Plastic Omnium Group as a production engineer and assistant to the Director of the Langres plant. French Companies and associations Burelle SA(1)/(2) Chief Operating Officer and Director Sofiparc SAS(2) Chairman and member of the Supervisory Committee Burelle Participations SA(2) Director Plastic Omnium Auto Exteriors SA(2) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy SAS(2) Chairman AFEP (association) Chairman since May 9, 2017 Fondation Jacques Chirac (association) Director European Transalpine liaison committee Lyon-Turin (association) Director International companies Compañia Plastic Omnium SA(2) (Spain) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Plastic Omnium Holding (Shanghai) Co. Ltd(2) (China) Chairman Plastic Omnium Inc.(2) (United States of America) Chairman SOGEC 2 SA(2) (Belgium) Chief Executive Officer Compagnie Financière de la Cascade SRL(2) (Belgium) Managing Director Terms of office ended in 2017 Lyonnaise de Banque Director until May 2017 Labruyère-Eberlé SAS Member of the Supervisory Board until May 2017 Wendel SA(1) Member of the Supervisory Board until May 2017 (1) Listed company. (2) Member of the Compagnie Plastic Omnium Group/Burelle. PLASTIC OMNIUM 31 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Jean-Michel Szczerba Paris as a financial analyst. He joined Plastic Omnium in 1985, where he was successively Financial Controller, Finance French Depar tment Manager, and Chief Financial Officer, before Professional address: becoming Deputy Chief Executive Officer in 2001. He was Plastic Omnium – 1, allée Pierre Burelle appointed Chief Operating Officer of Compagnie Plastic Omnium 92300 Levallois-Perret in 2010, Director in 2012 and co-Chief Executive Officer in 2015. Jean-Michel Szczerba is a Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur and a After graduating from ESSEC business school in 1982, Jean-Michel Chevalier de l’Ordre National du Mérite. Szczerba began his career with Banque Vernes Commerciale de French companies Burelle Participations SA(1) Director Plastic Omnium Finance SNC(1) Managing Director Plastic Omnium Gestion SNC(1) Managing Director Plastic Omnium Environnement Holding SAS(1) Chairman Plastic Omnium Auto Exteriors SA Director Groupe Progrès SA Director International companies Plastic Omnium GmbH(1) (Germany) Managing Director Hella Behr Plastic Omnium GmbH(1) (Germany) Director Yanfeng Plastic Omnium Automotive Exterior Systems Co. Ltd(1) (China) Director Plastic Omnium Holding (Shanghai) Co. Ltd(1) (China) Vice-Chairman Plastic Omnium Inergy (Shanghai) Consulting Co. Ltd(1) (China) Chairman Plastic Omnium Inc.(1) (United States of America) Director Compañia Plastic Omnium(1) (Spain) Director Plastic Omnium Auto Exteriors Sp.Z.O.O(1) (Poland) Managing Director Plastic OmniumAuto Sp.Z.O.O(1) (Poland) Managing Director Plastic Omnium Automotive Ltd(1) (Great Britain) Director DSK Plastic Omnium BV(1) (The Netherlands) Chairman and Director Plastic Omnium Environment BV(1) (The Netherlands) Member of the Supervisory Board B-Plas Plastic Omnium Otomotiv AS(1) (Turkey) Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and Director (1) Member of the Compagnie Plastic Omnium Group/Burelle. 32 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Paul Henry Lemarié After completing a doctorate in physics at CEA, he began his career in the Finance Department of Paribas bank in 1973. He French then joined Sofresid, an engineering group (steel, mining, Professional address: offshore), before moving to Plastic Omnium Group in 1980 as Plastic Omnium – 1, allée Pierre Burelle Head of the 3P (Performance Plastics Products) Division. In 92300 Levallois-Perret 1985, he became Chairman of the Automotive Division. He was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Compagnie Plastic Paul Henry Lemarié holds a doctorate in physics from University Omnium in 1987 and Chief Executive Officer in 1988. Appointed of Paris-Orsay and a post-graduate degree (DEA) in Management and Finance from University of Paris-Dauphine. Chief Executive Officer of Burelle SA in April 1989, he became Chief Operating Officer of Burelle SA and Compagnie Plastic 02 CORPORATE Omnium on May 15, 2001. GOVERNANCE French companies BurelleSA(1)/(2) Chief Operating Officer and Director Burelle Participations SA(2) Chief Operating Officer and Director Sofiparc SAS(2) Member of the Supervisory Committee International companies Compañia Plastic Omnium(2) (Spain) Director (1) Listed company. (2) Member of the Compagnie Plastic Omnium Group/Burelle. Éliane Lemarié She began her career as a journalist and copy editor in various written press publications as part of the Permanent Assembly of French Chambers of Commerce and Industry (APCCI) from 1969 to Professional address: 1975. Burelle SA – 1, rue François Ier 75008 Paris In 1976, she was hired by SOGEC to set up and develop a Public Relations, Media Relations and Publishing Department, a position she held until 1983. After graduating a master’s degree in English from the University In 1983, she founded and developed IRMA Communication, a of Paris-Sorbonne and graduating from IEP Paris, Éliane Lemarié corporate communications consultancy with a client roster of devoted her professional career to the corporate information and French and international companies listed in Paris, New York and communication sector. Mumbai, serving as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 2010. French companies Burelle SA(1)/(2) Director Sofiparc SAS(2) Member of the Supervisory Committee Union Industrielle Chairman of the Supervisory Committee International companies SOGEC 2 SA(2) (Belgium) Chief Executive Officer (1) Listed company. (2) Member of the Compagnie Plastic Omnium Group/Burelle. PLASTIC OMNIUM 33 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Jean Burelle Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, a position that he occupied until June 30, 2001. Since July 1, 2001, he has been Honorary French Chairman of Compagnie Plastic Omnium and Chairman and Chief Professional address: Executive Officer of Burelle SA. Burelle SA – 1, rue François Ier 75008 Paris Jean Burelle is a Director of Compagnie Plastic Omnium and member of the Supervisory Committee of Banque Hottinguer and Soparexo. He was the Chairman of MEDEF International until Jean Burelle is a graduate of the Federal Institute of Technology May 25, 2016, when he became Honorary Chairman and Director. (ETH) in Zurich, and holds an MBA from Harvard Business School. Jean Burelle is an Officier de la Légion d’honneur and an Officier He started his career in 1966 with L’Oreal and left for Compagnie de l’Ordre National du Mérite. Plastic Omnium in 1967 as Department Head. In 1986, he was appointed Executive Vice-President, and in 1987 became French Companies and associations Burelle SA(1)/(2) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Burelle Participations SA(2) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sofiparc SAS(2) Member of the Supervisory Committee Sycovest 1 Permanent representative of Burelle Participations SA, itself Director Soparexo SCA Member of the Supervisory Committee Banque Hottinguer SA with Management Board Member of the Supervisory Board and Supervisory Board and Compensation Committee MEDEF International Honorary Chairman Institut des Relations Internationales (IFRI) Director Association pour le Rayonnement de l’Opéra National de Paris (AROP) Director International companies Compañia Plastic Omnium SA(2) (Spain) Director SOGEC 2 SA(2) (Belgium) Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (1) Listed company. (2) Member of the Compagnie Plastic Omnium Group/Burelle. Anne Asensio where she was notably charged with the design of the Twingo, Clio and Mégane (Scenic) ranges. She then held several management French positions with General Motors, leading the development of a Professional address: number of concept cars. Dassault Systèmes – 10, rue Marcel Dassault 78140 Vélizy-Villacoublay She joined Dassault Systèmes in November 2007 as VicePresident for Design, in charge of design, innovation and corpor­ate identity. Holder of a master’s degree in transport design from the Center Anne Asensio is a Chevalier de la Légion d’honneur and a for Creative Studies in Detroit, as well as a degree in industrial Chevalier de l’Ordre National du Mérite. design from École Nationale Supérieure des Arts Appliqués in Paris, Anne Asensio began her career with Renault in 1987, French companies Dassault Systèmes(1) Vice-Chairman of Design Experience Agence de la Promotion de la Création Industrielle Director – Member of the Board of Directors Strate College Director University of Nîmes Member of the Strategic Board (2016) Design Île-de-France (Region) Board member International companies Umeä University of Design (Sweden) Member of the Strategic Board World Economic Forum Member of the Global Advisory Council (1) Listed company. 34 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Félicie Burelle & Acquisitions Department of Ernst & Young Transaction Services in 2005. In 2010, she joined Compagnie Plastic Omnium once French again and took over the Department of Strategic Planning and Professional address: Commercial Coordination of the Auto Exterior Division. She also Plastic Omnium – 1, allée Pierre Burelle became member of the Executive Committee of this Division. 92300 Levallois-Perret Félicie Burelle has been a member of the Burelle SA Board of Directors since 2013. Félicie Burelle graduated from the ESCE Business School and 02 In 2015, she became Strategy and Development Director of holds a graduate degree in Business-Finance from South Bank Plastic Omnium and is member of the Executive Committee since University of London and an MBA from the Instituto de Empresa (IE) CORPORATE then. Business School of Madrid. GOVERNANCE Since January 1, 2018, Félicie Burelle is Deputy Chief Executive After beginning her career in Compagnie Plastic Omnium in 2001 Officer of Compagnie Plastic Omnium. as Accounting Manager of a subsidiary of the Auto Exterior Division in Spain (Madrid), Félicie Burelle moved on to the Merger French companies Burelle SA(1)/(2) Director CIC Lyonnaise de Banque Director International companies Compañia Plastic Omnium(2) (Spain) Director (1) Listed company. (2) Member of the Compagnie Plastic Omnium Group/Burelle. Anne-Marie Couderc Employment in 1995, then Minister attached to the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs with responsibility for Employment until French 1997. Address: 88, boulevard Arago At the end of 1997, Anne-Marie Couderc was appointed Chief 75014 Paris Executive Officer and member of the Editorial Committee of Hachette Filipacchi Medias, and director of several publications. She became Corporate Secretary of Lagardère Active in 2007, After beginning her professional career in 1973 as an attorney in before joining Presst alis as Chief E xecutive O f f icer in Paris, Anne-Marie Couderc joined the Hachette Group in 1982 as August 2010, and subsequently was Chairman of the Board of Deputy Corporate Secretary. She became the Group’s Deputy Directors until June 2017. Chief Executive Officer in 1993. Anne-Marie Couderc is an Officier de la Légion d’honneur and an A Paris city councillor, then Deputy Mayor and member of Officier de l’Ordre national du mérite. Parliament for Paris, she was appointed Secretary of State for French companies Transdev Director and Chairperson of the Audit Committee Ramsay – Générale de Santé Director and Chairman of the Compensation Committee and Member of the Audit Committee Air France KLM(1) Director – Chairperson of the Appointments Committee and Member of the Audit Committee AYMING Member of the Supervisory Committee Veolia Environnement Foundation Director Elle Foundation Director Terms of office ended in 2017 Presstalis SAS Chairman of the Board of Directors (1) Listed company. PLASTIC OMNIUM 35 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Amélie Oudéa-Castera In 2008, Amélie Oudéa-Castera joined the AXA Group, where she performed cross-cutting assignments for the Group CFO. In 2010, French she was appointed Director of Strategic Planning. In 2011, she Professional address: was named Director of Marketing, Brand and Services at AXA 140, rue de Grenelle France and in 2012 her scope of responsibility was extended to 75007 Paris digital business. In 2015, Amélie Oudéa-Castera was appointed Deputy CEO of AXA Particuliers/Professionnels, the retail entity of After a career as a professional tennis player, Amélie OudéaAXA France, while retaining the responsibility of digital business, Castera opted for academia rather than high-level sport. A gradu­ate brand and partnerships of AXA France. In July 2016, she was of IEP Paris and ESSEC Business School while at the same time appointed Director of Marketing and Digital for the entire AXA obtaining a master’s degree in Law, she won a place at ENA, Group. graduating in April 2004 and taking up a position as Public Audit Since January 2018, Amélie Oudéa-Castera has been Chairman or with the French Court of Auditors (Cour des Comptes), acting as of the Rénovons le sport français (Let’s renovate French Sport) Legal Counselor and Rapporteur of the public report on the situaAssociation. tion and outlook of the public finances. French companies and associations – Jurisdiction Rénovons le sport français association (Let’s renew French sports) Chairman Court of Auditors Legal Counselor Terms of office and positions ended in 2017 AXA Strategic Ventures Member of the Executive Committee AXA Group Director of Marketing and Digital Kamet Member of the Supervisory Board French Tennis Federation Member of the Executive Committee (1) Listed company. Lucie Maurel Aubert She was appointed as the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Compagnie Financière Martin Maurel in 2007, and then as the French Vice Chairman and Deputy CEO in 2011. Moreover, she is CEO of Professional address: the Banque Martin Maurel. Rothschild Martin Maurel – 29, avenue de Messine 75008 Paris Lucie Maurel Aubert is a Chevalier de la Légion d’honneur. After starting her professional career in 1985 as a business attorney in the law firm Gide Loyrette Nouel, Lucie Maurel Aubert joined, in 2002, the family bank Martin Maurel in which she has been a Director since 1999. French companies Rothschild Martin Maurel Associés Vice-Chairperson STEF Director Grand Palais endowment fund Director Rothschild & Co. Member of the Supervisory Board French Bankers’ Association Vice-Chairperson Deposit Guarantee Fund Member of the Supervisory Board Terms of office ended in 2017 Compagnie Financière Martin Maurel Vice-Chairperson and Deputy Chief Executive Officer Banque Martin Maurel Chief Executive Officer Saint Joseph Hospital Foundation Director Théâtre du Châtelet Director 36 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Cécile Moutet She started her career as a communication consultant in the IRMA Communication agency, where she assumed the responsiFrench bility of the Client Division, designed press relations campaigns of Professional address: various groups and organized public relations events. Plastic Omnium – 1, allée Pierre Burelle 92300 Levallois-Perret Between 2006 and 2008, Cécile Moutet was self-employed in Spain as a communication consultant. Cécile Moutet has a Specialized Masters degree in Market In 2009 and 2010, Cécile Moutet worked at IRMA Communication Research and Marketing Management from NEOMA Business School (former ESC Rouen) and the Institut européen des affaires. (which became Cap & Cime PR in 2010) and coordinated various consulting assignments. 02 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Jérôme Gallot He then joined the Executive Committee of Caisse des Dépôts, where he was responsible for Pension and Employee Benefit French Financing and International Operations, before becoming Professional address: Executive Chairman of CDC Entreprises, CDC’s private equity 46, rue du Ranelagh arm. When France created a Strategic Investment Fund, he was 75016 Paris appointed to its Executive Committee. In February 2011, Jérôme Gallot was appointed Chief Executive Jérôme Gallot graduated from IEP Paris and ENA and was first Officer of Veolia Transdev and acted as Consultant to the appointed at the French Court of Auditors (Cour des Comptes) in Chairman from January 2013 to February 2014. He is also a 1985, then with the Ministry of Finance, where he was the Director of NRJ Group. Managing Director of the Competition, Consumer Affairs and AntiJérôme Gallot is a Chevalier de la Légion d’honneur. Fraud Division (1997-2003). French companies JGC Managing Director SP 3H Director Acerde SAS Member of the Supervisory Board NRJ Group Director Geocorail Director Holding Incubative chimie verte Director Terms of office ended in 2017 Nexans SA(1) Director OHT Director (1) Listed company. PLASTIC OMNIUM 37 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk Communications Director, before becoming Chairman of the Brazilian subsidiary. German Professional address: In 1992, he was appointed to the Board of Management of the AutoValue GmbH – Savignystrasse 34 Daimler-Benz Group, Global Vice-President of the Commercial 60325 Frankfurt-am-Main Vehicles Division. In 1997, he was appointed Chairman of the Federation of German Automotive Industry (VDA) and in 2007 created AutoValue GmbH, an automotive consultancy that he has Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk holds a doctorate in economics from headed since that date. the University of Hamburg, and a degree from Stanford University in Califor nia. He began his c areer at DaimlerBenz as German companies Plastic Omnium GmbH(2) Member of the Advisory Board Serafin Group, Munich Member of the Advisory Board AutoValue GmbH Managing Partner Schaeffler GmbH Director Jost(1) Weske AG Director, Deputy President Facton GmbH Chairman of the Board of Directors Woco Group Chairman of the Board Schlemmer Group Chairman of the Board Terms of office ended in 2017 Hay Group Chairman of the Board of Directors (1) Listed company. (2) Member of the Compagnie Plastic Omnium Group. Vincent Labruyère In 1989, he founded the SPEOS Group, specialized in desktop publishing and electronic archiving of management documents French and the manufacture of means of payment, which he sold to the Professional address: Belgian Post Office in 2001. Groupe Labruyère-Eberlé 70, avenue Édouard Herriot – 71009 Mâcon He then joined Labruyère-Eberlé as Chief Executive Officer and then Chairman of the Management Board. Labruyère-Eberlé is a family-owned company operating vineyards in France and the A graduate of the Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) in Zurich, United States, which also operates supermarkets and invests Vincent Labruyère began his career in 1976 at Établissements growth capital in France and abroad. Bergeaud Mâcon, a subsidiary of Rexnord Inc. USA, manufacturer Vincent Labruyère is a Director of Mathon Développement and of materials preparation equipment. Imprimerie Perroux. In 1981, he became head of Imprimerie Perroux, a printer of checks and bank forms, which he diversified in 1985 by creating DCP Technologies, a subsidiary specializing in credit card manufacture and encoding. French companies Société Financière du Centre SAS Chairman Labruyère-Eberlé SAS Chairman Société Commerciale de Bioux SAS Member of the Management Board Perroux et fils Director SNPI SCA Member of the Supervisory Board as permanent representative Pige SA Permanent representative of Labruyère-Eberlé SAS, Director SC Domaine Jacques Prieur Managing Director Terms of office ended in 2017 Martin Maurel Director Slota SA Director 38 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Dr. Alain Mérieux ment, nutrition). Institut Mérieux also includes: ABL, a research company, Mérieux Développement, an investment company French operating in healthcare. Institut Mérieux currently has over Professional address: 15,000 employees in more than 40 countries. Institut Mérieux – 17, rue Bourgelat 69002 Lyon Dr. Alain Mérieux is Chairman of the Fondation Mérieux, an independent family foundation registered as a public charity. He is Honorary Chairman and Director of Fondation Christophe et Dr. Alain Mérieux is Chairman of Institut Mérieux, a family-owned Rodolphe Mérieux, which operates under the aegis of the Institut holding company for three industrial biology companies dedicated to serving public healthcare worldwide: bioMérieux (in vitro diagde France. These two foundations are dedicated to the fight against infectious diseases in developing countries. 02 CORPORATE nostics), Transgène (immunotherapy to treat cancer and infecGOVERNANCE Dr. Alain Mérieux is a Grand Officier de la Légion d’honneur. tious diseases) and Mérieux NutriSciences (food safety, environFrench companies and foundations Institut Mérieux Chairman and CEO Fondation Mérieux Chairman and Director Fondation Christophe et Rodolphe Mérieux – Institut de France Honorary Chairman and Director Fondation Pierre Fabre Director CIC Lyonnaise de Banque Director Transgène SA Director HCL Foundation Director International companies BioMérieux Italia SpA (Italy) Director Terms of office ended in 2017 BioMérieux SA(1) Director – until May, 2017 Institut Mérieux Chairman and CEO until September 2017 Mérieux NutriSciences (United States of America) Director – until March, 2017 (1) Listed company. Composition of the Board of Directors at December 31, 2017 Age Date of 1st Independence Board of Directors’ Committees appointment Audit Appointments Compensation Mr. Laurent Burelle 68 1981 Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba 57 2012 Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié 70 1987 Mrs. Éliane Lemarié 72 2009 Mr. Jean Burelle 78 1970 Mrs. Anne Asensio 55 2011 (Chairman) Mrs. Anne-Marie Couderc 67 2010 (Chairman) (Chairman) Mrs. Amélie Oudéa-Castera 39 2013 Mrs. Lucie Maurel Aubert 55 2015 Mr. Jérôme Gallot 58 2006 Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk 74 2009 Mr. Vincent Labruyère 67 2002 Mr. Alain Mérieux 79 1993 Mrs. Félicie Burelle 38 2017 Mrs. Cécile Moutet 44 2017 PLASTIC OMNIUM 39 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Change in the composition of the Board of Directors proposed at the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2018 Changes planned in 2018 in the composition of the Board of Directors Departure Appointment Renewals Alain Mérieux Alexandre Mérieux Laurent Burelle Jean-Michel Szczerba Paul Henry Lemarié Burelle SA, represented by Éliane Lemarié Jean Burelle Anne-Marie Couderc Lucie Maurel Aubert Jérôme Gallot Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk Appointment of a new Director: Mr. Alexandre Mérieux Alexandre Mérieux was born in 1974. He graduated from the University of Lyon with a degree in biology and from HEC Montreal Business School. From 1999 to 2004, Alexandre Mérieux was responsible for marketing in the United States and Europe at Silliker Group Corporation, then Director of Marketing and Business Unit Head. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of bioMérieux since December 2017, Alexandre Mérieux is also Vice-Chairman of the Institut Mérieux and Chairman of Mérieux Développement. He also chairs the Board of Directors at Mérieux NutriSciences. He has held various operational positions within bioMérieux. Alexandre Mérieux has been Chief Operating Officer since 2014 after having headed the Industrial Microbiology unit between 2005 and 2011, and the Microbiology unit between 2011 and 2014. Features of the Board of Directors subject to approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2018 of the renewal of the abovementioned terms of office and approval of the proposed appointment Reminder of the Composition Composition Composition Composition AFEP-MEDEF after the 2015 after the 2016 after the 2017 after the 2018 recommendations Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Shareholders’ and the law Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting Percentage independence 33,33% 38.46% 46.15% 40% 46.6% Feminization rate 40% 30.8% 38.5% 46.6% 46.6% Average age of Directors NA 63.3 years 62.8 years 60.6 years 59.3 years Average term of office NA 15.5 years 14.5 years 13.5 years 12.9 years Holdings of Plastic Omnium shares by Directors Although French law does not require Directors to hold a minimum number of shares, the bylaws of Compagnie Plastic Omnium, in compliance with the AFEP-MEDEF code, require each Director to hold a minimum of 900 shares. Number of shares Number of stock-options Mr. Laurent Burelle 847,000 0 Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba 360,000 40,000 Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié 289,900 0 Mrs. Éliane Lemarié 395,996 0 Mr. Jean Burelle 416,378 0 Mrs. Anne Asensio 900 0 Mrs. Anne-Marie Couderc 900 0 Mrs. Amélie Oudéa-Castera 900 0 Mrs. Lucie Maurel Aubert 910 0 Mr. Jérôme Gallot 5,500 0 Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk 900 0 Mr. Vincent Labruyère 10,332 0 Mr. Alain Mérieux 6,318 0 Mrs. Félicie Burelle 900 20,000 Mrs. Cécile Moutet 8,160 0 40 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Procedure for exercise of implementing powers Besides the three executive directors, the following directors of senior management cannot be considered as independent: Éliane Lemarié, Permanent representative of Burelle SA which is itself a director, Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s mode of corporate governance is Jean Burelle, Félicie Burelle and Cécile Moutet, directors having suited to its specific characteristics and is based on an approach family ties with one of the executive directors, Vincent Labruyère of continuous progress. and Alain Merieux, directors of Compagnie Plastic Omnium for The Board of Directors decided to renew the combining of the more than twelve years. duties of Chairman and CEO. At December 31, 2017, six directors are considered as indeThis decision was made following the recommendations by the Appointments Committee, in the best interest of the Company, pendent; this represents a percentage of independent directors of 40%, in compliance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF 02 CORPORATE and with the constant concern that the mode of governance Code recommending a minimum threshold of one-third indeGOVERNANCE chosen optimizes the Group’s economic and financial perforpendent directors for controlled listed companies. mances and creates the most favorable conditions for its longConflicts of interest term development. The quality and sustainability of this performance go hand in hand with the clear vision of the Group’s prosWithin the scope of the law and the rights and duties of directors pects, directly shared with the members of the Board. This vision as defined in the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors of carried by the senior managers of Compagnie Plastic Omnium is Compagnie Plastic Omnium and in accordance with the AFEPbased on their perfect knowledge of the Group’s activities and its MEDEF Code, directors are subject to compliance with the rules local and international environment. The Company has to be applicable to the situation of conflict of interest and stock responsive in a highly competitive international environment. exchange Code of Ethics. Furthermore, this mode of governance is appropriate for the Based on the declarations made by each director, the Board specific characteristics of Compagnie Plastic Omnium and the concluded that there was no conflict of interest. In particular, structure of its shareholding, composed primarily of the family based on the work of the Appointments Committee, the Board group committed to the Group’s long-term development. of Directors found that there was no business relationship of any nature between the Plastic Omnium Group and any of its Powers of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer direct­ors, which could lead to conflicts of interest. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has the broadest Information on corporate officers referred to in annex 1 of powers to act under any circumstances in the name of the European Regulation No. 809/2004 Company, within the limits of the corporate purpose and subject to the powers that the law expressly grants to shareholders’ Existing family ties between corporate Officers (article 14.1 of meetings and to the Board of Directors. The Internal Rules of the the annex) Board of Directors contain limits on his powers to take certain Laurent Burelle, Jean Burelle, Paul Henry Lemarié, Éliane decisions which, on account of their purpose or their amount, are Lemarié, Félicie Burelle et Cécile Moutet are related. subject to the prior approval of the Board of Directors. No conviction or incrimination of corporate Officers (article 14.1 Thus, the Board of Directors must approve material transactions of the annex) likely to affect the Group’s strategy or significantly change its To the Company’s knowledge, none of its directors has been financial structure or scope of activities. convicted of fraud, none has been involved as a corporate officer Directors’ independence – Conflicts of interest in a bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation in the past five years, and none has been the subject of any official charges or public Independence sanctions pronounced by a statutory or regulatory authority. None Article 4.7 of the Internal Rules provides that every year the Board of the members of the Board of Directors has been disqualified by of Directors shall conduct an assessment of the independence of a court from acting as a member of a governing, administrative or each Director with respect to the criteria listed in the AFEP-MEDEF supervisory body of an issuer, or from taking part in the manageCode. The process for assessing the independence of Directors ment or business of an issuer during the past five years. was reviewed by the Appointments Committee at its meeting of Potential conflicts of interests between the duties of the D ecember 7, 2017, then by the B oard of Direc tor s on corporate officers vis-à-vis the Compagnie Plastic Omnium and December 15, 2017. their personal interests and/or other duties (articles 14.2 and The Appointments Committee’s meeting of December 7, 2017 18.3 of the annex) and the Board of Directors’ meeting of December 15, 2017 The method for the organization and working of the Board of reviewed on a case-by-case basis the situation of each of the Directors of the Compagnie Plastic Omnium would enable it, members concerned with regard to the independence criteria where applicable, to prevent any misuse of control by a sharementioned in the AFEP-MEDEF Code. holder, largely due to the presence of six independent directors within the Company. PLASTIC OMNIUM 41 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Information on service contracts with members of the governing In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF bodies (article 16.2 of the annex) Code, during the Board meeting of December 15, 2017, the No corporate officer is bound either to the Company or to any of directors met without the presence of the executive directors and its subsidiaries through service contracts providing benefits of family directors. Thus, they were able to discuss in particular the any kind. evaluation of the Board’s work and the performances of executive directors. Stock exchange Code of Ethics The results of this assessment were presented to the The Board of Directors is aware of the applicable rules on the Appointments Committee on December 7, 2017 and to the Board prevention of insider misconduct, in particular with regard to the on December 15, 2017 and its main findings are as follows: periods during which trading in securities of the Company is • the Board of Directors of Compagnie Plastic Omnium has prohibited. As a result, it has had the opportunity to modify the momentum and operates efficiently; Internal Rules and update the charter for the prevention of insider trading. • the current form of governance is suitable for the Group’s needs. Based on the legal texts, regulations and market recommendations, this code states that inside information must be transThe main areas of satisfaction as regards governance are: mitted and used only for professional purposes. • the moderation and intensity of discussions at the Board level; This charter requires the exercise of great caution, where the • the diversity and complementarity of the Board’s composition person with inside information is carrying out financial transacwith strong commitment from directors; tions or is having financial transactions carried out on Plastic Omnium’s securities in the stock exchange and points out that • the organization of a Board meeting held remotely at an misconduct in this regard is subject to criminal penalties. industrial site. Directors with permanent insider status are particularly requested not to carry out transactions on the securities of Plastic Omnium during certain periods if they have insider information. The 2.1.1.2 Preparation and organization Internal Rules of the Board of Directors state the Board members’ of the work of the Board of Directors obligation to respect the terms of the charter. The powers of the Board of Directors During the meeting of the Board of Directors of December 15, 2017, each director received the schedule of closed periods for The Board of Directors determines the Group’s strategic 2018 outside of which they can trade in Plastic Omnium’s shares. approaches. The directors control its economic and financial management, they review and approve the broad lines of actions Furthermore, the executive corporate officers notify the Autorité considered by the senior management, which implements them. des Marchés Financiers (AMF) of each transaction carried out by them or by their relatives on Plastic Omnium’s securities. The In this connection, the Board constantly seeks a working method Company periodically reminds them of this obligation (see the which, while strictly complying with the law, is conducive to the summary of transactions carried out by executive directors in conditions of good corporate governance. 2017 involving Plastic Omnium securities). The works of the Board of Directors are based on its regularly updated Internal Rules, which aim at completing the legal, regulaAssessment tory and statutory rules and the industry recommendations that In compliance with its Internal Rules, the Board of Directors the Board refers to. carries out an assessment every three years of its composition, its organization and its operation, as well as for each of the Organization and work of the Board of Directors Committees. The findings from this assessment are reviewed by The work of the Board is set out in article 12 of the bylaws, and the Appointments Committee. In addition, once a year, the Board its organization is described in article 1 of the Internal Rules of includes an item on the agenda of one of its meetings to discuss the Board of Directors. the way in which it operates. The Board of Directors meets as often as the interests of the In 2017, an assessment of the way in which the Board of Company require and, pursuant to the Internal Rules, at least four Directors operates was conducted through a detailed questiontimes per year. Board meetings may be held by any means of naire sent to each director. The questions concerned in particular videoconferencing or telecommunication allowing the identificastrategy and performance, knowledge of the Group’s business tion of directors and ensuring their effective participation in lines and the relationships with management, risk management accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in the and control, the way in which the Committees operate. Internal Rules. 42 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT The Chairman of the Board of Directors directs the proceedings During each meeting, it is systematically informed about the and ensures compliance with the provisions of the Internal Rules. Group’s activities and performance, and the revenue by Division He seeks to ensure the quality of discussions and to promote and region. The Board is also informed about market developcollective decision-making. He also ensures that the Board ments, competitors’ performance and the Group’s position in devotes sufficient time to its discussions, giving each item on the terms of corporate and social responsibility. The Board is thereagenda time proportionate to the importance it represents for the fore totally aware of the Group’s economic situation. Informed Company. The directors collectively ensure that there is a correct about the performances and challenges specific to each Division, balance in the speaking time of each one of them. The Chairman the Board has a clear and independent vision of the Group’s ensures that the questions asked in line with the agenda receive appropriate answers. development opportunities for years to come. The Board also focuses on monitoring the acquisitions, their 02 CORPORATE The Secretary of the Board of Directors assumes responsibilities consolidation into the Group, the synergies developed, the impleGOVERNANCE of the secretariat of the Board and draws up the minutes of its mentation of the business plan and the value created for Plastic meetings. Omnium. Informed directors In 2017, the Board monitored the acquisition of the Faurecia Preparing and holding meetings of the Board of Directors and its Exterior Systems and its integration into the Plastic Omnium Auto Committees require ever greater availability and involvement from Exterior Division. each director. In this respect, the directors of the Compagnie The Board also examined the proposed disposal of the Plastic Omnium are regularly informed of all the Company’s activEnvironment Division which would allow the Group to focus on the ities and its performances. development of the Automotive businesses. Each committee prepares the discussions and proceedings of the In order to benefit from the best possible knowledge of Plastic Board in its domain. Omnium’s businesses, the Board of Directors holds regular With their expertise coming from outside and freedom of judgmeetings at the Group’s French or international industrial sites. ment, the directors collectively ensure that the measures The Board of Directors thus met on October 25, 2017 at the Auto adopted contribute to implementing the strategy of the Plastic Inergy Division of Lublin in Poland. On this occasion, the directors Omnium Group. The Board debates issues transparently and in visited the industrial site and met with various operational heads. detail. Board of Directors information as to the Company’s financial position, cash position and commitments 2.1.1.3 Activity of the Board of Directors The Company’s financial position and cash position are analyzed at least twice a year during the Board’s meeting when approving In 2017, the Board of Directors met four times. The average the financial statements and reviewing the half-yearly financial attendance rate at Board meetings was 90%. The attendance statements. If required, they may be reviewed at any other time. rate at meetings of Board of Directors Committees is specified in the following sections. The Company’s commitments are reviewed as part of the annual renewal of the authorizations given to the Chairman and CEO and The work of the Board of Directors focused on strategy the delegations that he grants. In 2017, apart from the regular monitoring of the Group’s activity As evidenced by the preparatory work of its Committees (see (markets, business, geographical development, competition, paragraph 2.1.1.4), the Board also analyzes other aspects of its quantitative and qualitative objectives), the Board of Directors strategy, the Group’s economic and financial management and its continued its work on defining the Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s environmental, corporate and social commitment. Reports on the strategy and monitoring its implementation. work of the Committees are systematically presented by their Continuous dialogue with the General Management has enabled Chairman at Board meetings. the Board to prepare the strategy, especially by analyzing the strategic interest of acquisitions or disposals, their impact on the Company’s financial structure and its long-term development capacities. PLASTIC OMNIUM 43 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance The work of the Board of Directors on corporate 2.1.1.4 Activity of Board of Directors’ governance Committees Amendment of the Internal Rules Discussions and decisions of the Board of Directors are assisted The Board of Directors changed its Internal Rules to ensure their by the work of its Review Committees which report to it after each compliance with legal and regulatory changes and update them to of their meetings. The details of the missions of each Committee reflect the latest changes to the AFEPMEDEF Corporate are given in the Internal Rules of the Board of Directors. Governance Code. The Internal Rules are available on the Group’s website. Board of Directors Committees act strictly within the framework of the missions allocated to them by the Board. They actively Regarding the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 27, 2017 prepare its work, put forward proposals, but have no deciThe Board of Directors reviewed the composition of the Board and sion-making powers on their own. in particular (i) the proposed appointment of Mrs. Félicie Burelle The Board of Directors, on the proposal from the Chairman and and Mrs. Cécile Moutet as Directors (ii) the renewal of the terms CEO, and following the recommendation of the Appointments of office as Director of Mrs. Anne Asensio and Mr. Vincent Committee, appoints members of the Committees as well as Labruyère. their Chairperson, taking into account the skills and experience of It discussed the work of the Board of Directors’ Committees and the Directors. conducted the annual review of related-party agreements. To carry out their work, after having informed the Chairman and Regarding the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2018 CEO and subject to reporting to the Board of Directors, the The Board of Directors analyzed the composition of the Board, in Committees may hear any responsible person within the Group particular the diversification of its composition. This analysis led and/or request technical studies on subjects falling within their to the following proposals: (i) renewal of the directors’ terms of areas of responsibility, at the expense of the Company. In the office of Messrs. Laurent Burelle, Jean-Michel Szczerba and Paul event of recourse by the Committees to the services of external Henry Lemarié, (ii) renewal of their respective terms of office as consultants, the Committees must ensure the objectivity of the Chairman and CEO, co Chief Executive Of ficer and Chief consultant concerned. Operating Officer and Chief Operating Officer, subject to the Three Committees support the Board of Directors: the Audit condition precedent of renewal of their terms of office as director Committee, the Appointments Committee and the Compensation by the Shareholders’ Meeting, (iii) renewal of the directors’ terms Committee. Secretarial services for Committees of the Board are of office of Burelle SA, represented by Mrs. Éliane Lemarié, of provided by the Corporate Secretary. Mrs. Anne-Marie Couderc and Mrs. Lucie Maurel Aubert and Messrs. Jean Burelle, Jérôme Gallot and Prof. Dr Bernd In 2017, Board Committees were again mandated by the Board to Gottschalk and (iv) Appointment of Mr. Alexandre Mérieux as prepare its deliberations. The details of the composition of these Director. Committees, their missions and work in 2017 are given hereafter. It reviewed the reports of the Board of Directors’ Committees and conducted the annual review of related-party agreements. 44 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Audit Committee Composition Composition as at December 31, 2017: • Anne Asensio (Chairman) • Lucie Maurel Aubert • Jérôme Gallot • Vincent Labruyère Since February 24, 2015, the Committee has been chaired by Anne Asensio, an independent director and Member of the Committee since February 26, 2013. The number of independent directors is three out of four and there is no executive director. This composition is in line with 02 the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. The directors who are members of the Audit Committee have the necessary qualification and skills due to their professional experience and knowledge of the Group’s accounting and financial procedures, which are regularly reported CORPORATE to them. GOVERNANCE The Committee had the opportunity to hear the directors in charge of the specific fields, the activity of which it reviews, in particular processes related to risk management and control. The Statutory Auditors attend Committee meetings. The Committee did not seek advice from external experts. In 2017, the Audit Committee met three times, with an attendance rate of 100%. Principal • Monitoring the basis of preparation for the Group’s financial information missions • Monitoring the legal audit of the financial statements and consolidated financial statements by the Statutory Auditors • Reviewing the Statutory Auditors’ audit plans and engagement program and the outcome of their verifications • Monitoring the independence of the Statutory Auditors • Monitoring the efficacy of the Internal Control and Risk systems • Monitoring the Group’s major exposures and sensitivity to risks • Warning the Chairman of the Board in the event of detection of a major risk, which, according to him, has not been treated appropriately • Reviewing the program and objectives of the Internal Audit Department, as well as the methods and procedures of the internal control systems used • Reviewing the scope of consolidation and reasons why some companies would not be included • Review of matters likely to have a significant impact on the Group’s financial situation Principal • Approval of the statutory and consolidated accounts 2016 activities • Approval of half-yearly statutory and consolidated financial statements at June 30, 2017 in 2017 • Review of Statutory Auditors’ reports • Estimates and forecasts at 2017 year-end • Reviewing the audit plan and the outcome of the verification carried out, their recommendations as well as the action taken as part of the statutory audit • Reviewing the audits carried out by the Statutory Auditors with regard to social, environmental and societal information • Monitoring the Internal Audit activity, the Committee having concluded that Internal Audit has carried out a detailed review of the key processes with exacting criteria • Analysis of the risk mapping and the related action plans, in particular the risk relating to information systems, digital and industrial safety • Reviewing risk factors and risk mapping, the Committee having concluded that risk management is controlled and assumed at the operational level and the level of corporate departments • Monitoring the results of programs raising awareness with regard to risk of fraud and prevention of corruption • Review of the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on corporate governance and on internal control and risk management processes • Review of the financial resolutions proposed at the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 27, 2017 • Information on legal risks and potential disputes and major facts that are likely to have a significant impact on the financial situation of Plastic Omnium PLASTIC OMNIUM 45 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Compensation Committee Composition Composition as at December 31, 2017: • Anne-Marie Couderc (Chairman) • Amélie Oudéa-Castera • Bernd Gottschalk Since December 13, 2013, the Committee has been chaired by Anne-Marie Couderc, an independent director and Committee member since December 13, 2013. The number of independent directors is three, i.e. 100% and the Committee has no executive director. This composition is in line with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. The directors actively participate in Committee meetings, acting in the interests of the shareholders and exercising their judgment in a completely independent manner. In 2017, the Compensation Committee met twice, with an attendance rate of 100%. Principal • Drafting proposals for the compensation of executive directors and conditions for the grant thereof missions • Proposals relating to the pension and insurance plans • Fixing the budget for the attendance fees to be submitted to the Shareholders’ Meeting and the distribution method • Determining the long-term incentive plan policy, mainly including plans for the allocation of free shares Principal • Reviewing the fixed salary and bonus components of executive directors and recommendations to the Board activities • Analyzing the performance of executive directors in 2016 and communicating the recommendation to the Board in 2017 for an annual bonus for 2016 • Analyzing the performance of executive directors in 2017 and communicating the recommendation to the Board for an annual bonus for 2017 • Analyzing and considering the structure of the executive directors’ annual bonus and the objectives for 2018 • Preparing resolutions relating to the compensation of executive directors, submitted to the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2018 • Retirement of senior managers: reviewing the situation of each executive director • Distribution of attendance fees pursuant to the rules providing a majority variable share Appointments Committee Composition Composition as at December 31, 2017: • Anne-Marie Couderc (Chairman) • Éliane Lemarié • Jérôme Gallot Since July 22, 2014, the Committee has been chaired by Anne-Marie Couderc, an independent director and Committee member since the same date. The Appointments Committee is primarily composed of independent directors and there is no executive director. This composition is in line with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. The directors actively participate in Committee meetings, acting in the interests of the shareholders and exercising their judgment in a completely independent manner. In 2017, the Appointments Committee met once, with an attendance rate of 100%. Principal • Consideration and recommendations to the Board regarding procedures for the exercise of powers by senior missions management • Opinion on the proposal of the Chairman of the Board of Directors for the appointment of Chief Operating Officers • Recommendation for new directors to the Board • Examination of the qualification of independent directors, reviewed by the Board of Directors every year • Verification of the proper application of the Corporate Governance Code referred to by the Company • Discussion on issues pertaining to the governance related to the working and organization of the Board • Preparation of succession plans for executive directors in the event of unforeseen vacancies Principal • Reviewing the succession plans of executive directors to ensure continuity of the senior management activities • Reviewing the conditions for the exercise of powers by senior management: uniqueness of the responsibilities of the in 2017 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer • Discussing the composition of the Board: diversity, complementary profiles, skills, gender balance, plurality of offices, etc. • Presenting the candidacy of Mr. Alexandre Mérieux to the Board and proposal to submit his appointment to the vote of the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2018 • Proposal to renew the term of office of 9 Directors: Laurent Burelle, Jean-Michel Szczerba, Paul Henry Lemarié, the company Burelle SA represented by Eliane Lemarié, Jean Burelle, Anne-Marie Couderc and Lucie Maurel Aubert, Jérôme Gallot and Prof. Dr Bernd Gottschalk. • Discussing the composition of Board Committees and recommendations • Reviewing the independence of each director with respect to the criteria listed in the AFEP-MEDEF Code • Review of the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on corporate governance and on internal control and risk management processes 46 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2.1.1.5 Corporate Governance Code AFEP-MEDEF Code: the reference code The Compagnie Plastic Omnium remains committed to the application of rules of corporate governance laid down by AFEP-MEDEF, by referring to the Corporate Governance Code of listed companies, available on the website http://medef.com. The table below provides the Company’s explanations for the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code that are not applied. Recommendations Compagnie Plastic Omnium practices and justifications of the AFEP-MEDEF Code 02 Terms of office of directors must The term of office of ten of the fifteen members of the Board of directors expires in 2021, the term CORPORATE be staggered so as to prevent of office of one Board member expires in 2019 and that of four of them expires in 2020. GOVERNANCE reappointment en masse The Company wished to prioritize a frequent appointment principle for directors by stipulating (article 13.2) a statutory three-year terms of office. Information on the ceiling applicable The annual fixed salary of Messrs. Laurent Burelle and Paul Henry Lemarié correspond to a rate to variable compensation of 120% of the highest coefficient in the collective bargaining agreement in the Plastics industry (coefficient of 940). Mr. Laurent Burelle and Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié received compensation of €88,824 in this respect in 2017. The variable compensation of Messrs. Laurent Burelle and Paul Henry Lemarié is based on the cash flow from operations of Burelle SA, Plastic Omnium’s parent company. Since this base fluctuates according to the performance of Burelle SA, it is not possible to indicate a ceiling. Sub-ceiling on the number of options This limitation is irrelevant for Compagnie Plastic Omnium, as only Jean-Michel Szczerba may or free share awards that may be receive options or free share awards; Messrs. Laurent Burelle and Paul Henry Lemarié have allocated to the executive directors waived theirs since 2016 and 2013, respectively. compared to the overall budget (article 24.3.3) 2.1.2 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS The Board considered the following distribution for 2017: OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS • Chairman: €3,200 per Board meeting; AND OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS • Directors: €1,600 per Board meeting; • Committee Chairman: €2,400 per Committee meeting; 2.1.2.1 Compensation of members • Committee member: €1,600 per Committee meeting; of the Board of Directors • balance allocated proportionately among all Board members in line with actual attendance at meetings. Each director receives attendance fees, the maximum amount whereof is voted by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting and the 2.1.2.1.2 Amounts paid for 2017 distribution whereof is decided by the Board of Directors. A total amount of €526,240, within the limits of the budget of €580,000 voted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 27, 2017, 2.1.2.1.1 Distribution rules for 2017 was distributed to directors for 2017, for a total of four board The amount of attendance fees distributed among the directors meetings and six committee meetings. includes a major variable portion depending on their attendance In 2017, the attendance rate at the meetings was 90% for the Board at meetings, in accordance with the recommendations of the of Directors, 100% for the Audit Committee, the Remunerations AFEP-MEDEF Code. Committee and the Appointments Committee. PLASTIC OMNIUM 47 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Amount of attendance fees allocated (in euros) Directors 2017 fiscal year 2016 fiscal year (4 meetings and 6 Committee meetings) (5 meetings and 7 Committee meetings) Mr. Laurent Burelle 43,520 38,585 Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié 37,120 32,985 Mr. Jean Burelle 37,120 32,985 Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba 37,120 32,985 Mrs. Éliane Lemarié 38,720 34,285 Mr. Jérôme Gallot 43,520 38,185 Mr. Vincent Labruyère 32,640 36,885 Mr. Alain Mérieux 27,840 16,492 Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk 20,160 35,585 Mrs. Félicie Burelle 18,560 – Mrs. Anne-Marie Couderc 41,920 41,385 Mrs. Anne Asensio 44,320 28,938 Mrs. Amélie Oudéa-Castera 38,720 36,885 Mrs. Lucie Maurel Aubert 37,120 32,985 Mrs. Cécile Moutet 27,840 – Total 526,240 439,165 2.1.2.1.3 Distribution rules for 2017 The compensation of executive directors is closely related to the performance of the Company to encourage attainment of the The Board will recommend to the Shareholders’ Meeting of short-, medium-and long-term objectives. For this purpose, the April 26, 2018 to increase the maximum budget for attendance Compensation Committee proposes demanding, complementary fees from €580,000 to €640,000 as of January 1, 2018. and stable performance criteria. In its meeting dated February 14, 2018, the Board of Directors The Board of Directors differentiates the elements for deterdecided to set the attendance fees as follows: mining the compensation of Mr. Laurent Burelle, Chairman and • Chairman: €3,200 per Board meeting; Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié, Chief • Directors: €1,600 per Board meeting; Operating Officer, members of the family group and majority shareholder, from that of Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba, Co-Chief • Committee Chairman: €2,400 per Committee meeting; Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer. • Committee Member: €1,600 per Committee meeting; 2.1.2.2.2 Components of the compensation • the remaining amount available will be shared between the of executive directors directors depending on their attendance at Board meetings. Compensation of Mr. Laurent Burelle, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2.1.2.2 Compensation paid to executive Fixed salary 2017 directors Mr. Laurent Burelle’s fixed salary equals 120% of the highest coefficient in the collective bargaining agreement in the Plastics 2.1.2.2.1 Principles and rules approved by the Board industry (coefficient of 940). of Directors to fix the compensation and all kinds Accord lingly, Mr. Laurent Burelle received compensation from of benefits granted to the executive directors Burelle SA of €88,824 in 2017, up 1% compared to 2016. In accordance with the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, Bonus in respect of 2017 compensation paid to executive corporate officers is decided by t h e B o a r d of D ir e c to r s b as e d o n t h e p r o p os al of t h e Mr. Laurent Burelle’s bonus is based on the funds from oper­ Compensation Committee. ations of Burelle SA, Plastic Omnium’s parent company, after payment of interests and taxes, plus the share of funds from The compensation policy is reviewed ever y year by the operations of joint-ventures, after payment of interests and taxes, Compensation Committee. In its recommendations to the Board and net of dividends paid by these companies. of Directors, it ensures that the compensation policy complies with the principles of comprehensiveness, balance, consistency Burelle SA pays gross compensation to executive directors for and measurement and takes into account the practices of their services, which is then billed to Compagnie Plastic Omnium comparable international groups. and its subsidiaries, calculated on the basis of the estimated time spent by each of them on business relating to the Plastic Omnium Group. 48 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Based on Burelle SA’s audited and certified operating cash flow of The qualitative component is based on the following criteria: €732,000,000 for fiscal year 2017, the total amount of prof• successful integration of the Exterior Division of Faurecia it-sharing net of social security costs, distributable to the execu(20%) ; tive directors of Burelle SA, Mr. Laurent Burelle, Mr. Jean Burelle and Paul Henry Lemarié is €9,098,209. Mr. Laurent Burelle • assessment of his role as Co-Chief Executive Officer by the receives 52% of this total amount from Burelle SA, of which 76% Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (20%). is re-invoiced to Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its subsidiaries, Based on the recommendations of the Compensation Committee, i.e, €4,731,069. The payment of this amount from Burelle SA is the Board of Directors at its meeting held on February 14, 2018 subject to the vote of the Shareholders’ Meeting. Furthermore, Mr. Laurent Burelle no longer receives stock options reviewed the level achieved of the aforesaid criteria and decided to set the annual bonus in respect of 2017 at €525,000 for 02 CORPORATE since 2015. He does not have an employment contract or a Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba, i.e. 50% of the annual fixed salary GOVERNANCE non-competition clause. amount. Compensation of Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba, Co-Chief Executive Compensation of Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié, Chief Operating Officer Officer, Chief Operating Officer Fixed salary 2017 Fixed salary 2017 The annual fixed salary of Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié equals 120% of The annual fixed compensation of Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba the highest coefficient in the collective bargaining agreement in earned in 2017 increased by 3.64% compared with 2016 the Plastics industry (coefficient of 940). This compensation, decided by the Board of Directors upon the Accord lingly, Mr. Paul Henri Lemarié received compensation from recommendation of the Compensation Committee, was based on Burelle SA of €88,824 in 2017, up 1% compared to 2016. a review of the position from a sample representative of listed Bonus 2017 industrial companies comparable to Plastic Omnium. Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié’s bonus is based on the operating cash As a result, the fixed salary received by Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba flow of Burelle SA, parent company of Compagnie Plastic for 2017 amounted to €1,027,638. Omnium, after tax and interest expense plus the share of operBonus 2017 ating cash flow of joint ventures (after tax and interest expense and net of dividends paid by these companies). On the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors set the terms for determining Mr. Jean-Michel Burelle SA pays gross compensation to executive directors for Szczerba’s bonus for 2017. Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba’s bonus is their services, which is then billed to Compagnie Plastic Omnium expressed as a percentage of the fixed salary. This percentage is and its subsidiaries, calculated on the basis of the estimated capped at 50% of the fixed salary. time spent by each of them on business relating to the Plastic Omnium Group. This annual bonus is determined on the basis of performance assessment criteria based on both quantitative objectives and Based on Burelle SA’s audited and certified operating cash flow of qualitative objectives. €732,000,000 for fiscal year 2017, the total amount of profitsharing net of social security costs, distributable to the executive This variable portion is paid to Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba after the directors of Burelle SA, Mr. Laurent Burelle, Mr. Jean Burelle and Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors confirm that Paul Henry Lemarié is €9,098,209. Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié the results have been achieved. receives 24% from Burelle SA of this total amount, of which 50% Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba’s bonus is made up of the following two is re-invoiced to Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its subsidiaries , components: a quantitative component (60%) and a qualitative i.e., €2,183,570. The payment of this amount is subject to the component (40%). vote of the Shareholders’ Meeting. The quantitative component is fixed, for 2017, based on the Furthermore, Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié no longer receives stock following criteria: options since 2013. He does not have an employment contract or a non-competition clause. • amount of savings achieved from the former Faurecia plants acquired in Germany, in Spain, in Brazil and in Argentina (20%) ; • recurring EBIT (GOM) vs budget (20%) ; • debt vs budget (20%). PLASTIC OMNIUM 49 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance 2.1.2.2.3 Pension plan, severance pay, supplementary social protection and non-competition clause In 2003, the Board of Directors of Compagnie Plastic Omnium decided to introduce a supplementary pension plan for executive corporate officers in particular. The plan guarantees them defined-benefit retirement compensation, under the following terms: Plastic Omnium Plan Recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code Required length of service 7 years At least 2 years Actual length of service of the 43 years executive corporate officers 38 years Mr. Laurent Burelle 32 years Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba Reference compensation Average of the average total annual Several years compensation for the 5 years prior to retirement Annual amount paid 1% 5% maximum (% of the reference compensation) 10% of the reference compensation, Ceilings or 8 times the Social Security ceiling 45% of compensation The Board of Directors of Burelle SA approved a similar plan for corporate officers in 2003. In respect of 2017, Burelle SA paid no contribution into the supplemental pension plan. In respect of 2016, Burelle SA paid €581,685 for Mr. Laurent Burelle and €372,082 for Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié to a third party organization, in respect of top-up contributions to the supplemental pension plan. In respect of 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its subsidiaries paid €878,387 to a third party organization in respect of top-up contributions to the supplemental pension plan of Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba. In respect of 2016, the amount paid was €291,969. The other pension plans for executive directors are the same as those in place for the Group’s managerial employees. Employment Supplementary Compensation or benefits Compensation relating contract pension plans due or likely to be due for to the non-competition loss or change of office clause Laurent Burelle No See above No No Chairman and CEO Jean-Michel Szczerba Suspended See above No No Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer Paul Henry Lemarié No See above No No Chief Operating Officer The employment contract of Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba has been It should be noted that there is no system of paying an arrival/ suspended since 2015. It does not include any specific compendeparture bonus to executive directors in Plastic Omnium and sation for non-competition or length-of-service. that no compensation is due under the non-competition clauses. 50 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Summary table of compensation of each executive director The amount of the components of compensation paid or allocated by Burelle SA to Mr. Laurent Burelle, Chairman and CEO, and Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié, Chief Operating Officer, is rebilled to Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its affiliates. The amounts shown in the table below comprise the total amounts paid or allocated by Burelle SA. In euros 2017 2016 Amounts due Amounts paid Amounts due Amounts paid in respect in 2017 in respect in 2016 of 2017 and of 2016 Mr. Laurent Burelle subject to vote 02 CORPORATE Chairman and CEO GOVERNANCE Fixed compensation 88,824 88,824 87,909 87,909 Annual bonus 4,731,069 4,506,476 4,523,438 4,431,061 Exceptional compensation 0 0 0 0 Directors’ fees* 236,261 236,261 227,218 227,218 Benefits in kind (company car and driver) 7,079 7,079 7,079 7,079 (book value) Compensation relating to the 0 0 0 0 non-competition clause Total 5,063,233 4,838,640 4,845,644 4,753,267 Mr.Paul Henry Lemarié Chief Operating Officer Fixed compensation 88,824 88,824 87,909 87,909 Annual bonus 2,183,570 2,074,836 2,173,024 2,215,531 Exceptional compensation 0 0 0 0 Directors’ fees* 98,861 98,861 90,618 90,618 Benefits in kind (company car and driver) 7,308 7,308 6,465 6,465 (book value) Compensation relating to the 0 0 0 0 non-competition clause Total 2,378,563 2,269,829 2,358,016 2,400,523 * The directors’ fees include those paid by Compagnie Plastic Omnium subsidiaries. In accordance with Article L. 225-37-3 of the Code de commerce, the compensation paid by Burelle SA to Mr. Laurent Burelle and Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié of Compagnie Plastic Omnium in 2017 and rebilled to Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its subsidiaries for management services is presented in the table below: Gross compensation paid Amount billed to the Plastic Bonus subject to the vote by Burelle SA in 2017 Omnium Group in 2017 of the Shareholders’ Meeting Mr. Laurent Burelle Chairman and CEO 4,626,041 3,492,428 4,731,069 Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié Chief Operating Officer 2,194,401 1,081,830 2,183,570 PLASTIC OMNIUM 51 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance The amount of the components of compensation paid or allocated by Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its subsidiaries to Mr. JeanMichel Szczerba, co-Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, is presented in the table below: In euros 2017 2016 Amounts due Amounts paid Amounts due Amounts paid in respect in 2017 in respect in 2016 of 2017 and of 2016 subject to vote Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba Co-Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer Fixed compensation 1,027,638 1,027,638 991,471 991,471 Annual bonus 525,000 495,735 495,735 445,691 Exceptional compensation 100,000 100,000 200,000 200,000 Directors’ fees* 114,120 114,120 109,985 109,985 Benefits in kind (company car and driver) 12,149 12,149 11,297 11,297 (book value) Compensation relating to the 0 0 0 0 non-competition clause Total 1,778,907 1,749,642 1,808,488 1,758,444 (1) The directors’ fees include those paid by Compagnie Plastic Omnium subsidiaries Summary table of the compensation and stock options awarded to each executive director In euros 2017 Fiscal year 2016 fiscal year Mr. Laurent Burelle Chairman and CEO Compensation due in respect of the year (see details in the table above) 5,063,233 4,845,644 Value of stock options awarded during the year – – Value of performance shares awarded during the year – – Valuation of other long-term compensation plans – – Total 5,063,233 4,845,644 Mr.Jean-Michel Szczerba Co-Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer Compensation due in respect of the year (see details in the table above) 1,778,907 1,808,488 Value of stock options awarded during the year 175,600 – Value of performance shares awarded during the year – – Valuation of other long-term compensation plans – – Total 1,954,507 1,808,488 Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié Chief Operating Officer Compensation due in respect of the year (see details in the table above) 2,378,563 2,358,016 Value of stock options awarded during the year – – Value of performance shares awarded during the year – – Valuation of other long-term compensation plans – – Total 2,378,563 2,358,016 Stock options awarded during the year to each executive director Name and position Number of Value of options using the Exercise Exercise period of the corporate options awarded method applied in the price officer during the year consolidated financial statements Mr. Laurent Burelle 0 0 0 N/A Chairman and CEO Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba 40,000 175,600 €32.84 From 03/11/2021 to Co-Chief Executive Officer, 03/10/2024 Chief Operating Officer Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié 0 0 0 N/A Chief Operating Officer 52 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Performance shares awarded during the year to each executive director by Compagnie Plastic Omnium and by any other Group company Name and position Performance Plan Number of Recovery of Vesting date End of of the executive shares date shares the shares(1) vesting director awarded awarded period Mr. Laurent Burelle 0 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Chairman and CEO Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba O N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Co-Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié Chief Operating Officer 0 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 02 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (1) Using the method applied in the consolidated financial statements. History of stock options awarded to each executive director that are still exercisable on December 31, 2017 Date of plans Number of Number of Date of Date of Subscription options options not 1st possible expiry price awarded exercised exercise Mr. Laurent Burelle Chairman and CEO 08/07/2013 Plan 180,000 180,000 08/07/2017 08/07/2020 €16.16 08/06/2015 Plan 150,000 150,000 08/07/2019 08/07/2022 €24.72 Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba Co-Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer 08/07/2013 Plan 120,000 120,000 08/07/2017 08/07/2020 €16.16 08/06/2015 Plan 150,000 150,000 08/07/2019 08/07/2022 €24.72 Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié Chief Operating Officer 08/07/2013 Plan 60,000 60,000 08/07/2017 08/07/2020 €16.16 In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code, to the total number of shares resulting from the decreased exerthe exercise of stock options granted in 2013, 2015 and 2017 cise of stock options, which must be transferred in order to is subject to two performance conditions related to the outper­­ finance the exercise of options in question and, where applicable, formance over the vesting period of the options in respect of: the payment of any immediate or deferred tax, social contributions and charges relating to the exercise of these options as • the share price relative to the SBF 120 index; applicable on the date of exercise of the options. If the number of • the Company’s operating margin compared with its main shares fixed as a result, which must be retained until the loss of competitors. office, is a fraction, it is rounded off to the nearest lower whole The executive directors shall retain, in bearer form, until the end number. of their appointment, a number of shares corresponding to 10% The executive directors are committed not to resort to risk of the balance of shares resulting from the exercise of the option. hedging transactions. The “balance shares resulting from the exercise of option” refers PLASTIC OMNIUM 53 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Table of stock options exercised by each executive director during the fiscal year Date of plans Stock options exercised Exercise price Mr. Laurent Burelle Chairman and CEO 08/07/2013 250,000 €16,16 Mr.Jean-Michel Szczerba Co-Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer 08/07/2013 0 N/A Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié Chief Operating Officer 08/07/2013 60,000 €16,16 History of performance share allocations to each executive The objective of the bonus is to recognize the contribution of each director executive director to the Group’s development and the growth in Not applicable, if no performance share has been awarded to its profits. It is based on precise criteria consistent with the executive director. annual assessment by the Compensation Committee of each executive director and with the Group’s strategy. History of performance shares that vested during the year for each executive director The payment of the bonus and the exceptional compensation for 2018 will be subject to approval by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Not applicable, if no performance share has been awarded to Meeting to be held in 2019. executive director. Executive directors will continue to enjoy the supplementary 2.1.2.2.4 Components of compensation due retirement plan as defined above. or allocated to each executive director in respect Pursuant to these principles, a proposal will be made at the 2019 of 2018, subject to the approval of shareholders Annual Shareholders’ Meeting to approve the components of Upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee compensation due or allocated in respect of 2018 to: and pursuant to article L. 225-37-2 of the Code de commerce, • Mr. Laurent Burelle, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; the Board of Directors decided at its meeting of February 14, 2018 on the compensation policy for each executive director. This • Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba, Co-Chief Executive Officer, Chief policy is applicable from January 1, 2018 and is in keeping with Operating Officer; the policy applied in 2017 as described § 2.1.2.2 above. It will be • Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié, Chief Operating Officer. subject to the approval of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting to be held on April 26, 2018. It should be noted that there is no system of paying an arrival/ departure bonus to executive directors at Plastic Omnium. The policy is reviewed ever y year by the Compensation Committee. In its recommendations to the Board of Directors, the Executive directors are entitled to a company car and Mr. Laurent Compensation Committee ensures that the proposed compensaBurelle, Chairman and CEO, is also entitled to the services of a tion policy complies with the practices of comparable inter­ driver. national groups. Precise and demanding quantifiable and qualitative performance criteria are set for the bonus. The compensation of executive directors is made up of a fixed component and an annual bonus. The fixed component is reviewed every year. It does not vary much unless the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, decides otherwise in the light of market conditions and the Group’s development. 54 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2.1.2.3 Summary of transactions in 2017 by executive directors involving Plastic Omnium shares Article 223-26 of the General Regulation of the French Financial Market Authority (Autorité des Marchés Financiers) and article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code Person concerned Description of the Transaction Number of Amount total financial instrument transactions 02 Mr. Laurent Burelle Chairman and CEO Equities Acquisition 1 €2,908,800 People associated with Mr. Laurent Burelle, Not applicable, since no one related to Laurent Burelle, as defined in CORPORATE Chairman and CEO article R. 621-43-1 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, carried out GOVERNANCE transactions on Plastic Omnium shares in fiscal year 2017 Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba Chief Operating Officer N/A N/A O N/A People associated with Mr. Jean-Michel Not applicable, since no one related to Jean-Michel Szczerba, as defined in Szczerba, article R. 621-43-1 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, carried out Chief Operating Officer transactions on Plastic Omnium shares in fiscal year 2017 Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié Equities Disposal 1 €871,978 Chief Operating Officer Acquisition 2 €969,600 People associated with Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié, Not applicable, since no one related to Paul Henry Lemarié, as defined in Chief Operating Officer article R. 621-43-1 of the French Monetary and Financial Code, carried out transactions on Plastic Omnium shares in fiscal year 2017 2.1.2.4 Information on stock-options Stock options are granted after publication of the financial statements for the previous year, in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF and awards of free shares recommendation. In any case, stock options are granted on the basis of the performance of the individual in question at the time Stock option plans the plan is put in place. Plastic Omnium stock option policy Employees and corporate officers who receive stock options thus For years Compagnie Plastic Omnium has put long-term incentive have a stake along with shareholders in the Group’s strong and plans in place for the benefit of its employees and executive consistent growth. corporate Officers in an international context. 307 employees are beneficiaries of at least one stock option plan These plans have a dual purpose: (including 45,28% in international subsidiaries). • to motivate key staff members and give them a stake in the Stock option beneficiaries must comply with the regulations in Group’s future results; force relating to inside information. They must familiarize them• to strengthen teamwork and a sense of belonging among selves and abide by the stock exchange code of ethics accom­ managers and thus encourage them to make their careers at panying the rules governing stock option plans. the Company. At the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, Plastic Omnium’s Board of Directors grants stock options to managers and executive corporate officers who the Company wishes to recognize for their performance and their important role in business development and the Group’s current and future projects, wherever they may be based. PLASTIC OMNIUM 55 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Compagnie Plastic Omnium stock option plans Current Compagnie Plastic Omnium stock option plans As at December 31, 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium had several stock option plans; key information about these plans is given below: Date authorized by Shareholders’ Meeting 04/28/2009 04/28/2011 Date of Board meeting 03/16/2010 03/06/2012 Total number of recipients 124 208 Total number of shares offered for purchase 3,375,000 2,668,500 Of which can be bought by executive directors: • Laurent Burelle 450,000 360,000 • Jean-Michel Szczerba 270,000 240,000 • Paul Henry Lemarié 360,000 180,000 Start date for exercise of the options 04/01/2014 03/21/2016 Date of expiry 03/31/2017 03/20/2019 Purchase price (in euros) 2.84 7.37 Number of options exercised at 12/31/2017 1,511,000 1,764,488 Total number of stock options that have been cancelled or lapsed 1,864,000 330,000 Options outstanding at the year end 0 574,012 Date authorized by Shareholders’ Meeting 04/25/2013 04/25/2013 Date of Board meeting 07/23/2013 07/21/2015 Total number of recipients 184 172 Total number of shares offered for purchase 1,272,000 1,253,000 Of which can be subscribed for or bought by corporate officers: • Laurent Burelle 180,000 150,000 • Jean-Michel Szczerba 120,000 150,000 • Paul Henry Lemarié 60,000 – Start date for exercise of the options 08/07/2017 08/07/2019 Date of expiry 08/06/2020 08/06/2022 Purchase price (in euros) 16.17 24.72 Number of options exercised at 12/31/2017 473,840 – Total number of stock options that have been cancelled or lapsed 111,000 84,000 Options outstanding at the year end 687,160 1,169,000 Date authorized by Shareholders’ Meeting 4/28/2016 Date of Board meeting 02/22/2017 Total number of recipients 195 Total number of shares offered for purchase 552,500 Of which can be subscribed for or bought by corporate officers: • Laurent Burelle 0 • Jean-Michel Szczerba 40,000 • Paul Henry Lemarié 0 Start date for exercise of the options 3/11/2021 Date of expiry 3/11/2024 Purchase price (in euros) 32.84 Number of options exercised at 12/31/2017 0 Total number of stock options that have been cancelled or lapsed 26,000 Options outstanding at the year end 552,500 At December 31, 2017, the number of options outstanding awarded by the Board of Directors under the authorizations voted by the Shareholders’ Meetings and not yet exercised was equivalent to 2,982,672 stock options at an average purchase price of €20.91 per share (1,97% of the 150,976,720 shares making up the share capital at that date). 56 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Stock options awarded to the ten non-executive director employees of the Group whose number of options is the highest within the scope of option awards, or stock options exercised during the 2017 financial year Number of options awarded Weighted average price Exercise date (in euros) 165,000 32.84 03/10/2021 Total number of Weighted shares average price purchased (in euros) Options to buy Compagnie Plastic Omnium shares exercised by the ten employees(1) whose number of options is the highest 02 CORPORATE • 03/16/2010 plan 88,500 2.84 GOVERNANCE • 03/06/2012 plan 207,000 7.38 • 08/07/2013 plan 14,000 16.16 • 02/22/2017 plan non exercisable 32.84 (1) Plastic Omnium employees other than executive directors included in the scope of option awards. 2.1.3 EQUITY CAPITAL If the equity capital is increased by incorporating reserves, profits or share premiums, the double voting right is also attached to the registered bonus shares linked to the shares with double voting Share capital rights already held by the shareholder. Shares in Compagnie Plastic Omnium are listed on Eurolist of A double voting right shall cease for any share, which has been Euronext Paris (compartment A). Plastic Omnium shares are the subject of a conversion to bearer form or a transfer. included in the SBF 120 and CAC Mid 60 indices. It may also be canceled by decision of an Extraordinar y At December 31, 2017, Plastic Omnium’s share capital amounted Shareholders’ Meeting. to €9,058,603.20 divided into 150,976,720 fully paid-up shares At December 31, 2017, excluding treasury shares, the Company with a par value of €0.06 each. had 147,670,650 shares with the same number of voting rights, including 89,450,769 shares with double voting rights. Voting rights Shareholders have the right to vote and speak at Shareholders’ Potential equity capital and securities giving Meetings. Each shareholder has one vote per fully paid-up share rights to equity capital he or she holds. As at December 31, 2017, there were no securities or rights In accordance with article 16 of the bylaws, all fully paid-up shares giving direct or indirect access to the share capital of Compagnie held on a registered basis in the name of the same shareholder Plastic Omnium. for at least two years are entitled to a double voting right with the shareholder having either bought or inherited the shares under intestacy rules or being a spouse or a relative entitled to inherit the shares who received them as an inter vivos gift. PLASTIC OMNIUM 57 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Current authorizations relating to capital and securities carrying rights to the allocation of debt securities – use of authorizations The Company’s shareholders have delegated the following powers and financial authorizations to the Board of Directors: Authorizations and delegations given to the Board of Directors at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 28, 2016 Resolution Type of authorization and delegated Duration Maximum amount per Use of the No. power and expiry authorization or authorization date delegated power or delegation of power 17 Authorization to grant stock options 38 months Maximum holding: 1% of the None to corporate officers and/or employees – until equity capital, to be deducted of the Company and/or Group companies June 27, from the 1% in the 18th 2019 resolution approved at the Shareholders’ Meeting on April 28, 2016 18 Authorization for free allocation of Company’s 38 months Maximum holding: 1% of the None shares to corporate officers and/or – until equity capital, to be deducted employees of the Company and/or Group June 27, from the 1% in the 17th companies 2019 resolution approved at the Shareholders’ Meeting on April 28, 2016 19 Authorization to reduce the equity capital 26 months 10% of the share capital per None by canceling treasury shares – until 24-month period June 27, 2018 58 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Authorizations and delegations given to the Board of Directors at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 27, 2017 Resolution Type of authorization and delegated Duration Maximum amount per Use of the No. power and expiry authorization or authorization date delegated power or delegation of power 6 Buyback by the Company of its own shares 18 months Maximum purchase price: At December 31, – until €60 Maximum holding: 10% 2017, Compagnie October 26, of share capital – Plastic Omnium held 2018 Accumulated value of acquisitions: 2.19% of its equity capital 02 CORPORATE €914,860,320 GOVERNANCE 16 Delegation of authority to the Board of 26 months €1 million for shares and None Directors to issue ordinary shares and/or – until €750 million for debt equity securities providing access to other June 26, securities. equity securities, or granting entitlement 2019 to the allocation of debt securities and/or investment securities providing access to equity securities to be issued by the Company, with preferential subscription rights 17 Delegation of authority to the Board of 26 months €1 million for shares by way None Directors to issue ordinary shares and/or – until of an offer referred to in par. II equity securities providing access to other June 26, of article L. 411-2 of the equity securities or entitling the allocation 2019 French Monetary and of debt securities and/or investment Financial Code – €750 million securities providing access to equity for debt securities securities to be issued by the Company, without preferential subscription rights, through a public offer and/or as consideration for securities as part of a public exchange offer during the delegation 18 Delegation of authority to the Board of 26 months €1 million for shares by way None Directors to issue ordinary shares and/or – until of an offer referred to in par. II equity securities providing access to other June 26, of article L. 411-2 of the equity securities, or granting entitlement 2019 French Monetary and to the allocation of debt securities and/or Financial Code – €750 million investment securities providing access for debt securities to equity securities to be issued by the Company, without preferential subscription rights by way of an offer referred to in par. II of Article L. 411-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code 19 Delegation of authority to increase the 26 months 15% of the initial issue, the None number of shares or securities to be issued – until maximum authorized amount when a share issue with or without June 26, of which are: €1 million for preferential subscription rights is made under 2019 shares – €750 million for the 16th to 18th resolutions up to a maximum transferable securities of 15% of the initial issue representative of debt 20 Share capital increase reserved for Plastic 26 months Maximum holding: 3% of the None Omnium employees savings plan (PEE) – until equity capital at the date of June 26, the Shareholders’ Meeting 2019 (i.e. a maximum of 4,574,301 shares at December 31, 2016) Authorizations relating to capital and securities carrying rights to the allocation of debt securities to be proposed to the Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018 Resolution Type of authorization Duration and Maximum amount per authorization No. and delegated power expiry date or delegated power 5 Buyback by the Company 18 months – until Maximum purchase price: €60 Maximum holding: of its own shares October 25, 2019 10% of share capital – Accumulated value of acquisitions: €9,056,860,320 21 Authorization to grant stock options 38 months until Maximum holding: 1% of the equity capital, to be deducted to corporate Officers June 25, 2021 from the 1% in the 18th resolution approved at the and/or employees of the company Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2016 and/or Group companies 22 To reduce the equity capital 26 months – until 10% of the share capital per 24-month period by canceling treasury shares June 26, 2020 PLASTIC OMNIUM 59 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Changes in the Company’s equity capital over the last five years Year and type of corporate transaction Amount of capital Share capital Number of Par value increase/reduction (in euros) shares of share Nominal Premium comprising (in euros) the equity capital September 2013 516,590 – 9,298,621 154,977,021 0.06 Capital increase resulting from the decision to round up the par value after the three-for-one share split reducing the par value from €0.17 to €0.06 October 2014 84,018 27,275,732 9,214,603 153,576,720 0.06 Reduction in equity capital by canceling 1,400,301 treasury shares March 2016 66,000 32,579,380 9,148,603 152,476,720 0.06 Capital reduction by canceling 1,100,000 treasury shares August 2017 90,000 49,819,507 9,058,603 150,976,720 0.06 Reduction in equity capital by cancelling 1,500,000 treasury shares Buyback by the Company of its own shares Percentage of equity capital held directly and indirectly by the Company as at December 31, 2017 including: 2.19% • backing existing stock option plans 2.05% • intended for cancellation None Number of shares canceled over the past 24 months 2,600,000 Number of securities in the portfolio on December 31, 2017 3,306,070 Carrying amount of portfolio on December 31, 2017 €61,764,318 Market value of portfolio on December 31, 2017 €125,300,053 Share buybacks during the 2017 fiscal year Aggregate gross movements Purchases Sales Options exercised Number of securities 2,330,665 766,197 984,865 Average transaction price €33.81 €33.75 – Average exercise price – – €11.06 Totals €78,796,350 €25,857,002 €10,892,899 Dealing fees of €102 thousand were incurred in buying back shares during the 2017 fiscal year. The change in the number of outstanding shares between the opening date and the closing date of fiscal year 2017 is as follows: January 1, 2017 Movements December 31, 2017 for 2017(1) Number of shares comprising the share capital 152,476,720 –1,500,000 150,976,720 Number of treasury shares 4,226,467 –620,397 3,606,070 Number of outstanding shares 148,250,253 –879,603 147,370,650 (1) See purchase flows, sales flows and options exercised, indicated above. 60 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT The sixth resolution of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 27, 2017 authorized the Company to buyback in its own shares, subject to the following conditions: Maximum purchase price €60 per share (excluding acquisition costs) 10% of the share capital on the date of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting Maximum shares that may be held on April 27, 2017 Maximum investment in the buyback program €914,860,320 A new liquidity agreement was made with Kepler Capital Markets SA on January 1, 2015. It has a term of one year, €31,547,771 (€34,51 per share), including 514,156 shares under the liquidity agreement, and 400,000 shares outside 02 CORPORATE renewable automatically, in accordance with the Code of Ethics this contract. Over the same period, the Company sold GOVERNANCE drawn up by AMAFI (Association française des marchés financiers 1,112,541 shares under the liquidity contract for a total amount – the representative body for professionals working in the secur­ of €26,626,537 (€23,93 per share). ities industry and financial markets in France) had an initial value Between April 28, 2017 and January 31, 2018, the Company did of €3 million. The primary purpose of the agreement is to reduce not buyback any of its own shares to cover its commitments to the volatility of the Compagnie Plastic Omnium share price, and those benefiting from options, free shares and company savings thus the risk perceived by investors. schemes. Information about share buybacks since April 28, 2017 At Januar y 31, 2018, Compagnie Plastic Omnium held Between April 28, 2017 and January 31, 2018, the Company 3,283,420 treasury shares (2,17% of share capital), broken down bought back 914,156 of its own shares for a total amount of as follows: 8,500 shares Liquidity agreement AMAFI 0 share Shares allocated to employees or corporate officers of the Company or of Group companies 0 share Cancellation 3,074,920 shares Hedging of securities carrying rights to the allocation of shares 200,000 shares External growth Description of the share buyback policy submitted • to retain the shares acquired and use them later on for for approval to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting exchange or in payment for any external growth transactions, on April 26, 2018 with the understanding that shares purchased for this purpose may not exceed 5% of the Company’s capital; Under Articles 241-1 to 241-6 of the AMF General Regulations, this description defines the objectives of the Compagnie Plastic • to implement all market practices currently accepted or Omnium share buyback policy and how it will be implemented. accepted in the future by the market authorities. The program will be submitted for approval to the Combined Practical implementation – The maximum proportion of the Shareholders’ Meeting convened for April 26, 2018. equity capital that may be acquired and the maximum amount Objectives of the share buyback program payable by Compagnie Plastic Omnium Compagnie Plastic Omnium intends to use the share buyback Compagnie Plastic Omnium is authorized to acquire a maximum program to achieve the following objectives: of up to 10% of its equity capital on December 31, 2017, 15,097,672 shares, each with a par value of €0.06. • to use an investment ser vice provider to maintain the secondary market or the liquidity of Compagnie Plastic Since the Company held 3,306,070 treasury shares as at Omnium’s shares, via a liquidity agreement complying with the December 31, 2017, the maximum number of its shares it could AMAFI Code of Ethics accepted by the AMF; purchase under the share buyback program is 11,791,602. In the event that the treasury shares already held are canceled or used, • to potentially cancel the shares purchased, subject to approval the maximum that the Company can pay out to acquire the by the Shareholders’ Meeting of the authorization submitted to 11,791,602 shares is €707,496,120. its vote in its 22nd extraordinary resolution; Thus, the total value of acquisitions (net of costs) may not exceed • to cover stock option plans and/or free share plans (or similar) €707,496,120 based on the maximum purchase price of €60 for Group employees and/or corporate officers, as well as any provided in the fifth resolution to be proposed to the Combined allocations of shares for a company or group savings scheme Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018. (or similar), in respect of employee profit sharing and/or all other forms of allocation of shares to employees and/or corporate officers of Compagnie Plastic Omnium; PLASTIC OMNIUM 61 Report from the Board of Directors on corporate governance Shares may be purchased, sold or transferred using any method, Term of the buyback program including by purchasing blocks of shares, on the stock market or The buyback program may continue for a period of eighteen over the counter. These means include the use of any derivatives, months from the approval of the fifth resolution to be voted by traded on a regulated market or over the counter, and the setting shareholders at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, up of option operations such as the purchase and sale of call and 2018, i.e. until October 25, 2019. put options. Transactions may be made at any time. Bonds Details of the bonds issued by the Company in circulation on December 31, 2017 are given below: Issuer Currency Coupon Initial issue Maturity Amount Listing date date outstanding market (in millions of euros) Compagnie Plastic Omnium EUR 3.875% 10/04/2012 12/12/2018 250 Paris Compagnie Plastic Omnium EUR 2.875% 05/21/2013 05/29/2020 500 Paris Compagnie Plastic Omnium EUR 1.25% 06/26/2017 06/26/2024 500 Paris 2.1.4 INFORMATION ABOUT SHAREHOLDERS Compagnie Plastic Omnium shareholder structure Equity holdings in Compagnie Plastic Omnium as at December 31, 2017 comprising 150,976,720 shares December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 % equity % voting % equity % voting % equity % voting capital rights capital rights capital rights Burelle SA 57.57 71.91 57.01 71.91 56.6 73.4 Employee shareholders 0.98 0.98 1 1 1.1 1.1 Held by Company 2.19 – 2.77 – 3.6 – Public 39.26 27.11 39.22 27.09 38.7 25.5 100 100 100 100 100 100 At December 31, 2017, Burelle SA held 57,57% of the equity Compagnie Plastic Omnium reviewed identifiable bearer securities capital of Compagnie Plastic Omnium. To the Company’s know­ at December 31, 2017 and concluded that 56,512,091 shares ledge, no other shareholder owns 5% or more of the share capital. were held by individual investors. In France, at December 31, 2017, the 1,906 employee members The Company has not been informed of any shareholders’ agreeof the Group stock ownership plan held 1,476,225 Compagnie ment. Plastic Omnium shares purchased on the market, representing 0,98% of share capital. 62 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Factors that could have an impact in the Shareholders’ Meeting event of a public offer (article 16 of the bylaws) None. Notice of Meetings The Shareholders’ Meetings are convened, meet and deliberate Agreements concluded by a significant under conditions set forth by law. The agenda of the Meetings is manager or shareholder of Compagnie Plastic determined by the author of the notice; however, one or more Omnium, with a subsidiary shareholders may, under conditions set forth by law, require draft resolutions to be written into the agenda. 02 CORPORATE Pursuant to article L. 225-37-4, 2° of the Code de commerce, The Meeting takes place at the headquarters, or at any other GOVERNANCE it is stated that no new agreement was made during 2017, place indicated in the notice. either directly or through an intermediary, between, on the one The notice of meeting for the Shareholders’ Meeting is published hand, the Chief Executive Officer, one of the Co-Chief Executive in the Bulletin des Annonces Légales Obligatoires (BALO) under Officers, one of the directors, one of the shareholders holding conditions set forth by law and regulations. greater than 10% share of the voting rights of the company and, on the other hand, one of the subsidiaries of Compagnie Plastic Meetings are chaired by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or, Omnium held directly or indirectly, for more than 50% of its in his absence, by a director who is specially authorized for such capital. purpose by the Board of Directors. Otherwise, the Meeting shall itself elect its Chairman. The duties of the tellers shall be performed by the two members of the Meeting who are present and accept such duty, and who have the greatest number of votes. The officers of the Meeting shall appoint a Secretary, who may be chosen from outside of the shareholders. There shall be an attendance list kept under conditions set forth by law. The minutes of the Shareholders’ Meetings shall be drawn up, and copies thereof shall be delivered and certified under conditions set forth by law. Participation in the Meetings Every shareholder has the right to participate in the Meetings, provided that all payments due for such shares have been met. The right to participate in the Meetings, or arrange to be represented, is subject to the accounting entry of the shares in the name of the shareholder by the second business day preceding the Meeting at 0:00 hours, Paris time, either in registered share accounts kept by the Company, or in bearer share accounts kept by an authorized intermediary. The Board of Directors may, if it deems it useful, arrange for the delivery to the shareholders of admission cards with their names, and require the presentation of the same in order to access the Shareholders’ Meeting. PLASTIC OMNIUM 63 03 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 3.1 PLASTIC OMNIUM’S C  SR APPROACH 65 3.4.3 Health and safety 85 3.1.1 Change in Plastic Omnium’s CSR approach 3.4.4 Management of skills and talents 88 in a rapidly changing global landscape 65 3.4.5 Employee engagement 91 3.1.2 CSR challenges and key performance 3.4.6 Equal opportunity 91 indicators 66 3.1.3 Dialogue with stakeholders 71 3.5 SUSTAINABLE P RODUCTION 93 3.5.1 Focus on responsible production 93 3.2 SOLUTIONS FOR CLEAN, C  ONNECTED MOBILITY 72 3.5.2 Energy efficiency and greenhouse 3.2.1 Clean, connected mobility at the heart gas emissions 94 of innovation 72 3.5.3 Waste management 99 3.2.2 Clean propulsion systems 74 3.5.4 Air quality 100 3.2.3 Reduced vehicle weight 74 3.5.5 Water management 100 3.2.4 Product safety and quality 75 3.2.5 Eco-design and recyclability 76 3.6 METHODOLOGY 101 3.3 RESPONSIBLE E NTREPRENEURS 76 3.7 CROSS-REFERENCE T ABLE 103 3.3.1 Business ethics 77 3.8 REPORT BY THE STATUTORY AUDITORS, 3.3.2 Duty of vigilance and responsible purchasing 77 APPOINTED AS THE INDEPENDENT THIRD-PARTY, ON THE CONSOLIDATED HUMAN RESOURCES, 3.3.3 Data protection 80 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL INFORMATION 3.3.4 Relations with local stakeholders 81 INCLUDED IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT (MR) 107 3.4 CARE FOR P EOPLE 82 3.4.1 Responsible management 82 3.4.2 Social dialogue 84 The integration of sustainable development issues by companies cities to take measures to reduce impacts on populations. is a major factor of economic performance and an important lever Countries and major cities are striving to limit vehicle emisfor the future of their business activities. There is an increasing sions and promote non-combustion-powered vehicles. As a number of voluntary initiatives, benchmarks, standards and reguresult of this transition towards cleaner vehicles, by 2030, the lations to help companies transform their business models. Thus, market share of electric vehicles should reach 22%, while that af ter t he ad option of t he Uni ted N ations Sust ainable of hybrid vehicles should reach 41%. These two categories Development Goals in 2015, incentives to bring private compashould account for 63% of the global market in 2030, estinies on board have proliferated. These 17 Goals address the mated at 121 million units; major objectives for 2030: eradicating poverty, reducing world • the development of connectivity and artificial intelligence: hunger, promoting the development of vulnerable groups, beyond ensuring safety, technology is progressively improving ensuring access to essential services for all, and protecting the the life of drivers and passengers. Features such as driving/ planet. The United Nations through its Global Compact, and the parking assistance, satellite navigation, maintenance schedGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) are now prompting companies to uling, unlocking and start-up via a smartphone, communication contribute to the achievement of these global goals. applications and services, and information/entertainment At the same time, numerous private sector initiatives, actively services, are progressing. Autonomous vehicles, tested under supported by Plastic Omnium, are being developed. At the One real road conditions, require a high capacity for capturing inforPlanet Summit organized by France in December 2017, Plastic mation, connecting to infrastructures and other vehicles, and 03 Omnium was among the 89 French companies to commit to processing data. New players, including major technology SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT climate action by signing the French Business Climate Pledge, companies, telephone operators, and high-tech start-ups, are aimed at accelerating the transition towards a drastic reduction in attracted by the growing global market of private vehicles; greenhouse gas emissions. • collaborative mobility: in addition to car-sharing, a variety of In respect of this global effort focused on sustainable developcollaborative mobility offerings are progressively gaining ment for all, Plastic Omnium presents, in this chapter, its corpoground. Global car-sharing revenue is expected to grow sevenrate social responsibility challenges, as well as the policies and fold by 2021, with one third of Europe’s driving license holders measures implemented to address them. living in big cities registered with car-sharing services. Major automotive manufacturers are investing in this market, which requires connected vehicles for more efficient, faster response. 3.1 Plastic Omnium’s CSR Geopositioning and remote opening systems are thus indispensable. approach For Plastic Omnium, these major trends are reflected in the growing integration of sustainable development issues in its strategy, its product/service offering, and its governance. 3.1.1 CHANGE IN PLASTIC OMNIUM’S CSR The CSR Manager, appointed in 2017 and reporting directly to APPROACH IN A RAPIDLY CHANGING GLOBAL one of the members of the Executive Committee, informs the LANDSCAPE Committee monthly on the progress of the CSR initiatives undertaken, thus supplementing the EHS information already reported. The automotive industry is undergoing profound changes due to Plastic Omnium’s CSR efforts therefore increased in 2017, and three major trends: the rating issued by independent bodies, such as RobecoSam, • the energy transition and air quality: since the 2015 Paris confirmed the Group’s performance and the relevance of the Agreement, countries, local authorities and companies have efforts made. been committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, growing urban air pollution problems are prompting 2001 2003 2008 2009 2012 2015 2016 2017 Internal audit Code of Conduct CO2 emission Risk management Engagement with Assessment of CSR Supplier Appointment EHS management Commitment to management communities: Focus performance by CSR charter of a CSR Manager the United Nations Chemical product Hope and Magic Bus independent third Materiality Global Compact management projects parties (RobecoSam analysis and Ecovadis) PLASTIC OMNIUM 65 Plastic Omnium’s CSR approach RobecoSam is a non-financial rating agency specializing exclu3.1.2 CSR CHALLENGES AND KEY sively in sustainable development investments. RobecoSam PERFORMANCE INDICATORS conducts an annual evaluation of companies’ environmental, societal and labor practices. These evaluations, which are based Plastic Omnium decided to conduct a materiality analysis in 2017 on companies’ responses and justifications, are sector-specific in order to identify significant environmental, societal and labor and enable the top companies in each sector to join the internaissues, in collaboration with its internal and external staketionally-recognized Dow Jones Sustainability Index. holders. To this effect, Plastic Omnium’s managers of operational In 2017, RobecoSam recognized Plastic Omnium’s performance and support functions first carried out an internal analysis of the by ranking the Group seventh worldwide and third in Europe issues at stake. Based on this analysis, internal stakeholders among automotive equipment manufacturers. The Group’s score representing the various departments identified the financial of 65/100 was an improvement on that of 2015, in a sector risks, business continuity risks, reputational/image risks and whose average score dropped due to the increased stringency of regulatory risks linked to these issues. A stakeholder mapping standards. exercise identified 18 key external stakeholders for the Company, including representatives of the automotive industry, financial The score of 71/100 (Gold level) awarded by Ecovadis also sector, technical and scientific sector, and local communities. confirmed Plastic Omnium’s good CSR performance among These stakeholders were interviewed to assess the impact of the plastic parts manufacturers. issues on their organizations. This approach enabled Plastic Omnium to bring its stakeholders’ societal, environmental and labor expectations into line with the Company’s performance drivers. The Company’s grasp of the issues was also assessed by internal stakeholders. Plastic Omnium thus identified the priority issues on which it needs to intensify its efforts. Themes Issues Solutions for clean, connected mobility Clean, connected mobility at the heart of innovation Clean propulsion systems Reduce vehicle weight Product safety and quality Eco-design and recyclability Responsible entrepreneurs Business ethics Duty of vigilance and responsible purchasing Data protection Relations with local stakeholders Care for people Responsible management Social dialogue Occupational health and safety conditions Talent and skill management Employee engagement Equal opportunities Sustainable production Energy efficiency and greenhouse gas emissions Waste management Air quality Water management Logistics Biodiversity 66 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5 Moderatelly Important Strategic imporant CSR issues CSR issues CSR issues 3 2 1 Competitiveness Business ethics Product safety 4 03 Sustainable Road and and quality purchasing automotive safety Clean propulsion systems SUSTAINABLE Health Measures to Impact on external stakeholders DEVELOPMENT and safety reduce the weight Responsable of vehicles Relationship with management Data local shareholders protection Eco-design Employee and recyclability engagement Social Dialogue Talent and skill 3 Waste management management Logistics Energy efficiency and CO2 emissions Intelligent and Air sustainable city quality Water management Equal opportunities 2 Biodiversity Impact on Plastic Omnium global performance 1 2 3 4 5 Care Sustainable Solutions for Responsibility for people production clean mobility PLASTIC OMNIUM 67 Plastic Omnium’s CSR approach After having identified the priority issues, Plastic Omnium is reflecting on the defining of its priorities and the defining of key performance indicators to track the progress made on these issues. Social indicators % of managerial positions filled Managers and engineers internally turnover 13.51% 44.7% 42.2% 39.4% 10.69% 10.72% 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Total training hours Breakdown of headcount and per employee by contract type 513 ,515 531 ,130 19,720 19,195 424,446 15,081 4,628 4,376 25.53 29.19 25.14 3,661 1,547 2,174 1,932 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Permanent employment contracts Fixed-term employment contracts Temporary staff 68 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Lost time accident Lost time and non lost time frequency rate accident frequency rate Tf1 in number of accidents per million hours Tf2 in number of accidents per million hours worked (temporary workers included) worked (temporary workers included) 2.87 4.80 2.54 1.98 3.67 2.87 03 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Accident severity rate Number of Top Safety visits(1) Tg in number of days lost per thousand hours worked per employee per year (temporary workers included) 0.10 2.20 2.10 1.77 0.06 0.06 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 (1) This calculation excludes the Auto Exterior sites Number of sites certified to OHSAS acquired in 2016 18001 standards 79 79 75 2015 2016 2017 PLASTIC OMNIUM 69 Plastic Omnium’s CSR approach Environmental indicators Number of sites certified Electricity consumption to ISO 14001 standards in kWh per kg of material processed 2.184 93 1.982 82 86 1.756 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Gas consumption Greenhouse gas emission in kWh per kg of material processed in kg of CO2 equivalent per kg of material processed (Scopes 1 and 2) 0.797 1.099 0.691 0.963 0.853 0.511 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Water consumption Share of recycled plastic in the in liters per kg of material processed consumption of plastic material 12.9% 12.2% 12% 3.553 3.670 2.645 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 70 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 3.1.3 DIALOGUE WITH STAKEHOLDERS The stakeholder map produced in 2017 allowed the classification of organizations according to their impact on Plastic Omnium. Stakeholder Type of relations Employees Social dialogue, internal communications, collaborative spaces, events, career website for future employees Labor unions Meetings, consultation Shareholders Shareholders’ day, shareholders’ newsletter, quarterly and annual publications, site visits, response to financial rating agencies, meeting with financial analysts Banks Annual reviews Customers Contracts, annual reviews, R&D partnerships, responses to CSR questionnaires Insurance companies Site visits and rating Trade associations Participation in working groups Standardization body Participation in working groups focused on standards Specialized administrative services Consultation Suppliers Board of Directors Contracts, supplier CSR charter, partnership, visits Board meeting 03 SUSTAINABLE End users Motor shows DEVELOPMENT Research cluster Participation in working groups Local authorities Contracts, consultation Schools and universities Partnership, participation in events Non-financial rating agencies Response to questionnaires Organizations promoting CSR and sustainable Membership, participation in working groups development initiatives At Plastic Omnium, communication and relations with employees • Management Meetings are held locally with the Group’s take various forms. Executive Committee and the major countries’ management teams. These annual meetings are important opportunities for • Plastic Omnium’s 70th anniversary was the key event of 2017. exchanges between local and Group teams, to discuss local Celebrated on June 6, 2017 at the Grand Palais in Paris, economic and social issues, analyze past results and foresee France, this anniversary brought together over 1,500 people, market trends. including 1,200 employees (of all ranks) from all Plastic Omnium sites and those of its joint ventures. The day’s theme • Once a year, each Division holds a convention to involve its was “innovation as a legacy”, with an exhibition dedicated to managers – between 70 and 150 people – in the strategy and past, present and future innovations. operational challenges. Moreover, specific conventions are organized for each department (Purchasing, HR, Finance, EHS, • Each site subsequently celebrated the event locally, in order to Innovation, IT, etc.). get all employees to join in, via an exhibition and videos on the Company’s history and values. Numerous team-building initia• Every three months, the Divisions organize webcasts during tives took place. which the Heads of the Divisions share the Company’s results with 300 to 500 managers, thereby involving everyone in the • Another key event at Plastic Omnium was the World Safety Day, Company’s success. successfully held in November 2017 for the fourth consecutive year. For the occasion, employees produced videos on the • “Optimum” – the Company’s bi-annual internal magazine – is topic of safety, and the best videos were rewarded and broadtranslated into 8 languages, produced in nearly 23,000 copies cast during the event. and distributed to all employees of Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its joint ventures. • Other specific events are also organized each year, such as the “Top 100” meeting, bringing together the Group’s top execu• The TopNet intranet is increasingly dynamic, now publishing tives to discuss Plastic Omnium’s objectives and ambitions. over 15 news features per month (180 news published during 2017 – 20,000 monthly consultations in average). Each division has a dedicated communication space on it. • A pilot project on the broadcasting of Group news was launched on 24 sites: this new broadcasting method using TV screens enables non-connected employees, such as those working in production facilities. PLASTIC OMNIUM 71 Solutions for clean, connected mobility • The TopShare collaborative portal records over 1.8 million page Suppliers, service providers and subcontractors undergo a listing views per month: this portal now hosts over 1,200 collaboraprocess, aimed at building solid partnerships. The integration of tive sites. CSR criteria in supplier relations is detailed in section 3.3.2 – “Duty of vigilance and responsible purchasing”. • Social dialogue with employee representatives is the foundation of the constructive relationship between Plastic Omnium Regular meetings are held with all players from the automotive, and its employees, involving, for example, meetings with the energy and waste industries to discuss R&D. In addition to European Works Council. “The various forms of dialogue are participating in working groups such as the CSR Committee of the detailed in section 3.4.2 – Social Dialogue”. PFA (Platform of the Automotive and Mobility Industry), Plastic Omnium is a particularly active member of innovative organizaRelations with schools and universities were strengthened in tions: for example, in 2017, Plastic Omnium became a member of 2017 with the signing or renewal of partnerships with prominent the Hydrogen Council’s steering committee. The Company invests engineering institutions such as CentraleSupélec and INSA Lyon in Aster – a venture capital company specialized in digital transforin France, Lublin University of Technology in Poland, Clemson mation and new industrial models – for the purpose of R&D University International Center for Automotive Research (CU-ICAR) exchanges concerning the energy transition and future mobility in the United States and Centrale Pékin in China. Plastic solutions. Omnium’s attractiveness for future employees has been enhanced through its participation in numerous job forums For technical issues unrelated to Plastic Omnium’s fields of organized by schools and universities. Moreover, the Group expertise, the Company seeks specialist advice. Thus, the invests in the development of technical programs suited to its management of risks associated with the use of chemicals in the needs. An example is the participation of the Silao Auto Exterior production line is entrusted to a law firm for the analysis of global site in the creation of the second professional diploma in plastic regulatory changes, and to a specialized partner for the moniinjection molding, in collaboration with IPN “Instituto Politécnico toring of products and their substitution. Nacional” and “Clúster Automotriz”. In Poland, in addition to Insurers are called upon to assess the risk level and provide taking in numerous trainees, Plastic Omnium liaises with advice in order to minimize risks and obtain, for the maximum teachers in key fields for the Group, such as mecatronics. number of sites, the Highly Protected Risk (HPR) label, awarded Plastic Omnium maintains constant dialogue with its customers for the highest standards of industrial risk protection. In 2017, in the aim of creating partnerships, whether with automotive nine exemplary sites have this label. manufacturers for the Auto Exterior and Auto Inergy Divisions or with local communities and waste collectors for the Environment 3.2 Solutions for clean, Division. The goal is to jointly develop innovations that will meet the growing expectations of end users and comply with increasingly stringent regulatory requirements. In 2017, Plastic Omnium once again demonstrated its capacity to meet the needs of its connected mobility customers, who rewarded the Company with numerous prizes: • the Auto Exterior plant in Flers (France) received Volvo’s Quality 3.2.1 CLEAN, CONNECTED MOBILITY and Excellence Award; AT THE HEART OF INNOVATION • the Auto Exterior plant in Amiens (France) received Jaguar Land Rover’s Quality Award; Innovation has been at the heart of Plastic Omnium’s strategy • Plastic Omnium Auto Exterior India was awarded General since its founding over 70 years ago. The celebration of the Motors’ “Certificate of Recognition”; Company’s 70th anniversary in 2017 highlighted this “innovation as a legacy” approach. The transformation of business sectors • Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy Thailand received Nissan’s through the digitization of products and services, along with the Regional Quality Award and General Motors’ Quality Excellence new expectations of stakeholders and new environmental regulaAward. tions, have prompted Plastic Omnium to step up its innovation For the first time, Plastic Omnium presented a concept car at the strategy. The Plastic Omnium Group dedicates 6% of its revenue International Motor Show (IAA) in Frankfurt, Germany, illustrating to R&D, i.e. an investment of €400 million in 2017, compared to its contribution to the clean and connected vehicles of 2030, and €339 million in 2016. allowing its end users to discover the new technologies soon to be rolled out. 72 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT The Group’s R&D is structured around three major international discussions on technological innovations in the automotive research and development centers: ∑-Sigmatech for the Auto sector. It reinforces the open innovation policy and promotes Exterior Division, α-Alphatech for the Auto Inergy Division and collaboration, public/private partnerships and technology transSaint-Priest for the Environment Division. The Auto Inergy Division fers. Chaired by Plastic Omnium’s Chairman & CEO and managed is working on the transformation of its fuel storage operations by the Scientific Director, the Committee brings together the R&D into a multi-energy system, with two sites dedicated to research: Directors of each business line, the Division Managers, and, a center in Belgium, whose innovation team will be transferred in since 2017, internationally recognized experts from the university 2019 to the future Δ-Deltatech center, and the Ξ-POCellTech and academic world, research and industry. The Strategic center operated under a joint venture with Elbit Systems in Israel. Committee’s external experts are: These two centers carry out research into clean propulsion • Professor Mathias Fink from ESPCI Paris, member of the systems, i.e. hydrogen storage and fuel cells. French Academy of Science and Academy of Technology. A total of 2,000 engineers work on innovation in these 5 centers Professor Fink is an internationally recognized researcher in or in one of the twenty technical centers across the world. In wave propagation and imaging; 2017, the fruit of their work led to the filing of 141 patents, inte• Professor Emeritus Jay Lee, from the University of Cincinnati, grating the Group portfolio of more than 3,700 patents. USA. Dr Jay Lee, Ohio Eminent Scholar, L.W. Scott Alter Chair A convention of Experts from the two Automotive Divisions was held in June, bringing together 188 experts from around the Professor, is founding director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) Industry/University Cooperative Research 03 SUSTAINABLE world, as well as the members of the Group’s and Divisions’ Center; DEVELOPMENT Executive Committees. The convention had the following objec• Professor Hiroaki Kitano, President of the Systems Biology tives: bringing everyone together around the Group’s innovation Institute at the Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology in strategy, developing exchanges of methodologies and best pracJapan, also President & CEO of Sony Computer Science tices among employees, and creating synergies around common Laboratories Inc. Professor Kitano is one of the pioneers in projects such as the 4.0 plant. artificial intelligence, robotics and smart energy systems. In 2017, an internal innovation competition was launched at the Furthermore, Plastic Omnium contributed €20 million to a Auto Inergy site of α-Alphatech, while an idea box was introduced €240 million funding round led by Aster, a venture capital fund on the Auto Exterior BTC site, with a reward for the best idea. dedicated to the energy transition and future mobility solutions. These initiatives, which were welcomed by employees and In addition to providing financial support to innovative and promenabled interesting ideas to be developed, will be repeated and ising companies, the purpose of this investment is to promote an extended in 2018. exchange of knowledge and get closer to start-ups in order to To further stimulate its innovation capability, Plastic Omnium has detect early signals of market trends regarding tomorrow’s urban chosen to adopt an “open innovation” approach. Its three main mobility, smart networks, energy storage and conversion, new focuses are: materials (plastic as well as metal, paint and gas), or data • environmental sustainability or how to switch to clean propulprocessing in the digital industry. For this purpose, a Plastic sion systems (electric or hydrogen), and how to improve road Omnium manager is exclusively dedicated to managing relations traffic; with Aster and the companies in its portfolio. • the autonomous car and the shared vehicle or how to integrate Plastic Omnium has also entered into ten partnerships with new IT, data acquisition and data processing technologies; universities and innovative start-ups with whom the Group works directly, such as a start-up in Finland working on plastronics (or • industrial performance (the 4.0 plant) or how to use data to how to make plastic intelligent in order to integrate electronic create the most efficient production and logistics technologies components). Plastic Omnium is developing cooperation agreewhile developing employees’ skills. ments with CEA in France, MIT in the United States, Technion (the For this purpose, Plastic Omnium has chosen to bring external Israel Institute of Technology) in Israel, and the Technical experts into its Automotive Strategic Advisory Committee. This University of Denmark. It is also financing a thesis at UTC (the internal committee was created in 2011 to support management Technological University of Compiègne) in France. PLASTIC OMNIUM 73 Solutions for clean, connected mobility 3.2.2 CLEAN PROPULSION SYSTEMS Internal combustion or hybrid propulsion systems New energies The SCR technology developed by Plastic Omnium is enjoying With the development of hybrid vehicles and the arrival of new increasing success with automotive manufacturers. Through the energy sources, the Auto Inergy Division is enjoying strong injection of the additive Adblue®, this technology reduces NOx growth. emissions (nitrogen oxides which have adverse health effects) by 95%. The diesel market is still growing, particularly in some For its future propulsion systems, Plastic Omnium is searching for non-regulated markets. Plastic Omnium is expecting the market a solution that would have the characteristics of a gasoline share to rise from 17% in 2017 to 26% in 2021. engine: a comparable price range, for an equivalent recharging speed and a lower environmental impact. Plastic Omnium thus Concerning gasoline vehicles, in order to reduce CO2 emissions, identified hydrogen as an appropriate alternative in view of user Plastic Omnium has been working on reducing consumption. The needs, environmental constraints, economic constraints, and R&D teams at NOH in Belgium have developed a water injection technical performance. system which cools the air coming into the engine’s combustion chamber. This allows the engine to run without any performance To develop this technology, pending the inauguration of the loss, but without overheating, even at full throttle. Fuel consumpΔ-Deltatech center in Belgium, the engineers of the NOH site have tion, along with CO2 emissions, are thus reduced by up to 15%. been working on fuel cells in collaboration with Ξ-POCellTech, as well as on pressurized tanks able to withstand pressures of up to Concerning rechargeable hybrid vehicles, a specific tank is 700 bar, necessary for the use of hydrogen. required. Indeed, when the vehicle runs in electric mode, no fuel is drawn from the tank and hydrocarbon fumes accumulate in it, The Ξ-POCellTech research center, working under a joint venture as they cannot be evacuated by the conventional system, thus with Israeli company Elbit Systems, has become a cutting-edge building up pressure in the tank. As these fumes cannot be laboratory dedicated to hydrogen, driving constant progress in the released into the atmosphere, the tank must be able to withstand analysis of fuel cell performance and the various pollutants that high pressures. Plastic Omnium’s new INWIN technology deals can come into the composition of these cells. with these technical constraints while also reducing CO2 emisWithin the scope of its fuel cell development and hydrogen sions, thanks to its weight, which is 40% lighter than its metal research, in 2017, Plastic Omnium became a member of the equivalent and its fume treatment method. steering committee of the Hydrogen Council, which brings together the CEOs of large companies whose goal is to step up investments in the development and marketing of hydrogen and fuel cells, and encourage major stakeholders to support the 3.2.3 REDUCED VEHICLE WEIGHT development of hydrogen – a clean energy – in future energy mixes, through appropriate policies and support programs. According to RobecoSam, between 2010 and 2030, the percentage of light materials in vehicles should increase from Alongside this global initiative, Plastic Omnium also joined 29% to 67%, while that of heavy steel should drop from 52% to Hydrogen Europe and AFHYPAC (French Association for Hydrogen 13%. This trend supports the automotive manufacturers’ need to and Fuel Cells) who have the same missions as the Hydrogen constantly reduce the weight of vehicles, as this is a major factor Council, but at the European and French levels, respectively. for the reduction of CO2 emissions. As from 2021, European At the end of 2017, Plastic Omnium created a new Business Unit, regulations will require private vehicle emissions of CO2 to be which will bring together over 120 people, within the Auto Inergy limited to 95 grams per kilometer, with the possibility of an Division dedicated to new energies. This entity will be based on upward adjustment of this cap with the new regulation on tests the same model as Plastic Omnium’s other business units, with under real driving conditions. the Senior Management reporting to the Chief Executive Officer of In order to help its customers meet these requirements, Plastic the Auto Inergy Division, and a management team dedicated to Omnium has developed an innovative bumper concept. The the technological and commercial development of hydrogen. Over lighter and more aerodynamic LightAir bumper helps to reduce the same period, two companies were acquired by Plastic the CO2 emissions of combustion-powered vehicles (by up to 3 g/ Omnium, rounding off its technology portfolio. km for SUVs), and increases the autonomy of electric vehicles by up to 10%. A new design and an active spoiler system increase aerodynamism by 15%, while the use of a low-density material reduces the total weight of the bumper by 10%. 74 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT At the 2017 International Motor Show (IAA) in Frankfurt, Plastic Internal quality standards, which are more specific to Plastic Omnium presented a concept car reflecting the Group’s 2030 Omnium’s activities than the IATF 16949 standard, are applied on vision: the front-end module is aerodynamic and has an interacall sites, and a team of quality auditors verifies their implementative “skin” able to change its shape depending on speed, or light tion. The deployment of IATF and internal standards involve the up to warn pedestrians. training of employees, including the members of the Executive Committee, in charge of the management review. The implemenVehicle connectivity has also become a major stake for manufactation of these standards is verified through Corporate Quality turers: in addition to providing benefits for drivers and passenAudits (CQAs). Each CQA lasts one week and is conducted by an gers, vehicle connectivity will improve road safety and reduce auditor and a Quality Assurance Manager from a plant in another environmental impacts. Indeed, an autonomous vehicle eradicountry. Around 80% of Auto Inergy’s plants and technical centers cates the issue of driver behavior, which could reduce direct fuel are audited every year, with a target of 100% for 2018. In 2017, consumption by up to 40%. Moreover, with 5% connected vehithe quality auditors visited 26 plants and two technical centers. cles, bottlenecks would be eliminated(1), thereby improving air Moreover, at Auto Exterior, 100% of the sites were audited, i.e. 49 quality. plants and eight technical centers. In the Auto Inergy Division, in This is a major focus of the Company’s work. The LightAir concept addition to compliance checks, the auditors started to provide is representative of the shift from passive components to active the sites with support in 2017 to help them develop the required components through the integration of driver assistance features (camera, radars, sensors, etc.), that work in all weather condiaction plans. With their global vision of quality issues, the auditing teams have in-depth knowledge of best practices and 03 SUSTAINABLE tions thanks to surface de-icing technology. their advice is highly valued by local teams. Every month, the DEVELOPMENT audits and evaluations performed are presented to the Executive Committee, with a special focus on critical gaps. 3.2.4 PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY At the product level, constant compliance with quality standards is required throughout the product life cycle: Plastic Omnium’s products, in particular those of the Auto Inergy • during the design phase: the goal is to ensure that the Division, are safety products. Regulatory safety standards are customers’ quality specifications for their new products match increasingly stringent. In addition, the expectations of Plastic the requirements of Plastic Omnium, whose standards are in Omnium customers and road users are very high. A quality line with the most stringent international regulatory requireproblem on a component can give rise to a major incident (exploments. The quality requirements are developed right from the sion of a fuel tank or inappropriate bumper behavior on pedesnew technology’s R&D phase. Such was the case, for example, trian impact). with the hydrogen tank projects conducted in Belgium. Indeed, The Divisions have set up robust organizational structures to this type of tank has to meet a range of different standards ensure quality, from the design of the products, to their use by and requires new specifications to be defined; end users. The Divisions’ and Regions’ Quality Departments • during the manufacturing phase: the Regional Quality define the policies and procedures and ensure their implementaAssurance Manager supervises all Plant Quality Assurance tion. Project Quality teams ensure compliance with the Group’s Managers, who ensure compliance with the verification procequality standards in product development and manufacturing. dures and frequencies, and customer information. They are In all Group plants, quality is ensured through a specific automothus in charge of relations with customers, to analyze any tive industr y quality management system: IATF 16949, a defects and set up preventive and corrective action plans sector-specific adaptation of ISO 9001 v2015 requirements. This in-house. These analyses and action plans are then dissemistandard, reviewed in 2016, has been implemented by Plastic nated to all sites, allowing everyone to implement the same Omnium since mid-2017. At the end of 2017, 21 sites were certimeasures, if necessary. A procedure introduced some ten fied to the revised IATF 16949 standard 100% of the plants are years ago in the Auto Inergy Division enables Plastic Omnium certified to the previous or the new version of the standard. New to limit the impact of any product recall due to quality issues. In sites are integrated into this certification process as soon as they fact, on all sites worldwide, out of ever y 25,000 tanks open, with the objective of obtaining the certification after one produced for the same project, one tank is randomly selected year of operation. Before the opening of the site, the quality and sent to the α-AlphaTech technical center in France for a full teams verify the quality system put in place. product quality review, within a period of two weeks. A team of 15 employees is assigned to this verification and checks around 70 tanks per month. Thus, any necessary recall would involve no more than 25,000 products. (1) Data from the paper “Dissipation of stop-and-go waves via control of autonomous vehicles: Field experiments” by Raphael E. Stern, Shumo Cui, Maria Laura Delle Monache. PLASTIC OMNIUM 75 Responsible entrepreneurs Plastic Omnium’s quality requirements are passed on to 3.2.5 ECO-DESIGN AND RECYCLABILITY suppliers, who must comply with the Group’s standards. In the event of non-compliance, an action plan is set up with the The main raw material used by Plastic Omnium is plastic. Plastic supplier and monitored to guarantee product compliance; Omnium wishes to minimize its impacts on climate change by • during the vehicle life cycle: if a defect is detected by a garage, reducing its greenhouse gas emissions, in particular stemming the carmaker and Plastic Omnium discuss the matter in order from the extraction of the oil needed for plastic manufacturing. To to understand the origin of the defect (design, manufacturing, this effect, Plastic Omnium uses recycled plastic insofar as mounting on the vehicle, etc.) and implement an action plan. possible in its products, while maintaining the level of technicality, safety and esthetics required by customers and applicable In the end, the number of defective parts is low with six PPM for standards. During the manufacturing process, all material Auto Inergy and 74 PPM for Auto Exterior. off-cuts are re-used in production, thereby avoiding significant losses of new plastic. Annual consumption of plastics (metric tons) 2015 2016 2017 New plastics(1) 350,635 358,469 343,229 Blank composites 20,738 15,660 Recycled plastics 50,823 51,616 51,072 Biosourced plastics 1,036 388 260 Total plastics 395,088 423,378 425,461 (1) Data that included composite materials in 2015. The Environment Division also uses other materials such as aluminum, steel and wood in the manufacture of composters and underground containers. Consumption of raw materials (metric tons) 2015 2016 2017 Plastics consumption(1) 402,640 409,801 395,089 Composite consumption 20,738 15,660 Paints/solvent consumption 13,550 17,663 18,718 Steel/aluminum consumption 51,835 14,234 16,468 Wood consumption 52 16 45 (1) Data that included composite materials in 2015. The Environment Division is particularly advanced in the matter, as its constraints are less stringent. The containers are made of 3.3 Responsible over 60% recycled plastic, which means a ten-fold reduction in their carbon footprint compared to containers made of 100% new entrepreneurs plastic. In 2018, the Auto Inergy Division is planning to update the data Plastic Omnium has seen sharp growth over recent years, as its on the life cycle analysis of a tank based on a model whose revenue more than doubled in the past six years. The objective is design has evolved (production method and multi-layer product to continue this strong growth, and achieve revenue of €10 billion design). by 2021. To this ef fect, a major investment program of €2.5 billion has been undertaken for the 2017-2021 period. Such The design of products also takes account of the weight issue, economic performance, necessary for sustainable development, with constant research to optimize thickness while preserving the rests on the company’s strong competitiveness. This competitivetechnical characteristics. This eco-design has a direct impact on ness is ensured by Plastic Omnium’s family business model, with the quantity of raw material purchased, and an indirect impact for the five pillars of the ‘PO Way’, called the 5Is, upholding the customers by lightening the vehicles. Company’s dynamism and identity: Independence; Investment; Innovation; Internationalization; Integration. 76 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 3.3.1 BUSINESS ETHICS Compact is verified with regard to: ethics, human rights, child labor and forced labor, safety, working time and overtime, environEthics is a cornerstone of the Plastic Omnium Group’s operations, mental protection, etc., thus reinforcing the audits conducted by stated since 2003 through Plastic Omnium’s membership of the the EHS and Quality departments. In 2017, 52 entities were United Nations Global Compact and its concomitant publication audited (up from 41 audits in 2016 and 37 in 2015). On average, of the first version of its Code of Conduct, now translated into entities are audited every two years and more frequently where seven languages. Through this Code of Conduct, Plastic Omnium major gaps are detected. All entities consolidated in July 2016 and its employees undertake to abide by 13 strong commitments were audited in 2017, providing a measure of the new employees’ concerning respect for employees, their health and safety, adoption of Plastic Omnium’s rules. A report of the major findings respect for the environment, respect for the confidentiality of of the audits is sent monthly to the Management of the Divisions partners’ data, respect for competitors, and total rejection of and to the Management of the support functions. In addition, the discrimination, harassment, conflicts of interests, fraud and results of the audits are reviewed once a year by the Audit corruption. A Code of Conduct on the ethical management of Committee. competition has been distributed to buyers and sales representatives in four languages since 2010. 3.3.2 DUTY OF VIGILANCE AND RESPONSIBLE These codes are available on the TopNet intranet and are provided to each new employee. An e-learning module in Plastic PURCHASING 03 SUSTAINABLE Omnium’s internal application “My Learning Place” is available to DEVELOPMENT train employees in the Code of Conduct. In addition, classroom Within the subsidiaries and joint ventures training sessions ensure buyers and sales representatives are Human rights, fundamental freedoms, the health and safety of trained in the Code of Conduct for Competition. In 2017, people and the environment are at the heart of Plastic Omnium’s e-learning sessions on the Code of Conduct were provided to policies on Human Resources, EHS/CSR. The Group has publicly 894 employees. undertaken to comply with these principles by joining the United Created in 2016, the leaflet “The Fundamentals and Golden Nations Global Compact, as of 2003. Rules of Internal Control” sets out the essential compliance rules These policies are implemented in all Group subsidiaries through to avoid risks of internal and external fraud. Available on the dedicated organizational entities. The Human Resources and TopNet intranet in four languages, these rules are applicable to all EHS/CSR entities were created on the basis of the same multisites. An e-learning module was developed and will be deployed level model, whose efficiency has been demonstrated: The in 2018. Group’s Human Resources and EHS/CSR Departments identify Classroom training sessions on compliance are available at all the issues at stake, define the policies and strategies to address sites. In 2017, sessions dedicated to the risks of fraud, corrupthem, and develop corporate tools and resources for the tion and breaches of competition laws were conducted in Europe networks. The Divisions, which have their own Human Resources and Asia China, India, Japan. The targeted audiences include: and EHS/CSR entities, report to the Group’s Human Resources heads of business units, sales representatives, purchasing, and EHS/CSR Departments. Regional and/or local departments financial, human resources and logistics. (countries and plants) implement the policies through dedicated In addition, specific training sessions are provided according to Human Resources and EHS/CSR teams, using tools and external and internal current events. External speakers such as resources developed by the Group or its Divisions. The Group lawyers specialized in competition law or corruption may be Departments hold regular events within their networks to promote invited to take part in the training days. In Europe, training the co-development of best practices and their dissemination sessions on internal control were carried out in 10 countries of across the Group. the Auto Inergy Division, while the Executive Committee of the The rules of ethics, the Top Safety system (to manage the secuAuto Exterior Division received training on the main risks of fraud. rity of people and property) and the Top Planet system (for energy management), applicable across all subsidiaries and controlled To ensure that the rules are thoroughly understood and applied by joint-ventures, are detailed in sections 3.3.1 – Business ethics, everyone, independent internal audits are commissioned by the 3.4 – Care for people, and 3.5 – Sustainable production. Group and conducted across all subsidiaries as either scheduled or unannounced: plants, R&D centers and administrative departAs part of their day-to-day responsibilities, the HR and EHS/CSR ments. During an audit, the entire scope of an entity is covered networks ensure compliance with the Group’s rules and policies and the topics include financial and non-financial aspects: through on-site checks supplemented with audits by the EHS/ Compliance with the principles of the United Nations Global CSR Department and Internal Audit teams. PLASTIC OMNIUM 77 Responsible entrepreneurs The effectiveness of the policies and measures implemented is Strengthening of requirements monitored on a regular basis through dedicated monthly or annual In 2017, France introduced a law (no. 2017-399 of March 27, reports, depending on the type of indicators, and their main 2017) on the duty of vigilance of parent companies and results are presented in this Sustainable Development chapter. contracting undertakings. Large companies, including Plastic With suppliers, service providers and subcontractors Omnium, must report on the establishment and implementation of a vigilance plan with regard to the company’s business and Plastic Omnium has progressively extended its internal requirethat of all subsidiaries and companies under its control. The plan ments to its suppliers, service providers and subcontractors, to comprises specific due diligence measures to identify and ensure that its work is carried out with partners having the same prevent risks of serious violations concerning human rights, ethical standards. The General Terms and Conditions of Supply fundamental freedoms, the health and safety of persons, and the drafted by category of suppliers and reviewed on a regular basis environment. by the Divisions’ Purchasing Departments, thus include contractual clauses linked to the supplier’s responsibility. In its General Vigilance measures have been in place within Group subsidiaries Terms and Conditions of Supply, available on its website, Plastic and joint ventures for many years and have proven their effectiveOmnium reserves the right to ask its suppliers and subcontracness. The mapping of risks, evaluation procedures, risk preventors to be ISO 14001 or OHSAS 18001 certified. At the end of tion and mitigation measures, the whistleblowing procedure and 2017, 735 suppliers were ISO 14001 certified. Respect for the monitoring system for those measures are presented herehuman rights (with regard to child labor, forced labor, undeclared under. or illegal work, discrimination, etc.), respect for employee health Concerning suppliers, the law on the duty of vigilance is an and safety and respect for the environment are prerequisites for opportunity for Plastic Omnium to further increase the robustness any partnership. of its practices and harmonize the tools and resources used by Launched in 2016, the Supplier CSR Charter was designed on the the Divisions. Thus, in 2017, the main departments concerned at basis of the best practices for all of the activities of the Plastic Group level and within the Divisions (EHS/CSR, Purchasing, Omnium Group and for all categories of purchases. This Charter Human Resources, and Risk Management) defined a generic vigirests on a reciprocal commitment embodied by a joint signature. lance plan applicable to all Group activities. This plan is The supplier also undertakes to ensure that its own suppliers, composed of several measures: a process to identify at-risk subcontractors and service providers comply with the principles suppliers, supplier evaluation procedures, the monitoring of of the Charter. action plans following evaluations, a whistleblowing procedure, and a system to monitor the measures implemented and assess By undertaking to comply with the Charter, the supplier endeavors their effectiveness. to comply with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. The supplier must also comply with: This plan will be submitted to the European Works Council, a body chosen to get input from internal stakeholders ahead of the • the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights and meeting scheduled for June 2018, for discussions at the open its two covenants (the International Covenant on Economic, questions session. Social and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights); • the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labor 3.3.2.1 Mapping of internal risks Organization (ILO), and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental and identification of at-risk suppliers Principles and Rights at Work; The internal risks to which Plastic Omnium is exposed are identi• the OECD Guidelines. fied at several levels. Thus, all forms of illegal work, forced labor, child labor or discrimThe materiality analysis conducted in 2017 identified Group-wide ination must be banned. Equal pay, freedom of association and risk areas liable to impact the company’s overall performance. protection of the right to organize, as well as the right to a safe Assessments were thus made on issues involving financial risks, and healthy work environment must be guaranteed. The minimum business continuity risks, reputation risks, and regulatory compliwage and employee benefits, as well as the maximum number of ance risks, in particular concerning human rights (responsible working hours, must comply with applicable laws. management, equal opportunities), freedom of association (social Respect for the environment is also a Plastic Omnium requiredialogue), health and safety, and the environment. The priority ment: the supplier undertakes to comply with regulations in this issues identified during this analysis – related to the duty of vigirespect, limit its environmental impacts (nuisances and pollution), lance – are business ethics, health and safety, and responsible use resources in a rational and traceable way, and replace toxic purchasing. Across the Group, the environmental risks identified chemicals whenever possible. are mainly linked to the product offering. At the end of 2017, more than 4,000 suppliers had signed this Charter. 78 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT An analysis of the operational risks and industrial and environTo ensure everyone’s knowledge of and compliance with this mental risks (health, safety and environment), also conducted at Code, an e-learning module and a dedicated intranet space are Group level, is presented in section 1.7 – Risk factors and Control available. of this Registration Document. The reports whose results are presented in this section are At the local level, the sites are required under internal rules to monitored at several levels, in order to ensure the effectiveness obtain the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certifications. For of the policies and actions. The main indicators are analyzed ISO 14001 certification, an analysis of environmental risks is three times a year by the Executive Committee. Twice a year, the required. For OHSAS 18001 certification a health and safety policies, tools and results are presented to the European Works analysis is required: accidents, incidents and near-misses are Council. The continuous improvement of the results demonsubject to a report, an analysis of causes and experience-sharing strates the relevance of this global strategy. among sites to avoid hazardous situations. Top Safety visits also In addition, the proper implementation of all these measures provide opportunities for employees, and in particular operators, across all sites is verified through internal audits. Concerning to report any hazardous situations observed. health and safety in particular, Top Safety visits ensure that good Moreover, the engagement survey conducted in 2016, which will working conditions are maintained and that any required adjustbe repeated in 2019, comprises questions on personal safety ments are implemented. and working conditions making it possible to detect, at the local level, the possible areas of progress. The implementation of The suppliers, subcontractors and service providers with whom Plastic Omnium works undergo a listing process and undertake to 03 SUSTAINABLE actions will subsequently mitigate the risks identified. DEVELOPMENT comply with the General Terms and Conditions of Supply and the Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms (with regard Supplier CSR Charter. Quality audits integrating social and envito forced labor, child labor, employee remuneration, work organironmental criteria are conducted at supplier premises on a zation, etc.) is part of the criteria examined during internal audits: regular basis to ensure their compliance with Plastic Omnium’s the risks identified and managed mainly concern working hours requirements. A total of 202 suppliers were thus audited in 2017. and overtime, employee remuneration and the use of outsourced Plastic Omnium’s various departments (EHS/CSR, Purchasing, labor. Human Resources and Risk Management) are working on a revision of the evaluation methodology, based on the analysis of The suppliers, subcontractors and service providers liable to supplier documentation combined with on-site audits. present operational and financial risks are identified by Plastic Omnium. Plastic Omnium’s vigilance plan will eventually supplement this financial risk evaluation with an assessment of non-­ 3.3.2.3 Equities to prevent or mitigate financial risks. To this effect, Plastic Omnium is reviewing its method for identifying at-risk suppliers which require special violations monitoring, as well as its method for assessing risks and impleIn-house, the EHS plan and the Human Resources policies menting the required checks. detailed in the section concerned make it possible to prevent risks. The good social and environmental results and their 3.3.2.2 Evaluation procedures continuous improvement confirm the relevance of the choices made to reduce risks at source. The Human Resources and EHS The in-house rules that Plastic Omnium employees must comply networks enable rapid reporting of any major risk detected to the with to minimize risks are laid down in various documents and in Group Management. This is supplemented with regular site t h e d ep loy m ent an d c o nt r ol p r o c e d ur es p r es ente d in audits, which detect rules gaps to be subsequently followed up section 3.3.1 – “Business Ethics”. The Code of Conduct, transwith corrective action plans. Exchanges of best practices among lated into seven languages to ensure its adoption by everyone, sites and network members allow the set-up of preventative applies to all employees of Compagnie Plastic Omnium, as well action plans on each of the sites that may be exposed to these as those of its subsidiaries and the affiliated companies in which same risks or gaps. it holds a majority interest. The Code of Conduct states the Based on this model of preventative and corrective action plans, commitment of the companies and employees to respect human which has demonstrated its efficiency for its subsidiaries, Plastic rights, health and safety procedures, the environment, as well as Omnium will be developing procedures for the implementation of the rules of ethics. Each Division, through the policies, resources preventative and corrective action plans for its suppliers, service and tools put in place, ensures that the risks are assessed and providers and subcontractors. Should a supplier evaluation reveal that the required preventative and corrective action plans are one or more major gaps on non-negotiable issues, Plastic implemented. Omnium reserves the right to take all protective measures to ensure the integrity and sustainability of the Group. PLASTIC OMNIUM 79 Responsible entrepreneurs 3.3.2.4 Whistleblowing procedure Plastic Omnium uses all necessary technical and organizational means to meet these increasingly stringent requirements, against A whistleblowing procedure has been in place for several years. a backdrop of rapid change and stiff competition, in which data Employees are encouraged to inform their line manager or the protection has become a major concern. Group’s Corporate Secretary of any situation which involves risks Through its Technical Division and its Cyberdefense Department, or is contrary to current regulations or Plastic Omnium’s internal the Plastic Omnium Group defines norms and standards to adapt rules. Ways to extend this procedure to external third parties are its IT infrastructure to the changes in its business activities and currently being defined. new uses, and to provide resources and services under safe conditions for the Company and for users, through a risk identifi3.3.2.5 System to monitor the measures cation and management procedure. implemented and assess their effectiveness Working alongside the Group’s Cyber-defense Department, the Divisions’ IT Departments make daily efforts to ensure the proper The effectiveness of the measures implemented in subsidiaries operation of infrastructure and the deployment of dedicated and Group-controlled joint ventures to manage environmental, Group-wide safety rules. health and safety risks is measured on a monthly basis. A dediTechnology watch is one of the essential functions of the IT and cated reporting tool enables consumption levels and discharges, Cyberdefense Departments. For this purpose, Plastic Omnium tracking of discrimination incidents, and follow-up of accidents has joined two benchmark organizations dedicated to IT security and near-misses to be monitored. Targets are set and results are and bringing together major French players, including automotive monitored monthly by the Executive Committee. A dedicated team manufacturers: CLUSIF (French Information Security Club) and is tasked with the deployment of the measures. All of these CESIN (Information and Digital Security Experts Club). measures are presented in sections 3.4 – “Care for people”, and 3.5.1 – “Focus on responsible production”. In addition, permanent contact is maintained with several government bodies, such as ANSSI(2), to improve the detection of Concerning human rights and fundamental freedoms, the Labor threats and develop an appropriate response capability. Relations Department keeps an annual record of employee representatives and the agreements signed in each country. To support this process, specific procedures and best practices guides have been developed and distributed across dedicated Concerning suppliers and subcontractors, the Group is set to spaces, such as the TopNet intranet. finalize procedures in 2018 to initiate a test phase requiring the employees involved be informed and trained. Following an analFrom a protection solution viewpoint, Plastic Omnium uses ysis of the efficiency of the procedures and their possible revicutting-edge systems to protect the Company against the various sion, the procedures will be implemented and any situations types of attacks that could affect its data or its IT system as a involving risks will be reported to the Executive Committee. whole. The Company thus maintains a Security Operating Center (SOC) to detect, in real time, high-risk uses and behaviors that could 3.3.3 DATA PROTECTION undermine the integrity of the data. Moreover, a Charter on the use of IT resources is being produced To address the growing threats stemming from cyberspace, the and will be deployed internationally in 2018. newly created Cyberdefense Depar tment is tasked with The purpose of these measures is awareness and to prompt protecting Plastic Omnium and its IT assets, including employee users to adopt good practices in the use of data and IT equipdata, customer data, and the Group’s essential operating data. ment. The legal and regulatory framework, which is constantly changing to cater for societal digitization and the transformation of uses, is reinforcing requirements for the protection of data in general, and personal data in particular. (2) ANSSI: Agence Nationale de la Sécurité des Systèmes d’Information (French National IT Security Agency), attached to the French Secretary-General for National Security and Defense. 80 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 3.3.4 RELATIONS WITH LOCAL Local social voluntary development actions STAKEHOLDERS For Plastic Omnium, developing a strong local base also means participating in local voluntary social development initiatives. The In 2017, the Plastic Omnium Group and its joint ventures were Divisions, countries and sites that wish are free to participate in present in 31 countries through 127 sites and 20 development or set up philanthropic or sponsorship actions. centers and 4 research clusters. The production sites are located in the immediate vicinity of customer plants, to ensure optimum In the United States, for the third consecutive year, Plastic response time. Certain sites, known as forward supplier facilities, Omnium has supported the efforts of the “Focus Hope” nonprofit are directly integrated in customer sites. Other automotive organization benefitting the dispossessed in the Detroit area: the manufacturers’ suppliers also have their premises around them, Company donated $333,000, in line with its commitment to making these areas highly dynamic in terms of local economic donate $1 million over a three-year period to fund education development and local employment. projects and help with the management of a food bank. Whenever possible, i.e. mainly for non-strategic purchasing cateIn Mexico, following the earthquake of September 2017 which gories, Plastic Omnium encourages the deployment of this model resulted in numerous casualties, Plastic Omnium’s Mexican sites by also calling on local suppliers. moved into action. The Auto Inergy Division’s Leon site organized Whenever a new site is opened, whether through its creation or acquisition, Plastic Omnium encourages local employment, in the collection of staple products (hygiene products, cleaning products and foodstuffs) and donations. The funds were used 03 SUSTAINABLE locally to buy staples, thus helping the small businesses hit by DEVELOPMENT order to fit into the local community, ensure local economic the natural disaster. The Puebla, Ramos, Silao and San Luis benefits, and profit from a strong local base. As mentioned in Potosi sites also organized product donations for earthquake section 3.4.4 – Talent and skill management, Plastic Omnium victims. strives to develop local employee skills rather than send expatriates, thereby increasing the local employability level. In Spain, in 2017, the Environment Division renewed its support to the Food Banks of Madrid and Valencia. The employees of the These new sites are the focus of special attention, especially Santa Catalina, Ribarroja, Fuenlabrada and Gobelas sites concerning applicable laws. All new sites must initiate ISO 14001 collected 335 kilograms of food products for malnourished chiland OHSAS 18001 certification procedures upon the start-up of dren and, for each kilo collected by the employees, Plastic operations, including an analysis of environmental and health/ Omnium added an extra kilo of food. safety risks. These certifications make it possible to identify and reduce impacts and thus implement the required corrective and Initiatives in favor of sick children were conducted in various preventative actions, ensuring harmonious relations with local sites: the Auto Exterior Silao site collected donations for the Dr residents. One German site has received a neighbor complaint Sonrisas Foundation, which brings joy to sick children through about noise. After noise level measurement, several actions have various actions. The Auto Exterior ∑-Sigmatech site held an been taken by the site to comply with the regulation: a noise auction sale for the benefit of the nonprofit organization Vivre aux protection wall was built; fan motor, cooling water pumps motors Éclats, which sends clowns into hospitals to cheer up sick chiland cold water pipes received noise insulation. dren. Bottlecap drives were organized on the Spanish sites of Auto Exterior Redondela and Environment Madrid for the benefit For Plastic Omnium, one of the major areas of local integration is of the SEUR Foundation which helps children with health probthe development of partnerships with universities and schools. lems. The Auto Exterior Pappenheim and Auto Inergy Togliatti These partnerships boost local awareness of the Company and sites organized Christmas toy drives for disadvantaged children. improve its attractiveness for the recruiting of young talents and make it possible to develop research and innovation partnerOther local actions, benefitting health, the environment, sick chilships. dren, or disadvantaged children were conducted on the sites’ initiative. PLASTIC OMNIUM 81 Care for people 3.4 Care for people 3.4.1 RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT The Company’s strong growth obviously means significant scope changes, and thus workforce changes, which the Human Resources Departments manage in a responsible way. At the end of December 2017, the Group had 21,127 employees, a slight decrease compared to end-2016, due to the disposals of the composite activity, mainly located in France, leading to a decrease in the number of manufacturing workers. Workforce by type of employment contract 2015 2016 2017 Permanent employment contracts 15,081 74% 19,720 74% 19,195 75% Fixed-term employment contracts 1,547 8% 2,174 8% 1,932 8% Registered employees 16,628 21,894 21,127 Temporary staff 3,661 18% 4,628 18% 4,376 17% Total employees (registered and temporary) 20,289 26,522 25,503 Registered workforce by Socio-Professional Category 2015 2016 2017 Manufacturing workers 8,801 53% 12,294 56% 11,324 54% Administrative staff, technicians and supervisors 4,146 25% 5,044 23% 5,086 24% Managers 3,681 22% 4,556 21% 4,717 22% Breakdown of workforce by region, contract and category 35% Western Europe (excluding France) 17% 18% North France America 13% Eastern Europe 10% Asia 7% South America and Africa 82 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Permanent Fixed-term Total employment employment registered Temporary contract contract employees staff Total France 3,682 17 3,699 866 4,565 Western Europe excluding France 6,502 765 7,267 1,649 8,916 Eastern Europe 2,323 620 2,943 463 3,406 North America 3,391 370 3,761 596 4,357 South America and Africa 1,584 3 1,587 68 1,655 Asia 1,713 157 1,870 734 2,604 Total 19,195 1,932 21,127 4,376 25,503 Manufacturing Administrative staff, Managers Total workers technicians and supervisors France 1,180 1,041 1,478 3,699 Western Europe excluding France 4,186 1,900 1,181 7,267 Eastern Europe North America 1,874 2,156 662 768 407 837 2,943 3,761 03 SUSTAINABLE South America and Africa 1,030 361 196 1,587 DEVELOPMENT Asia 898 354 618 1,870 Total 11,324 5,086 4,717 21,127 To unite all employees around the ‘PO Way’ and a common An analysis of the compensation differentials for the same posicorporate culture, Plastic Omnium has, for a number of years, tion identified the following differences: been implementing development programs for its current and • less than 5% for recent graduates, professionals, managers, future managers. The Starter, Booster, Driving Success and specialists; Leading Manufacturing programs aim to establish the same management methods worldwide. Specific actions strive to • less than 9% for the senior manager population. improve skills in particular areas. Phone conferences were thus For France, based on the coefficients in the collective bargaining organized for senior managers on topics linked to managerial agreement in the Plastics industry, differences have been measskills: around 200 of them thus attended an awareness-raising ured: session on “people reviews”. A second session, dedicated to feedback, took place at the end of the year. • 8 coefficients have a gender difference of less than 8%; • 4 coefficients have a difference greater than 8% with a maximum difference of 15%. Compensation The compensation is supplemented with social benefits, defined Fair compensation is a pillar of responsible management and a at the local level. In keeping with applicable local regulations and motivation and commitment factor for employees. Plastic social practices, collective incentive policies have been develOmnium’s compensation policy is based on equity and non-disoped in a majority of countries, along the lines of the profcrimination with regard to gender, origin, religion, sexual orientait-sharing and incentive schemes in France. tion, disability or any other matter. This commitment is stated in At December 31, 2017, the Group stock ownership plan set up in the Code of Conduct and through joining the United Nations France had 1,906 employee subscribers, holding a total of Global Compact. 1,476,225 Compagnie Plastic Omnium shares purchased on the The percentage increase from annual salary reviews of managers market, representing 0.98% of the share capital. Employees do and engineers is equal between men and women at the global not hold other shares in respect of shareholding as provided for level. by Articles L. 225-129 and L. 225-138 of the French Commercial Code, nor in respect of Company profit-sharing. Since 2016, the Group rolled out a health insurance scheme, providing better health cover for French employees and their families. PLASTIC OMNIUM 83 Care for people Employee benefit expense In thousands of euros 2015 2016 2017 Change in 2016/2017 Wages and salaries (585,620) (690,904) (820,074) 18.7% Payroll taxes (160,296) (190,149) (219,808) 15.6% Non-discretionary profit-sharing (12,418) (14,181) (18,115) 27.7% Pension and other post-employment benefit costs (798) (1,602) (2,840) 77.3% Share-based compensation (3,025) (3,498) (3,327) (4.9%) Other employee benefits expenses (37,432) (38,101) (36,011) (5.5%) Total employee benefits expenses excluding temporary staff costs (799,589) (938,437) (1,100,175) 17.2% Temporary staff costs (109,540) (125,884) (142,677) 13.3% Total employee benefit expenses including temporary staff (909,130) (1,064,321) (1,242,852) 16.7% Organization of work The Group’s industrial activity and the need to adapt production capacity to demand require team work and night shifts in most Work on Plastic Omnium sites is organized in compliance with plants. In 2017, overtime and temporary employees decreased by applicable local legislation and the fundamental conventions of respectively 7% and 5%, mainly due to site disposals. the International Labour Organization concerning working time. Total number of employees working in shifts 2015 2016 2017 Employees working in shifts 9,873 13,529 12,411 Of which employees working only nights 1,025 1,190 1,203 Of which employees working only weekends 122 166 118 Part-time employees 295 394 344 Overtime hours 2015 2016 2017 From 35 hours to From 35 hours to From 35 hours to Hours worked per week 48 hours 48 hours 48 hours Overtime (full-time equivalent) 999 1,154 1,074 3.4.2 SOCIAL DIALOGUE ensures the decisions and practices implemented are the same in all countries. Plastic Omnium wants to build long-term relations with its Following the acquisition of sites in Germany in 2016, the Group employees. Changes in scope resulting in site closures or set up a dual structure comprising a Supervisory Board and an disposals are planned well in advance: At a very early stage, the equal employee representation. Management announces its decisions to the trade unions and Plastic Omnium Auto Exterior SA France has changed the compoemployees, and takes the required time to engage in construcsition of its Board of Directors to include an employee administive, open and transparent dialogue with them, as was the case trator, appointed by the Works Council. for the sale of Plastic Omnium’s truck composite parts business. Consultation meetings were thus held with the European Works The European Works Council, which is made up of 35 members Council and at the local level. Discussions proved constructive representing eight countries, meets annually. Within the Group, and the negotiation of an agreement was not deemed necessary. 33 trade unions are represented. Locally, labor relations are managed by the Human Resources In 2017, 163 agreements were concluded, 16 of which concerned Departments of the Divisions or countries, in compliance with health and safety. At the end of 2017, 67% of employees worldapplicable local regulations. The Labor Relations Department wide were covered by a collective agreement. 84 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 2016 2017 Existing committees 165 195 164 Of which Works Councils 62 78 66 Other committees (training/ideas) 74 95 78 Number of trade unions represented 31 34 33 Number of Company agreements signed during the year 120 191 163 Agreements on health and safety at work 15 13 16 Percentage of employees covered by a collective agreement 63% 67% 67% 2015 2016 2017 Total contribution to works council employee welfare programs (in thousands of euros) 1,456 1,438 914 3.4.3 HEALTH AND SAFETY Number of Top Safety visits per year(1) 2.20 03 Ensuring the health and safety of employees is one of the founda2.10 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT tions of responsible management. Present in the Code of 1.77 Conduct, this commitment is shared by everyone within the Group: a dedicated EHS organization creates and deploys the procedures and steers the results, building on the commitment from all employees, from top management to operators. Each Division has its own EHS Department, reporting to the Group EHS/CSR Department, which coordinates and supervises a network of EHS coordinators present at site level. These coordinators meet monthly to identify best practice and areas for improvement as well as the action plans to be created and implemented. 2015 2016 2017 All managers are trained in safety and have targets to achieve. (1) This calculation excludes the Auto Exterior They are trained to carry out Top Safety visits, i.e. to identify gaps sites acquired in 2016. compared to Group rules and report them for corrective actions. In 2017, 24 training sessions took place across 10 countries, attended by 278 participants. 163 technicians were also trained All employees were also trained in safety via the internal during 18 “Stop 5” sessions in 11 countries. Thus, 441 e-learning platform, “My Learning Place”, where dedicated employees were trained (464 in 2016), allowing 45,729 visits, i.e. modules are available: an awareness module and three modules 2.20 visits per employee to be performed, compared to 45,351 related to ergonomics. visits in 2016, corresponding to 2.10 visits per employee. During the annual “Top 100” Senior managers meeting, “Safety Awards” were distributed to the highest-performing sites in five Number of employees who have received Top Safety Training categories: the best safety result, the best safety improvement and the highest number of accident-free days, the best ergo322 nomics performance and the best environmental performance. In 2017, the Auto Exteriors Division sites, Redondela, Anderson, 278 250 Silao and Puebla as well as the Auto Inergy Division sites, 214 Rayong, Adrian, Eisenach, Brits and Sorocaba were recognized for the three safety categories. 156 163 The fourth World Safety Day is also a defining event in the safety program. Workshops are carried out locally to continue to develop the safety culture with all Group employees. The key event of the day was a multiplex enabling four sites, Levallois in France, Shenyang in China, Arevalo in Spain and San Luis Potosi in Mexico, to take part and ask questions directly to the Chairman 2015 2016 2017 and Executive Committee during the conference. In total, 10,000 Technicians Managers employees were able to view this presentation live. PLASTIC OMNIUM 85 Care for people This day is a new occasion to demonstrate the management In 2017, results showed a 22% improvement in the Tf1(4) at 1.98, teams and all sites’ commitment to serve the Group’s ambition of compared to 2.54 in 2016, and 22% in the Tf2 at 2.87, compared achieving “zero accidents”. This ambition is reflected in the aim to 3.67 in 2016. This decrease is part of a general improvement not to have any serious accidents and to reduce accident trend with a division by 2 of the frequency rate (Tf1) in five years frequency (Tf2(3)) to one in 2020. and almost by three for the Tf2. Tg(5) is stable at 0.06, same as 2016, but is also in a global improvement dynamic. Absenteeism rate is globally stable as well as the causes of these absences. Safety indicators (including temporary staff) 2015 2016 2017 Number of first aid cases 2,186 1,897 2,146 Number of workplace accidents without lost time 76 50 45 Number of workplace accidents with lost time 113 112 99 Number of days of workplace accident-related lost time 3,803 2,521 2,941 Accident Frequency and Severity Rates (temporary staff included) 2015 2016 2017 Tf1: Lost time injury frequency rate in number of accidents per million hours worked 2.87 2.54 1.98 Tf2: Total recordable injury frequency rate in number of accidents per million hours worked 4.80 3.67 2.87 Tg: Severity rate of workplace accidents in number of days lost per thousand hours worked 0.10 0.06 0.06 Accident Frequency and Severity Rates (excluding temporary staff) 2015 2016 2017 Tf1: Lost time injury frequency rate in number of accidents per million hours worked 2.95 2.40 1.86 Tf2: Total recordable injury frequency rate in number of accidents per million hours worked 4.87 3.59 2.72 Tg: Severity rate of workplace accidents in number of days lost per thousand hours worked 0.11 0.06 0.07 Absenteeism related to workplace accidents is globally stable 2015 2016 2017 Absenteeism rate due to workplace accidents 0.10% 0.08% 0.07% Absenteeism rate due to other causes 2.67% 2.67% 2.73% Total absenteeism rate 2.77% 2.75% 2.80% (3) Tf2 = Total recordable injury frequency rate = Number of workplace accidents with and without lost time, including temporary staff × 1,000,000/Number of hours worked. (4) Tf1 = Lost time injury frequency rate = Number of workplace accidents with lost time, including temporary staff × 1,000,000/Number of hours worked. (5) Tg = Severity rate = Number of days of workplace accident-related lost time x 1,000/Number of hours worked. 86 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT To achieve this performance, the EHS Department continues to rules are constantly reminded via safety posters or minutes and steer the deployment of its Top Safety program across all the compliance is monitored both during Top Safety visits and also by sites. The sites self-assess their progress annually for each of internal auditors. the pillars, including a total of 75 actions. In 2017, on average, the sites considered they achieved 81% progress in the actions. Working conditions and ergonomics The safety policy is based on five pillars: machines and equipment, employees and managers, sites and projects, benchmarks The engagement survey carried out in 2016 included questions and management, and working conditions. These notably include on health, safety, working conditions and ergonomics. The results management systems, behaviors, working conditions, including of this survey led to strengthened efforts and investments in the chemical and noise pollution risks and equipment and site safety. area of ergonomics. Drivers to improve working conditions are different depending on the countries, sites and business lines. Thus, actions have been carried out locally on sites where a The management system margin of improvement was highlighted in the engagement survey. The management of overtime hours was reorganized at To ensure risk management and action steering, the sites must three sites in the United States and Poland. A new policy for the be certified to OHSAS 18001. In 2017, the number of certified number of days worked was defined for a site in India. Teleworking sites has decreased: the disposal of PO Composite reduced the number of certified sites by nine, which were not offset by the 5 is currently being tested in Germany, Poland and Slovakia. 03 Childcare or concierge services have been implemented in SUSTAINABLE new certifications. DEVELOPMENT France. Another outstanding example: the United Kingdom Number of sites certified to OHSAS 18001 standards created a well-being at work policy including sabbatical leaves, participation in sporting activities, flu vaccinations, etc. 79 79 75 For its first year, the actions were recognized by the Best Working Conditions Award at the Top 100. Ergonomics measurement tools were also improved. Within the Auto Inergy Division, 92% of work stations were assessed and two indicators were monitored: the number of work stations requiring changes and the number of work stations that could be improved. In 2017, the Auto Exterior Division defined its accounting standards to assess and improve ergonomics in its plants (work stations and movements) and during project phases. Following the definition of this accounting standard, the aim is now to assess all of the work stations. The ergonomics issue will be monitored using two indicators: the number of stations 2015 2016 2017 requiring changes and an indicator measuring the quality of ergonomics assessments during project phases. The Group pays particular attention to the issue of ergonomics as it contributes to reducing occupational illnesses, most of which The deployment of non-negotiable rules are muscular-skeletal problems (seven out of nine of the illnesses recognized in 2017). For this, the Alphavision virtual reality room The EHS Department requires all the sites, whatever their country on the α-Alphatech site enables the Auto Exterior Division to optior current regulations, to comply with 6 rules, known as the “six mize work stations by improving operator positioning. non-negotiables”, with regard to pedestrian traffic, the wearing of personal protective equipment, self-propelled trucks, suspended loads, stop and start operations and working at heights. These 2015 2016 2017 Number of occupational illnesses declared 34 17 12 Number of occupational illnesses recognized 32 15 9 PLASTIC OMNIUM 87 Care for people Plastic Omnium takes into account the health issue of air quality. Equipment and site safety Solvent emissions and exposure to dust from materials and chemical products are monitored and actions are implemented to In 2017, Plastic Omnium began to apply safety criteria for its achieve the most ambitious international legislative thresholds machines that exceed current regulations. Nine of Plastic for all sites. Omnium’s sites received the HPR (Highly Protected Risk) label issued by insurers thanks to regular analysis of the risks, With regard to chemical risk management, 2,487 out of the particularly the fire risk, and the subsequent implementation of 2,907 products used by Plastic Omnium have been checked for effective preventative actions. All new site buildings must obtain chemical risks, with specific monitoring of CMR (Carcinogenic, this certification and all sites audited by insurers must obtain an Mutagenic and Reprotoxic) products and substances of very high above-average score. concern (SVHC). Corporate policy aims to go further than the law and replace these products as soon as possible. These products are used in compliance with current regulations until better alternative techniques have been identified. 3.4.4 MANAGEMENT OF SKILLS Sites have produced noise pollution mappings to reduce noise at AND TALENTS its source, with the aim of having ambient sound close to 80 dB. Light and heat environments are studied in the risk analyses and Attractiveness and recruitment investments made to optimize working conditions where necessary. Plastic Omnium’s growth ambitions are supported by a necessary increase in its workforce. Forecasts plan for the recruitment of 500 managers and engineers each year by 2020. Actual recruitment of managers exceeded forecasts with 746 recruited in 2017, highlighting Plastic Omnium’s dynamism and appeal. Number of employees hired during the year 2015 2016 2017 Managers & Engineers hired 611 634 746 Non-Managers hired 2,958 3,509 4,048 Total 3,569 4,143 4,794 Number of Managers and Engineers hired during the year per region as at end of December 2015 2016 2017 France 186 164 181 Western Europe excluding France 108 113 143 Eastern Europe 68 63 70 North America 114 154 166 South America and Africa 16 28 42 Asia 119 112 144 Total 611 634 746 To obtain this performance, the focus has been on reinforcing The LinkedIn social network is also a tool used by the Group to attractiveness and visibility as an employer of choice. Local develop its recognition amongst workers. The number of people Human Resources staff use the tools developed by the Group following the Company’s account increased by 37% in 2017 to Human Resources Department to ensure a single visual identity, reach 49,307. Additionally, the Group uses a multi-publication uniform communications and to spread proven best practices. solution for job and internship offers on internet. In 2017, over The development of the Career site continues: the global site 300 offers were published on different job search sites and hosts six local internet sites (for the United States, France, China, school/university sites. Germany, Spain and Poland) and enabled the publication of 855 job offers and internships in 2017. Over half of the unique visitors, totaling 137,346 (+11% compared to 2016), came from France and the United States. 88 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Plastic Omnium aims to recruit between 25 and 30% of junior Another interesting recruitment source for young talent is through level staff (young graduates or those with a first professional work-study programs. Plastic Omnium would like to develop these experience) in order to ensure generational renewal. To reach contracts that enable it to recruit young people already trained in young graduates, the Group took part in nearly 80 school relathe company’s tools and methods. In 2017, 340 young people tions events in 2017: recruitment fairs, presence in schools, signed work-study and apprenticeship contracts. student reception on-site, university lessons... New event formats Volunteer for International Experience (VIE) schemes are also a were tested this year. For example, during the Equip’Auto fair useful tool to attract young talent. In 2017, 48 young people had organized in France, the Vice-Chairman R&D of the Auto Inergy the chance to work in another country within a Plastic Omnium Division held a conference organized by the SIA – Automotive site. 26 young people achieving their VIE in 2017 were recruited Engineers’ Society – for 700 future engineers. by the Group at the end of their contracts. A partnership signed with CentraleSupélec enabled Plastic An integration seminar was once again organized in 2017 for new Omnium to take part in several schools’ events. The Group talent hired during the year to share the ‘PO Way’ and the Group’s renewed its sponsorship of the Raid CentraleSupélec student strategy. Around 350 participants, from all business lines and challenge and its partnership with Centrale Beijing was also from 17 countries, had the chance to meet the Management renewed during the year. Team and create an internal network. Breakdown of employees by gender and by age bracket The recruitment of talent supports growth whilst offsetting departures. Manager turnover has slightly increased up to 13.5%, 03 SUSTAINABLE Hommes Femmes Male Female DEVELOPMENT due to tight labor market conditions. The study carried out in 65 ans > 65 >years 0,1 % 0.1% 0,1 0.1%% 2016 on the causes of departure and the profiles of resigning employees enabled numerous actions, both on a global and local 61 àyears 61 to 65 65 ans 1,8 % 1.9% 1,4 % 1.7% scale, to be implemented. A questionnaire created by the Human Resources Department gives feedback on the reasons for the 56 to 6056 years à 60 ans 6,4 % 6.5% 5,6 5.8%% departures. The Stay Interview process – an interview carried out with managers who have been with the Company for less than 51 àyears 51 to 55 55 ans 11,0 % 11.0% 10,1 10.1%% three years – was continued in 2017 and is part of the process to 46 to 5046 àyears 50 ans 13,8 % 13.6% 12,2 13.3%% improve retention of these people. 41 to 45 41 àyears 45 ans 14,1 % 12.9% 15,6 % 14.4% 36 to 4036 àyears 40 ans 14,0 % 14.2% 16,2 % 16.5% 31 to 35 31 àyears 35 ans 15.9% 15,7 % 15.5% 16,1 % 26 to 30 26 àyears 30 ans 15.1% 14,6 % 14.2% 14,3 % – < 25 <years 25 ans 8.88,7%% 8.3% 8,3 % 0 5 10 15 20 20 15 10 5 0 5 10 15 20 Number of departures during the year 2015 2016 2017 Redundancies 338 227 443 Terminations for other reasons 565 705 794 Other departures 1,238 1,252 1,987 Total 2,141 2,184 3,224 PLASTIC OMNIUM 89 Care for people Development of loyalty and skills place annually basis with over 5,000 managers according to a specific procedure prepared by the Group: the form used is availmanagement able in eight languages in the OPteam tool, the Human Resources To develop the loyalty of its employees, Plastic Omnium has information system. Employees’ general and managerial skills are chosen to develop an ambitious internal mobility and training assessed by their managers, who have taken part in conferences policy. carried out by the Group Human Resources Department. These conferences enable managers’ practices to be harmonized and A career management tool – the people review – makes it possible to determine future skills needs and to map the existing make the quality of the information reported during these interprofiles that correspond to those needs. The aim is to identify views more reliable. potential and the likely training required to develop employees Mobility goals are identified during these interviews. Plastic and their employability. These analyses are carried out at Group Omnium’s aim is to focus on internal mobility and be able to fill level and at each Division and enable succession plans and 75% of managerial positions internally. The list of available posicareer plans to be matched, thus offering employees a motivating tions can be consulted by employees in the internal OPteam tool, professional outlook. where they can apply directly. Thus, the mobility rate for managers Annual assessment interviews are the chance for employees to reached 11.6% in 2017. International mobility is also encouraged discuss with their managers their development goals, which are and benefited 108 Group employees, who were expatriated, then fed into the people review process. These interviews take including 36% employed outside of France. Mobility rate for managers 2015 2016 2017 France 11.5% 7.2% 9.3% Western Europe excluding France 9% 3.8% 12.5% Eastern Europe 15.5% 12.5% 11% North America 19% 17.3% 13.3% South America and Africa 23% 13% 13.4% Asia 17% 9.8% 11.8% Total 13.4% 9% 11.6% Training is the second pillar of the skills management policy. Four A new program – “Leading Manufacturing” – complements the development programs for managers and executives have been previous programs with a different audience: directors of current created and deployed since 2014. and future plants. This program aims to create a uniform plant management dynamic for all directors. 15 participants were The “Starter” program for young talent aims to support particibrought together for the first session at the end of 2017. pants during 12 to 18 months so that they can develop their leadership and adoption of the ‘PO Way’. Over 150 employees A fourth development program is currently being finalized to start have so far benefited from this program, with a significant reducin 2018. tion in their departure rate as a result. During annual assessment interviews, the training courses “Driving Success” is a program destined for managers of local required to develop skills are identified. The resulting training teams, in order to work on the development of their communicaprograms are managed in the global training administration tool, tion, team management and leadership skills. These training “My Learning Place”. E-learning training modules covering, courses lasting several days meet Plastic Omnium’s aim to amongst other topics, ethics, Codes of conduct, Golden Rules of develop a uniform managerial approach across its sites. 420 internal control and health and safety are also offered there. The team managers have benefited from this program since its launch training programs of 18,200 employees are managed in this tool, in 2016. (i.e. 86% of employees in 2017). Plastic Omnium offers face-toface training, virtual classes as well as blended learning on the following main themes: languages, health/safety/environment, software, management, continuous improvement, occupation skills and techniques. 90 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2015 2016 2017 Training commissions 38 40 36 Number of attendees 106,405 97,373 122,601 Number of training sessions per employee per year 6.40 5.53 5.80 Total training hours 424,446 513,515 531,130 Training hours per year per employee 25.53 29.19 25.14 Total expenditure on external training bodies (in thousands of euros) 4,779 4,380 5,262 All training hours, regardless of their duration, are now recorded in the number of attendees. 3.4.5 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT discuss with the management team, in the absence of their managers. The engagement survey conducted internationally at the end of At Group level, the “Starter” and “Driving Success” development 2016 has been fully analyzed in order to identify the areas of programs and the future “Leading Manufacturing” and “Booster” improvement to be deployed, the results show that while 77% of programs aim to train managers in a uniform management culture employees are satisfied and that this satisfaction has improved compared to the survey carried out in 2013, the commitment rate and also help improve career management and development. 03 To improve in the area of work recognition, the Awards given to SUSTAINABLE is 42%. The survey enabled four priorities to be identified, for DEVELOPMENT the best sites during the Top 100 were widened to new categowhich action plans have been deployed: ries: in addition to the three awards for safety, the site with the • team management; best working conditions is now recognized. The award for energy • organizational efficiency and well-being in the workplace; and greenhouse gas emissions management (formerly Top Planet Award) was replaced by the best environmental management • career management and development; award. Locally, some sites have implemented best employee • recognition of work accomplished. nominations, recognition of the best idea (with a suggestion box system) or innovation competitions. As recognition also includes These four themes, falling partly under a global policy, and also recognition by families, numerous sites have organized open-day that of site management, meet the global objective of combining events to let families discover the work place. quality of life in the workplace and efficiency to guarantee the durability of operational performance and team satisfaction. Each site has received its results, enabling them to identify their own improvement focuses and decide the best action plan to imple3.4.6 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY ment. Over 600 actions were identified, including two-thirds that fall Promotion of diversity and equal opportunity are imperatives in under the four priorities, and are currently being implemented. A Plastic Omnium’s culture. The Group affirms its commitment to new engagement survey will be carried out in 2019 to measure fight all types of discrimination and to promote the integration of the impact on employee engagement. each person in its Code of Conduct and through its membership of the UN Global Compact, one of the principles of which is the For example, in the area of management, role playing on how to contribution of companies to eliminating all job and professional give and receive constructive feedback was carried out at a Polish discrimination. site, group coaching was offered to new managers at a French site, and four sites (Korea, Brazil, Japan and United States) Plastic Omnium ensures compliance with these principles moderated “skip level events” where employees can directly through annual monitoring of discrimination incidents. 2015 2016 2017 Number of incidents of discrimination(1) 1(2) 1(2) 1 Number of measures taken following incidents of discrimination 0 0 0 (1) The number of incidents of discrimination is reported within the global scope via the non-financial data reporting software application. (2) The incident of discrimination, which occurred in the United States, has been closed by the competent authorities, with no charge against Plastic Omnium. PLASTIC OMNIUM 91 Care for people A diagnosis carried out in France on how disabilities are taken On-site, the HR point people are responsible for: into consideration in sites showed that 95% of disabled • deploying the actions guided by the Disability Mission and employees at Plastic Omnium have permanent contracts and that report back information; the areas for improvement are information and awareness, recruitment and continued employment and the development of • support and monitor disabled employees; subcontracting with protected worker sectors. • support managers; Following this analysis, a Disability Policy, implemented by the • inform site employees about Plastic Omnium’s Disability Policy; Executive Committee, has been defined and is guided by a dedicated organization, the Disability Mission. • monitor work station adaptations. The aims are to inform and train key actors, to maintain Numerous stakeholders have been included in this policy: trade employees in their jobs via work station adaptations, to recruit unions, the Health and Safety Committees (CHSCT), the Works and integrate disabled employees by adapting the recruitment Councils and nurses as well as the Occupational Health Service processes and sources, and to strengthen collaboration with the and Social Assistant. protected worker sector. This policy will be deployed via communications drivers (the usual The three members appointed within this Disability Mission: internal communications channels), awareness raising sessions for all French employees and training for employees involved in • support the HR Division point persons responsible for coordithe process, including managers and recruiters. nating the Disability Policy in their respective Divisions; • are privileged contacts for external organizations; • coordinate and monitor the actions implemented as part of an agreement with the AGEFIPH. 2015 2016 2017 Number of disabled workers 310 439 390 Workstations adapted for disabled workers 31 25 17 Number of disabled workers recruited in the year 26 24 27 Regarding gender equality, Plastic Omnium ranked in 2017 in 44th • the proportion of women in the Executive Committee; place for the feminization of governance bodies of Major • the proportion of women in the Top 100; Companies in the SBF 120, published by the State Secretary for Gender Equality. The criteria used for this ranking are: • the presence of diversity goals in compensation; • the propor tion of women in the Board of Directors and • the presence of a women’s network in the company. Compensation Committee as well as their presence in one of In 2018, the company intends to accelerate its commitment by the Board of Directors’ committees; implementing initiatives to promote gender equality, in particular by setting up a Women's network. 2015 2016 2017 Number of women Managers & Engineers at December 31 Proportion of women at executive level 758 20.8% 946 20.8% 986 20.9% Number of women Managers & Engineers hired during the year Proportion of women executives hired 125 20.5% 157 24.8% 185 24.8% The Group has stepped up its efforts to recruit female managers and engineers, who account for 25% of new hires. This has leveled the share of this population at 21%. 2015 2016 2017 Men 12,737 76.6% 16,874 77.1% 16,146 76.4% Women 3,891 23.4% 5,020 22.9% 4,981 23.6% 92 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Compagnie Plastic Omnium is a partner of the “Elles Bougent” Inventories and production processes will be optimized, leading association to promote engineering and technical professions to the overall improvement of the corporate supply chain by with young women, few of whom choose technical and scientific Plastic Omnium over several years. Good supply chain operations careers in general. are essential in a company such as Plastic Omnium which delivers to its customers just-in-time: sites are as close as 25 women engineers at Plastic Omnium are sponsors for the possible to customer plants, and deliveries take place as association and go out to meet young women and present their required. The aim for the company is to be capable of efficiently careers. Plastic Omnium wanted to support the association’s managing information flows (customer requests, supplier orders) development in Spain by welcoming around thirty students from and physical flows (raw materials, components, semi-finished the French High School in Madrid to its Arevalo site for the products). A dedicated customer communications system has Women’s Rights Day. been implemented to monitor needs in real time and internet communications tools are used for connections internally and with suppliers. 3.5 Sustainable The simplification and standardization of the supply chain with production sites closest to customer plants and inventory reductions also reduce the impact on the environment: reduced transport, smaller storage areas with lower footprints and reduced energy 03 consumption. SUSTAINABLE 3.5.1 FOCUS ON RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTION DEVELOPMENT For all sites, the certification of environmental management systems is a prerequisite for the EHS/CSR Department. Each Plastic Omnium is building a new production site in Greer, new site that is opened or acquired must implement the United States, which will be a 4.0 pilot plant. After mechanization, ISO 14001 certification process as soon as possible, thus industrialization and automation, digitalization is the fourth revoenabling a risk analysis to be carried out and limiting impacts. lution to occur in the industrial world, which will transform design and production. With connections to machines, systems and In 2017, 90% of the scope is ISO 14001 certified. Eleven products, real-time analysis of production and logistics data is disposed of or closed sites were certified, and four new sites has now possible. Process quality is improved, as anomalies are been certified in 2017. The transition to the 2015 version of the detected instantly, leading to cost savings. standard is on-going and will be completed during the 2018 renewal audits. Number of sites certified to ISO 14001 standards 2015 2016 2017 ISO 14001 certified sites 82 93 86 A global risk mapping for natural disasters was conducted. Sites certification and energy consumption, EHS awareness raising and located in risk zones, particularly due to climate change (typhoon audits. Some of these indicators are then reported on a monthly passage zones, flood zones) have been identified and the necesbasis to the Group Executive Committee. sary investments made to reduce risks. Three times per year, the Senior Management, the Human In its Code of Conduct, Plastic Omnium is committed to complying Resources Department and the EHS/CSR Department meet to with international environmental standards that may exceed local steer the approach and decide the major directions. regulations. Employee awareness raising and training is at the heart of ISO To ensure that environmental impacts are uniformly taken into 14001 certification, and the Company must ensure that each account, the EHS/CSR Department implements the major direcperson with an impact on the environment is made aware or tions chosen by Senior Management, then each entity is locally trained on the environment. entrusted with implementing this EHS plan. For this, the Group To meet these requirements, employees are made aware or EHS/CSR Department is supported by the EHS Departments trained in Plastic Omnium’s environmental policy, environmental within each Division, and relies on an EHS network of over one risks, the importance of their role in the effectiveness of the hundred people. environmental management system and lastly, on the conseThe Group and Division EHS/CSR Departments meet monthly to quences of not complying with regulatory requirements or the steer the approach via monitoring indicators dealing mainly with ISO 14001 requirements. PLASTIC OMNIUM 93 Sustainable production In 2017, 26,599 participants participated in 13,803 awareness ISO 14001 certification applied to sites from their commissioning raising hours on environmental themes and 13,745 employees also enables impacts on biodiversity to be removed: soil and received 19,006 training hours on taking the environment into water are protected through the implementation of preventative account. In total, 32,809 awareness and training hours were actions, whilst natural habitats for species are also protected. provided. Sites are also encouraged to carry out biodiversity protection actions. ISO 14001 compliance requires sites to implement the necessary action plans to limit impacts. The sites occupy a surface area of 4,474,456 m2. 22.6% of this surface area is permeable and thus allows the filtering of rain3.5.2 ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND water through a natural process. Potential sources of ground or GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS water pollution are accidental spillages of products used on the sites (paints, solvents or oils, for example), although the products One of Plastic Omnium’s major concerns is taking into account are stored above retention tanks. Work is also on-going to replace climate change. Products proposed by Plastic Omnium aim to CMR (Carcinogenic, Mutagenic and Reprotoxic) products and support customers in reducing the emissions of their products, products containing SVHC (Substances of Very High Concern) that and since 2008, an internal “Top Planet” policy has been implemay also impact the environment as soon as technically possible. mented on all sites to reduce the direct impact of plants. When a new site is acquired, Plastic Omnium carries out an Greenhouse gas emissions have been monitored for energy and impact study to ensure that the natural environment and the electricity consumption since the start of this policy. quality of life of residents will be protected. The presence of Work is on-going to identify a benchmark indicator for each contaminants in higher concentrations than the authorized Division (in equivalent parts produced) enabling the carbon intenthresholds is studied as part of an environmental assessment. sity of the activities to be measured. For this, a significant budget is dedicated to carrying out the EHS In 2017, emissions monitoring was widened to two other signifiplan. Environmental and safety expenses were €18 million in cant emissions items: upstream transport and production of raw 2017. Specific Environment and Safety investments amounted to materials. This data is collected at level of the purchasing €9.2 million in 2017, i.e. an increase of 39% compared to 2016 departments. (€6.6 million). Environmental risks are covered by a provision totaling €9 million. Greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption Total emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent 67% Scope 3 (upstream transport & raw materials) 26% Scope 2 (electricity) 7% Scope 1 1,035,366 (direct energies) 404,051 101,507 94 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent 2017 Scope 1 101,507 Scope 2 404,051 Scope 3 1,035,366 Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) in 2017 – Scopes 1, 2 and 3 In metric tons of CO2 equivalent 2015(2) 2016(2) 2017 CO2(1) 392,143 437,403 1,540,924 CH4 5 0.4 0.2 HFCs 735 1,044 941 Total GHG (in metric tons of CO2 equivalent) 392,883 438,447 1,541,865 (1) These figures correspond to CO2 emissions from energy consumed in industrial facilities, including in 2017 the emissions from the raw material production and the up-stream logistics. (2) Data for scopes 1 and 2 only. 03 To calculate the ratio per kilogram of material processed, are taken into account all processed raw materials that go into the manufacSUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT turing of products and that require energy consumption for implementation: plastics, paint, wood and metals. Group Greenhouse gas emissions in metric tons of CO2 Ratio of greenhouse gas emissions in kg of CO2 equivalent (Scopes 1 & 2) equivalent (Scopes 1 & 2) per kg of material processed 506,501 1.099 438,447 0.963 392,883 0.853 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Auto Exterior Division Greenhouse gas emissions in metric tons of CO2 Ratio of greenhouse gas emissions in kg of CO2 equivalent (Scopes 1 & 2) equivalent (Scopes 1 & 2) per kg of material processed 298,371 1.555 244,334 1.224 1.255 202,704 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 PLASTIC OMNIUM 95 Sustainable production Auto Inergy Division Greenhouse gas emissions in metric tons of CO2 Ratio of greenhouse gas emissions in kg of CO2 equivalent (Scopes 1 & 2) equivalent (Scopes 1 & 2) per kg of material processed 188,695 0.888 0.909 174,793 0.871 167,462 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Environment Division Greenhouse gas emissions in metric tons of CO2 Ratio of greenhouse gas emissions in kg of CO2 equivalent (Scopes 1 & 2) equivalent (Scopes 1 & 2) per kg of material processed 21,782 19,079 0.311 19,046 0.299 0.212 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Observed variations are due to the combination of several • the composite sites disposed of in 2017 used transformation factors: processes which require less energy than the injection and blow-molding processes mainly used inside the Group. This • integration of the sites bought in 2016 on a full year (integrated have a negative impact on the ratios of energy consumption on a 5 months period in 2016): these sites use processes and GHG emissions per kg of processed material; which require more gas than the other sites, inducing an increase of gas consumption greater than the increase of • the sites sold during the year from the composites business electricity consumption; used less energy-consuming processing methods than the injection and molding processes mainly used within the Group. Therefore, this had a negative impact on the ratios for greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption per kilogram of material processed. 96 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Group Energy consumption Ratio of energy consumption (in kWh per kg of material processed) 1,006,099 902,560 1.756 1.982 2.184 808,772 367,228 314,659 235,165 0.511 0.691 0.797 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Group gas consumption (MWh) Group gas ratio (kWh/kg proc. mat) 03 Group electricity consumption (MWh) Group electricity ratio (kWh/kg proc. mat) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Auto Exterior Division Energy consumption Ratio of energy consumption (in kWh per kg of material processed) 562,097 2.929 480,990 2.436 2.471 403,310 347,406 1.810 296,026 1.521 1.255 207,765 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 AE Division gas consumption (MWh) AE Division gas ratio (kWh/kg proc. mat) AE Division electricity consumption (MWh) AE Division electricity ratio (kWh/kg proc. mat) Auto Inergy Division Energy consumption Ratio of energy consumption (in kWh per kg of material processed) 335,464 379,005 1.827 355,772 1.744 1.807 14,533 14,642 15,146 0.076 0.074 0.073 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 AI Division gas consumption (MWh) AI Division gas ratio (kWh/kg proc. mat) AI Division electricity consumption (MWh) AI Division electricity ratio (kWh/kg proc. mat) PLASTIC OMNIUM 97 Sustainable production Environment Division Energy consumption Ratio of energy consumption (in kWh per kg of material processed) 67,932 63,933 62,810 1.003 1.025 0.662 12,248 3,847 0.119 3,416 0.054 0.063 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Environment gas consumption (MWh) Environment gas ratio (kWh/kg proc. mat) Environment electricity consumption (MWh) Environment electricity ratio (kWh/kg proc. mat) The Top Planet program of an energy management system. The Group wants to promote this management system for its European sites In order to improve the energy performance of plants, the Top subject to the mandatory energy audit since 2015. All of the Planet program is based on four Management commitments. European sites in the Auto Exterior Division should be certified by 2020. • The deployment of the ISO 50001 accounting standard: sites already ISO 14001 certified and OHSAS 18001 are encouraged to implement ISO 50001, certifying the implementation Number of sites certified to ISO 50001 standards 2015 2016 2017 ISO 50001 certified sites 15 24 24 • The definition of annual targets for the reduction of greenhouse When purchasing new equipment and production machines, gas emissions and energy consumption. As the measurement the cost criterion includes the total cost of use, i.e. energy of Scope 3 is new this year, it was necessary to analyze the consumption throughout the machine’s life. This criterion results over several reporting periods before being able to set enables the Group to acquire more energy-efficient equipment relevant targets. The aims are to carry out Life Cycle Analysis that emits less greenhouse gas. From its design, the Greer 4.0 (LCA) in order to study emissions during the product life cycle plant (USA) included these criteria. Product design, particularly and identify the periods with the highest emissions, to optimize for the Automotive Divisions, includes their impact on fuel upstream logistics and lastly, to promote the purchase of recyconsumption and therefore, greenhouse gas emissions via cled raw materials with lower impacts. The use of measureimprovements to the weight of parts, aerodynamics and water ment kits enables the consumption of machines and equipinjection systems. ment to be identified very precisely. Thus, improvement areas • The assessment and control of the quality of energy efficiency can be easily identified. Kits are available within each Division with the deployment of Top Planet Best Practice sheets: the and at Group level for use on all sites. In addition to these kits, Top Planet sheets are part of the tool box developed by the many sites are equipped with sensors or permanent counters Group EHS/CSR Department. These very operational sheets to monitor changes in consumption directly and efficiently steer explain best practices that can be deployed at all sites aiming their energy performance. to measure and reduce energy consumption. • The integration of the concept of energy efficiency into the purchase of services, the design of products, production equipment and infrastructure are now operational. 98 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT The Top Planet Awards 3.5.3 WASTE MANAGEMENT In 2016, the assessment criteria to award the “Top Planet Waste management is an important issue for Plastic Omnium. Its Awards” were updated, going from 4 to 15 with more precise main raw material, plastic, is particularly suited to the implemendefinitions. Thus the objectivity of the self-assessments tation of a circular economy as its characteristics make it an increased. The awards are now given at Group level and not at easily recyclable material. All the Divisions constantly improve the Division level. The sites with the best environmental performance efficiency of the processes that allow reductions in the waste across four themes (energy and environmental management; generated during manufacturing. improvement to indicators; regulatory compliance; initiatives to protect the planet and prevention) receive Gold or Silver Awards. In 2017, eight sites received the Gold level to recognize their 2016 performance (sites on the European and American continents) and 17 sites, across the four continents where Plastic Omnium is present, received a Silver Award. Waste generated annually per type of waste In metric tons 2015 2016 2017 03 SUSTAINABLE Plastic parts(1) 29,141 38,872 42,108 DEVELOPMENT Common industrial waste 11,076 14,535 15,551 Metals 8,477 7,404 7,705 Cardboard 4,689 6,319 7,737 Wood 3,456 5,018 5,692 Plastic packaging 1,122 1,142 1,128 Glass 21 6 7 Solvents 4,036 4,269 4,145 Paint sludge 3,968 5,393 5,653 Oils 908 1,221 1,626 Other waste(2) 6,012 5,285 6,726 Waste generated annually per type of waste 72,905 89,464 98,078 (1) Plastic parts: also include composite material waste. (2) Other waste: washing and maintenance water, sundry special industrial waste. Plastic Omnium has identified three main treatment systems for • final waste grouping non-recovered waste, incinerated without its waste: energy recovery, disposed of in landfills or buried. • recycled waste comprising reuse (with a usage identical to the The resale of recycled and reused waste for incorporation into one for which the part or product was initially designed, without new products amounted to €11.1 million in 2017 (€8.8 million in intermediate processing), the recycling or material regeneration 2016), offsetting the waste management cost which amounted to (giving the material its primary properties back, by processing €6.5 million in 2017 (€5.6 million in 2016). or introducing additives that enable it to be put back into the Recycled or reused waste represented 89% of the waste generproduction cycle); ated by the Group this year, i.e. an improvement compared to the • recovered waste comprising reuse (with a usage different from 88% recycled or reused in 2016. the one for which the part or product was initially designed, possibly with intermediate processing) and recovery by incineration with energy recovery; Waste generated annually per type of treatment In metric tons 2015 2016 2017 Recycling 50,550 64,556 69,771 Recovery 13,587 14,343 17,631 Incineration or disposal in landfills 8,768 10,565 10,676 Total waste 72,905 89,464 98,078 PLASTIC OMNIUM 99 Sustainable production 3.5.4 AIR QUALITY and are thus indirectly responsible for global warming. Certain VOCs are classified as CMR (Carcinogenic, Mutagenic, Air quality is one of Plastic Omnium’s major concerns on several Reprotoxic) and are subject to stricter regulations. levels: The concerned sites are equipped with VOCs incinerators that • the reduction in vehicle-emitted pollutants with the SCR offer destroy them at the end of the production lines. Lower-emitting enables drastic reductions in NOx emissions (nitrogen oxides hydro-soluble paints are also encouraged when technically with harmful effects on health); possible. • interior air quality and at plant exit: paint shops use paints with solvents emitting VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds) that contribute to the formation of ozone in the lower atmosphere Consumption of paint and solvents and VOC emissions Annual consumption of raw materials In metric tons 2015 2016 2017 Paint(1) 6,055 6,464 6,695 Solvents(2) 7,495 11,199 12,023 Total 13,550 17,663 18,718 (1) Dry matter contained in the paint, excluding solvent. (2) Solvents used undiluted and solvents contained in paints. VOC emissions In metric tons 2015 2016 2017 VOCs 1,170 2,140 2,157 3.5.5 WATER MANAGEMENT 97% of the water used comes from urban networks and 3% from groundwater. The water consumed by Plastic Omnium has two main uses: Plastic Omnium’s activities do not reject effluents; any pollution cooling of machines and equipment functioning in a generalized due to accidental spillage is identified and prevention actions closed circuit. In 2017, no site was subject to water restrictions or implemented (retention tank, specific storage zone…). was in a water-stressed area during the year. Water consumption 2015 2016 2017 934,118 1,142,753 Annual consumption (in m3) excl Saint-Désirat(1) excl Saint-Désirat(1) 1,218,519 2.028 2.510 Consumption in l/kg of processed material excl Saint-Désirat(1) excl Saint-Désirat(1) 2.645(1) (1) In order to improve comparability, consumption for the Saint-Désirat site in France (disposed of in 2017 and therefore not recorded in 2017), has been deleted from 2015 and 2016 consumption as it represented a very significant share of total consumption (702,238 m3 in 2015 and 528,190 in 2016). 100 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 3.6 Methodology SCOPE OF THE REPORT The reporting scope aims to represent all the businesses of Compagnie Plastic Omnium. For the 2017 fiscal year therefore, This chapter presents Plastic Omnium’s approach for social, social, environmental and societal reporting covered the entire societal and environmental responsibility as well as non-financial 2017 consolidated revenue of Compagnie Plastic Omnium to IFRS information meeting the requirements of Article 225 of law standards. no. 2010-788 of July 12, 2010, known as “Grenelle II” and the application decree no. 2016-1138 of August 19, 2016 on the Only one point of service of the Environment Division is included, environmental information to be included in companies’ manageas the environmental impact of the other points of service is not ment report. The last sub-chapter presents a cross-reference considered to be material. The water and energy consumption of table with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact of which the Vendor Managed Inventory (VMI) managed by the Auto Plastic Omnium has been a member since 2003, as well as the Exterior Division and the Auto Inergy Division are also taken into indicators of the international benchmark, GRI Standards. account, together with their CO2 emissions. Compagnie Plastic Omnium, which is listed on Euronext Paris, is The Group has 12 Installations Classified for the Protection of the a company with industrial operations and employees. Environment (ICPE) subject to authorization and 1 ICPE subject to The CSR indicators are collected separately by the EHS and registration. These ICPE are integrated into the Group’s HSE scope with the exception of one site of the Auto Exterior Division 03 Human Resources Departments from all sites included in the SUSTAINABLE (Plastic Omnium Recycling) which is outside the IFRS scope. DEVELOPMENT reporting scope, and are subject to consistency checks during central data consolidation. 1.1 The workforce by type of contract and temporary employees at December 31 includes all the legal entities in the manageThe Plastic Omnium Group’s social, environmental and societal ment accounts’ scope of consolidation. reporting approach is based on: 1.2 Likewise, registered employees are broken down by gender, • the regulatory provisions related to Article R. 225-105-1 of the by operators/employees/managers, as well as by age group, French Commercial Code; and temporary employees are included in all of the legal enti• the ten principles of the UN Global Compact; ties in the scope of consolidation. • the EHS policy integrated into the Company’s strategy and Changes in scope of consolidation: management. Social reporting indicators are reported right from the establishThe information required to be published by the due diligence law ment or consolidation of the site. In 2017, newly opened or no 2017-399 dated March 27, 2017 is presented in this non-fiacquired sites were consolidated into the Human Resources nancial chapter. reporting: AE Greer, AI Smyrna, AI Hansalpur. With respect to issues required by Article R. 225-105-1 of the Site acquisitions and creations are included in the scope of EHS French Commercial Code, the fight against food waste has been data as from the date of start of operations. deemed as non-relevant for the Plastic Omnium Group. This is Only one new site was consolidated into the HSE reporting for because the Company’s activities are not linked to the produc2017: AI Chongqing (consolidated in the Human Resources tion, marketing or distribution of food products. Sites that reporting in 2016). propose food services (canteens) to its employees contract out this service to a specialized service provider in charge of ensuring Sites disposed of or closed during the year are not included in the compliance with applicable laws. The Group’s General Terms and scope: AE Blainville Composites, Félines Composites, St-Désirat Conditions of Supply require compliance with applicable laws, Composites, MCR Tournon, Ramos Composites, Kandel which enables Plastic Omnium to ensure that its service providers Composites, POCC Quindao, POCC Jiangyin and AE São Bernardo. will comply with these regulations. This issue is therefore not included in this chapter. PLASTIC OMNIUM 101 Methodology INDICATOR CALCULATION METHODS EXTERNAL PROCEDURES AND CONTROLS Indicators are approved on December 31, 2017, except for the A specific reporting protocol for the EHS and Human Resources following indicators: Departments was developed and provides information about the collection and validation procedure as well as definitions for the 2.1 T he indicators approved on November 30, 2017 and extrapoindicators identified, in a single document. This protocol is sent to lated to December 31, based on the ratio of employees at all contributors and validators of non-financial data. The data is December/employees at November: gender breakdown, collected into the Group’s non-financial reporting software applibreakdown by operators/employees/managers, employees cation. working in shifts or part-time, number of women managers, number of disabled people. For 2017, the non-financial indicator reporting procedures were checked externally by an independent third party, Mazars. In this 2.2 The indicators approved on November 30, 2017 and prorated context, audits were held based on a selection of social, environto December 31, based on the 12/11 ratio: internal and mental and societal indicators at eleven sites representative of external training hours, invoices from training organizations, Plastic Omnium’s activities in order to validate the quality and number of interns, number of employees trained since overall credibility of the reporting system: January 1, all environmental data (except for the number of ISO 14001 certified sites, approved on December 31). The sites audited in 2017 (AE: Auto Exterior, AI: Auto Inergy): AE Bratislava, AE Anderson, AE Measham, AE Pappenheim, 2.3 The indicators approved on November 30, 2017 and considAE Reinsdorf, AE Gliwice, AE Ruitz, AE Valencia, AI Anderson, ered as valid for the entire year: hours worked per week, AI α-Alphatech, AI Lublin. percentage of employees covered by a collective agreement, percentage of employees trained during the year, workstaThe nature of the audits and the related conclusions are tions adapted for disabled employees. presented in a specific certification at the end of this chapter. 2.4 The indicators approved on October 31, 2017 and considered The glossary of indicators may be obtained upon request from the as valid for the entire year: number of incidents of discriminaGroup Human Resources and EHS/CSR Department. tion, number of measures taken following incidents of discrimination, committees, other commissions, number of trade unions represented, company agreements, agreements on health and safety in the workplace. All indicators are calculated on the IFRS scope and given for two or three years to enable comparability. Theme indicators for the consumption of feedstock, water, energy, CO2 emissions and correlated ratios, along with waste and waste water, have been corrected for 2016 further to a subsequent detection of errors of little consequence that concerned 14 sites. 102 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 3.7 Cross-reference table Categories of Information Pages Correspondence Correspondence Article 225 between with the UN (Grenelle Act) Article 225/GRI Global Compact Standards General reporting principles Comparability The information published is presented so as to enable a 102 GRI 102-48 comparison of data (Law of July 12, 2010). The report from GRI 102-49 the Board of Directors or the Management Board presents the data observed during the year under review, and if necessary the previous year, to enable data comparison (Decree of April 24, 2012). Comply or The report presents, among the information listed by the 101 explain implementation decree, which disclosures cannot be produced or do not appear to be relevant, given the nature of the Company’s activities or organization, and provides all the explanations stating why this is so (Decree of April 24, 2012). 03 SUSTAINABLE Voluntary Where a company complies voluntarily with a national or 101 GRI 102-12 DEVELOPMENT compliance with international social or environmental standard, the report a standard may mention this by giving the recommendations of this standard that were chosen and how this standard may be consulted (Decree of April 24, 2012). Disclosure When a company draws up the consolidated financial 101 GRI 102-45 scope statements, the information provided is consolidated and GRI 102-46 concerns the Company itself together with all its subsidiaries or the companies that it controls (Act of July 12, 2010). Verification by The social and environmental information presented or that 102, GRI 102-56 an independent must be presented under legal and regulatory obligations is 107-109 third party verified by an independent third party […]. This verification is confirmed by an opinion submitted to the Shareholders’ Meeting at the same time as the report from the Board of Directors or Management Board (Act of July 12, 2010). The independent third party is appointed for a term that may not exceed six years. It is subject to incompatibilities provided for under Article L. 882-11 of the French Commercial Code (Auditors may not provide consultancy services to the companies whose accounts they certify, or their subsidiaries) (Decree of April 24, 2012). PLASTIC OMNIUM 103 Cross-reference table Categories Information Pages Correspondence Correspondence of Article 225 between with the UN (Grenelle Act) Article 225 and Global Compact GRI Standards I. Social information I. a) Total workforce and breakdown of the workforce by 82, 83 GRI 102-7 Employment gender, age and region 89, 92 GRI 102-8 GRI 401-1 GRI 405-1 New hires and terminations 88, 89, GRI 202-2 92 GRI 401-1 Compensation and changes in compensation 83, 84 GRI 102-35 GRI 102-36 GRI 401-2 I. b) Organization of working hours 84 GRI 102-8 Organization of Absenteeism 86 GRI 403-2 working hours I. c) Labor Organization of industrial dialogue, procedures for 84 3. Companies are relations informing and consulting employees and negotiating with invited to uphold them freedom of Review of collective agreements 85 GRI 102-41 association and to recognize the right to collective bargaining I. d) Health Conditions of occupational health and safety 85-88 and safety Review of agreements signed with labor union 84, 85 organizations or employee representatives regarding occupational health and safety Occupational accidents, in particular their frequency 69, 86 GRI 403-2 and severity, as well as occupational illnesses GRI 403-3 I. e) Training Training policies 90 GRI 404-2 GRI 404-3 Total number of training hours 91 GRI 404-1 GRI 412-2 I. f) Equal Measures taken in favor of gender equality 92, 93 GRI 405-1 2. Companies are treatment Measures taken to promote the employment and 92 GRI 405-1 asked to ensure that inclusion of persons with disabilities their own entities do not become party to Anti-discrimination policy 77, 91 GRI 405-1 violations of human GRI 406-1 rights. I. g) Promotion • the upholding of freedom of association and the right 77-80 GRI 407-1 4. The elimination of and enforcement to collective bargaining all forms of forced or of the provisions the elimination of discrimination in respect of 77-80 GRI 406-1 compulsory labor. of the core employment and occupation 5. The effective conventions abolition of child of the International the elimination of forced or compulsory labor 77-80 GRI 409-1 labor. Labor Organization the effective abolition of child labor 77-80 GRI 408-1 6. Elimination of (ILO) relating to: discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 104 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Categories Information Pages Correspondence Correspondence of Article 225 between with the UN (Grenelle Act) Article 225 and Global Compact GRI Standards II. Environmental information II. a) General Organization by the Company to take environmental 93 GRI 102-14 7. Companies are environmental issues into account and, where appropriate, take into GRI 102-28 invited to apply a policy consideration assessment or certification processes precautionary concerning the environment approach to Training and information of employees conducted on 93, 94 GRI 102-27 environmental issues. the subject of environmental protection 8. To take initiatives that will promote Resources devoted to the prevention of environmental 94 greater environmental risks and pollution responsibility. Amount of provisions and guarantees for 94 GRI 307-1 environmental risks, provided that such information is GRI 103-2 not likely to cause serious damage to the Company in an ongoing dispute II. b) Pollution Measures for the prevention, reduction or 74, 94, GRI 303-3 7. Companies are 03 compensation for air, water and soil emissions 100 GRI 305-6 invited to apply a seriously affecting the environment GRI 305-7 precautionary Accounting for noise pollution and other forms of 81, 88 approach to SUSTAINABLE pollution arising from a specific activity environmental issues. DEVELOPMENT 9. To favor the development and dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies. II. c) Circular i) Waste prevention and management 7. Companies are economy Measures for prevention, recycling, reuse, other forms 99, 100 GRI 306-2 invited to apply a of recovery and disposal of waste GRI 306-4 precautionary approach to Actions to fight against food waste 101 environmental issues. ii) Sustainable use of resources 9. To favor the Water consumption and water supply according to 100 GRI 303-1 development and local constraints dissemination of environmentally Consumption of raw materials and measures to 76, 100 GRI 301-1 friendly technologies. improve efficiency in their use GRI 301-2 Energy consumption, measures to improve energy 94-99 GRI 302-1 efficiency and use of renewable energy GRI 302-3 GRI 302-4 Land use 94 II. d) Climate Significant sources of greenhouse gas emissions 73-75, GRI 305-1 change generated as a result of the Company’s activity, in 94-99 GRI 305-2 particular through the use of the goods and services GRI 305-4 that it produces GRI 305-5 Adaptation to the impacts of climate change 93 II. e) Protection Measures taken to preserve or develop biodiversity 94 GRI 304-3 of biodiversity PLASTIC OMNIUM 105 Cross-reference table Categories of Article 225 Information Pages Correspondence Correspondence with the (Grenelle Act) between UN Global Compact Article 225 and GRI Standards III. Information relating to societal commitments to sustainable development III. a) Regional, economic With respect to employment 81 and social impact of the and regional development Company’s activity On local or neighboring 81 populations III. b) Relationships with Conditions for dialogue with 71, 81 GRI 102-40 persons or organizations with these people or organizations GRI 102-43 an interest in the Company’s GRI 102-44 businesses, in particular Partnership or sponsorship 81 vocational integration actions associations, educational institutions, environmental protection associations, consumer associations and local residents III. c) Outsourcing Taking social and environmental 77-80 GRI 308-2 1. Companies are invited to and suppliers challenges into account in the GRI 414-2 promote and comply with purchasing policy international law relating to Importance of outsourcing and 77-80 GRI 308-1 human rights within their taking the social and GRI 414-1 sphere of influence. environmental responsibility of 2. They must ensure that their suppliers and subcontractors own entities do not become into account party to infringements of human rights. III. d) Fair practices Measures taken in favor of 75, 76 consumer health and safety Actions undertaken to prevent 77 GRI 102-16 1. Companies are invited to corruption GRI 102-17 promote and comply with GRI 205-1 international law relating to GRI 205-2 human rights within their GRI 205-3 sphere of influence. III. e) Other actions carried out 77-80 GRI 102-16 2. They must ensure that their in favor of human rights GRI 102-17 own entities do not become GRI 412-2 party to infringements of GRI 412-1 human rights. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 5. The effective abolition of child labor. 10. Companies are invited to act against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 106 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 3.8 Report by the Statutory Auditors, appointed as the independent third-party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 To the Shareholders, As the independent third party (members of the Mazars’ network), Statutory Auditors of Compagnie Plastic Omnium, accredited by COFRAC Inspection under number 3-1058 (scope available on the site www.cofrac.fr), we hereby present our report on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information provided in the management report prepared for the year ended December 31, 2017 (herein after referred to as the “CSR information”), pursuant to the provisions of article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code. Responsibility of the Company 03 SUSTAINABLE The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a management report including the CSR information required under Article DEVELOPMENT R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code, in accordance with the CSR reporting protocol used by the Company (hereinafter the “Reporting Framework”), a summary of which is given in the management report and is available on request from the Company’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by regulatory texts, the profession’s Code of Ethics and by the provisions of Article L. 822-11 of the French Commercial Code. Furthermore, we have set up a quality control system that includes documented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with deontological rules and applicable legal texts and regulations. Responsibility of the independent third-party Based on our work, our role is to: • attest that the required CSR information is disclosed in the management report or that an explanation has been provided, if any information has been omitted, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation of completeness of the CSR information); • provide limited assurance that, on the whole, the CSR information is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the adopted Reporting Framework (Fairness report regarding CSR information). It is not our role, however, to provide an opinion on the compliance with the other applicable legal provisions, and specifically those stipulated in article L. 225-102-4 of the French Commercial Code (vigilance plan) and in law no. 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016 (Sapin II) (fight against corruption). Our work was carried out by a team of eight people during an approximately nine-week period between October 2017 and February 2018. We conducted the work described below in accordance with the professional standards applicable in France and the legal order dated May 13, 2013 determining the methodology according to which the independent third-party body conducts its mission and, for the reasoned fairness opinion, in accordance with the international standard, ISAE 3000(1). I. Attestation of completeness of the CSR Information We got acquainted with the Direction that the Group is taking, in terms of sustainability, with regard to the human resources and environmental consequences of the Company’s business and its social commitments and, where appropriate, the actions or programs that stemmed from it. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report to the list set forth in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. In the event of omission of some consolidated information, we checked that explanations were provided in accordance with the third paragraph of the Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code. (1) ISAE 3000 – Insurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information. PLASTIC OMNIUM 107 Report by the Statutory Auditors, appointed as the independent third-party We checked that the CSR information covers the consolidated scope, which includes the Company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Article L. 233-1 of the French Commercial Code and the companies that it controls within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code, subject to the limits set forth in the methodological note presented in the Registration Document (Chapter 3 “Sustainable Development”), which includes the management report. Based on our work, and taking into account the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR information has been disclosed in the management report. II. Reasoned fairness opinion on the CSR Information Nature and scope of procedures We conducted 40 or so interviews with those responsible for the preparation of CSR information from the departments in charge of the information gathering processes and, where appropriate, those responsible for internal control and risk management to: • assess the appropriateness of the Reporting Framework in terms of relevance, completeness, neutrality, clarity and reliability, by taking into consideration, when relevant, the sector’s best practices; • verify the set-up within the Group of a process to collect, compile, process and check the CSR information with regard to its completeness and consistency. We familiarized ourselves with the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the compilation of the CSR information. We determined the nature and extent of tests and controls depending on the nature and importance of the CSR information in relation to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental issues of its operations, its strategic priorities in relation to sustainable development, and the industry best practices. Concerning the CSR information that we considered to be most significant(2): • at Group level (consolidating the Human Resources Development and HSE Departments), we consulted source documents and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organization, policies, actions); we used analytical procedures and sampling techniques for the quantitative information and verified the calculations and consolidation of the information, as well as its consistency and correlation with the other information contained in the management report; • at the level of a representative sample of sites and departments selected(3) based on their activity, their contribution to consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify the proper application of procedures and conducted substantive tests, using sampling techniques, to verify the calculations performed and reconcile the data with the supporting documentation. The selected sample represents 18% of headcount, considered to be a representative size for human resources data, and between 19% and 39% of environmental data, considered to be a sufficient representative(4) size for the environmental aspect. (2) Human resources information: workforce (by type of employment contract, status, gender, age and region), manager turnover, training hours, absenteeism rate, workplace accident frequency rate with and without lost time, number of employees who have received Top Safety Training. Environmental information: electricity consumption, gas consumption, recycled and recovered waste, greenhouse gases (GHG). Social information: number of supplier CSR audits, number of people trained in the Code of Conduct, business ethics, Product safety and quality. (3) For all selected human resources and environmental data cited above: AE Bratislava, AE Maesham, AE Pappenheim, AE Valencia and AE Ruitz; AE Gliwice (excluding gas consumption); AE Reinsdorf (excluding electricity and gas consumption and manager turnover); AI α-Alphatech (excluding electricity consumption and manager turnover); AE Anderson and AI Anderson (excluding gas consumption and manager turnover). In addition, for information on workforce (by type of employment contract, status, gender, age and region): AI Lublin. For the social information: centrally from the AI and AE Human Resources and Supplier Quality Departments. (4) Electricity consumption, gas consumption, recycled and recovered waste, greenhouse gases linked to HFC leaks 108 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Regarding the other CSR consolidated information, we assessed its fairness and consistency based on our knowledge of the Group. Finally, we assessed the relevance of the explanations relating to, where necessary, the total or partial omission of certain information. We deem that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used by exercising our professional judgment allow us to formulate a conclusion providing limited assurance; a higher level of assurance would have required more extensive work. Because of the use of sampling techniques, and because of other limitations inherent in any information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be completely eliminated. Conclusion Based on our work, we did not identify any material misstatements that would lead us to believe that the CSR information, taken as a whole, has not been fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Framework. Paris-la-Défense, February 14, 2018 The independent third-party 03 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Mazars SAS Juliette Decoux Edwige Rey Partner CSR & Sustainable Development Partner PLASTIC OMNIUM 109 PREAMBLE TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial indicators In the context of its financial communication, the Group uses financial indicators based on the consolidated financial statements drawn up in accordance with IFRS, as adopted in the European Union. As indicated in Note 3.1 of the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2017 relating to segment information, the Group uses the concept of “economic revenue” for operational management purposes, which corresponds to the consolidated sales of the Group and its joint ventures up to the Group’s percentage stake: HBPO, a German company and world leader in front-end modules, Yanfeng Plastic Omnium, the Chinese leader in exterior body parts, BPO, a major player in the Turkish market for exterior equipment, and Plastic Recycling, a specialist company in plastics recycling. Reconciliation of economic revenue with consolidated revenue: In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Economic revenue 8,000,618 6,935,732 Including Sales from joint ventures at the Group’s percentage stake 1,232,141 1,078,481 Consolidated revenue 6,768,477 5,857,251 04 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PLASTIC OMNIUM 111 04 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (AFR) 4.1 COMMENTS ON THE C  ONSOLIDATED 4.5 STATEMENTOF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113 4.6 CHANGESIN EQUITY 121 4.1.1 Comments on the Consolidated Financial Statements 113 4.7 STATEMENTOF CASH FLOWS 122 4.1.2 Investments 2017-2021 116 4.8 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATEDFINANCIAL 4.2 OUTLOOK AND POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS 116 STATEMENTS 126 4.3 BALANCE SHEET 117 4.9 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATEDFINANCIAL STATEMENTS 205 4.4 INCOME STATEMENT 119 4.1 Comments on the At December 31, 2017, a Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s consolidated sales amounted (2) to €6,768.5 million, up by 15.6% as Consolidated Financial reported and by 9.6% at constant scope and exchange rates. There was a negative currency effect of -€68.8 million and the Statements scope effect stood at +€684.5 million. In late 2017, Plastic Omnium launched its project to dispose its Environment Division. 4.1.1 COMMENTS ON THE CONSOLIDATED The Environment Division’s activity, after the disposal of periFINANCIAL STATEMENTS pheral activities in mid-2016 (Signature Limited, a United Kingdom-based subsidiary specializing in highway signage, and At December 31, 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s economic Emballagen GmbH, a Germany-based subsidiary specializing in revenue amounted to €8,000.6 million, up by 15.4%. For the year, the development, production, and marketing of metal drums for the currency effect stood at -€98.6 million, and the scope effect the chemicals industry), is now fully refocused on products and at +€707.7 million (including +€558.4 million from the acquisition services for optimizing waste management for local authorities of the Faurecia’s Exterior Systems business on July 29, 2016). and industry. At December 31, 2017, its revenue amounted to This sharp increase is attributable to: €335.5 million, up 2.5% at constant scope and exchange rates. • organic growth of 10.8% in the Automotive business, which outperformed global automotive production by 8.6 points; • the Exterior Systems acquired on July 29, 2016. 04 In €millions, by business segment 2016 2017 Change At constant scope 2017 and exchange rates CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Automotive 6,566.8 7,665.1 +16.7% +10.8% STATEMENTS Environment 368.9 335.5 -9.1% +2.5% Economic revenue(1) 6,935.7 8,000.6 +15.4% +10.4% Automotive 5,488,3 6,433.0 +17.2% +10.0% Environment 368.9 335.5 -9.1% +2.5% Consolidated revenue(2) 5,857.3 6,768.5 +15.6% +9.6% In € millions and as a % of revenue, 2016 2017 Change At constant scope by region and exchange rates Europe/Africa 3,738.5 4,359.4 + 16.6% +6.0% 54% 54% North America 1,810.5 2,044.9 + 12.9% + 15.5% 26% 26% South America 198.4 269.5 + 35.9% + 23.8% 3% 3% Asia 1,188.4 1,326.8 +11.7% + 14.0% 17% 17% Economic revenue(1) 6,935.7 8,000.6 +15.4% + 10.4% (1) Economic revenue corresponds to consolidated sales, plus revenue from the Group’s joint ventures, at their percentage of ownership: BPO, HBPO and YFPO for Plastic Omnium Automotive. The figure reflects the operational and managerial realities of the Group. (2) Consolidated revenue, in accordance with IFRS 10, 11 and 12, does not include the Company’s share of the revenue of joint ventures which are accounted for by the equity method. PLASTIC OMNIUM 113 Comments on the Consolidated Financial Statements Automotive Division: robust growth Also contributing to the Group’s growth dynamic, the innovation portfolio continues to strengthen, with in particular: in all geographic areas in 2017 • further growth worldwide of SCR systems for reducing diesel The economic revenue(1) of Plastic Omnium Automotive stood at vehicle emissions, with an increase of 28% over the year to €7,665.1 million. It grew by 16.7% as reported and by 10.8% at reach revenue of €390 million. Eight new contracts were constant scope and exchange rates within a 2.2% increase in signed in 2017, four of which are with new customers for China, worldwide automotive production over 2017 (source: IHS January India, and Thailand; 2018), outperforming the market by 8.6 points. This is the result • the range of tailgate and spoiler products, which represented to market share gains, the ramp-up of new production capacities, €255 million in revenue in 2017, was expanded by 21 new and the success of the innovative products launched. All geogracontracts including five additional customers (including 3 new phical areas contributed to the strong growth in sales. electric entrants); Business was sustained in Europe, which accounts for 53% of • production of the first pressurized tanks for plug-in hybrid total automotive revenue(1). It increased by 19.2%, benefiting vehicles started in December 2016 in South Korea for Hyundai. from the acquisition of External Systems, a mainly European A second contract started production in January 2018 in China business. Plastic Omnium grew by 6.3% at constant scope and for Geely/Volvo. 5 new programs are in development in Asia exchange rates as production increased by 3.3%. Business was and North America, including 2 additional customers. Thanks particularly strong in 2017 in France (up by 12.0% at constant to its technology, the Group is poised to serve the strong scope and exchange rates), in the United Kingdom (up by 14.1% growth of hybrid electric vehicles around the world in the years at constant scope and exchange rates) thanks in particular to the to come. commissioning of the Warrington-Liverpool plant for exterior parts for Jaguar Land-Rover in June 2016, and in Germany (up by 8.3% In 2017, Volkswagen remained the Group’s leading customer with at constant scope and exchange rates). 21% of Automotive revenue, ahead of PSA Peugeot Citroën with 13% and General Motors with 12%. Business in North America grew by 12.8% and 15.3% at constant scope and exchange rates over the year, outperforming automoIn 2017, German carmakers remained the top contributors to tive production by 19.8 points. The business benefited from the Automotive revenue with 35% of the business (versus 33% in new capacities that have come on stream over the past 3 years 2016), ahead of American carmakers with 25% (versus 28% in (2 plants commissioned in the United States in 2015, followed by 2016), Asian carmakers with 22% (versus 19% in 2016), and 3 plants in Mexico in 2016-2017), and the expected ramp-up of French carmakers with 16% (versus 17% in 2016). In total, the SCR systems to reduce diesel vehicle emissions in the United Group has a portfolio of 78 customer brands, 25 of which are States. And in North America, the Group benefited from a signifiChinese customers and 7 pure electrics. cant exposure on SUV/Light Truck models, which account for Consolidated gross profit was €1,101 million, versus €975 million more than 80% of its business. in 2016. It represented 16.3% of consolidated sales, versus Business in Asia, including China, grew by 14.3% at constant 16.6% in 2016. scope and exchange rates. In China, where economic revenue Gross R&D spend was €401 million, compared with €339 million amounted to €721 million, or 9% of total Automotive revenue, in 2016, an increase of 18.2%. Net R&D spend, after deduction business grew by 17.0% at constant exchange rates within a 2.7% of capitalized development costs and amounts re-invoiced to increase in global automotive production over the year, outperforcustomers, was €170 million (2.5% of consolidated sales), stable ming the market by 14.3 points. The Group benefited from strong compared with €146 million in 2016. investments made over the last three years to develop the industrial footprint, consisting of 26 plants, and increase market Selling costs were €61 million (0.9% of consolidated sales) shares, particularly with Chinese manufacturers. Plastic Omnium compared with €55 million (0.9% of consolidated sales) in 2016. has 25 local brands in its customer portfolio, which represent a Administrative expenses rose from €246 million in 2016 to growing share of revenue produced in China (currently 16%), €270 million in 2017 and represent 4.0% of consolidated sales, particularly with SUVs. versus 4.2% in 2016. In the rest of Asia, business growth was 11.2% at constant scope Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinaand exchange rates, driven by Japan, India and South Korea. tions amounted to an expense of €20 million in 2017, compared with €22 million in 2016. (1) Economic revenue corresponds to consolidated sales, plus revenue from the Group’s joint ventures, at their percentage of ownership: BPO, HBPO and YFPO for Plastic Omnium Automotive. The figure reflects the operational and managerial realities of the Group. 114 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT The share of profit of associates and joint ventures amounted to • the operational excellence achieved with the 126 new €62 million in 2017, versus €52 million in 2016. This strong programs launched during the year; growth mainly comes from the Chinese joint venture YFPO. • strict cost controls; The operating margin, after amortization of intangible assets • and the earlier than expected success of turnaround measures acquired in business combinations and after share of profit of aimed at the Exterior Systems business acquired in July 2016 associates and joint ventures, amounts to €641 million in 2017 (merger of 2 organizations, adjustment of the program port(9.5% of consolidated sales), versus €558 million in 2016 (9.5% folio, the closure of plants in the United States in 2016 and in of consolidated sales; 9.0% of revenue on a comparable basis, Brazil early 2017, and of 2 paint lines in Germany in 2017, i.e. integrating at January 1, 2016 the External Systems business streamlining of the workforce, etc.). acquired on July 29, 2016). For the year, it was up 14.9%. Plastic Omnium Environment produced an operating margin of Operating margin for the Automotive business amounted to €21.1 million in 2017, i.e. 6.3% of consolidated sales, versus €619.8 million at December 31, 2017, or 9.6% of consolidated €24.4 million in 2016 (6.6% of consolidated sales) and €22.7 sales (compared with 9.1% proforma 2016). On a comparable million and 6.8% of consolidated sales in pro forma 2016 data basis, the Automotive Division improved its operating margin (i.e. by accounting for the disposal of non-strategic businesses in with: highway signage and metal drums). • a high utilization rate of its production capacity worldwide (85%, based on three teams per day for five days); Consolidated revenue and operating 2016 2017 margin by business Aggregates expressed in € millions Revenue Operating margin % Revenue Operating margin % 04 2017 Plastic Omnium Automotive 5,488 533 9.7% 6,433 620 9.6% CONSOLIDATED Plastic Omnium Environment 369 24 6.6% 335 21 6.3% FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total 5,857 558 9.5% 6,768 641 9.5% Other operating income and expense resulted in a net expense of Cash flow and capital €59 million in 2017, versus net expense of €85 million in 2016. This includes €119 million in non-current expenses, of which Group EBITDA was up by 15.2% to €933.0 million (13.8% of €44.2 million in restructuring costs, +€43.7 million in value consolidated sales) and cash flow from operations was up by adjustment on the acquisition of the Exterior Systems business, 17.3% to €859.4 million (12.7% of consolidated sales). and +€15.9 million recognized in CICE research tax credits for Engaged in a sustained investment program totaling €2.5 billion 2014, 2015, and 2016. over the 2017-2021 period, the Group invested €457.1 million in Net finance costs amounted to €67 million, versus €68 million in 2017, i.e. 6.8% of consolidated revenue (versus €402.0 million 2016. These costs account for 1.0% of revenue. i.e. 6.9% of consolidated revenue in 2016), a rise of 13.7%. The plant for exterior body parts at San Luis Potosi (Mexico) and the In 2017, the Group recorded income tax expense of €85 million, fuel systems plant in Chongqing (China) began production. versus €86 million in 2016. The Group’s effective “tax rate” was 6 plants are currently under construction: 2 in India, 1 in Slovakia, 18.7% in 2017 (versus 24.5% in 2016). It recognizes net income 1 in Morocco and 2 in the United States, including the Greer pilot of €12 million corresponding to changes in the tax rate, particuplant (South Carolina) for the Group’s Industry 4.0 program. larly in the United States. A €100 million program has been undertaken for the developThus net income rose by 35.2% to €430.5 million and represents ment of R&D capabilities: creation of an advanced new energy 6.4% of consolidated revenue (from €318 million and 5.4% of research center which will open in Brussels in mid-2019; a new consolidated revenue in 2016). The Group’s share of net income development and test center for fuel systems in Wuhan (China) in amounted to €425.2 million, or 6.3% of consolidated revenue 2019, and the digitization and expansion by 2020 of the world(compared with €312 million and 5.3% of consolidated revenue in wide R&D center for exterior body parts in Lyon. 2016), an increase of 36.2%. Basic earnings per share amounted to €2.88, versus €2.11 in 2016 (+36.5%). PLASTIC OMNIUM 115 Outlook and Post-balance Sheet Events In this context of robust investment, the Group generated free cash flow of €185.8 million in 2017, i.e. 2.7% of consolidated 4.2 Outlook and Postsales. balance Sheet Events Net debt amounted to €563 million at December 31, 2017, down by €237 million compared with December 31, 2016, after the payment of €73 million in dividends and the buyback of treasury In 2018, with an expected slight rise of around 2% in global autoshares for a net amount of €42 million. The Group’s net debt now motive production, the Group should see a further improvement represents 32% of equity and 0.6x EBITDA. in results. As a reminder, on March 31, 2017, the Group finalized the sale of For the 2017-2021 period, Plastic Omnium confirms its financial the French operations of the exteriors systems and the front-end outlook announced in December 2017: module businesses in Germany acquired in 2016, at an enter• its automotive activities should continue to outperform global prise value of €200 million, in accordance with the European automotive production by an average of around 5 points per Commission decision. Moreover, Plastic Omnium sold, on June year over the period, reaching revenue of €10 billion in 2021 30, 2017, its truck composites business, which had annual reve(including €1.7 billion from joint ventures); nues of about €200 million in France, Mexico and China. • the Group’s operating margin should continue to steadily Lastly, Compagnie Plastic Omnium completed on June 19, 2017, increase throughout the period; the placement of a €500 million bond issue with European investors without covenants or rating, with a 7-year maturity and 1.25% • the Group will pursue its investment program of €2.5 billion coupon. over the 2017-2021 period while generating free cash flow of over €1 billion. The Group is actively preparing for the upcoming changes in the 4.1.2 INVESTMENTS 2017-2021 automotive industry, by investing in innovation, research and high-tech acquisitions. To respond to the commercial success with the world’s major On March 1 st , 2018, Compagnie Plastic Omnium signed an carmakers and to the market’s future needs, Plastic Omnium agreement with the German group Mahle to acquire its 33.33% plans to invest €2.5 billion over the 2017-2021 period. These shareholding in the HBPO joint venture (world leader in front-end investments will be in new capacities, the ongoing optimization of modules), up to then held equally by Plastic Omnium, Hella and the manufacturing base (industry 4.0 and operational excellence), Mahle-Behr. the development of new programs, and the launch of new Following completion of this acquisition for an enterprise value of research projects. €350 million (financed through the Group’s own resources), Plastic Omnium will hold 66.66% of HBPO. The transaction shall be submitted to the relevant competition authorities and should be finalized during 2018. No other event likely to have a material impact on the Group’s business, financial position, earnings or assets and liabilities at December 31, 2017 has occurred since the closing date. 116 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 4.3 Balancesheet ASSETS In thousand of euros Notes December 31, December 31, 2017 2016 adjusted(1) Goodwill 3.2 – 5.1.1 – 5.1.2 584,685 579,958 Other intangible assets 3.2 – 5.1.2 497,857 484,321 Property, plant and equipment 3.2 – 3.3 – 5.1.3 – 5.1.4 1,410,465 1,353,589 Investment property 3.2 – 5.1.5 93,263 93,263 Investments in associates and joint ventures 5.1.6 211,174 190,192 Available-for-sale financial assets 5.1.7.1 – 6.7 316 394 Other available-for-sale financial assets(2) 5.1.7.2 – 5.2.7.5 – 6.4.2 –6.7 27,514 30,451 Other non-current financial assets(2) 5.1.8 – 5.2.7.5 – 6.7 59,060 54,449 Deferred tax assets 5.1.12 96,663 143,657 Total non-current assets 2,980,997 2,930,274 Inventories 5.1.9 414,013 388,689 Finance receivables(2) 5.1.10 – 5.2.7.5 – 6.7 42,807 33,918 Trade receivables 5.1.11.2 – 5.1.11.4 – 6.3.1 – 6.4.2 – 6.7 940,084 809,419 04 2017 Other 5.1.11.3 – 5.1.11.4 354,602 347,160 CONSOLIDATED Other financial assets and financial receivables(2) 5.1.10 – 5.2.7.5 – 6.4.2 – 6.7 83,209 62,388 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Hedging instruments(2) 5.2.7.5 – 5.2.8 – 6.4.2 – 6.7 5,254 499 Cash and cash equivalents(2) 5.1.13.1 – 5.1.13.2 – 5.2.7.5 939,635 334,189 – 6.4.2 – 6.7 Total current assets 2,779,604 1,976,262 Assets held for sale 5.1.16 846 238,883 Total assets 5,761,447 5,145,419 (1) In accordance with IFRS 3R, the published balance sheet as at December 31, 2016 has been restated to reflect asset and liability value adjustments to the Faurecia Exterior Systems business, acquired in 2016 during the purchase price allocation period. These adjustments are presented in Note 2.1.1 and in the schedule which follows the Group summary statements. (2) Components of net debt: Net debt stands at €563 million at December 31, 2017 compared with €799.9 million at December 31, 2016 (see Note 5.2.7.5). PLASTIC OMNIUM 117 Balance sheet EQUITY AND LIABILITIES In thousand of euros Notes December 31, December 31, 2017 2016 adjusted(1) Capital 5.2.1.1 9,059 9,149 Treasury stock (61,764) (61,192) Additional paid-in capital 17,389 17,389 Consolidated reserves 1,337,759 1,202,579 Net income for the period 425,177 312,112 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,727,620 1,480,037 Attributable to non-controlling interests 26,614 23,674 Total equity 1,754,234 1,503,711 Non-current borrowings(2) 5.2.7.5 – 6.7 1,323,771 1,119,337 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment 5.2.5 – 5.2.6.5 106,517 109,718 benefits Provisions for liabilities and charges 5.2.5 54,689 64,470 Non-current government grants 5.2.4 6,557 12,420 Deferred tax liabilities 5.1.12 20,975 78,460 Total non-current liabilities 1,512,509 1,384,405 Bank overdrafts(2) 5.1.13.2 – 5.2.7.5 – 6.4.2 – 6.7 9,993 10,307 Current borrowings(2) 5.2.7.5 – 6.7 381,078 168,320 Current debt(2) 5.2.7.5 – 6.4.2 – 6.7 4 5 Hedging instruments(2) 5.2.7.5 – 5.2.8 – 6.4.2 – 6.7 5,618 17,870 Provisions for liabilities and charges 5.2.5 70,944 67,122 Current government grants 5.2.4 3,948 – Trade payables 5.2.9.1 – 5.2.9.3 – 6.4.2 – 6.7 1,233,221 1,229,049 Other operating liabilities 5.2.9.2 – 5.2.9.3 789,898 685,262 Total current liabilities 2,494,704 2,177,935 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 5.1.16 – 79,368 Total equity and liabilities 5,761,447 5,145,419 (1) In accordance with IFRS 3R, the published balance sheet as at December 31, 2016 has been restated to reflect asset and liability value adjustments to the Faurecia Exterior Systems business, acquired in 2016 during the purchase price allocation period. These adjustments are presented in Note 2.1.1 and in the schedule which follows the Group summary statements. (2) Components of net debt: Net debt stands at €563 million at December 31, 2017 compared with €799.9 million at December 31, 2016 (see Note 5.2.7.5). 118 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Income statement 4.4 Incomestatement In thousand of euros Notes 2017 % 2016 % Consolidated sales (revenue) 3.1.1 – 3.1.4.1 – 6,768,477 100.0% 5,857,251 100.0% 3.1.4.2 Cost of goods and services sold 4.2 (5,667,843) –83.7% (4,882,708) –83.4% Gross profit 1,100,634 16.3% 974,543 16.6% Net research and development costs 4.1 – 4.2 (170,011) –2.5% (145,740) –2.5% Selling costs 4.2 (61,167) –0.9% (55,086) –0.9% Administrative expenses 4.2 (269,981) –4.0% (246,180) –4.2% Operating margin before amortization 3.1.1 599,475 8.9% 527,537 9.0% of intangible assets acquired in business combinations and before share of profit of associates and joint ventures Amortization of intangible assets acquired 3.1.1 – 4.4 (20,264) –0.3% (21,583) –0.4% in business combinations(1) Share of profit/loss of associates and joint 3.1.1 – 4.5 61,746 0.9% 51,801 0.9% ventures Operating margin 3.1.1 640,957 9.5% 557,755 9.5% Other operating income 3.1.1 – 4.6 36,770 0.5% 34,861 0.6% Other operating expenses Financing costs, net 3.1.1 – 4.6 3.1.1 – 4.7 (95,930) (63,946) –1.4% –0.9% (120,134) (58,859) –2.1% –1.0% 04 2017 Other financial income and expenses, net 3.1.1 – 4.7 (2,817) –0.0% (9,027) –0.2% CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Profit from continuing operations before income 3.1.1 515,035 7.6% 404,595 6.9% STATEMENTS tax and after share of profits of associates and joint ventures Income tax 3.1.1 – 4.8 (84,548) –1.2% (86,307) –1.5% Net income 3.1.1 430,487 6.4% 318,288 5.4% Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests 4.9 5,310 0.1% 6,176 0.1% Net profit attributable to owners of the parent 425,177 6.3% 312,112 5.3% Earnings per share attributable to owners 4.10 of the parent company • Basic earnings per share (in euros)(2) 2.88 2.11 • Diluted earnings per share (in euros)(3) 2.86 2.09 (1) Intangible assets acquired in business combinations, mainly contractual customer relationships (2) Basic earnings per share are calculated using the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, less the average number of shares held in treasury stock. (3) Diluted earnings per share take into consideration the average number of treasury shares deducted from equity and shares which might be issued under stock option programs. PLASTIC OMNIUM 119 Statement of comprehensive income 4.5 Statementof comprehensive income In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Total Gross Tax(3) Total Gross Tax Net profit for the period attributable to owners 425,177 507,815 (82,638) 312,112 397,065 (84,953) of the parent(1) Reclassified to the income statement (61,820) (60,782) (1,038) 6,001 6,221 (220) Reclassified in the period 494 826 (332) 379 663 (284) Exchange differences on translating foreign – – – (161) (161) – operations – reclassified to the income statement Cash flow hedges – Interest rate instruments 494 826 (332) 540 824 (284) reclassified to the income statement Reclassified at a later date (62,314) (61,608) (706) 5,622 5,558 64 Exchange differences on translating foreign (63,049) (63,049) – 4,701 4,701 – operations Cash flow hedges 1,697 2,403 (706) (123) (187) 64 Gains/(losses) for the period – Interest rate – – – – – – instruments Gains/(losses) for the period – Exchange rate 1,697 2,403 (706) (123) (187) 64 instruments Fair Value adjustment to available-for-sale assets (962) (962) – 1,044 1,044 – Cannot be reclassified to the income statement (1,885) 2,427 (4,312) (8,449) (12,806) 4,357 at a later date Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized in equity (1,885) 2,427 (4,312) (8,449) (12,806) 4,357 Other comprehensive income (63,705) (58,355) (5,350) (2,448) (6,585) 4,137 Comprehensive income attributable to owners 361,472 449,460 (87,988) 309,664 390,480 (80,816) of the parent(2) Net profit for the period attributable 5,310 7,220 (1,910) 6,176 7,530 (1,354) to non-controlling interests Reclassified to the income statement (1,797) (1,797) – 613 613 – Reclassified in the period – – – – – – Exchange differences on translating foreign – – – – – – operations – reclassified to the income statement Reclassified at a later date (1,797) (1,797) – 613 613 – Exchange differences on translating foreign (1,797) (1,797) – 613 613 – operations Cannot be reclassified to the income statement – – – – – – at a later date Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized in equity – – – – – – Other comprehensive income (1,797) (1,797) – 613 613 – Comprehensive income attributable 3,513 5,423 (1,910) 6,789 8,143 (1,354) to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income 364,985 454,883 (89,898) 316,453 398,623 (82,170) (1) Net profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent amounted to €250,259 thousand at December 31, 2017 compared with €182,991 thousand at December 31, 2016. (2) Total net profit attributable to owners of the parent amounted to €212,763 thousand at December 31, 2017 compared with €181,556 thousand at December 31, 2016. (3) The tax presented in other comprehensive income takes into account the effects of changes in tax rates in France and in United States that occurred in 2017. 120 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Changes in equity 4.6 Changesin equity In thousand of euros Number of Capital Additional Treasury Other Translation Net profit Shareholders’ equity Total In thousand units for the number of shares shares paid-in stock reserves(1) adjustment for the Attributable Attributable to equity capital period to owners of non-controlling the parent interests Equity at December 31, 2015 153,577 9,215 38,637 (52,502) 984,620(1) 28,154 258,374 1,266,497 20,822 1,287,319 Appropriation of net profit – – – – 258,374 – (258,374) – – – at December 31, 2015 First-half 2016 net profit – – – – – – 312,112 312,112 6,176 318,288 Other comprehensive income – – – – (8,534) 6,086 – (2,448) 613 (1,835) Exchange differences on translating – – – – (1,546) 6,086 – 4,540 613 5,153 foreign operations Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized – – – – (8,449) – – (8,449) – (8,449) in equity Cash flow hedges – Interest rate – – – – 540 – – 540 – 540 instruments Cash flow hedges – currency instruments – – – – (123) – – (123) – (123) Change in the faire value adjustment – – – – 1,044 – – 1,044 – 1,044 of “Assets helf for sale” Comprehensive income – – – – 249,840 6,086 53,738 309,664 6,789 316,453 Treasury stock transactions – – – (29,938) (7,294) – – (37,232) – (37,232) Capital reduction (cancellation of treasury stock) (1,100) (66) (21,248) 21,248 – – – (66) – (66) 04 2017 Change in scope of consolidation – – – – (1,812) – – (1,812) (1,488) (3,300) CONSOLIDATED and reserves(2) FINANCIAL Dividends paid by Compagnie – – – – (60,512) – – (60,512) – (60,512) STATEMENTS Plastic Omnium Dividends paid by other Group companies – – – – – – – – (2,449) (2,449) Stock option costs – – – – 3,498 – – 3,498 – 3,498 Equity at December 31, 2016 152,477 9,149 17,389 (61,192) 1,168,339(1) 34,240 312,112 1,480,037 23,674 1,503,711 Appropriation of net profit – – – – 312,112 – (312,112) – – – at December 31, 2016 First-half 2017 net profit – – – – – – 425,177 425,177 5,310 430,487 Other comprehensive income – – – – (656) (63,049) – (63,705) (1,797) (65,502) Exchange differences on translating – – – – – (63,049) – (63,049) (1,797) (64,846) foreign operations Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized – – – – (1,885) – – (1,885) – (1,885) in equity Cash flow hedges – Interest rate – – – – 494 – – 494 – 494 instruments Cash flow hedges – Currency instruments – – – – 1,697 – – 1,697 – 1,697 Change in the fair value adjustment of – – – – (962) – – (962) – (962) Other available-for-sale Financial assets Comprehensive income – – – – 311,456 (63,049) 113,065 361,472 3,513 364,985 Treasury stock transactions – – – (41,955) – – – (41,955) – (41,955) Capital reduction (1,500) (90) – 41,383 (41,383) – – (90) – (90) (cancellation of treasury stock) Tax effect of treasury stock transactions – – – – (2,441) – – (2,441) – (2,441) Dividends paid by Compagnie – – – – (72,272) – – (72,272) – (72,272) Plastic Omnium Dividends paid by other Group companies – – – – – – – – (573) (573) Stock option and share purchase plan – – – – 3,327 – – 3,327 – 3,327 costs Deferred tax on stock option and share – – – – (962) – – (962) – (962) purchase plans Effect of tax rate change on deferred taxes – – – – 504 – – 504 – 504 related to the recognistion of fixed assets at fair value Equity at December 31, 2017 150,977 9,059 17,389 (61,764) 1,366,568(1) (28,809) 425,177 1,727,620 26,614 1,754,234 (1) See Note 5.2.1.2 for details of “Other reserves and retained earnings”. (2) See Note 5.2.1.3 for details of “Changes in scope of consolidation and reserves”. The dividend per share distributed on December 31, 2017 by Compagnie Plastic Omnium in respect of the 2016 fiscal year is €0,49 compared with €0.41 on December 31, 2016 in respect of 2015 fiscal year (see Note 5.2.2 on dividends voted and paid). PLASTIC OMNIUM 121 Statement of cash flows 4.7 Statementof cash flows In thousand of euros Notes 2017 2016 I – Cash flows from operating activities Net income 3.1.1 430,487 318,288 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 32,401 31,409 Non-cash items 396,516 382,890 Share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures 4.5 (61,746) (51,801) Stock option plan expense 5.2.3 – 4.3 3,327 3,498 Other adjustments 688 6,117 Depreciation and provisions for impairment of fixed assets 3.1.3 – 5.1.3 168,512 170,756 Depreciation and provisions for impairment of intangible assets 3.1.3 – 5.1.2 127,660 109,094 Changes in provisions (4,841) (9,476) Net (gains)/losses on disposals of non-current assets 4.6 19,606 14,786 Proceeds from operating grants recognized in the income statement (2,274) (1,727) Current and deferred taxes 4.8.1 84,548 86,307 Interest expense 61,037 55,336 Net operating cash generated by operations before impact of financial 5.1.15 859,404 732,587 expenses and income tax cash payments (A) Change in inventories and work-in-progress – net (42,327) 44,913 Change in trade receivables – net (195,976) (155,278) Change in trade payables 177,432 190,773 Change in other operating assets and liabilities – net 17,660 (20,235) Change in working capital requirements (B) (43,211) 60,173 Taxes paid (C) (114,049) (97,271) Interest paid (62,729) (55,486) Interest received 3,540 2,783 Net financial interest paid (D) 5.1.15 (59,189) (52,703) Net cash generated by operating activities (A+B+C+D) 642,955 642,786 II – Cash flows from investing activities Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment 3.1.3 – 3.2 – 5.1.3 (328,718) (220,712) Acquisitions of intangible assets 3.1.3 – 5.1.2 (165,561) (151,120) Disposals of property, plant and equipment 4.6 a 20,638 4,852 Disposals of intangible assets 4.6 a 1,338 4 Net change in advances to suppliers of fixed assets 14,471 (35,313) Government grants received 688 210 Net cash used in operations-related investing activities (E) (457,144) (402,079) Free cash flow (A + B + C + D + E)(1) 185,811 240,707 Acquisitions of shares in subsidiaries and associates, investments 2.1.3 – 2.1.4 (21,419) (527,580) in associates and joint ventures, and related investments Acquisitions of available-for-sale financial assets 5.1.7.2 (32,874) (29,124) Proceeds from disposals of shares in subsidiaries and associates 4.6 a 10,678 15,638 Disposal of Available-for-sale financial assets(2) 4.6 a – 5.1.16 196,266 – Impact of changes in scope of consolidation – Cash and cash equivalents 2.1.1.5 747 9,480 contributed by companies entering the scope of consolidation Impact of changes in scope of consolidation – Cash and cash equivalents 2.3 – 5.1.16 (5,179) (830) from companies leaving the scope of consolidation Impact of changes in scope of consolidation – Borrowings contributed by 2.1.1.5 – (157,124) companies entering the scope of consolidation Net cash from financial investing activities (F) 148,219 (689,540) Net cash from investing activities (E+F) (308,925) (1,091,619) III – Cash flows from financing activities Increases/reductions in share capital and premiums 5.2.1.1 (90) (66) Purchases/sales of treasury stock (41,955) (37,232) Dividends paid to Burelle SA(3) (42,592) (35,638) Dividends paid to other shareholders(4) (30,253) (27,323) 122 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT In thousand of euros Notes 2017 2016 Acquisitions of non-controlling interests 2.1.2 – (3,300) Increase in financial debt 2.1.3 507,371 362,385 Repayment of borrowings (110,236) (126,410) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (G) 282,245 132,416 Assets held for sale (and discontinued operations) (H) 5.1.16 – (5,756) Effect of exchange rate changes (I) (10,515) (1,210) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 605,761 (323,383) (A + B + C + D + E + F + G + H + I) Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 5.1.13.2 – 5.2.7.5 323,882 647,265 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 5.1.13.2 – 5.2.7.5 929,643 323,882 (1) The “Free Cash Flow” is an essential notion specific to the Plastic Omnium Group. It is used in all of the Group’s external financial communication and, in particular, for annual and interim results presentations. (2) This includes the sale of the “Faurecia Exterior Systems” business classified as “Assets and liabilities held for sale” at December 31, 2016 for €159,424 thousand (see Note 2.1.1.4 and the sale of the shares of listed companies for €36,842 thousand (see Notes 4.6 a and 5.1.7.2). (3) The full amount of the dividend paid to Burelle SA in the two periods was paid by Compagnie Plastic Omnium. (4) In 2017, the dividend paid to other shareholders of €29,681 thousand (compared with €24,874 thousand in 2016) was paid by Compagnie Plastic Omnium, bringing the total dividends paid by Compagnie Plastic Omnium to €72,272 thousand (compared with €60,512 thousand in 2016). See Note 5.2.2 “Dividends voted and paid by Compagnie Plastic Omnium”. 04 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PLASTIC OMNIUM 123 Table of changes from the published December 31, 2016 balance sheet to the adjusted balance sheet presented on a comparative basis in the December 31, 2017 consolidated financial statements Table of changes from the published December 31, 2016 balance sheet to the adjusted balance sheet presented on a comparative basis in the December 31, 2017 consolidated financial statements The value adjustments of the assets and liabilities of the Faurecia Exterior Systems business acquired in 2016 made during the acquisition period are presented in Note 2.1.1. ADJUSTED BALANCE SHEET AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 The allocation period for the acquisition price of the “Faurecia Exterior Systems” business ended 12 months after the acquisition date, i.e. on July 29, 2017. Hereafter are the details of adjustments recorded in 2017: Assets In thousand of euros December 31, Adjustments due to December 31, 2016 “Faurecia Exterior 2016 adjusted published Systems” business acquisition(1) Goodwill 531,077 48,881 579,958 Other intangible assets 484,321 – 484,321 Property, plant and equipment 1,353,589 – 1,353,589 Investment property 93,263 – 93,263 Investments in associates and joint ventures 190,192 – 190,192 Available-for-sale financial assets 394 – 394 Other available-for-sale financial assets 30,451 – 30,451 Other non-current financial assets 54,449 – 54,449 Deferred tax assets 140,355 3,302 143,657 Total non-current assets 2,878,091 52,183 2,930,274 Inventories 390,312 (1,623) 388,689 Finance receivables 33,918 – 33,918 Trade receivables 809,624 (205) 809,419 Other 347,160 – 347,160 Other financial assets and financial receivables 62,388 – 62,388 Hedging instruments 499 – 499 Cash and cash equivalents 334,189 – 334,189 Total current assets 1,978,090 (1,828) 1,976,262 Assets held for sale 240,712 (1,829) 238,883 Total assets 5,096,893 48,526 5,145,419 (1) See Note 2.1.1.5 related to the “Opening balance sheet of Faurecia’s Exterior Systems business”. 124 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Equity and liabilities In thousand of euros December 31, Adjustments due to December 31, 2016 “Faurecia Exterior 2016 adjusted published Systems” business acquisition(1) Capital 9,149 – 9,149 Treasury stock (61,192) – (61,192) Additional paid-in capital 17,389 – 17,389 Consolidated reserves 1,202,579 – 1,202,579 Net income for the period 312,112 – 312,112 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 1,480,037 – 1,480,037 Attributable to non-controlling interests 23,674 – 23,674 Total equity 1,503,711 – 1,503,711 Non-current borrowings 1,119,337 – 1,119,337 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 109,718 – 109,718 Provisions for liabilities and charges 45,365 19,105 64,470 Non-current government grants 12,420 – 12,420 Deferred tax liabilities 78,643 (183) 78,460 Total non-current liabilities 1,365,483 18,922 1,384,405 Bank overdrafts 10,307 – 10,307 Current borrowings Current debt 168,320 5 – – 168,320 5 04 CONSOLIDATED Hedging instruments 17,870 – 17,870 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Provisions for liabilities and charges 41,912 25,210 67,122 Current government grants – – – Trade payables 1,226,618 2,431 1,229,049 Other operating liabilities 683,299 1,963 685,262 Total current liabilities 2,148,331 29,604 2,177,935 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 79,368 – 79,368 Total equity and liabilities 5,096,893 48,526 5,145,419 (1) See Note 2.1.1.5 related to the “Opening balance sheet of Faurecia’s Exterior Systems business”. PLASTIC OMNIUM 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4.8 Notes to the 2016. They comply with IFRS standards and interpretations as adopted by the European Union at December 31, 2017 and avaiconsolidatedfinancial lable on the website: http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/ accounting/ias_fr.htm#adopted-commission. IFRS includes the statements International Accounting Standards (IAS) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as well as the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC). These The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial stateaccounting principles do not differ significantly from mandatory ments for the year ended December 31, 2017 for the Plastic application standards and interpretations as December 31, 2017, Omnium Group on February 14, 2018, which will be submitted to as published by the IASB. the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018. The accounting policies applied by the Group are described in the Note 1.1 “Accounting policies, accounting rules and methods” of the 2017 consolidated financial statements, except those Presentation of the Group affected by the new standards and mandatory application amendments from January 1, 2018. The Group did in fact not opt Compagnie Plastic Omnium, a company governed by French law, for early application of standards, interpretations and amendwas set up in 1946. The bylaws set its duration until April 24, ments that are not mandatory at 31 December 2017. 2112. It is registered in the Lyon Trade and Companies Register Standards, interpretations and amendments applicable after under number 955 512,611 and its registered office is at 19, January 1, 2018 boulevard Jules Carteret, 69007 Lyon, France. The Group has been applying IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts The terms “Compagnie Plastic Omnium”, “the Group” or “the with Customers” since January 1, 2018. In this context, the Plastic Omnium Group” refer to the group of companies comprising accounting treatment of costs and products linked to activities Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its consolidated subsidiaries. carried out during the project phase of automotive contracts has The Plastic Omnium Group is a world leader in the transformation been changed. The project phase corresponds to the period of plastic materials for the automotive market (body parts, during which the Group works on the development of the part to storage systems and fuel supply systems), representing 95.0% of be produced, on the design and manufacture of the specific its consolidated sales (95.8% of its economic revenue) and for tooling that will be used during production as well as the structure local authorities (waste collection bins) for the remainder of its of future production processes and logistics. It begins with the sales revenue. appointment of the Group on the vehicle and product concerned and ends when normal production volume is reached. Plastic Omnium Group shares have been traded on the Paris Stock Exchange since 1965. Listed on Eurolist in compartment A The new accounting treatment is based on the identification by since January 17, 2013, the Group is part of the SBF 120 and the the Group in most cases of two performance obligations, distinct CAC Mid 60 indices. The main shareholder is Burelle SA, which from the production of parts, under the design activity and certain holds 57.57% of the Group’s shares (58.86% excluding Treasury specific tooling whose control is transferred to clients. stock) at December 31, 2017. Costs related to performance obligations are recognized in invenThe unit of measurement used in the Notes to the consolidated tories during the project phase and then expensed when their financial statements is thousands of euros, unless otherwise control is transferred to the customer, i.e. when the series is indicated. launched. The income related to “lump sum” payments, or explicitly included in the price of the part, and therefore the negative For the opening balance sheet of the 2017 financial year, the or positive margin related to these performance obligations, is consolidated financial statements published at December 31, recognized at the start of the series life. 2016 will be identified using the notion “published”. The “adjusted” notion is used for the Consolidated Balance Sheet Other costs incurred during the project phase related to the and the notes impacted by the adjustments in 2017 to allocate execution of the contract where control is not transferred to the the acquisition price of the “Faurecia Exterior Systems” business, customers, are recognized in fixed assets and depreciated over in accordance with IFRS 3R. the expected period of production, with a maximum of three years for visible parts and 5 years for fuel systems. They are subject to impairment tests when there is objective evidence of impairment. 1. Accounting policies, accounting rules Furthermore, under IFRS 15, only costs of obtaining contracts and principles which would not have existed without a contract are capitalized and depreciated over the expected production period; costs 1.1. Accounting policies, accounting rules incurred prior to the appointment of the Group, whether or not the contract is obtained, are recognized as an expense for the period. and methods The impact of this change in accounting treatment is not signifiThe accounting policies used to prepare the consolidated financant on the Group’s consolidated accounts. An estimate based cial statements are those applied by the Group at December 31, 126 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT on the 2018 budget shows a lower than 0.5% impact on revenue example, in the event of an increase (or decrease) in the percenand operating margin. tage ownership interest of the Group in a controlled entity, without change in control, the difference between the acquisition In view of these non-significant impacts during the transition, the cost of (or transfer price) and the carrying amount of the share of Group decided to apply the modified retrospective method; the net assets acquired (or sold) is recognized in equity. 2017 Consolidated Financial Statements will not be restated and the new accounting treatment is applied to unfinished projects, 1.1.3. Segment information i.e. automotive contracts whose production has not been Segment information is presented on the basis of the segments launched at December 31, 2017. identified in the Group’s internal reporting and notified to the Concerning IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”, at this stage, no management in order to decide on the allocation of resources significant impact has been identified. and to analyze performance. IFRS 16 “Leases”, published in early 2016 by the IASB with an The Group is managed according to two operating segments: application of January 1, 2019 but not yet adopted by the • “Automotive” means the activities of the body components European Union, is currently being analyzed by the Group. At this (Automotive Exterior Division) and of the fuel storage and stage the main impacts identified concern real estate leases. distribution systems, from the design to sales through to 1.1.1. Consolidation principles manufacturing (Auto Inergy Division); Companies in which the Group holds more than 50% of the voting • “Environment” which covers activities for local authorities, rights, enabling it to exercise exclusive control, are fully consolinamely the pre-collection products and services and waste dated. Companies in which the Group holds less than 50% but management activities. over which the Group exercises control in substance are also fully consolidated. 1.1.4. Business combinations Business combinations are recognized by applying the acquisition 04 2017 Companies over which the Group exercises joint control with other CONSOLIDATED method. Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities shareholders, regardless of the percentage of the holding, FINANCIAL acquired are recognized at their fair value on the purchase date. STATEMENTS treated as “joint ventures” insofar as the Group has no joint operations, in addition to the companies over which the Group The surplus of the sum of the price paid to the seller and, where exercises significant influence, and classified as “Interests in appropriate, the value of the non-controlling interest in the associates” (significant influence is assumed when the Group company acquired against the net balance of the acquired assets holds more than 20% of the voting rights in a company) are and the identifiable liabilities acquired is recognized in goodwill. accounted for using the equity method. Where the takeover is carried out through successive purchases, The Group mainly reviews the following elements and criteria in the consideration also includes the acquisition-date fair value of order to assess whether joint control or significant influence is the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquired exercised over an entity: company. The previously held equity interest is measured at fair value through profit or loss. • governance: representation of the Group on governance boards and committees, majority rules, veto rights; Acquisition costs are recorded as expenses. • the determination of the substantive or protective rights The fair value adjustments of assets acquired and liabilities granted to shareholders, particularly related to the relevant assumed are offset against goodwill adjustments on the basis of businesses of the entity, namely those that have a significant information obtained during the allocation period, i.e. within impact on the variable return of the entity; twelve months of the acquisition. Changes in value after that date are recognized in profit or loss, including any changes in deferred • the consequences of a conflict resolution clause; tax assets and liabilities, if they are related to new items that • the right/exposure of the Group to the variable returns of the have occurred since the change of control. If they result from new entity. information relating to facts existing at acquisition date and collected during the 12 months following this date, they are an 1.1.2. Non-controlling interests offset to the acquisition’s goodwill. Non-controlling interests represent the share of interest, which is not held by the Group. They are presented as a separate item in the income statement and under equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately from the profit and equity attributable to owners of the parent. Non-controlling interests may be either measured at fair value on the acquisition date (i.e. with a share of goodwill) or for their share in the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired. This choice can be made on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not change control are recognized as equity transactions. For PLASTIC OMNIUM 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.1.5. Translation of the financial statements 1.1.7. Revenue of foreign subsidiaries Revenue is recognized when risks and rewards of ownership are Plastic Omnium Group uses the euro as its presentation currency transferred, and it is likely that future economic benefits will in its financial statements. The financial statements of foreign accrue to the Group and the amount of this income can be companies are prepared in their functional currency, i.e. in the reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the currency of the economic environment in which the entity consideration received, net of any discounts, rebates and other operates; usually the functional currency corresponds to the local taxes on sales and customs duties. currency, except for some foreign subsidiaries such as the Sales of goods Mexican subsidiaries who carry out the majority of their transactions in another currency. These financial statements are transThe revenue from the sale of goods and from wholesale transaclated into the Group’s presentation currency, as follows: tions is recognized when the material risks and rewards of ownership of the goods are transferred to the buyer, usually on • translation of balance sheet items, other than equity, at the delivery of the goods. closing rate; Sales of services and specific tooling • translation of income statement items at the average rate for Automotive Business the period; Revenue from ordinary activities relating to the project phase of • translation differences are recognized in consolidated equity. automotive contracts (development hours and tooling) is recoGoodwill arising from business combinations with foreign compagnized when the risks and rewards of ownership have been nies is recognized in the functional currency of the acquired transferred to the customer. A determining factor in the Group’s entity. They are subsequently translated into the Group’s presenanalysis is whether or not the customer has formally agreed the tation currency at the closing rate, with the translation difference price. recognized in equity. Thus, when the Group obtains a contractual agreement signed On disposal of the entire interest in a foreign company, the with its customers on the sales price of the tooling, the tooling is related translation differences are initially recognized in equity, considered to be sold; the related revenue is recognized on the then reclassified in profit and loss. basis of the stage of completion validated by the customer and, at the latest, on the first day of series production of the model 1.1.6. Recognition of transactions in foreign concerned. In the same way, when the Group obtains a contraccurrencies tual agreement from its customers, the expected development Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the revenue on a time-spent basis is gradually recognized using the functional currency at the rate on the transaction date. On the stage of completion method. closing date, monetary assets and liabilities are revalued at the Without such an agreement with the customer (e.g. customer rates prevailing at the closing date. Non-monetary assets and financing through a “development unit” with no volume liabilities at cost are valued at the historical rates, prevailing at guarantee), the Group considers that the material risks and the transaction date (for example, goodwill, tangible assets, rewards are not transferred to the client; the tooling and/or deveinventories, etc.). Non-monetary assets and liabilities at fair value lopment time expenses are therefore recognized in the Group’s are valued at the rates prevailing at the date when fair value is property, plant and equipment and/or intangible assets, and determined (for example, assets available for sale). amortized over the life of the series. Where applicable, products For monetary items exchange rate differences arising from received from customers are recognized in revenue over the life of changes in interest rates are recorded in the income statement, the series. as other operating income and expenses, when they are related Environment business to operations and as financial income/expense when they are Most lease-maintenance contracts are operating leases. The related to financial transactions. lease payments received are accounted for on a straight-line Borrowings in foreign currencies contracted by the Group and basis over the term of the leases, except in the case of finance whose repayment is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable leases; in this case, a sale is recorded for the amount equal to future are considered to be part of the net investment of the the survey costs (costs incurred by individuals to collect informaPlastic Omnium Group in this foreign business. The correspontion on the volume of bins placed at their disposal), the installading translation differences are recorded in equity. tion costs and the estimated sales price of the equipment made available. 128 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 1.1.8. Receivables • income and expenses that are unusual in nature, frequency or amount, such as profits and losses related to changes in Receivables are initially recognized at their fair value. The fair scope, the start-up costs of new plants, the costs of restructuvalue generally represents the nominal amount of the receivable ring and downsizing costs. when the sale has been subject to routine payment terms. Impairments are recorded to cover the risks of non-recovery Amortization of contractual customer relationships acquired in where there is objective evidence of loss of value. The impairment business combinations is recognized as a separate item in the amount is determined individually for each customer. operating margin. Finance receivables correspond, for the most part, to the The share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures is also lease-financing sales of the Environment business, and to deverecorded in the operating margin as a separate item. lopment and tooling sales for which the Group has signed an Thus, the Group has an operating margin before amortization of agreement enabling customers to pay in installments (for intangible assets acquired in business combinations and the example: “development unit” prices contractually agreed by share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures and an customers). These receivables have initial payment periods of operating margin after taking these factors into account. more than one year and may bear interest in the framework of an asset financing agreement agreed with the customer. The income The operating margin after taking these factors into account is related to these receivables is recognized in revenue. These the main performance indicator used by the Group. finance receivables are deducted when calculating the Group’s 1.1.10. Research tax credit net debt. The Group benefits from tax credits linked to the research effort Sold receivables, which are removed from the balance sheet, of its subsidiaries. These tax credits are included in operating meet the following criteria: 04 margin under “Net research and development costs”, see • the rights attached to the receivables are transferred to third Notes 4.1 “Research and development costs” and 4.2 “Cost of 2017 parties; sales, development, selling and administrative costs”. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL • substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are trans1.1.11. Intangible assets STATEMENTS ferred to third parties; 1.1.11.1. Research and development costs The risks taken into account are the following: Development costs are recognized as intangible assets when the • credit risk; company can demonstrate in particular: • risks related to payment arrears both for the duration and • its intention, financial capacity and technical capability to amounts; complete the development project; • the transfer of interest rate risk, which is fully assumed by the • the probability of receiving future economic benefits from buyer. development expenditure; 1.1.9. Operating margin • the ability to reliably value the cost of the asset. Operating margin corresponds to the profit from fully consolidated Automotive business development costs companies before other operating income and expenses which Development hours undertaken for an Automotive project subject mainly include: to a customer contractual payment agreement are considered as • gains from disposals of property, plant and equipment and sold and expensed on the basis of the stage of completion. The intangible assets; revenue recognition policy is described in Note 1.1.7 “Revenue”. • impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and Expenditure incurred on orders for specific tooling and molds equipment, including any impairment of goodwill; subject to a customer contractual payment agreement shall be considered as sold and recognized in inventories. The related • translation differences, corresponding to the difference income is recognized in revenue based on the total cost incurred between the exchange rates used to account for operating on the date of technical acceptance, or at the latest, on the first receivables and payables and the rates used to account for day of series production. Payments received prior to these dates related settlements; are recorded under customer prepayments. PLASTIC OMNIUM 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Development hours and tooling financed by the customer under The net carrying amount of all assets (including goodwill), “development unit” pricing, without contractual customer commitcomprising each cash-generating unit, is compared to its recovement on volumes or payment guarantee, are recognized as intanrable amount, i.e. the higher of the fair value less disposal costs gible or tangible assets in progress during the development and the value in use determined using discounted cash flow phase. method. These capitalized development amounts are amortized when daily The cash flow forecast is based on the Group’s medium-term output reaches 30% of estimated production and, at the latest, plans, which are prepared for the next four years, revised as three months after the first day of series production. Amortization necessary to reflect the most recent market conditions. Over this is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of timeframe, a terminal value is calculated based on the capitalizaseries production, i.e. on average, three years for body parts and tion of the projected cash flows for the last year covered by the five years for fuel systems. The amortization of development business plan, using a long-term growth rate that reflects the hours is recorded in Research and Development and that of the outlook for the market. These cash flow projections are then tooling in gross margin. discounted. Other research and development costs The assumptions used to determine the discount rates take into Other research and development costs are recognized as account: expenses for the financial year. • an industry risk premium; 1.1.11.2. Other intangible assets • an industry financing “spread” to value the cost of debt; Other intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated • the rates used by comparable companies in each segment. amortization and impairment losses. They are amortized according to the linear method over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill is measured annually at cost, less any accumulated impairment representing loss of value. Impairments on goodwill These mainly include the “Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy” and are irreversible. “Ford-Milan” customer contractual relationships. Sensitivity tests with an increase in the discount rate of 0.5% or a These assets are tested for impairment when there is an indicareduction of 0.5% in the long-term growth rate or a reduction of tion of impairment. 0.5% in the operating margin rate are systematically carried out. 1.1.12. Start-up costs Negative goodwill (badwill) is recorded in the income statement Costs corresponding to start-up phases, including organizational during the year of acquisition. costs, are expensed as they are incurred. They correspond to the 1.1.14. Property, plant and equipment use of new production capacity or techniques. As indicated in Note 1.1.9, pre-start-up costs for new plants are recognized Gross values under “Other operating expenses”. Property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at their acquisition cost, at their cost of production when they are manu1.1.13. Goodwill and impairment tests factured by the company for itself (or subcontracted) or at their Plastic Omnium Group goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for fair value for those acquired without consideration. impairment at least once per year, at year-end, and on the interim Gains and losses on intra-group sales or acquisitions of property balance sheet date if there is evidence of impairment. are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Impairment tests are carried out at the level of each cash generaProperty, plant and equipment are subsequently recognized at ting unit (CGU), or groups of cash generating units, which are: cost less accumulated amortization based on their life and accu• “Automotive”; mulated impairment losses. • “Environment”. Industrial buildings are measured at depreciated cost. Maintenance and repair costs in order to restore or maintain the The Group presents its segment information in two “reportable future economic benefits that the company may expect in terms segments,” Automotive and Environment (see Note 3 “Segment of the estimated level of performance at the time of acquisition Information”), and the goodwill information follows the same are recognized as an expense as incurred. presentation (see Note 5.1.1 “Goodwill”). 130 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Future expenditures are capitalized only on the assumption that Properties or parts of properties previously classified under the future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will investment property and reclassified as operating property as the return to the Group. Group decides to use them for its own occupation, are recognized at their carrying amount at the date of transfer. Assets under finance leases are recognized in property, plant and equipment at the lower of their fair value and the present value of When properties are moved from the “Property, plant and equipminimum lease payments and depreciated on the basis of Group ment” category to the “Investment property” category, any diffedepreciation rates applicable to the same assets owned outright. rence between the carrying amount and the fair value on that They mainly concern leases on industrial buildings, major funcdate is accounted for as a revaluation. tional assemblies (“presses”) and containers. 1.1.16. Inventories and goods in process Depreciation 1.1.16.1. Raw materials inventories and other supplies Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estiRaw materials and supplies are measured at the lower of cost mated useful lives: and net realizable value. Buildings and fixtures 10 – 40 years At the end of the financial year, a provision for impairment is Presses and transformation machines 7 – 10 years recorded when the estimated sales price of the related finished Machining, finishing and other equipment 3 – 7 years products in the normal course of business, less the residual Containers rented to municipalities (bins for 8 years estimated marketing, production and processing costs, is less waste collection) than the carrying amount of the raw materials or supplies. Other equipment rented to municipalities 5 years (playground equipment, bin lifts, etc.) 1.1.16.2. Finished and semi-finished product inventories The Group applies the components approach to its property Finished and semi-finished products are valued on the basis of standard production costs, revised annually. Cost includes raw 04 assets and major functional assemblies. 2017 materials and direct and indirect production costs. These costs CONSOLIDATED Impairment of property, plant and equipment do not include any administrative overheads or IT not linked to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS production or research and development costs or sales costs. In Property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment when addition, it does not include the cost of any below-normal capadecisions are made to cease production or to close a site. city utilization. 1.1.15. Investment property The cost of inventories is compared at the balance sheet date to The items in the “Investment property” section of the Group’s the net realizable value. If it exceeds the net realizable value, an balance sheet are not included in ordinary operations. These impairment loss is recorded to bring the inventories to their net assets, which belong to the Group, correspond to real estate: realizable value. • not occupied on the balance sheet date and whose use is 1.1.17. Non-current and current borrowings undecided; Current and non-current borrowings are valued using the amor• or held by the Group for their long-term appreciation and which tized cost method using the effective interest rate. are leased to third parties under operating leases. 1.1.18. Provisions The Group may, where appropriate, decide to use all or part of a property whose use is undecided (in which case the relevant part Provisions are booked when there are obligations to third parties would be reclassified as being occupied) or lease them under one leading to a likely outflow of resources for the benefit of these or more operating leases. third parties without at least equivalent value expected for the Group. Losses identified on onerous contracts, i.e. contracts Investment property is measured at fair value at the balance whose unavoidable costs relating to their obligations are greater sheet date, with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss. than the expected economic benefits, are subject to provisions. The land on which the buildings are constructed follow the same These provisions are recognized in current or non-current liabiliaccounting treatment. An independent appraiser makes regular ties depending on whether they are shortor medium-long term in valuations as part of the year-end closing process. Between two nature. valuations, the Group ensures that the real estate market has not undergone any significant change. The fair value determined by The cost of downsizing plans is recognized in the period in which the expert is assessed by direct reference to observable prices in a detailed plan is drawn up and announced to the employees an active market (level 2 fair value). concerned or their representatives, thus creating a well-founded expectation that the Group will implement this plan. PLASTIC OMNIUM 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.1.19. Provisions for pensions and other post• actuarial gains and losses on post-employment benefit obligaemployment benefits tions recognized in equity. All Group employees are covered by pensions and other long-term 1.1.19.3. Other long-term benefits post-employee benefits plans. Pension plans comprise defined Other long-term benefits correspond to long-service awards for contribution plans or defined benefit plans. French employees. 1.1.19.1. Defined contribution plans Actuarial gains and losses on “Other long-term benefit plans” The cost of defined contribution plans, corresponding to sala(mainly long-service awards) are recognized immediately in profit ry-based contributions to government-sponsored pension and or loss. death/disability insurance plans made in accordance with local 1.1.20. Government grants laws and practices in each country is recognized as an operating expense. The Group has no legal or implicit obligation to pay The grants received are recognized as liabilities in the balance additional contributions or future benefits. Consequently, no sheet; they correspond to grants to finance investments in new actuarial liability is recorded under these defined contribution sites, production equipment or research and development plans. programs. 1.1.19.2. Defined benefit plans The grants are reclassified in gross profit over the periods and in the proportions in which the acquired assets are depreciated. Defined benefit plans mainly concern post-employment benefit plans, which are defined by: 1.1.21. Treasury stock • other pension and supplementary pension plans, mainly in the Treasury stock is recorded as a deduction from equity, regardless US and France; of the purpose for which it is being held. • plans to cover healthcare costs in the United States. The proceeds from the sale of these securities are recorded Defined benefit plans are subject to provisions for staff benefits directly as an increase in the Group’s equity, any gain or loss on calculated on the basis of actuarial valuations carried out by the sales have no impact on the income statement for the year. independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. 1.1.22. Share-based payments These assessments take into account assumptions on: Options allocated under share purchase and subscription plans • retirement dates determined according to the terms of the (at December 31, 2017 there are no stock option plans) are legislation and in particular for French employees, a voluntary measured at their fair value at the date of grant by the Board of retirement assumption when full benefit rights have been Directors, using the Black & Scholes option pricing model. acquired; The fair value is recognized in “Employee benefits expense” on a • mortality; straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding adjustment to reserves. • the probability of active employees departing before retirement age; When options are exercised, the cash amount received by the Group for the exercise price is recorded in cash and cash equiva• estimates of salary increases up to retirement age; lents with a corresponding adjustment to consolidated reserves. • discount rates and inflation. 1.1.23. Financial assets (excluding derivatives) When defined benefit plans are funded, the commitments under these plans are deducted from the market value of plan assets at Financial assets include equity interests in companies that are the reporting date. The valuation builds in long-term profitability not consolidated because they are not controlled by the Group assumptions of invested assets calculated on the basis of the (either alone or jointly) or because the Group does not exercise discount rate used to value company commitments. significant influence over their management, as well as loans and securities. Changes in provisions for defined benefit obligations are recognized over the benefit vesting period, in the income statement They are classified as non-current assets, with the exception of under “Operating expenses”, except for: assets maturing within twelve months of the balance sheet date which are classified under current assets or cash equivalents as • the effect of discounting the commitments recognized in finanappropriate. cial expenses; 132 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 1.1.23.1. Available-for-sale financial assets Changes in the fair value of instruments described as “Cash flow Equity interests in companies that are not controlled or under hedges” are recorded under “Other comprehensive income” significant influence by the Group are presented as “Available-for(equity) for the efficient parts and in financial income for the inefsale assets”. They are measured at their fair value at the closing ficient parts. date. Changes in fair value are recognized directly in equity. An Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for impairment is recognized in the income statement when there is hedge accounting are recognized in profit or loss. objective evidence that these securities have lost value. A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value with reference to the 1.1.25. Cash and cash equivalents acquisition value is objective evidence of loss of value. This Cash and cash equivalents presented in the statement of cash impairment cannot be written back. flows include short-term, highly liquid cash items, readily conver“Available-for-sale financial assets” also correspond to shares in tibles into known amounts of cash and subject to a negligible risk listed companies and shares held in funds and venture capital of change in value. Cash comprises cash and cash equivalents, companies. On the acquisition date, they are measured at fair short-term deposits and bank balances, with the exception of value plus transaction costs directly attributable to their acquisithose authorized to cover shortor medium-term cash needs tion. arising from day-to-day operations. Cash equivalents correspond to short-term investments and are subject to a negligible risk of They are then measured on the basis of the fair value, respecchanges in value in the context of the temporary use of cash tively, the share price and the last net asset valuation communisurpluses (money market funds, negotiable debt securities, etc.). cated by the management company on the closing date of the Changes in the fair value of these assets are recognized in profit closing of the financial statements. or loss. Investments in funds of less than 12 months are kept at historical cost unless the situation of the company has materially 1.1.26. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 04 deteriorated. 2017 CONSOLIDATED The following items are classified as “Assets held for sale” on the FINANCIAL Changes in fair value are recognized directly in equity. balance sheet, as soon as the assets or groups of assets are STATEMENTS Where the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset is available-for-sale in their current state and the sale is highly lower than its carrying amount, the Group reviews the need for an probable: impairment. For each asset, the Group uses its judgment by • non-current assets held pending their sale; examining the quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the decline in order to determine whether it is an objective indicator • a group of assets held for sale and not for continuing use; of loss of value resulting in impairment. An impairment loss on • businesses or companies acquired with a view to subsequent “Available-for-sale financial assets” is systematically recognized sale. in the income statement as a result of a material or prolonged loss of value. The decrease in fair value is considered to be Liabilities related to these assets, group of assets, businesses material if the valuation has decreased by more than 50% versus and liabilities held for sale are also presented as a separate item the acquisition cost and is considered as prolonged when the under liabilities in the balance sheet, “Liabilities directly related valuation remains for at least two years below the acquisition to assets held for sale”. cost. This impairment cannot be written back. Assets (or asset groups) classified in this category are no longer 1.1.23.2. Other financial assets depreciated. They are valued at the lower of their carrying amount and selling price, less selling costs. Any impairment losses are Other financial assets include loans, security deposits and surety recognized by the Group under “Other operating expenses”. bonds. They are measured at amortized cost. Whenever there is objective evidence of impairment, i.e. a negative difference In the balance sheet, data related to “Assets held for sale” between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount, an shown separately in the financial statements do not give rise to impairment provision is recognized through profit or loss. This the restatement of prior years in terms of presentation. impairment may be reversed if the recoverable amount subseIn the income statement, the profit/loss (from the period and quently increases. from the sale) of business operations or entities that meet the 1.1.24. Derivatives and hedge accounting definition of a discontinued operation are reported as a separate line item entitled “Net income from discontinued operations” in In order to manage its interest rate risk, the Group uses OTC each of the fiscal years presented. derivative instruments. These hedging instruments are valued and recognized in the balance sheet at their fair value. PLASTIC OMNIUM 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.1.27. Income taxes Asset impairment tests The Plastic Omnium Group recognizes deferred taxes relating to Impairment tests are carried out in particular on goodwill and temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets development costs relating to Automotive projects recognized as and liabilities on the balance sheet without discounting. intangible assets. As part of these tests, to determine recoverable value, the concepts of fair value net of disposal costs and Deferred taxes are calculated using the carryover method, value in use obtained by the discounted cash flow method are applying the last tax rate enacted (or the quasi-adopted rate) at used. These tests are based on assumptions on future cash the balance sheet date and applicable to the period in which the flows and discount rates. Assumptions that could have a material temporary differences reverse. impact on the financial statements concern, in particular, the Tax credits and deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards and discount rates and growth rates. temporary differences are only recognized when the probability of their utilization within a relatively short period of time is proven. 2. Significant events of the period 1.2. Estimates and judgements 2.1. Acquisitions In preparing its financial statements, the Plastic Omnium Group 2.1.1. Monitoring of the acquisition of the “Exterior uses estimates and assumptions to assess some of its assets, Systems” business of the Faurecia Group completed on liabilities, income, expenses and commitments. Senior manageJuly 29, 2016 and accounting treatment ment reviews these estimates and assumptions periodically. The amounts in the future financial statements of the Group may The following items follow the chronological order of completion. include changes in estimates or assumptions in the consideration 2.1.1.1. On March 31, 2017 – Disposal of activities classified of past experience and changes in economic conditions. under “Assets and Liabilities held for sale” at December 31, In general, the estimates and assumptions used during the 2016 financial year were based on the information available at the In accordance with the commitment made by the Group following balance sheet date. Estimates may be revised depending on the European Commission decision, the Group sold to the U.S. changes in the underlying assumptions. These assumptions group Flex-N-Gate the sites of the Faurecia “Exterior Systems” mainly concern: business on December 31, 2017, which were classified as Deferred taxes “Assets and Liabilities held for sale” on the basis of an enterprise value of €200 million. Recognition of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of sufficient taxable earnings being generated to permit their utilizaThe financial impact of this disposal was recognized at tion. This leads the Group to make regular estimates of future December 31, 2016. taxable earnings, particularly as part of the medium-term plans 2.1.1.2. On July 29, 2017 – Finalizing the allocation of the established within the Group. These estimates take into account acquisition price of the businesses retained by the Plastic the recurring or non-recurring nature of certain losses, expenses, Omnium Group etc. The fair value measurement (recognition according to IFRS 3R Provisions “Business Combinations”) of the assets acquired and liabilities Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits assumed from the Faurecia Exterior Systems business, acquired In the case of defined benefit plans, the Group, assisted by indeand retained by the Plastic Omnium Group, was completed on pendent actuaries, adopts assumptions (see Notes 1.1.19 and July 29, 2017, i.e. 12 months after the acquisition date. 5.2.6 “Provisions for pensions and other post-employment beneChanges to the values initially allocated, related to facts and fits”) on: circumstances existing on the acquisition date, are recognized • discount rates for pension and other long-term benefits; retrospectively to the acquisition date, impacting the goodwill amount and the balance sheet at December 31, 2016. • rates of growth in healthcare costs for the United States; Adjustments to the opening balance sheet over the period from • employee turnover and future salary increases. January 1 to July 29, 2017 relate mainly to: Other provisions • provisions for risks, charges, contingent liabilities and other Estimates also cover provisions, particularly those relating to the risks; workforce adjustments, litigation, customer guarantees, legal and • provisions for loss-making contracts. tax risks for which in some cases the Legal Department may be required to employ specialized lawyers. A summary of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and changes made since the previous closing is presented in Note 2.1.1.4. “Recognition of the acquisition in Plastic Omnium Group financial statements”. 134 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2.1.1.3. On October 4, 2017 – Final agreement between Plastic Omnium and Faurecia on the acquisition price of the “Faurecia Exterior Systems” business On October 4, 2017, the Plastic Omnium Group obtained in the arbitration case against Faurecia, €37 million reduction in the purchase price of the acquired business, thus, making the acquisition price €474 million. In thousand of euros Common information Enterprise value 665,000 Opening gross Borrowings of businesses retained at the date of acquisition (before adjustments) 142,525 Acquisition price in the financial statements on December 31, 2016 511,030 Reduction of the purchase price on October 4, 2017 from Faurecia (36,981) Final acquisition price at December 2017 474,049 Because the arbitration was decided after the twelve-month period of the acquisition price allocation, the purchase price reduction with respect to the adjustments contingent on the arbitration decision were recognized in the Income Statement under “Other operating income and expenses” (see Notes 2.1.1.4 “Recognition of the acquisition in Plastic Omnium Group financial statements” and 4.6 “Other Operating Income and Expenses”). 2.1.1.4. Recognition of the acquisition in Plastic Omnium Group financial statements Allocation of the “Faurecia Exterior Systems” business acquisition cost In thousand of euros Plastic Goodwill Assets recognized in Total Omnium Group accordance with IFRS 5 “Assets and Liabilities Plastic Omnium 04 subsidiaries held for sale”(1) Group 2017 CONSOLIDATED and Net assets Impacts FINANCIAL associates and related to STATEMENTS liabilities the acquired purchase price Allocation of the acquisition price presented 88,075 260,955 162,000 – 511,030(3) at December 31, 2016 Additional adjustments recognized before July 29, 2017 Provisions for risks, expenses, contingent liabilities (8,113) and other risks Provisions for loss-making contracts (36,202) Other (6,017) Contractual customer relationships (205) Deferred taxes 3,485 Adjustment of Available-for-sale net assets (566) (2,576) 748 Additional Goodwill due to 2017 adjustments 49,447 Total Adjustments (47,053) 48,881 (2,576) 748 Change of the Available-for-sale net assets (1,828) Total Available-for-sale net assets 159,424 748 Allocation of acquisition price at July 29, 2017 41,022 309,836(2) 160,172 511,030(3) Result of the arbitration case Adjustments (1,761) (1,761)(4) with Faurecia – Reduction of the accepted by both purchase price partners at July 29, 2017 Adjustments (31,014) (4,206) (35,220)(4) contingent on the arbitration decision Final Purchase price obtained from Faurecia on October 4, 2017 (one year after the acquisition date and 474,049(3) not attributable to the 1st allocation of acquisition price) – Recognition in the Income Statement under “Other operating income and expenses” (1) Assets concerned by the disposal commitment demanded of the Plastic Omnium Group by the European Commission. These assets are measured at fair value at the successive dates, corresponding to the estimated sale price. The final sale on March 31, 2017 to flex-N-Gate was completed on the basis of €160,172 thousands. (2) At December 2017, the total goodwill includes $57.9 million (€51.3 million) for tax deductible goodwill. (3) See Note 2.1.1.3 on the final acquisition price agreement of Faurecia Exterior Systems business. (4) The result of the arbitration of the dispute between the Group and Faurecia on October 4, 2017 resulted in a reduction in the purchase price. The portion corresponding to the adjustments accepted by both parties (items relating to objectively existing facts and circumstances at the acquisition date) before July 29, 2017 is charged against goodwill; the portion relating to contingent adjustments to the arbitration decision being outside the purchase price allocation period has been recognized in the Profit and Loss Account under “Other operating income and expenses”. PLASTIC OMNIUM 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.1.1.5. Opening balance sheet of Faurecia’s Exterior Systems business The opening balance sheet after taking into account the adjustments mentioned in Note 2.1.1.4 “Recognition of the acquisition in Plastic Omnium Group financial statements” for the portion integrated into the Group, is presented below. In accordance with IFRS 3R, this balance sheet was finalized on July 29, 2017, i.e. within 12 months of the acquisition date: In thousand of euros July 29, 2016 Assets and Additional Assets and Liabilities acquired, adjustments Liabilities acquired presented at registered at at July 29, 2017 December 31, 2016 July 29, 2017 Assets Goodwill(1) 260,955 48,881 309,836 Other intangible assets 64,361 – 64,361 Property, plant and equipment 189,713 – 189,713 Available-for-sale financial assets 734 – 734 Deferred tax assets 58,485 3,302 61,787 Total non-current assets 574,248 52,183 626,431 Inventories 102,352 (1,623) 100,729 Trade receivables 133,504 (205) 133,299 Other receivables 10,824 – 10,824 Other financial assets and financial receivables – – – Cash and cash equivalents 9,480 – 9,480 Total current assets 256,160 (1,828) 254,332 Assets held for sale 162,000 (1,829) 160,171 Total assets 992,408 48,526 1,040,934 Equity and liabilities Consolidated reserves 511,030 – 511,030 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 511,030 – 511,030 Attributable to non-controlling interests – – – Total equity 511,030 – 511,030 Non-current and current borrowings 16,588 – 16,588 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 852 – 852 Provisions for liabilities and charges 38,729 19,105 57,834 Current government grants 101 – 101 Deferred tax liabilities 25,692 (183) 25,509 Total non-current liabilities 81,962 18,922 100,884 Non-current and current borrowings 137,797 – 137,797 Other current debt 3,473 – 3,473 Provisions for liabilities and charges 12,239 25,210 37,449 Trade payables 146,527 2,431 148,958 Other operating liabilities 99,380 1,963 101,343 Total current liabilities 399,416 29,604 429,020 Liabilities related to assets held for sale – – – Total equity and liabilities 992,408 48,526 1,040,934 Gross debt (157,124) – (157,124) Net cash and cash equivalents 9,480 – 9,480 Net debt (147,644) – (147,644) (1) This final goodwill represents, in particular, anticipated industrial, profits expected from new relationships with Audi, Mercedes and Ford or from strengthened ties with Volkswagen, Seat, PSA, BMW and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. 136 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2.1.2. Acquisition in China of “Changchun Huaxiang 2.1.5. Investment in the venture capital company Automotive Plastic Parts Manufacturing Co. Ltd” “Aster” On April 27, 2017, the Chinese company “Yanfeng Plastic In the second half of 2017, the Group subscribed, as a Omnium Automotive Exterior Systems Co. Ltd” (YFPO), 49.95%co-sponsor, to a commitment of €20 million in the €240 million of owned by Compagnie Plastic Omnium, signed a contract for the funds raised by the venture capital company “Aster”. acquisition of 50% with “Ningbo Huazhong Plastic Products Co. The “Aster” company supports the growth of innovative start-ups Ltd”, of the company “Changchun Huaxiang Faurecia Plastic Parts in energy, greentech for energy transition, innovative materials, Manufacturing Co. Ltd” for a total of 29,990 thousand renminbi intelligent transport systems, digital transformation, new indus(or €3,933 thousand at December 31, 2017). This company trial models and the internet of things. manufactures external automotive components and is part of the Auto Exterior Division of the Automotive segment. As of December 31, 2017, the amount paid is €500 thousand. It is recognized in the balance sheet under “Other available-for-sale The company was renamed “Changchun Huazhong Yanfeng financial assets” (see Note 5.1.7.2). Plastic Omnium Automotive Exteriors Co. Ltd”. Given the exclusive control exercised by YFPO, this company is consolidated using the full integration method in YFPO’s 2.2. Investments and Site Openings accounts. 2.2.1. Investments in production capacity: Greer and 2.1.3. Acquisition of two new companies in the “Fuel Smyrna plants in the United States Systems” Division of the Automotive segment The Group has started construction of two plants in the United During the second half of 2017, the Group acquired the following States, scheduled to begin operations at the end of the first half companies: of 2018. 04 2017 Swiss Hydrogen Greer plant in South Carolina in the United States CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL A Swiss company based in Fribourg, it specializes in the design During the first-half of 2017, the Group began construction of the STATEMENTS and production of management and energy control solutions for Greer plant in South Carolina in the United States. Part of the fuel cell systems dedicated to mobility ( “balance of plant/BOP”). Auto Exterior Division of the Automotive segment, it is designed It was acquired on December 18, 2017 for €12.80 million (CHF to deliver all major exterior body parts of the BMW X3, X4, X5, X6 14.88 million). The transaction resulted in the provisional recogniand future models of the BMW plant. It will also supply Volvo in tion of €9 million of goodwill. South Carolina and Daimler in Alabama. Optimum CPV The Greer plant is the 1st plant in the history of the Group (pilot plant) that will operate on technology “4.0”. It will lead to further A Belgian company based in Zonhoven, it specializes in the improvements in industrial processes, parts quality, robotization, design and production of tanks in filament composite for the standardization and competitiveness. storage of pressurized hydrogen. As of December 31, 2017, the investments amount to It was acquired for €6.1 million including €1 million for a patent €40.0 million ($45.2 million). and €1 million as a deferred payment, not yet paid to the seller (amount recognized as financial debt) as part of the guarantee of Smyrna plant in Tennessee in the United States liabilities. The transaction resulted in the provisional recognition In addition, in the first-half of 2017 the Group commenced of €4.9 million of goodwill. construction of the Smyrna plant in Tennessee in the United States for the Automotive segment’s “Fuel Systems” Division. It 2.1.4. Additional investment in the Israeli company will produce fuel systems for a Japanese carmaker. “ PO-CellTech” At December 31, 2017, investments amount to €10.6 million Following the partnership agreement signed in 2016 with the ($12.0 million). Israeli company, “ELBIT Systems” to form the start-up company for fuel cells and supercapacitors, PO-CellTech, in Caesarea in Israel, and in accordance with the bylaws, Plastic Omnium Group unilaterally subscribed in the second half of 2017 to a capital increase of €2.5 million bringing its interest from 20% to 23%. This additional investment does not change the joint control with “ELBIT Systems” whose ownership interest percentage changed from 80% to 77%. PO-CellTech is recognized in the Group’s accounts using the equity method (see Notes 4.5 and 5.1.6 on the impact of “Investments in associates and joint ventures” in the Income Statement and Balance Sheet). PLASTIC OMNIUM 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 2.2.2. Investments in production capacity: plant in project is close to RMB 137 million (equivalent to €18.0 million at Hlohovec in Slovakia for the production of body parts December 31, 2017). In the second half of 2017, the Group started construction for the As of December 31, 2017, a total of RMB 19 million was Auto Exterior Division of the Automotive segment of a new plant in committed for the acquisition of land (equivalent to €2.5 million). Hlohovec, Slovakia, for body parts for the carmaker Jaguar LandRover, which also set up in Slovakia in Nitra. 2.3. Disposals of companies, property assets The €84 million project (€31 million of which for land and builand site closures dings and other industrial equipment) includes several buildings for the production of body parts, the assembly of parts up to the 2.3.1. Project to sell the “Environment” business paint injection and machinery equipment (bumpers, tailgates, etc.). Plastic Omnium announced on September 20, 2017 its plan to sell its Environment Division, an historic Division specializing in The work will end in the first half of 2019, the year in which the services to local authorities, mainly companies and individuals, to production begins. focus on the global development of its automotive businesses. As of December 31, 2017, the investment stands at nearly The Environment Division has revenues of nearly €335 million, i.e. €4 million. 4% of Group revenue. It employs 1,800 people and has an R&D 2.2.3. Expansion and reinforcement of advanced tools center and six plants in Europe (France, Germany and Spain). from the International R&D Centre for body Activities: components and modules: ∑-Sigmatech • containers: household waste receptacles, containers, composAs part of its overall strategy for responding to new challenges ters, underground and semi-underground containers; arising from the preparation of the future vehicle and the advent • associated services: maintenance, washing, surveys and of the connected, autonomous and cleaner car, the Group has implementation, data management, etc.; launched an extension and digitization program for its international R&D center, ∑-Sigmatech, for a total of €20 million. • urban furniture: waste disposal areas, playgrounds, equipment for parks and streets. The program will provide the center with resources in mechatronic, connected systems, virtual reality and collaborative robots. As of December 31, 2017, a process is underway to find a buyer; given the progress of the disposal plan, however, it is not As the project is in the preparatory phase at December 31, 2017, possible at December 31, 2017 to conclude that the sale is the costs incurred are not significant. highly probable. On this basis, IFRS 5 “Non-current assets held 2.2.4. Monitoring of the opening of the innovation for sale and discontinued operations” has not been applied as of center and high-tech activity: Δ-Deltatech December 31, 2017. The construction project to build a new energy innovation and 2.3.2. Disposal of the truck business high-tech business center, Δ-Deltatech in Brussels, Belgium On June 30, 2017, the Plastic Omnium Group sold its composite launched by the Group in the second half of 2016, is expected to truck parts business to the German group mutares AG. This open in early 2019. The research center will employ approximabusiness in the design and manufacture of body and structural tely two hundred engineers. parts for the truck industry, which employs 1,500 people, At December 31, 2017, investments amounted to nearly produced revenues of approximately €200 million in nine produc€0.8 million, mainly corresponding to the advance on the acquisition sites (five in France, one in Germany, one in Mexico and two tion of the land. The total investment including the land is in China) in 2016. €50 million. 2.2.5. Construction of a Chinese technical center in Wuhan for “Fuel systems” in the Automotive segment – ω -Omegatech In order to support its growing activities in Asia, reducing use of the α-alphatech center in France at Compiègne (Oise department) and outsourcing, the Group is starting a project to build a technical center in Wuhan in China; ω-Omegatech; near its current plant specializing in fuel systems manufacturing. The center will include technical premises for the development of new fuel tank projects and the new parts validation tests, a fuel test laboratory, a mechanical laboratory and a prototype development workshop. Construction will start in the second quarter of 2018 and will be completed in the first quarter of 2019. The total cost of the 138 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT The Group’s income statement takes into account the profit and 2.4.2. Repayment of the fixed portion of the 2012 loss of the truck business up to the date of loss of control, i.e. “Schuldschein” private placement until June 30, 2017. On June 27, 2017, the Group repaid as planned on its maturity The impact of the disposal was recognized at December 31, the €45 million fixed portion of the “Schuldschein” private place2016 and adjusted during 2017 (see Notes 4.6 “Other operating ment with private investors in France and abroad (see income and expenses” and 5.1.16 “Assets and liabilities held for Note 5.2.7.2 “Borrowings: private placement notes and bonds”). sale”). 2.3.3. Sale of “Sulo Emballagen” administrative and 2.5. Other transactions industrial buildings in Herford, Germany In connection with the sale of “Sulo Emballagen Gmbh” which 2.5.1. “Credit for competitiveness and employment completed on September 30, 2016, Compagnie Plastic Omnium (CICE)” for French companies also sold, on January 10, 2017, its administrative and industrial During the first-half of 2017, the Group’s French entities exercised buildings complex in Herford, Germany. their right to credit for the competitiveness and employment of At December 31, 2016, this building was classified as “Assets (CICE). This is recognized as a reduction in staff costs. The held for sale” (see Note 5.1.16). impact on the 2017 financial year amounts to €6.2 million. The transaction resulted in a loss of –€4,398 thousand recoHowever, for the final amounts relating to the years 2014-2016, gnized in the financial statements at December 31, 2016 (see i.e. €15.9 million, the CICE is recognized under other operating Note 4.6 on “Other operating income and expenses”). income. The Notes impacted are: 4.2 “Costs of sales, development, 2.3.4. Disposal of the Laval “Fuel systems” Division production site selling and administrative costs “, 4.6 “Other operating income 04 and expenses”; 4.8 “Income tax” and 5.2.9.2 “Other operating 2017 CONSOLIDATED The fuel systems production site in the Mayenne department, liabilities”. FINANCIAL shown in “Assets and liabilities held for sale” at December 31, STATEMENTS 2016 (see Note 5.1.16), was sold in December 2017 for 2.5.2. Reimbursement of the 3% contribution on the €1.4 million. The transaction resulted in the recognition of a loss dividend distribution of €0.6 million at December 31, 2017 (see Note 4.6 “Other Following the decision No 2017-660 QPC (priority issue of constioperating income and expenses”). tutionality) of October 6, 2017 by the Constitutional Council, 2.3.5. Disposal in U.S. of the which declared the 3% contribution on dividend distributions to be unconstitutional, the Plastic Omnium Group asked for reimburseNorcross (Georgia) Automotive segment “Auto ment of the amounts paid as well as the default interest accrued Exterior” division bumper production site since 2014. The amount stands at €7.7 million, accounted for as On October 19, 2016, the Group announced the closure of its a reduction of current tax expense (see Notes 4.8.2 “Income tax bumper production plant (operated by the American company, analysis – Tax proof” and 5.2.9.2 “Other operating liabilities” for “Plastic Omnium Auto Exteriors LLC”, part of the “Auto Exterior” the corporate income tax debt.). division of the Automotive segment) in Norcross, Georgia as a result of under capacity. Production at this plant was transferred 2.5.3. Compagnie Plastic Omnium capital reduction to the plants in Chattanooga, Tennessee and Anderson, South On July 20, 2017, the Board of Directors of Compagnie Plastic Carolina. Omnium decided to cancel 1,500,000 treasury shares, i.e. 0.98% The plant was sold in December 2017 for €5.0 million of the share capital. The transaction took effect on August 14, ($5.65 million) for an insignificant gain in the income statement at 2017. December 31, 2017 (see Note 4.6 “Other operating income and The share capital of Compagnie Plastic Omnium is now composed expenses”). of 150,976,720 shares with a par value of €0.06 (see Note 5.2.1.1 “Capital of Compagnie Plastic Omnium”). 2.4. Financing transactions This transaction brings the equity interest of the parent company, the Burelle SA holding company, to 57.57% of the share capital 2.4.1. New bond issue on June 19, 2017 before cancellation of treasury shares. On June 19, 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium completed a €500 million bond placement to European investors without covenants and rating. The terms of this bond issue are described in Note 5.2.7.2 “Borrowings: private placement notes and bonds”. PLASTIC OMNIUM 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3. Segment information parts, BPO, a major player in the Turkish market for exterior equipment, and Plastic Recycling, a specialist company in plastics recycling. 3.1. Information by operating segment The columns in the tables below show the amounts for each The Group is divided into two operational segments: Automotive segment. The “Unallocated items” column groups together and Environment. inter-segment eliminations and amounts that are not allocated to a specific segment (e.g. holding company activity) by enabling The Group uses the concept of “economic revenue” for its operasegment data to be reconciled with the Group’s financial statetional management, which corresponds to the consolidated sales ments. Financial results, taxes and the share of profit/(loss) of of the Group and its joint ventures at their ownership percentage: associates are monitored at Group level and are not allocated to HBPO a German company, the world leader in front-end modules, the segments. Transactions between segments are carried out Yanfeng Plastic Omnium, the Chinese leader in exterior body on an arm’s length basis. 3.1.1. Income statement by operating segment In thousand of euros 2017 Automotive Environment Unallocated Total items(2) Economic sales (revenue)(1) 7,665,142 335,476 – 8,000,618 Including Sales from joint ventures at the Group’s 1,232,141 – – 1,232,141 percentage stake Sales to third parties 6,433,078 335,543 (144) 6,768,477 Sales between segments (77) (67) 144 – Consolidated sales (revenue) 6,433,001 335,476 – 6,768,477 % of segment revenue – Total 95.0% 5.0% 100.0% Operating margin before amortization of intangible 578,326 21,149 – 599,475 assets acquired in business combinations and before share of profit of associates and joint ventures % of segment revenue 9.0% 6.3% 8.9% Amortization of intangible assets acquired (20,264) – – (20,264) in business combinations Share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint 61,746 – – 61,746 ventures Operating margin 619,808 21,149 – 640,957 % of segment revenue 9.6% 6.3% 9.5% Other operating income 36,770 – – 36,770 Other operating expenses (87,453) (8,477) – (95,930) % of segment revenue -0.8% -2.5% -0.9% Finance costs, net (63,946) Other financial income and expenses, net (2,817) Profit from continuing operations before income tax 515,035 and after share in associates and joint ventures Income tax (84,548) Net income 430,487 (1) Economic sales (revenue) correspond to the sales of the Group and its joint ventures consolidated at their percentage of ownership. (2) “Unallocated items” correspond to inter-segment eliminations and amounts that are not allocated to a specific segment (for example, holding company activities). This column is included to enable segment information to be reconciled to the Group’s financial statements. 140 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT In thousand of euros 2016 Automotive Environment Unallocated Total items(2) Economic sales (revenue)(1) 6,566,823 368,909 – 6,935,732 Including Sales from joint ventures at the Group’s 1,078,481 – – 1,078,481 percentage stake Sales to third parties 5,488,424 368,977 (150) 5,857,251 Sales between segments (82) (68) 150 – Consolidated sales (revenue) 5,488,342 368,909 – 5,857,251 % of segment revenue – Total 93.7% 6.3% 100.0% Operating margin before amortization of intangible 503,100 24,438 – 527,537 assets acquired in business combinations and before share of profit of associates and joint ventures % of segment revenue 9.2% 6.6% 9.0% Amortization of intangible assets acquired (21,583) – – (21,583) in business combinations Share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint 51,801 – – 51,801 ventures Operating margin 533,318 24,438 – 557,755 % of segment revenue 9.7% 6.6% 9.5% Other operating income 25,355 9,506 – 34,861 Other operating expenses (77,335) (42,799) – (120,134) 04 % of segment revenue -0.9% -9.0% -1.5% 2017 CONSOLIDATED Finance costs, net (58,859) FINANCIAL Other financial income and expenses, net (9,027) STATEMENTS Profit from continuing operations before income tax 404,595 and after share in associates and joint ventures Income tax (86,307) Net income 318,288 (1) Economic sales (revenue) correspond to the sales of the Group and its joint ventures consolidated at their percentage of ownership. (2) “Unallocated items” correspond to inter-segment eliminations and amounts that are not allocated to a specific segment (for example, holding company activities). This column is included to enable segment information to be reconciled to the Group’s financial statements. PLASTIC OMNIUM 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.1.2. Balance sheet data by operating segment In thousand of euros Automotive Environment Unallocated Total Net amounts items December 31, 2017 Goodwill 486,160 98,525 – 584,685 Intangible assets 475,979 11,391 10,487 497,857 Property, plant and equipment 1,308,836 53,053 48,576 1,410,465 Investment property – – 93,263 93,263 Inventories 377,020 36,993 – 414,013 Trade receivables 886,624 46,369 7,091 940,084 Other 280,004 12,674 61,924 354,602 Finance receivables (C)(1) 50,200 1,865 – 52,065 Current accounts and other financial assets (D) (561,801) 1,082 693,730 133,011 Available-for-sale financial assets – FMEA 2 (F) 149 – 27,365 27,514 Hedging instruments (E) – 298 4,956 5,254 Net cash and cash equivalents (A)(2) 142,121 4,758 782,763 929,642 Total segment assets 3,445,292 267,008 1,730,155 5,442,455 Borrowings (B) 144,113 740 1,565,618 1,710,471 Segment liabilities 144,113 740 1,565,618 1,710,471 Segment net debt = (B – A – C – D – E – F)(3) 513,444 (7,263) 56,804 562,985 December 31, 2016 adjusted Automotive Environment Unallocated Total Automotive December items Adjustments 31, 2016 published on Automotive Goodwill 48,881 432,520 98,557 – 579,958 Intangible assets 461,842 12,749 9,730 484,321 Property, plant and equipment 1,251,537 55,129 46,923 1,353,589 Investment property – – 93,263 93,263 Inventories (1,623) 352,609 37,703 – 388,689 Trade receivables (205) 765,681 42,066 1,877 809,419 Other 301,935 10,614 34,611 347,160 Finance receivables (C)(1) 59,915 2,636 – 62,551 Current accounts and other financial assets (D) (663,931) (6,150) 758,285 88,204 Available-for-sale financial assets – FMEA 2 (F) – – 30,451 30,451 Hedging instruments (E) 139 461 (101) 499 Net cash and cash equivalents (A)(2) 137,334 8,803 177,745 323,882 Total segment assets 47,053 3,099,581 262,568 1,152,784 4,561,986 Borrowings (B) 128,802 1,392 1,175,338 1,305,532 Segment liabilities – 128,802 1,392 1,175,338 1,305,532 Segment net debt = (B – A – C – D – E – F)(3) – 595,345 (4,358) 208,958 799,945 (1) At December 31, 2017, ‘’Finance receivables’’ included €9,258 thousand shown in the balance sheet under ‘’Other non-current financial assets’’ against €28,633 thousand at December 31, 2016, and €42,807 thousand reported under “Finance receivables – current portion” against €33,918 thousand at December 31, 2016. (2) Net cash and cash equivalents as reported in the Statement of Cash Flows. See also 5.1.13.2 “Net cash and cash equivalents at end of period”. (3) See Notes 5.2.7.1 “Net debt indicator used by the Group” and Note 5.2.7.5 “Reconciliation of gross and net debt”. 142 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 3.1.3. Other information by operating segment 2017 Automotive Environment Unallocated Total In thousand of euros items Acquisitions of intangible assets 162,344 721 2,496 165,561 Capital expenditure including acquisitions of investment 310,153 13,195 5,370 328,718 property Depreciation and amortization expense(1) (292,398) (14,736) 10,962 (296,172) 2016 Automotive Environment Unallocated Total In thousand of euros items Acquisitions of intangible assets 147,974 1,188 1,958 151,120 Capital expenditure including acquisitions of investment 203,533 13,477 3,702 220,712 property Depreciation and amortization expense(1) (244,929) (15,098) (19,823) (279,850) (1) This item corresponds to depreciation, amortization and impairments of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, including the amortization of intangible assets (primarily contractual customer relationships and, to a lesser extent, brands) acquired in business combinations. 3.1.4. Revenue – Information by geographic region and by country of sales The information given in the following tables corresponds to the revenue generated by the subsidiaries in the marketing regions or market countries as indicated below: 04 3.1.4.1. Information by market region 2017 CONSOLIDATED December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In thousand of euros Totals % In thousand of euros Totals % France 826,216 10.3% France 780,667 11.3% North America 2,044,878 25.6% North America 1,810,489 26.1% Europe excluding France 3,453,121 43.1% Europe excluding France 2,884,100 41.6% South America 269,515 3.4% South America 198,389 2.9% Africa 80,058 1.0% Africa 73,722 1.1% Asia 1,326,830 16.6% Asia 1,188,365 17.1% Economic revenue 8,000,618 100% Economic revenue 6,935,732 100% Including revenue from joint ventures 1,232,141 Including revenue from joint ventures 1,078,481 at the Group’s percentage stake at the Group’s percentage stake Consolidated revenue 6,768,477 Consolidated revenue 5,857,251 PLASTIC OMNIUM 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.1.4.2. Information for the first ten contributing countries December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 In thousand of euros Totals % In thousand of euros Totals % Germany 1,359,954 17.0% United States 1,307,320 18.8% United States 1,356,089 16.9% Germany 1,024,057 14.8% France 826,216 10.3% France 780,667 11.3% China 721,039 9.0% China 633,909 9.1% Spain 689,559 8.6% Spain 517,536 7.5% Mexico 618,763 7.7% United Kingdom 478,688 6.9% United Kingdom 503,769 6.3% Mexico 433,250 6.2% South Korea 276,507 3.5% South Korea 263,002 3.8% Slovakia 236,479 3.0% Slovakia 246,898 3.6% Brazil 153,547 1.9% Poland 126,409 1.8% Other 1,258,696 15.8% Other 1,123,996 16.2% Economic revenue 8,000,618 100% Economic revenue 6,935,732 100% Including revenue from joint ventures 1,232,141 Including revenue from joint ventures 1,078,481 at the Group’s percentage stake at the Group’s percentage stake Consolidated revenue 6,768,477 Consolidated revenue 5,857,251 3.1.4.3. Information by automotive manufacturer December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Automotive manufacturers Totals Automotive manufacturers Totals In thousand of euros Totals % of total In thousand of euros Totals % of total Automotive Automotive revenue revenue Volkswagen-Porsche 1,636,856 21.4% Volkswagen-Porsche 1,272,421 19.4% PSA Peugeot Citroën(1) 962,140 12.6% General Motors 1,017,718 15.5% General Motors 940,273 12.3% PSA Peugeot Citroën 690,735 10.5% Ford 731,096 9.5% Renault/Nissan 627,059 9.5% Renault/Nissan/Mitsubishi 615,660 7.9% BMW 536,026 8.2% Total – main manufacturers 4,886,025 63.7% Total – main manufacturers 4,143,959 63.1% Other automotive manufacturers 2,779,117 36.3% Other automotive manufacturers 2,422,894 36.9% Total Automotive segment – 7,665,142 100.0% Total Automotive segment – 6,566,823 100% Economic revenue Economic revenue Including revenue from joint 1,232,141 Including revenue from joint 1,078,481 ventures at the Group’s percentage ventures at the Group’s stake percentage stake Automotive revenue sub-total Automotive revenue sub-total Total Automotive segment – 6,433,001 Total Automotive segment – 5,488,342 Consolidated revenue Consolidated revenue (1) Takes into account the acquisition of Opel by PSA Peugeot Citroën from General Motors. 144 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 3.2. Assets broken down by country In thousand of euros France Europe North Asia South Others(1) Total excluding America America France December 31, 2017 Goodwill 227,605 274,624 74,993 – 7,463 – 584,685 including translation adjustment – (32) (10,185) (10) 1,075 – (9,152) Intangible assets 72,375 235,172 141,066 44,078 2,980 2,186 497,857 Property, plant and equipment 209,014 556,345 416,873 187,079 34,367 6,787 1,410,465 including capital expenditure 34,259 118,032 127,076 39,041 8,493 1,817 328,718 for the year Investment property 93,263 – – – – – 93,263 including the investment of property – – – – – – – investments Total non-current fixed assets 602,257 1,066,141 632,932 231,157 44,810 8,973 2,586,270 (1) The section “Others” includes South Africa and Morocco. In thousand of euros France Europe North Asia South Others(1) Total excluding America America France December 31, 2016 04 2017 Goodwill 213,158 246,541 83,287 – (11,909) – 531,077 CONSOLIDATED Adjustment linked to the Faurecia 14,446 14,247 1,891 – 18,297 – 48,881 FINANCIAL Exteriors Systems business STATEMENTS Adjusted goodwill on December 31, 2016 227,604 260,788 85,178 – 6,388 – 579,958 including translation adjustment – (183) 3,504 (9) 101 – 3,413 Intangible assets 85,884 202,593 144,464 41,645 6,165 3,570 484,321 Property, plant and equipment 208,293 519,500 386,447 181,250 51,407 6,692 1,353,589 including capital expenditure 36,565 75,628 75,651 29,920 2,538 410 220,712 for the year Investment property 93,263 – – – – – 93,263 including the investment of property – – – – – – – investments Total non-current fixed assets 615,044 982,881 616,089 222,895 63,960 10,262 2,511,131 (1) The section “Others” includes South Africa and Morocco. PLASTIC OMNIUM 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3.3. Property, plant and equipment owned by operating segments (excluding investment property) In thousand of euros Automotive Environment Unallocated Total items Consolidated December 31, 2017 Property, plant and equipment owned outright – 1,288,330 41,577 48,576 1,378,483 net value Property, plant and equipment owned outright – 11,476 – 11,476 under operating leases where the Group is lessor – net value(1) Property, plant and equipment leased under 20,506 – – 20,506 finance leases where the Group is lessee – net value(2) Property, Plant and Equipment leased under – – – – operating leases where the Group is lessor – net value(1) (2) Total property, plant and equipment (excluding 1,308,836 53,053 48,576 1,410,465 investment property) – Consolidated Financial Statements In thousand of euros Automotive Environment Unallocated Total items December 31, 2016 Property, plant and equipment owned outright – 1,228,745 40,151 46,923 1,315,819 net value Property, plant and equipment owned outright and – 13,824 – 13,824 under operating leases where the Group is lessor – net value(1) Property, plant and equipment leased under 22,792 – – 22,792 finance leases where the Group is lessee – net value amount(2) Property, Plant and Equipment leased under – 1,154 – 1,154 finance leases where the Group is lessee that has been sub let to third parties under operating leases where the Group is lessor – net value(1) (2) Total property, plant and equipment (excluding 1,251,537 55,129 46,923 1,353,589 investment property) – Consolidated Financial Statements (1) The sum of “Property, plant and equipment owned outright and leased under operating leases where the Group is lessor” and “Property, plant and equipment leased under finance leases where the Group is lessee that has been sub-let to third parties under operating leases where the Group is lessor” corresponds to the value of “Property, plant and equipment leased under operating leases where the Group is lessor” (see corresponding sub-section of Note 5.1.3). (2) See sub-section “Property, plant and equipment leased under finance leases where the Group is lessee” in Note 5.1.3. 146 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 4. Notes to the income statement 4.1. Research and development costs The percentage of research and development costs is expressed in relation to the amount of revenue. In thousand of euros 2017 % 2016 % Research and development costs (400,981) –5.9% (339,118) –5.8% Capitalized development costs and research and development 230,971 3.4% 193,378 3.3% costs billed to customers Net research and development costs (170,011) –2.5% (145,740) –2.5% 4.2. Cost of sales, development, selling and administrative costs In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Cost of sales includes: Raw materials (purchases and changes in inventory)(1) (4,248,085) (3,634,259) Direct production outsourcing (14,718) (13,006) Utilities and fluids (103,953) (88,854) Employee benefits expense(2) Other production costs (711,832) (438,762) (596,840) (416,003) 04 2017 Proceeds from the sale of waste containers leased to customers under operating leases(3) 4,243 1,469 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Carrying amount of waste containers leased to customers under operating leases(3) (2,219) (1,706) STATEMENTS Depreciation (168,496) (148,450) Provisions for liabilities and charges 15,979 14,941 Total (5,667,843) (4,882,708) Research and development costs include: Employee benefits expense(2) (189,616) (164,553) Amortization and provisions (104,076) (84,758) Other 123,681 103,571 Total (170,011) (145,740) Selling costs include: Employee benefits expense(2) (43,607) (37,877) Depreciation, amortization and provisions (154) (156) Other (17,406) (17,053) Total (61,167) (55,086) Administrative costs include: Employee benefits expense(2) (155,122) (139,171) Other administrative expenses (104,124) (96,993) Depreciation (11,163) (10,260) Provisions for liabilities and charges 428 244 Total (269,981) (246,180) (1) Including charges, reversals and provisions for impairment on inventories amounting to: –€1,495 thousand, in 2017; –€1,965 thousand, in 2016. (2) See Significant events of the period, Note 2.5.1 on the implementation of the Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit-CICE for French entities. (3) See “Gains/(losses) on disposals of non-current assets” in Note 4.6 “Other operating income and expenses”. PLASTIC OMNIUM 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4.3. Staff costs In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Wages and salaries (820,074) (690,904) Payroll taxes(1) (219,808) (190,149) Non-discretionary profit-sharing (18,115) (14,181) Share-based payments(2) (3,327) (3,498) Pension and other post-employment benefit costs (2,840) (1,602) Other employee benefits expenses (36,010) (38,101) Total employee benefits expense excluding temporary staff costs (1,100,174) (938,435) Temporary staff costs (142,677) (125,884) Total employee benefits expenses (1,242,851) (1,064,319) (1) This item includes social contributions on stock purchase and subscription plans for an amount of: • –€954 thousand (of which –€101 million for Executive Corporate Officers) in 2017. • No plan in 2016. (2) See Note 5.2.3 “Share-based payments”. 4.4. Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations This item mainly refers to: • the amortization over seven years of contractual customer relationships recognized during the acquisition in 2010 of 50% of “Inergy Automotive Systems” (this amortization ended in September 2017); • the amortization over nine years of contractual customer relationships recognized in 2011 on “Ford’s fuel tank” business in the United States; • the amortization over six years of contractual customer relationships recognized during the acquisition on July 29, 2016 of the “Faurecia Group Exterior Systems” business (see Note 2.1.1.5 “Opening Balance Sheet”). In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Brands (350) (350) Contractual customer relationships (19,914) (21,233) Total amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations (20,264) (21,583) 4.5. Share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures The associates Chengdu Faway Yanfeng Plastic Omnium, Dongfeng Plastic Omnium Automotive Exterior and Hicom HBPO are included in the YFPO and HBPO joint ventures respectively. Share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures is broken down as follows: In thousand of euros 2017 2016 2017 2016 % Interest % Interest JV HBPO GmbH and its subsidiaries and associates 33.33% 33.33% 15,066 14,393 JV Yanfeng Plastic Omnium and its subsidiaries(1) 49.95% 49.95% 45,557 31,130 BPO AS 49.98% 49.98% 9,232 9,323 JV Valeo Plastic Omnium SNC(2) – 50.00% – (5) Plastic Recycling SAS 50.00% 50.00% (37) (157) PO-CellTech(3) 23.00% 20.00% (8,072) (2,883) Total share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures 61,746 51,801 (1) See Note 2.1.2 on the acquisition of the Chinese entity Changchun Huazhong Yanfeng Plastic Omnium Automotive Exteriors Co. Ltd. (2) The “JV Valeo Plastic Omnium SNC” was liquidated in 2016. (3) See Note 2.1.4 on the acquisition of additional shares in Israeli company “ PO-CellTech”. 148 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 4.6. Other operating income and expenses In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Pre-start-up costs at new plants(1) (5,521) (10,639) Reorganization costs(2) (43,609) (21,946) Impairment of non-current assets (3) (4,410) (14,777) Provisions for charges (4) (17,947) (1,519) Litigation (5) (8,526) (9,829) Foreign exchange gains and losses on operating activities(6) (9,874) (6,001) Impact of acquisitions: related fees and expenses(7) (19,458) (6,405) Reduction of the purchase price of the “Faurecia Exterior Systems” business(8) 43,733 – Deconsolidation impact(a) (3,677) (11,740) Impact 1st implementation of Competitiveness and Employment Tax Credit-CICE for French entities(9) 15,924 – Gains/losses on disposal of other available-for-sale financial assets(a) 1,905 – Other(10) (1,527) 2,094 Gains/losses on disposals of non-current assets (a) (6,173) (4,511) Total operating income and expenses (59,160) (85,273) • of which total other operating income 36,770 34,861 • of which total other operating expense (95,930) (120,134) At December 31, 2017: 04 (1) Pre-start-up costs at new plants: 2017 CONSOLIDATED Costs incurred on 2017 concern the construction of new plants, including, for the Auto Exterior Division of the Automotive Segment, Greer in the United States and San Luis Potosi FINANCIAL in Mexico (see Note 2.2 “Investments and site openings” in the consolidated accounts published at December 31, 2017). STATEMENTS (2) Reorganization costs: Reorganization costs relate to the significant restructuring in the Auto Exterior and Environment Divisions. (3) Impairment of non-current assets: This item includes impairments mainly on assets of the Automotive Division and the reversal of the provision for impairment on the assets of Herford following the sale of the “Sulo Emballagen GmbH” industrial and office buildings in Germany. (4) Provisions for charges: The provisions correspond to several quality and tax risks. (5) Disputes: This item concerns legal fees and expenses relating to several disputes involving the Environment Division. (6) Foreign exchange gains and losses on operating activities: Almost all foreign exchange losses were borne by the Automotive segment and covered various currencies including the Argentine peso, the Brazilian real and the renminbi in China. Losses on all currencies breakdown as follows: • 56.8% for the “Auto Exterior” Division; and • 43.2% for the “Fuel systems” Division; (7) Impacts of acquisitions: related fees and expenses: This includes fees on the external growth transactions completed in 2017 and those mentioned in 2016 (see Notes on changes in scope of consolidation in paragraph 2 “Significant events of the period”). (8) Reduction of the purchase price of the “Faurecia Exterior Systems” business: For the final price, see Notes 2.1.1.3 “Final agreement between Plastic Omnium and Faurecia on the acquisition price of the Faurecia Exterior Systems business” and 2.1.1.4 “Accounting treatment of the acquisition in Plastic Omnium Group financial statements”. (9) The item “Impact of first implementation of the Tax credit for employment and competitiveness-CICE-French companies”: See Significant events of the period, Note 2.5.1 on the implementation of the Competitiveness and Employment Tax for French Companies. (10) Others: The items are individually insignificant. PLASTIC OMNIUM 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements At December 31, 2016: (1) Pre-start-up costs at new plants: All costs incurred in 2016 concerned the plants of the Auto Exterior Division of the Automotive Division and the plant in Warrington, the United Kingdom, which began production of body parts for the carmaker Jaguar Land-Rover and the San Luis Potosi plant in Mexico (see Note 2.2 “Investments and openings of sites” in the December 31, 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements). (2) Employee downsizing plans: The costs of employee downsizing correspond mainly to the restructuring and the plan to safeguard the use of the Laval fuel systems production site in the Mayenne department (see Notes 2.3.4 “Closure of the Laval fuel systems production site” and 5.2.5 “Provisions” in the December 31, 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements). (3) Impairment of non-current assets: Impairment of non-current assets corresponded mainly to: • the provision of –€12,000 thousand to take into account at the end of the financial year, the estimated loss on the disposal of the Auto Exterior Division truck business (see Note 2.3.1 “Disposal of the Auto Exterior Division business” of the December 31, 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements); • the net amount of –€4,398 thousand at December 31, 2016, corresponding to the estimated loss on the disposal of the “Sulo Emballagen GmbH” industrial and administrative buildings in Herford, Germany (“Sulo Emballagen GmbH” sale of “Sulo Emballagen GmbH”). The disposal took place on January 10, 2017 (see Note 7.6 “Subsequent Events” in the December 31, 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements); • the impairment of –€1,600 thousand for the estimated loss on the future disposal of the Laval plant of Laval (see Note 2.3.4 “Closure of the Laval Fuel systems production site” in the December 31, 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements); • and reversals of provisions for impairment relating to various fixed assets. (4) Provisions for charges: Provisions for charges chiefly covered the risk of customer returns under warranty for the Automotive Division. (5) Disputes: The amounts in this item corresponded to legal fees and expenses relating to several disputes involving the Environment Division. (6) Foreign exchange gains and losses on operating activities: Almost all currency losses for the year were attributable to the Automotive Division and covered various currencies including the Mexican peso, the Argentine peso, the Polish zloty and the renminbi in Asia. Losses on all currencies broke down as follows: • 35.5% for the “Auto Exterior” Division; and • 64.5% for the “Fuel systems” Division. (7) Impacts of acquisitions: related fees and expenses: The Group continued its acquisitions (see Notes 2.1.1 “Acquisition of the Exterior Systems business of the Faurecia Group” and 2.1.2 “Acquisition of the minority interest in the German company RMS Rotherm Maschinenbau” in the December 31, 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements). (8) Other: This item essentially comprised an adjustment of third-party accounts of the Mexican subsidiary of Auto Exterior Division of the Automotive Division. (a) Income from disposals of non-current assets The breakdown of the disposals of non-current assets given below explains the impact on non-current operating income of transactions in non-current assets and reconciles them with changes in the statement of cash flows: • the amount of disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the statement of cash flows is comprised of the amount of proceeds from disposals of fixed assets in “Other operating income and expenses” and the amount of proceeds from the disposal of waste containers leased to customers under operating leases. (see Note 4.2); • and the amount of the capital gains or losses on disposals of fixed assets in the statement of cash flows is comprised of the amount in the income statement under “Other operating income and expenses” and the proceeds from the disposal of waste containers leased to customers under operating leases where the Group is lessee (see Note 4.2) The details are as follows: 150 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Disposal Gain/loss Disposal Gain/loss proceeds proceeds Sales of waste containers included in operating margin 4,243 2,024 1,469 (237) Total current sales of waste containers (see Note 4.2) 4,243 2,024 1,469 (237) Disposals of intangible assets 1,338 870 4 (631) Disposals of property, plant and equipment(1) 16,395 (2,473) 3,383 (3,880) Disposal of other available-for-sale financial assets(2) 36,842 1,905 – – Total from disposals of non-current assets 54,575 302 3,387 (4,511) and other available-for-sale financial assets Disposals of non-current financial assets(3) 170,102 (21,932) 15,638 (10,038) Shares in “Faurecia Exterior Systems” business, not retained 159,424 (2,395) – – by the Group Shares in “Truck” business entities 10,678 (19,537) – – Shares in “Signature Ltd” – – 13,811 (10,772) Shares in “Sulo Emballagen” – – 1,820 694 Other shares sold – – 7 40 Total proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 170,102 (21,932) 15,638 (10,038) (see table above) Total 228,920 (19,606) 20,494 (14,786) 04 2017 (1) Losses on disposals mainly concern the disposal of the office buildings of the Environment Division’s “Sulo Emballagen” company in Herford, Germany (see Note 2.3.3 in the “Significant events of the period”) and the disposal of the Norcross plant in the United States, from the “Auto Exterior” Division (see Note 2.3.5 in the “Significant 2017 events of the period”). CONSOLIDATED (2) The Group disposed the securities of listed companies shown on the balance sheet at December 31, 2016 under “Other available-for-sale financial assets”. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (3) Disposals of Faurecia Exterior Systems securities, reclassified in 2016 under “Assets held for sale” for €159,605 thousand, price correction for the disposal of the Spanish site for –€181 thousand and disposal of the truck business entities for the difference. 2016 (2) Loss on disposals of property, plant and equipment correspond mainly to the loss on the sale of the Environment Division’s Neustadt site in Germany. It was classified at December 31, 2015 under “Assets and liabilities held for sale” (see Note 5.1.16 to the consolidated financial statements published in 2016). (3) Losses on disposals of non-current financial assets correspond mainly to the –€10,772 thousand loss on the sale of Signature Ltd and the €694 thousand profit on the sale of Sulo Emballagen GmbH (see Notes 2.3.2 and 2.3.3 to the consolidated financial statements published in 2016). 4.7. Net financial income In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Finance costs (53,725) (48,849) Interest cost of post-employment benefit obligations(1) (2,278) (2,647) Financing fees and commissions (7,943) (7,363) Finance costs, net (63,946) (58,859) Exchange gains or losses on financing activities (13,722) 614 Gains or losses on interest rate and currency hedges(2) 10,822 (9,738) Other 83 97 Other financial income and expenses, net (2,817) (9,027) Total (66,763) (67,886) (1) See Note 5.2.6.5 on the “Changes in net balance sheet amounts”. (2) See Notes 5.2.8.1.3 on the “Impact of hedging on the Income statement” and 5.2.8.2.2 on the “Impact of unsettled foreign exchange currency hedges on income and equity”. PLASTIC OMNIUM 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4.8. Income tax 4.8.1. Income tax recorded in the income statement Income tax expense includes taxes payable, deferred tax, and since January 1, 2016, the CVAE value-added tax. Income tax expense breaks down as follows: In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Current taxes (101,719) (85,181) Current income tax (expense)/benefit (97,081) (80,890) Tax (expense)/benefit on non-recurring items (4,638) (4,291) Deferred taxes 17,171 (1,126) Deferred tax (expense)/benefits on timing differences arising or reversing during the period 5,229 (747) Effect of changes in tax rates or the introduction of new taxes 11,942 (379) Income tax recorded in the consolidated income statement (84,548) (86,307) 4.8.2. Income tax analysis – Tax proof The analysis of the income tax expense reveals the following factors: In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Totals %(1) Totals %(1) Consolidated profit before tax and share of profit/(loss) 453,289 352,794 of associates and joint ventures (A) French standard tax rate (B) 34.43% 34.43% Theoretical tax expense (C) = (A) x (-B) (156,067) (121,467) Difference between theoretical tax expense and current and 71,519 –15.7% 35,160 –12.0% deferred tax expense excluding tax assessed on net interim profit (D) Tax credits 39,856 –8.8% 27,437 –7.8% Permanent differences between recorded profits and taxable (5,317) 1.2% (5,513) 1.6% profits Change in unrecognized deferred taxes 14,301 –3.2% 4,893 –1.4% Impact on deferred tax of a tax rate change 11,942 –2.6% (379) 0.1% Impact of differences in foreign tax rates 15,070 –3.3% 18,194 –5.2% Value-added tax contribution (8,154) 1.8% (7,486) 2.1% Other impacts 3,821 –0.8% (1,986) 0.6% Total current and deferred tax expense (E) = (C) – (D) (84,548) (86,307) Effective tax rate (–E)/(A) 18.7% 24.5% (1) Percentage expressed in relation to the consolidated profit before tax and share of profit/(loss) of associates and joint ventures (C). The Group’s effective tax rate is 18.7% in 2017 (24.5% in 2016 after reclassifying the CVAE). In 2017, the tax recognized was an expense of €85 million (€76 million before reclassification of the CVAE) for a theoretical tax of €156 million, based on a tax rate of 34.43%. In 2016, the tax recognized was an expense of €86 million (€78 million before reclassification of the CVAE) for a theoretical tax of €121 million, based on a tax rate of 34.43%. The difference between the tax recognized and the theoretical tax is mainly explained: • by €40 million by using specific tax reductions or credits mainly in North America, Asia and France (€27 million at December 31, 2016); • by €15 million through the impact of more favorable tax rates, mainly in Asia (China, Thailand) and Europe (excluding France and Belgium) (€18 million at December 31, 2016); • by €14 million through the effect of losses or other assets generated in the year but not recognized, net of those previously not activated but used or recognized in the year (€5 million at December 31, 2016); • by –€5 million through permanent differences between accounting income and taxable income such as taxable dividends (–€6 million at December 31, 2016); • by –€8 million through the contribution to the value added of the businesses (–€7 million of taxes at December 31, 2016); 152 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • And by €12 million through the consequences of changes in tax rates. This favorable item arises from the impact on the Group’s deferred tax liabilities and the vote of legislation in the United States of a 21% tax rate compared with 35% previously. It is partly offset by the vote in France of a tax rate of 28.92% (against 34.43%) applicable to our assets in 2020, the horizon of future results taken into account to determine the tax assets (–€0.4 million at December 31, 2016). 4.9. Net profit attributable to non-controlling interests The net profit attributable to non-controlling interests corresponds to the share of minority interests in the profit/loss of fully consolidated entities controlled by the Group. It breaks down as follows: In thousand of euros 2017 2016 Beijing Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy Co. Ltd 1,919 3,773 Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy Manufacturing India Pvt Ltd 1,178 1,001 DSK Plastic Omnium Inergy 2,302 1,250 DSK Plastic Omnium BV (89) 152 Total attributable to non-controlling interests 5,310 6,176 4.10. Earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Net profit attributable to owners of the parent Basic earnings per share (in euros) 2017 2.88 2016 2.11 04 2017 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 2.86 2.09 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 151,901,377 152,717,157 Treasury stock (4,251,559) (4,848,974) Weighted average number of ordinary shares, undiluted 147,649,818 147,868,183 Impact of dilutive instruments (stock options) 1,046,202 1,350,717 Weighted average number of ordinary shares, diluted 148,696,020 149,218,900 Weighted average price of the Plastic Omnium share during the period Weighted average share price 34.26 29.06 PLASTIC OMNIUM 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5. Notes to the balance sheet 5.1. Assets 5.1.1. Goodwill For the 2017 financial year, the assumptions used for impairment tests (see Note 1.1.13) carried out at the level of the cash generating units (CGUs) or groups of cash generating units (business segments) are: • Automotive: a 1.5% perpetual growth rate and a 9.0% after-tax discount rate; • Environment: a 1.5% perpetual growth rate and a 7.5% after-tax discount rate. These assumptions are identical to those used for 2016. The tests conducted did not lead to the recording of any impairment of the Group’s goodwill at December 31, 2017. An increase in the discount rate of 0.5% or a reduction of 0.5% in the long-term growth rate or a decrease of 0.5% in the operating margin rate would have no impact on the test results. Concerning the Automotive and Environment CGUs, only unreasonable assumptions could jeopardize the test results. Unreasonable assumptions mean a negative long-term growth rate combined with a discount rate increased by more than two points. Goodwill Gross Value Impairments Net Value In thousand of euros Goodwill as of January 1 ,2016 287,496 – 287,496 Goodwill on the acquisition of the “Exterior Systems” business from the Faurecia 260,955 – 260,955 Group(1) Sale of “Signature Ltd” (17,031) – (17,031) Sale of “Sulo Emballagen GmbH” (3,501) – (3,501) Reclassification in “Assets and liabilities held for sale”(2) (255) – (255) Translation differences 3,412 – 3,412 Goodwill at December 31, 2016 published 531,077 – 531,077 Goodwill adjustment on the acquisition of the “Exterior Systems” business from 48,881 – 48,881 the Faurecia Group(3) Goodwill at December 31, 2016 adjusted 579,958 – 579,958 IFRS 5 reclassifications(2) 255 – 255 Sale of the “Truck” business from the “Auto Exteriors” division (245) (245) Goodwill on the acquisition of new companies in the “Fuel Systems” division 13,869 – 13,869 of the Automotive segment(4) Translation differences (9,152) – (9,152) Goodwill at December 31, 2017 584,685 – 584,685 (1) See Note 2.1.1 on the acquisition of the “Exterior Systems” business from Faurecia in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2016. (2) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdown of the items included in “Assets and liabilities held for sale” in the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2016. (3) See Note 2.1.1.2 “On July 29, 2017 – Finalizing the allocation of the acquisition price of the businesses retained by the Plastic Omnium Group”. (4) See Note 2.1.3 “Acquisition of two new start-ups” under Transactions during the period. Hereafter, goodwill by reportable segment: Goodwill by reportable segment Cost Impairment Carrying In thousand of euros amount Automotive 486,160 – 486,160 Environment 98,525 – 98,525 Value at December 31, 2017 584,685 – 584,685 Automotive 432,520 – 432,520 Environment 98,557 – 98,557 Value at December 31, 2016 published 531,077 – 531,077 Automotive – Adjustments on Faurecia’s Exterior Systems business 48,881 48,881 Value at December 31, 2016 adjusted 579,958 – 579,958 154 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.1.2. Goodwill and intangible assets In thousand of euros Goodwill Patents Software Development Contractual Other Total and costs customer licenses relationships Adjusted carrying amount 579,958 25,825 23,720 375,738 58,340 698 1,064,279 at January 1, 2017(1) Increases – 1,788 5,134 158,631 8 – 165,561 Disposals – net – (1,152) (74) (1,364) – – (2,590) Newly-consolidated companies(2) 13,869 1,399 1,055 2,340 – – 18,663 Changes in scope of (245) (1) (27) (9,660) – – (9,933) consolidation (derecognition)(3) IFRS 5 reclassifications(4) 255 1 83 1,401 – 266 2,006 Other reclassifications – 2,108 4,460 (3,933) – (422) 2,213 Depreciation for the period – (2,802) (12,097) (90,189) (19,914) (38) (125,040) Impairments recognized and – (587) – (2,033) – – (2,620) reversed Translation adjustment (9,152) (101) (256) (19,337) (1,140) (11) (29,997) Carrying amount 584,685 26,478 21,998 411,594 37,294 493 1,082,542 at December 31, 2017 (1) See Adjusted Balance Sheet at December 31, 2016. (2) Recognition of goodwill related to acquired companies: “Swiss Hydrogen SAS” (€8,999 thousand) and “Optimum CPV BVBA” (€4,870 thousand). (3) Assets held for sale in 2016 were sold in 2017. (4) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdown of items included in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale” at December 31, 2016. 04 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In thousand of euros Goodwill Patents Software Development Contractual Other Total and costs customer licenses relationships Carrying amount 287,496 25,598 18,470 294,689 39,272 3,136 668,661 at January 1, 2016 Increases – 1,747 9,497 139,826 – 50 151,120 Disposals – net – – (5) (628) – – (633) Newly-consolidated companies(1) 260,955 416 1,603 22,342 40,000 – 325,316 Changes in scope of (20,532) (33) (7) (100) – (1,958) (22,630) consolidation (derecognition)(2) Reclassifications according (255) (1) (83) (1,401) (266) – (2,006) to IFRS 5(3) Other reclassifications – 205 4,670 (4,743) 277 (58) 351 Depreciation for the period – (2,077) (10,526) (75,053) (21,238) (223) (109,117) Impairments recognized and – (50) – 73 – – 23 reversed Translation adjustment 3,413 20 101 733 295 (249) 4,313 Carrying amount published 531,077 25,825 23,720 375,738 58,340 698 1,015,398 at December 31, 2016 Adjustments on the acquisition 48,881 – – – – – 48,881 of the Faurecia Group “Exterior Systems” business Carrying amount adjusted 579,958 25,825 23,720 375,738 58,340 698 1,064,279 at December 31, 2016 (1) See Note 2.1.1.5 on the Opening balance sheet of Faurecia’s Exterior Systems business. (2) Derecognition of goodwill relating to divested companies : «Signature Ltd» (-€17,031 thousand) and «Sulo Emballagen GmbH» (-€3,501 thousand). (3) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdown of components included in «Assets and Liabilities held for sale». PLASTIC OMNIUM 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The significant changes under “Goodwill and intangible assets” correspond to the following impacts: • in 2017: goodwill related to acquired companies: “Swiss Hydrogen SAS” (€8,999 thousand) and “Optimum CPV BVBA” (€4,870 thousand); • in 2016: acquisition of the “Exterior Systems” business from the Faurecia Group. In thousand of euros Goodwill Patents Software Development Contractual Other Total and costs customer licenses relationships Analysis of carrying amount at January 1, 2017 Cost 531,078 49,705 135,440 769,231 176,563 1,281 1,663,298 Accumulated amortization (1) (23,345) (111,720) (393,421) (118,223) (583) (647,293) Accumulated impairment (losses) – (535) – (72) – – (607) Carrying amount published 531,077 25,825 23,720 375,738 58,340 698 1,015,398 at January 1, 2017 Goodwill adjustment on the 48,881 – – – – – 48,881 acquisition of the “Exterior Systems” business from the Faurecia Group Carrying amount adjusted 579,958 25,825 23,720 375,738 58,340 698 1,064,279 at January 1, 2017 Analysis of carrying amount at December 31, 2017 Cost (excluding IFRS 5 584,685 53,052 146,250 876,092 173,111 1,017 1,834,207 reclassifications) IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) (255) (83) (603) (17,626) – (2,579) (21,146) Accumulated amortization – (25,452) (124,252) (462,397) (135,817) (524) (748,442) (excluding IFRS 5 reclassifications) IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) – 82 520 15,995 – 2,314 18,911 Accumulated impairment (excluding – (1,122) – (2,101) – – (3,223) IFRS 5 reclassifications) IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) – – – 229 – – 229 Carrying amount 584,685 26,478 21,998 411,594 37,294 493 1,082,542 at December 31, 2016 (1) At December 31, 2017, there were no additional IFRS 5 reclassifications because the Truck businesses had been sold. In thousand of euros Goodwill Patents Software Development Contractual Other Total and costs customer licenses relationships Analysis of carrying amount at January 1, 2016 Cost 287,496 41,081 113,972 613,288 135,655 6,794 1,198,286 Accumulated amortization – (14,998) (95,502) (318,287) (96,383) (3,659) (528,829) Accumulated impairment (losses) – (485) – (312) – – (797) Carrying amount 287,496 25,598 18,470 294,689 39,272 3,135 668,660 at January 1, 2016 Analysis of carrying amount at December 31, 2016 Cost (excluding IFRS 5 531,078 49,705 135,440 769,231 176,563 1,281 1,663,298 reclassifications) IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) 255 83 603 17,626 2,579 – 21,146 Accumulated amortization (1) (23,345) (111,720) (393,421) (118,223) (583) (647,293) (excluding IFRS 5 reclassifications) IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) – (82) (520) (15,995) (2,314) – (18,911) Accumulated impairment – (535) – (72) – – (607) (excluding IFRS 5 reclassifications) IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) – – – (229) – – (229) Carrying amount published 531,077 25,825 23,720 375,738 58,340 698 1,015,398 at December 31, 2016 (1) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdown of items included in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale” of 31, December 2016. 156 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.1.3. Property, plant and equipment excluding investment property Property, plant and equipment owned or leased by the Group mainly pertain to factories and research and development centers. These plants and research and development centers break down as follows by number and region: Number of plants and research and development centers December 31, December 31, In units 2017 2016 Western Europe 54 59 Eastern Europe 18 17 North America 20 20 Asia 49 45 South America 8 9 Africa 2 2 Total 151 152 of which total plants managed under joint ventures 45 41 Asset breakdowns over the two periods are such that ‘no factory site represents a significant proportion of total tangible assets over each period. In thousand of euros Land Buildings Tech. eq. Assets under Other Total & tool. construction Carrying amount at January 1, 2017 86,619 440,770 504,842 173,567 147,791 1,353,589 Acquisitions(1) 6,334 12,878 56,604 205,856 47,046 328,718 04 Disposals (1,704) (4,515) (5,003) 15 (2,909) (14,116) 2017 CONSOLIDATED Entering the consolidation scope – – 551 – 136 687 FINANCIAL Changes in consolidation scope (disposals) (1,892) (15,298) (13,936) (4,669) (4,278) (40,073) STATEMENTS IFRS 5 reclassifications(2) 3,373 16,521 5,742 2,362 4,558 32,556 Other reclassifications 2,021 18,511 76,994 (124,432) 18,149 (8,757)(4) Impairments recognized and reversed(3) – (4,217) 14,138 – (745) 9,176 Depreciation for the period (1,618) (28,037) (101,754) – (46,279) (177,688) Translation adjustment (4,047) (21,135) (28,757) (15,888) (3,800) (73,627) Carrying amount at December 31, 2017 89,086 415,478 509,421 236,811 159,669 1,410,465 PLASTIC OMNIUM 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousand of euros Land Buildings Tech. eq. Assets under Other Total & tool. construction Carrying amount at January 1, 2016 82,292 398,690 358,053 186,029 124,151 1,149,215 Acquisitions(1) 221 21,411 50,539 124,876 23,665 220,712 Disposals (47) (709) (1,688) – (3,485) (5,929) Entering the consolidation scope(5) 4,316 57,386 87,106 19,708 21,197 189,713 Changes in consolidation scope (disposals) (1,160) (2,811) (1,272) (1) (641) (5,885) IFRS 5 reclassifications(2) (3,028) (13,278) (5,742) (2,362) (4,558) (28,968) Other reclassifications 5,097 8,528 111,328 (153,494) 28,190 (351)(4) Impairments recognized and reversed(3) – (4,349) (4,992) – 34 (9,307) Depreciation for the period (1,463) (26,781) (91,150) – (42,055) (161,449) Translation adjustment 391 2,682 2,659 (1,188) 1,294 5,838 Carrying amount at December 31, 2016 86,619 440,769 504,841 173,568 147,792 1,353,589 “Tech. eq. & tool.”: technical equipment and tooling. At December 31, 2017 (1) Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment reported in the Statement of Cash Flows correspond to acquisitions of property, plant and equipment excluding investment property for €328,718, against €220,712 thousand euros in the December 31, 2016. (2) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdowns of items included in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale” at December 31,2016. (3) Nearly all depreciation/reversals of buildings, technical equipment, tooling and other property, plant and equipment concerned the assets of: the Automotive Division’s Composites business in France and China and the assets of the Faurecia business (Brazil). (4) The net balance of the amount of –€8,757 thousand is due to reclassifications of “Intangible assets”. At December 31, 2016 (2) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdowns of items included in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale” at December 31, 2016. (3) Nearly all depreciation of buildings, technical equipment, tooling and other property, plant and equipment concerned the assets of the Automotive Division’s Composites business in France and China. (4) The net balance of the amount of –€351 thousand is due to reclassifications of “Intangible assets”. (5) See the Note 2.1.1.5 on the “Opening balance sheet of Faurecia’s Exterior Systems business” to the consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2016. In thousand of euros Land Buildings Tech. eq. Assets under Other Total & tool. construction Analysis of carrying amount at January 1, 2017 Cost 95,990 703,017 1,622,704 173,567 495,658 3,090,936 Depreciation (9,364) (256,310) (1,113,700) – (347,519) (1,726,893) Accumulated impairment (losses) (7) (5,937) (4,162) – (348) (10,454) Carrying amount at January 1, 2017 86,619 440,770 504,842 173,567 147,791 1,353,589 Analysis of carrying amount at December 31, 2017 Cost (excluding IFRS 5 reclassifications) 99,376 693,129 1,662,872 236,811 510,246 3,202,434 IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) 4,207 48,232 84,288 2,362 26,333 165,422 Depreciation (excluding IFRS 5 reclassifications) (10,283) (264,143) (1,151,595) – (349,495) (1,775,516) IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) (871) (24,149) (60,417) – (20,242) (105,679) Accumulated impairment (excluding IFRS 5 (7) (13,508) (1,856) – (1,082) (16,453) reclassifications) IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) – (7,528) (18,129) – (1,534) (27,191) Carrying amount at December 31, 2017 89,086 415,478 509,421 236,811 159,669 1,410,465 (1) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdown of components included in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale”. 158 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT In thousand of euros Land Buildings Tech. eq. Assets under Other Total & tool. construction Analysis of carrying amount at January 1, 2016 Cost 90,727 635,223 1,331,284 186,029 436,425 2,679,688 Depreciation (8,428) (233,659) (966,083) – (310,489) (1,518,659) Accumulated impairment (losses) (8) (2,874) (7,148) – (1,784) (11,814) Carrying amount at January 1, 2016 82,291 398,690 358,053 186,029 124,152 1,149,215 Analysis of carrying amount at December 31, 2016 Cost (excluding IFRS 5 reclassifications) 95,990 703,016 1,622,703 173,568 495,659 3,090,936 IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) (4,207) (48,232) (84,288) (2,362) (26,333) (165,422) Depreciation (excluding IFRS 5 reclassifications) (9,364) (256,310) (1,113,700) – (347,519) (1,726,893) IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) 871 24,149 60,417 – 20,242 105,679 Accumulated impairment (7) (5,937) (4,162) – (348) (10,454) (excluding IFRS 5 reclassifications) IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) – 8,374 18,129 – 1,534 28,037 Carrying amount at December 31, 2016 86,619 440,769 504,841 173,568 147,792 1,353,589 “Tech. eq. & tool.”: technical equipment and tooling. Property, plant and equipment leased under operating leases where the Group is lessor In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Cost 52,242 58,233 04 2017 Accumulated depreciation (39,898) (43,097) CONSOLIDATED Accumulated impairment (868) (158) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of which depreciation for the year (3,794) (4,297) of which provisions for the year (710) (153) Accumulated net depreciation and impairment 11,476 14,978 These assets correspond to waste containers leased to customers by the Environment Division under contracts that qualify as simple leases. Minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases and/or maintenance contracts In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Due within one year 34,059 49,229 Due in one to five years 72,550 93,896 Due in more than five years 32,405 33,651 Total 139,014 176,776 Property, plant and equipment leased under finance leases where the Group is lessee These assets, which are included in the previous tables (of this same note) on property, plant and equipment, correspond to plants, research and development centers and industrial production equipment. Change in capital assets under operating leases where the Group is lessee: In thousand of euros Land and Technical equipment Total Buildings and tooling Gross value at December 31, 2017 25,345 18,266 43,611 Accumulated depreciation, impairment and provisions (19,404) (3,700) (23,104) at December 31, 2017 Net carrying amount at December 31, 2017(1) 5,940 14,566 20,506 Gross value at December 31, 2016 27,516 21,646 49,162 Accumulated depreciation, impairment and provisions (21,154) (4,062) (25,216) at December 31, 2016 Net carrying amount at December 31, 2016(1) 6,362 17,584 23,946 (1) See Note 3.3 “Property, plant and equipment (excluding investment property) by operating segment”. PLASTIC OMNIUM 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Change in payments and discounted value relating to assets subject to lease financing agreements In thousand of euros Minimum payments at Discounted value at December 31, 2017 December 31, 2017 Due within one year 3,216 2,741 Due in one to five years 10,350 9,700 Due in more than five years 1,985 1,971 Net carrying amount at December 31, 2017(1) 15,551 14,412 In thousand of euros Minimum payments at Discounted value at December 31, 2016 December 31, 2016 Due within one year 3,458 2,821 Due in one to five years 11,281 10,242 Due in more than five years 4,071 3,996 Net carrying amount at December 31, 2016(1) 18,810 17,059 (1) See Note 5.2.7.5 “Reconciliation of gross and net debt”. 5.1.4. Property, plant and equipment by category (excluding investment property) In thousand of euros Cost Depreciation Impairment Total December 31, 2017 Property, plant and equipment owned outright 3,110,498 (1,715,655) (15,514) 1,379,329 Owned property, plant and equipment leased under 52,242 (39,898) (868) 11,476 operating leases where the Group is lessor(1) Property, plant and equipment leased under finance leases 43,611 (23,034) (70) 20,506 where the Group is lessee(2) Property, plant and equipment leased under finance leases – – – – where the Group is lessee that has been sub-let to third parties under operating leases where the Group is lessor(1) (2) Total Property, plant and equipment (excluding Investment 3,206,351 (1,778,587) (16,453) 1,411,311 property) before IFRS 5 reclassification(3) IFRS 5 reclassifications(3) (3,917) 3,071 – (846) Total Property, plant and equipment (excluding Investment 3,202,434 (1,775,516) (16,453) 1,410,465 property) – Consolidated Balance Sheet In thousand of euros Cost Depreciation Impairment Total December 31, 2016 Property, plant and equipment owned outright 3,152,272 (1,766,480) (38,267) 1,347,525 Owned property, plant and equipment leased under 54,924 (40,995) (105) 13,824 operating leases where the Group is lessor(1) Property, plant and equipment leased under finance leases 45,853 (22,995) (66) 22,792 where the Group is lessee(2) Property, plant and equipment leased under finance leases 3,309 (2,102) (53) 1,154 where the Group is lessee that has been sub-let to third parties under operating leases where the Group is lessor(1) (2) Total Property, plant and equipment (excluding Investment 3,256,358 (1,832,572) (38,491) 1,385,296 property) before IFRS 5 reclassification(3) IFRS 5 reclassifications(3) (165,422) 105,679 28,037 (31,706) Total Property, plant and equipment (excluding Investment 3,090,936 (1,726,893) (10,454) 1,353,589 property) – Consolidated Balance Sheet (1) The sum of “Property, plant and equipment owned outright and leased under operating leases where the Group is lessor” and “Property, plant and equipment leased under finance leases where the Group is lessee that has been sub-let to third parties under operating leases where the Group is lessor” corresponds to the value of “Property, plant and equipment leased under operating leases where the Group is lessor”. (2) See sub-section “Property, plant and equipment leased under finance leases where the Group is lessee”. (3) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdown of components included in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale”. 160 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.1.5. Investment property The item “Investment property” is unchanged since December 31, 2016. It includes: • a complex of 33,000 sq.m. office buildings located in Lyon Gerland, 82% of the space of which is rented to a third party; • as well as an undeveloped land in the Lyon region (Plastic Omnium ownership). In thousand of euros Land Buildings Total Fair value at December 31, 2015 12,700 80,563 93,263 Fair value at December 31, 2016 12,700 80,563 93,263 Change in the fair value in 2017 – – – Fair value at December 31, 2017 12,700 80,563 93,263 In thousand of euros Land Buildings Total Lyon Gerland complex 12,700 80,563 93,263 Fair value at December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 12,700 80,563 93,263 Investment property-related income and expenses are as follows: In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Income from investment property rentals 6,592 6,565 Investment property direct operating expenses (1,226) (1,350) 04 2017 CONSOLIDATED 5.1.6. Investments in associates and joint ventures FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Investments in associates and joint ventures correspond to investments by the Group in the following companies: In thousand of euros 2017 2016 December 31, December 31, % interest % interest 2017 2016 JV HBPO GmbH and its subsidiaries and 33.33% 33.33% 41,161 37,108 sub-subsidiaries JV Yanfeng Plastic Omnium and its subsidiaries(1) 49.95% 49.95% 146,153 122,748 BPO AS 49.98% 49.98% 16,057 16,925 Plastic Recycling SAS 50.00% 50.00% 258 294 PO-CellTech(2) 23.00% 20.00% 7,545 13,117 Total investments in associates and joint ventures 211,174 190,192 (1) See “Significant events of the period” Note 2.1.2 on the acquisition of the Chinese entity Changchun Huazhong Yanfeng Plastic Omnium Automotive Exteriors Co. Ltd. (2) See “Significant events of the period” Note 2.1.4 on the acquisition of an additional ownership stake in Israeli company “ PO-CellTech”. Investments in these entities include goodwill by segment and for the following amounts: In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Goodwill in associates and joint ventures – Automotive segment(1) 23,441 31,077 Total goodwill in associates and joint ventures 23,441 31,077 (1) The change over the period mainly corresponds to: the acquisition of Changchun Huaxiang Automotive Plastic Parts Manufacturing Co Ltd (see Note 2.1.2 in “Significant events of the period”). the impairment of PO-CellTech Goodwill. The summary balance sheet and income statement aggregates below are those of all associates and joint ventures. The associates Chengdu Faway Yanfeng Plastic Omnium, Dongfeng Plastic Omnium Automotive Exterior and Hicom HBPO are included in the YFPO and HBPO joint ventures respectively. PLASTIC OMNIUM 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The following presentation is based on 100% of the balance sheet and income statement data before elimination of internal transactions: In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Non-current assets 530,965 453,383 Current assets 1,556,210 1,332,808 Total assets 2,087,175 1,786,191 Shareholders’ equity 639,793 537,653 Non-current liabilities 12,397 14,250 Current liabilities 1,434,985 1,234,288 Total equity and liabilities 2,087,175 1,786,191 Revenue 3,950,724 3,492,332 5.1.7. Available-for-sale financial assets At the end of each period, financial assets recognized under this item correspond to shares in non-material shell or dormant companies and the contribution invested in the “FMEA 2” fund to support Automotive Division subcontractors and investments in listed companies. 5.1.7.1. Available-for-sale financial assets – Equity interests The financial assets recognized in this item correspond to insignificant shell companies and dormant companies. 5.1.7.2. Other available-for-sale financial assets Financial assets recognized under this item include investments in listed securities, the funds invested in the venture capital company “Aster” and the Group’s investments in the “FMEA 2” fund, to support Automotive Division subcontractors. In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Subscribed Non-called-up Net Net amounts amounts Contributions to the “FMEA 2”(1) – – 1,512 1,427 Financial investments in listed securities(1) (2) – – 25,353 29,024 Investment in the venture capital company 20,000 (19,500) 500 – “Aster”(3) Other – – 149 – Other available-for-sale financial assets 27,514 30,451 (1) Contributions to the “FMEA 2” fund and investments in shares in listed companies are listed with long-term financial receivables in Note 5.2.7.5 “Reconciliation of gross and net debt”. (2) The Group sold in 2017 for €36,842 thousand (net carrying amount of €34,937 thousand) the investments in shares of listed companies purchased in 2016 by the Group’s captive reinsurance company and reinvested €32,874 thousand in new listed securities (see Note 5.1.13.1). (3) See Note 2.1.5 of the “Significant Events of the Period”. 5.1.8. Other non-current financial assets In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Loans 2 – Deposits and bonds 49,758 25,786 Other receivables 42 30 Other non-current assets and financial receivables (see Note 5.2.7.5) 49,802 25,816 Finance receivables related to Environment finance leases (see Note 6.4.1) 856 1,637 Finance receivables related to Automotive contracts (see Note 6.4.1) 8,402 26,996 Non-current financial receivables (see Note 5.2.7.5) 9,258 28,633 Total 59,060 54,449 “Deposits and bonds” mainly concern guarantee deposits on leased offices and sold receivables sales programs. “Finance receivables” mainly concern receivables for work in progress on Automotive projects for which the Group has received a firm sales price commitment on the developments and/or tooling. These receivables are discounted. 162 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.1.9. Inventories and goods in process In thousand of euros December 31, December 31, Adjustments December 31, 2017 2016 adjusted 2016 published Raw materials and supplies At cost 144,991 132,089 132,089 Net realizable value 134,802 122,445 122,445 Molds, tooling and engineering At cost 141,787 135,588 135,588 Net realizable value 141,199 135,411 (20) 135,431 Other work in progress At cost 67 70 70 Net realizable value 67 70 70 Maintenance inventories At cost 59,199 55,694 55,694 Net realizable value 49,180 43,933 (1,603) 45,536 Goods At cost 9,927 9,410 9,410 Net realizable value 8,822 8,406 8,406 Semi-finished products At cost Net realizable value 41,781 38,582 39,140 36,859 39,140 36,859 04 2017 Finished products CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL At cost 44,391 45,323 45,323 STATEMENTS Net realizable value 41,361 41,565 41,565 Total, net 414,013 388,689 (1,623) 390,312 5.1.10. Current financial receivables In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Undiscounted Carrying Undiscounted Carrying values amount values amount Current financial receivables (see Note 5.2.7.5) 42,631 42,807 34,038 33,918 of which Environment division finance lease receivables 833 1,009 1,119 999 of which Automotive division finance receivables 41,798 41,798 32,919 32,919 Other current financial assets and financial receivables 83,209 83,209 62,388 62,388 (see Note 5.2.7.5) of which “Current accounts” 1,344 1,344 1,337 1,337 of which “Negotiable debt securities”(1) 24,011 24,011 24,016 24,016 of which “UCITS” or mutual funds(2) 50,007 50,007 – – of which receivables related to available-for-sale financial assets(3) – – 30,179 30,179 of which “Other” 7,847 7,847 6,856 6,856 Total current financial receivables 125,840 126,016 96,426 96,306 (1) See Note 5.2.7.3 “Loans, negotiable debt securities and other financial assets” for the principal amount. (2) As part of its cash management, the Group made this investment in a UCITS (Undertaking for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities) or mutual funds. (3) As of December 31, 2016, this was a receivable related to the portion of the Faurecia Group’s “Exterior Systems” business, for which the Plastic Omnium Group had withdrawn and which was in the process of being sold at this date. As of December 31, 2017, the receivable was paid. 5.1.11. Trade and other receivables 5.1.11.1. Sale of receivables Compagnie Plastic Omnium and some of its European and US subsidiaries have set up several receivables sales programs with French banks. These programs have an average maturity of more than two years. These non-recourse programs transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer of the sold receivables; for these programs, only the non-material dilution risk is not transferred to the buyer. Receivables sold under these programs, which are therefore no longer included in the balance sheet, totaled €341 million at December 31, 2017 against €338 million at December 31, 2016. PLASTIC OMNIUM 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.1.11.2. Trade receivables – Cost, impairment and carrying amounts In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Cost Impairment Carrying Cost Impairment Carrying amount amount Trade receivables published 944,886 (4,802) 940,084 813,753 (4,129) 809,624 Adjustments related to the Faurecia (205) (205) business Adjusted trade receivables 944,886 (4,802) 940,084 813,753 (4,334) 809,419 The Group has not identified significant unfunded customer risk over the two periods. 5.1.11.3. Other receivables In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Sundry receivables 95,389 91,568 Prepayments to suppliers of tooling and prepaid development costs 58,265 79,929 Prepaid and recoverable income taxes 93,048 78,759 Other prepaid and recoverable taxes 101,209 91,077 Employee advances 2,342 1,860 Prepayments to suppliers of non-current assets 4,349 3,967 Other receivables 354,602 347,160 5.1.11.4. Trade and other receivables by currency In thousands of currency December 31, 2017 December 31, Adjustments December 31, 2016 units 2016 Adjusted Local Euro % Local currency Euro Local Euro % currency currency EUR Euro 706,031 706,031 55% 561,010 (205) 561,215 561,215 49% USD US dollar 336,820 280,847 22% 249,676 263,184 249,676 22% CNY Chinese yuan 703,206 90,104 7% 104,588 765,604 104,588 9% GBP Pound sterling 63,968 72,099 6% 82,348 70,505 82,348 7% Other Other currencies 145,605 11% 158,957 158,957 14% Total 1,294,686 100% 1,156,579 (205) 1,156,784 100% Of which: • Trade receivables 940,084 73% 809,419 (205) 809,624 70% • Other receivables 354,602 27% 347,160 347,160 30% Sensitivity tests on exchange rate movements of the “Trade and other receivables” give the following results: In thousands of currency Sensitivity tests on receivables at December 31, 2017 December 31, Adjustments Sensitivity tests on receivables at units 2016 Adjusted December 31, 2016 Base Increase – Decrease – Base Amount Base Increase – Decrease – all currencies all currencies all currencies all currencies +10% +20% –10% –20% +10% +20% –10% –20% Local Exchange % % % % Euro Euro Local Exchange % % % % currency rate currency rate EUR Euro 706,031 1.00000 52% 50% 57% 60% 561,010 (205) 561,215 1.00000 46% 44% 51% 54% USD US dollar 336,820 0.83382 23% 24% 20% 19% 249,676 263,184 0.94868 23% 23% 20% 19% CNY Chinese yuan 703,206 0.12813 7% 8% 7% 6% 104,588 765,604 0.13661 9% 10% 9% 8% GBP Pound sterling 63,968 1.12710 6% 6% 5% 5% 82,348 70,505 1.16798 7% 8% 7% 6% Other Other currencies 12% 12% 11% 10% 158,957 15% 15% 13% 13% Total in euros 1,294,686 1,353,551 1,412,417 1,235,821 1,176,955 1,156,579 (205) 1,156,784 1,216,341 1,275,903 1,097,237 1,037,670 Of which: • Trade receivables 940,084 982,827 1,025,570 897,342 854,599 809,419 (205) 809,624 851,308 892,992 767,941 726,258 • Other receivables 354,602 370,724 386,847 338,479 322,356 347,160 347,160 365,033 382,911 329,296 311,412 Exchange rate sensitivity tests on “Trade receivables and other receivables” and “Trade payables and other operating liabilities by currency” (see Note 5.2.9.3) show a low sensitivity of these items to exchange rate movements. 164 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.1.12. Deferred taxes As noted in Note 1.1.27 of the accounting rules and principles, deferred tax assets on tax loss carryforwards, temporary differences and tax credits are assessed according to their probability of future use. For this purpose, estimates were made as part of the year-end closing of the financial statements and led to the recognition of assets based on probable use within a relatively short period of time reflecting a prudent approach given the current economic environment. Deferred taxes are broken down as follows: In thousand of euros December 31, December 31, Adjustments December 31, 2017 2016 adjusted 2016 published Property, plant and equipment (49,370) (56,752) (56,752) Post-employment benefit obligations 28,596 40,017 40,017 Provisions for liabilities and charges 35,699 109,131 3,485 105,646 Financial instruments 43 5,981 5,981 Tax loss carryforwards and tax credits 139,011 100,861 100,861 Other 2,867 (26,146) (26,146) Impairment of deferred tax assets (81,158) (107,895) (107,895) Total 75,688 65,197 3,485 61,712 Of which: • Deferred tax assets 96,663 143,657 3,302 140,355 • Deferred tax liabilities 20,975 78,460 (183) 78,643 Unrecognized tax assets on tax loss carryforwards at December 31, 2017 amounted to €76 million, compared with €59 million at 04 2017 December 31, 2016 and have the following characteristics: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 STATEMENTS Evergreen tax loss carryforwards 63,640 49,818 Tax loss carryforwards available for more than 5 years 9,647 1,763 Tax loss carryforwards available for up to 5 years 1,823 2,337 Tax loss carryforwards available for up to 4 years 271 2,323 Tax loss carryforwards available for up to 3 years 81 1,341 Tax loss carryforwards available for less than 3 years 604 1,696 Total 76,066 59,278 The change in the financial year is essentially due to variations in France and Germany. 5.1.13. Cash and cash equivalents 5.1.13.1. Gross cash and cash equivalents In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Cash at bank and in hand 762,731 222,307 Short-term deposits 176,904 111,882 Total cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet 939,635 334,189 Gross cash and cash equivalents break down as follows: In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Cash and cash equivalents of the Group’s captive reinsurance company(1) 30,902 26,729 Cash and cash equivalents in countries with exchange controls on 86,138 88,441 remittances and transfers(2) Cash equivalents(3) 822,594 219,019 Total cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet 939,635 334,189 (1) Over the two years 2016 and 2017, the Group invested in securities of listed companies through its captive reinsurance company, (see Note 5.1.7.2 “Available-for-sale financial assets”). (2) The countries in “regions with exchange controls on remittances and transfers” include Brazil, China, India, Chile, Argentina and South Korea. (3) The strong variation in cash is due to the availability of funds from the bond issue (€500 million) made in June 2017 and a positive cash generation directly linked to the activity of the period for nearly €156 million (of which €50 million invested in UCITS or mutual funds). The above amounts are shown in the balance sheet as current assets as they are not subject to any general restrictions. PLASTIC OMNIUM 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.1.13.2. Net cash and cash equivalents at end of period In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 939,635 334,189 Short-term bank loans and overdrafts (9,993) (10,307) Net cash and cash equivalents at end of period in the statement of cash flows 929,642 323,882 5.1.14. Statement of cash flows – Acquisitions and At December 31, 2016 disposals of financial assets, non-controlling interests The amount of €527,580 thousand in respect of acquisitions of and related investments shares in subsidiaries and associates and non-controlling inte5.1.14.1. Acquisitions of equity interests, non controlling rests was as follows: interests and related investments • the acquisition of the “Exterior Systems” business of the The Group’s financial acquisitions are broken down into two cateFaurecia Group for a total of €511,030 thousand; gories as follows: • investment in the Israeli company “ PO-CellTech” for an Ac qui sitions of share s in sub sidiarie s and a s sociate s , amount of €16,000 thousand; investments leading to a change in control, equity investments in • a n d su bs c r ip t io n to t h e c ap i t al in c r e as e of Pl as t i c associates, joint ventures and related investments Recycling SAS, consolidated using the equity method, for an These are recorded under “Cash flows from investments” in the amount of €550 thousand. Consolidated statement of cash flows. Acquisitions of non-controlling interests At December 31, 2017 These are recorded under “Cash flows from investments” in the The amount of €21.4 million under “Acquisitions of shares in Consolidated statement of cash flows. subsidiaries and associates”, corresponds to: 2017: none. • the acquisition of the following two companies (see Note 2.1.3 2016: acquisition of the minority interests (30%) in the German in “Significant events of the period”): company “RMS Rotherm Maschinenbau GmbH”. -“Swiss Hydrogen” for €12.8 million, and 5.1.14.2. Disposals of shares in subsidiaries and associates and -“Optimum CPV BVBA” for €6.1 million (of which €1 million non-controlling interests recognized in financial liabilities as a guarantee for liabiliDisposals of shares in subsidiaries and associates ties); Disposals of shares in subsidiaries and associates are recorded • the subscription in 2017 to the capital increase of the Israeli under “Cash flows from investments” in the Statement of Cash company “ PO-CellTech” (see Note 2.1.4) for an amount of Flows. €2.5 million. 2017: None. 2016: the Group essentially sold the companies “Signature Ltd” for €13,812 thousand and “Sulo Emballagen GmbH” for €1,820 thousand euros. 5.1.15. Consolidated funds and proportionate share of funds from operations of associates and joint ventures, after taxes and interest paid, net of dividends paid, Consolidated self-financing capacity and proportionate share of funds from operations of associates and joint ventures, after taxes and interest paid, net of dividends paid, break down as follows: Consolidated financial statements 2017 2016 Funds from operations 859,404 732,587 Tax paid (114,049) (97,271) Interest paid (59,189) (52,703) Funds from operations after payment of taxes and interest 686,167 582,613 Associates and joint ventures Share of funds from operations 95,433 73,892 Share of tax paid (16,470) (10,138) Share of interest received/paid 1,135 1,549 Elimination of dividends paid (32,401) (31,409) Share of funds from operations after payment of taxes and interest received, net of dividends paid 47,696 33,894 Total 733,863 616,507 166 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.1.16. Monitoring at December 31, 2017 of • IFRS 5 – Note 4: The Faurecia Exterior Systems business held transactions covered by IFRS 5 at December 31, 2016 for sale from the Auto Exterior Division: “Assets and Liabilities held for sale” are measured based on the The Group sold to the US group “F lexN Gate” on 31 best estimate of realizable values. The differences between March 2017 the shares of the “Faurecia Exterior Systems” realizable values and net carrying amounts, where these were entities that it could not hold following the European negative, resulted in the recognition of an impairment at Commission’s decision (see Note 2.1.1.5 “Opening balance December 31, 2016. The impact on the income from disposals in sheet of Faurecia Exterior Systems business” and “Disposals 2017 is presented in Note 4.6 “Other operating income and of available-for-sale financial assets” in the Statement of Cash expenses”. Flows). 5.1.16.1. Description of transactions covered by IFRS 5 • IFRS 5 – Notes 5 and 6: Auto Exterior Division’s Truck business: The transactions that fall within the scope of IFRS 5 are listed chronologically: On June 30, 2017, the Group sold to the German group “Mutares,” which specializes in the acquisition of companies in • IFRS 5 – Notes 1 and 1 bis: Fuel systems technical centers turnaround, the securities of the Auto Exterior Division’s truck (Oise and Laval) of the “Fuel systems” division: business. At December 31, 2016, the Group had recognized an The Laval technical center in the Mayenne department and the impairment of non-current assets, based on the probable former technical center for fuel systems in the Oise departrealizable value, representing the probable loss (see Note 4.6 ment, put up for sale following the opening on September 1, “Other operating income and expenses” for the net impact on 2014, of its new research and development center -Alphatech, the financial statements over the period and “Disposals of are still unsold at December 31, 2017. available-for-sale financial assets” in the Statement of Cash • IFRS 5 – Note 2: The “Fuel systems” Division (Laval) producFlows). 04 tion site: As December 31, 2017, the breakdown of “Assets and 2017 CONSOLIDATED The Laval fuel systems production site in Mayenne was sold in Liabilities held for sale” is provided in the following table. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS December 2017 for an amount of €1.4 million, yielding a loss The breakdown of “Assets and Liabilities held for sale” at June of €0.6 million (see Note 4.6 “Other operating income and 30, 2017, is provided in the following table. expenses”). • IFRS 5 – Note 3: “Sulo Emballagen” site in Herford, Germany: The Herford site in Germany, representing the administrative and industrial buildings of the Environment Division’s “Sulo Emballagen” was sold in January 2017 for an amount of €1,150 thousand, generating a loss of €4,398 thousand, provisioned in the financial statements at December 31, 2016 (see Note 4.6 “Other operating income and expenses”). PLASTIC OMNIUM 167 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.1.16.2. Summary presentation of transactions covered by IFRS 5 “Assets and liabilities held for sale” In thousand of euros December 31, December 31, Adjustments December 31, 2017 2016 adjusted 2016 published Totals Totals Totals Totals IFRS 5 – Note 1: Compiègne technical center 846 846 – 846 in the Oise department of which Land 167 167 – 167 of which Buildings, equipment, building 679 679 – 679 improvements, fixtures and fittings IFRS 5 – Note 1 bis: Laval technical center – 1,079 – 1,079 in the Mayenne department(1) of which Land – 178 – 178 of which Buildings, equipment, building – 901 – 901 improvements, fixtures and fittings IFRS 5 – Note 2: Laval production site – 871 – 871 in Mayenne(1) of which Plant – 871 – 871 IFRS 5 – Note 3: “Sulo Emballagen GmbH” – 1,150 – 1,150 site in Herford Germany(2) IFRS 5 – Note 4: “Faurecia Exterior Systems” – 160,171 (1,829) 162,000 business not retained(3) IFRS 5 – Note 5: Auto Exterior division – 74,766 – 74,766 “Truck” business(4) Assets held for sale 846 238,883 (1,829) 240,712 IFRS 5 – Note 4: “Faurecia Exterior Systems” – – – – business not retained(3) IFRS 5 – Note 5: Auto Exterior division – 79,368 – 79,368 “Truck” business(4) Liabilities related to assets held for sale – 79,368 – 79,368 Net assets held for sale 846 159,515 (1,829) 161,344 (1) See Note 2.3.4 in “Significant events of the period” and Note 4.6 “Other operating income and expenses”. (2) See Note 2.3.3 in “Significant events of the period” and Note 4.6 “Other operating income and expenses”. (3) See Note 2.1.1.1 in “Significant events of the period” and Note 4.6 “Other operating income and expenses and the caption” and “Disposals of available-for-sale financial assets” in the Statement of Cash Flows. (4) See Note 2.3.2 in “Significant events of the period” and Note 4.6 “Other operating income and expenses and the caption “Disposals of available-for-sale financial assets” in the Statement of Cash Flows. 168 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.2. Liabilities 5.2.1. Shareholders’ equity 5.2.1.1 Share capital of Compagnie Plastic Omnium In euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Share capital at January 1 9,148,603 9,214,603 Capital reduction during the year (90,000) (66,000) Share capital at end of period, made up of ordinary shares with a par value 9,058,603 9,148,603 of €0.06 each over the two periods Treasury stock 198,364 253,588 Total share capital net of treasury stock 8,860,239 8,895,015 Shares registered on behalf of the same holder for at least two years carry double voting rights. Capital Structure at December 31, 2017 On July 20, 2017, the Board of Directors of Compagnie Plastic Omnium decided to cancel 1,500,000 treasury shares, i.e. 0.98% of the share capital with effect from August 14, 2017. The share capital of Compagnie Plastic Omnium decreased from 152,476,720 shares to 150,976,720 shares with a par value of €0.06, representing a total value of €9,058,603.20. At December 31, 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium held 3,306,070 of its own shares, i.e. 2.19% of the share capital, against a total of 4,226,467 shares or 2.77% of the share capital at December 31, 2016. 04 2017 Capital Structure at December 31, 2016 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL On February 24, 2016, the Board of Directors of Compagnie Plastic Omnium decided to cancel 1,100,000 treasury shares, or 0.72% of STATEMENTS the share capital with effect on March 21, 2016. The share capital of Compagnie Plastic Omnium decreased from 153,576,720 shares to 152,476,720 shares with a par value of €0.06, representing a total value of €9,148,603.20. At December 31, 2016, Compagnie Plastic Omnium held 4,226,467 treasury shares, i.e. 2.77% of the share capital, against five 5,522,492 i.e. 3.60% of the share capital at December 31, 2015. 5.2.1.2. Detail of “Other reserves and retained earnings” in the consolidated statement of changes in equity In thousand of euros Actuarial Cash flow Cash flow Fair value Retained Attributable gains/ hedges hedges adjustments earnings to owners of (losses) – interest – currency and other the parent recognized rate instruments reserves in equity instruments December 31, 2015 (41,399) (1,660) (49) 18,156 1,009,572 984,620 Movements for 2016 (8,449) 540 (123) 1,044 190,707 183,719 At December 31, 2016 (49,848) (1,120) (172) 19,200 1,200,279 1,168,339 Movements for 2017 (1,885) 494 1,697 (962) 198,885 198,229 At December 31, 2017 (51,733) (626) 1,525 18,238 1,399,164 1,366,568 5.2.1.3 Detail of “Changes in scope of consolidation and reserves” in the consolidated statement of changes in equity In thousand of euros Shareholders’ equity Total Attributable Attributable to equity to owners of non-controlling the parent interests Buyout of non-controlling interests in Plastic Omnium Systems GmbH (1,812) (1,488) (3,300) Other changes in scope of consolidation at December 31, 2016 (1,812) (1,488) (3,300) None – – – Other changes in scope of consolidation at December 31, 2017 – – – PLASTIC OMNIUM 169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.2.2. Dividends voted and paid by Compagnie Plastic Omnium In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Dividend per share, in euros Number of Dividend Number of Dividend Number of shares, in units shares in 2016 shares in 2015 Dividend per share (in euros) 0.49(1) 0.41(1) Total number of shares outstanding 152,476,720 152,476,720 at the end of the previous year Total number of shares held in treasury 4,981,805(2) 4,886,974(2) on the ex-dividend date Total number of shares held in treasury at the 4,226,467(2) 5,522,492(2) year-end (for information) Dividends on ordinary shares 74,713 62,515 Dividends on treasury stock (unpaid) (2,441)(2) (2,004)(2) Total net dividend 72,272 60,512 (1) In 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium paid a dividend €0.49 per share on profits from 2016. In 2016, Compagnie Plastic Omnium paid a dividend of €0.41 per share on profits from the 2015. (2) A  t December 31, 2017: the number of treasury shares taken into account at December 31, 2016, was 4,226,467 for the determination of the provisional total dividend. The number of treasury shares at the time of the dividend’s payment in 2017 stood at 4,981,805, increasing the dividends attached to these shares from €2,071 thousand to €2,441 thousand. At December 31, 2016: the number of treasury shares taken into account at December 31, 2015, was 5,522,492 for the determination of the provisional total dividend. The number treasury shares at the time of the dividends’ payment in 2016 stood at 4,886,974, reducing the dividends attached to these shares from €2,264 thousand to €2,004 thousand. The recommended dividend in respect of 2017 to be proposed to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018 amounts to €0.67 per share (total payout of €101,154 thousand for 150,976,720 existing shares before deducting treasury shares at December 31, 2017). 5.2.3. Share-based payments On February 22, 2017, the Board of Directors granted stock options effective March 10, 2017 effect, exercisable as from March 11, 2021 for a three-year period. The exercise of the options granted to the Corporate Officers is subject to market and performance conditions. Details are provided in Note 7.3.1 “Compensation of Senior Executives and Corporate Officers”. This plan has been evaluated using the “Black & Scholes” model as described in Note 1.1.22. The main assumptions used in this assessment are as follows: Other information March 10, 2017 Plan Plastic Omnium share price at the plan grant date 33.71 Exercise price 32.84 Zero-coupon interest rate 0.04% Expected volatility 33.00% Expected dividend rate 1.45% Maturity March 11, 2021 Total number of beneficiaries 200 On these bases, the March 10, 2017 plan was valued at €4,249,015. The cost is amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, i.e. four years (of which €814,552 at December 31, 2017 and €228,539 related to options canceled during the year). The social contributions related to the implementation of this new plan of €954,414 were recognized as expenses at December 31, 2017. They are calculated on the basis of 25% of the share price of the options awarded and represent 30% of the total value of the options granted to French beneficiaries (377,500 options). 170 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Valuation of the March 10, 2017 plan Stock Options for the March 10, 2017 plan Total In euros Subject to market Not subject to market In units for the number of options conditions conditions Average value of one stock option 4.39 8.79 7.34 Number of options 190,000 388,500 578,500 Accounting expense (with adjustment to reserves) 834,100 3,414,915 4,249,015 Summary of outstanding stock option plans Grant date Options Beneficiaries Vesting Maximum Multiplier Maximum Multiplier Maximum exercisable conditions number of following the number of following the number of for options division by options division by options available three of the available three of the available under under the par value of under the plan share par value the plan as plan the share on as adjusted on adjusted for May 10, 2011 for the stock September 10, the stock split split(1) 2014 April 1, Stock 124 Employment 375,000 3 1,125,000 3 3,375,000 2010 options contract in March 21, Stock 208 force on the N/A N/A 889,500 3 2,668,500 2012 options option exercise date, August 7, Stock 184 except in the N/A N/A 424,000 3 1,272,000 2013 options case of August 6, 2015 Stock options 172 transfer by the employer, early N/A N/A N/A N/A 1,253,000 04 March 10, Stock 200 N/A N/A N/A N/A 578,500 2017 2017 options retirement or CONSOLIDATED retirement FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (1) On April 28, 2011, the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of Compagnie Plastic Omnium voted to divide the par value of its shares by three, with effect from May 10, 2011. The share price went from €0.50 to €0.17. Since all the plans outstanding at December 31, 2011 preceded that decision, the number of options granted to each employee in each plan as of that date, was multiplied by three and the exercise price divided by three. (2) On April 25, 2013, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of Compagnie Plastic Omnium voted to divide the par value of its shares by three, with effect from September 10, 2013. The share price went from €0.17 to €0.06. The number of stock options for every employee in every plan preceding that decision was multiplied by three and the exercise price divided by three. Successive effects of the three-to-one split April 1, March 21, August 7, August 6, March 10, of the Plastic Omnium share 2010 2012 2013 2015 2017 Plan Plan Plan Plan Plan Effects of division by three of the par value of the share Voted by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 28, 2011: Effective as from May 10, 2011: Number of stock options at January 1, 2011 before 371,500 N/A N/A N/A N/A division by three of the par value of the share Number of stock options at May 10, 2011 after division 1,114,500 N/A N/A N/A N/A by three of the par value of the share Effects of division by three of the par value of the share Voted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2013: Effective as from September 10, 2013 following the Meeting of the Board of Directors on July 23, 2013: Number of stock options before division by three 1,030,500 842,000 424,000 N/A N/A of the par value of the share in 2013 Number of stock options at September 10, 2013 after 3,091,500 2,526,000 1,272,000 N/A N/A three-to-one split of the par value of the share(1) (1) The number of stock options was multiplied by three following the division by three of the par value of the Plastic Omnium share on September 10, 2013. PLASTIC OMNIUM 171 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Outstanding options at the end of the year and cost for the period of option The vesting period for each plan is four years Outstanding options Options Revaluations/ Increases Decreases Cost for the Options outstanding at In euros outstanding adjustments period December 31, 2017 In units for the at Options Options Options Options Total Of which, number of options January 1, granted during forfeited that exercised options 2017 the period during the expired during the exercisable at period during the period December 31, period 2017 April 1, 2010 plan Number of options 118,000 (118,000) Share price at the 3.2 3.2 grant date Exercise price 2.84 2.84 Term 7 years 7 years Unrecognized cost at – – period-end Remaining life 0.5 year – Outstanding options Options Revaluations/ Increases Decreases Cost for the Options outstanding at In euros outstanding adjustments period December 31, 2017 In units for the at Options Options Options Options Total Of which, number of options January 1, granted during forfeited that exercised options 2017 the period during the expired during the exercisable at period during the period December 31, period 2017 March 21, 2012 plan Number of options 967,037 (393,025) 574,012 574,012 Share price at the 7.3 7.3 grant date Exercise price 7.38 7.38 Term 7 years 7 years Unrecognized cost at – – period-end Remaining life 2.25 years 1.25 year Outstanding options Options Revaluations/ Increases Decreases Cost for the Options outstanding at In euros outstanding adjustments period December 31, 2017 In units for the at Options Options Options Options Total Of which, number of options January 1, granted during forfeited that exercised options 2017 the period during the expired during the exercisable at period during the period December 31, period 2017 August 7, 2013 plan Number of options 1,176,000 (15,000) (473,840) 687,160 687,160 Share price at the 17.71 17.71 grant date Exercise price 16.17 16.17 Term 7 years 7 years Unrecognized cost at 741,386 (95,645) (645,741) 0 period-end Remaining life 3.6 years 2.6 years 172 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Outstanding options Options Revaluations/ Increases Decreases Cost for the Options outstanding at In euros outstanding adjustments period December 31, 2017 In units for the at Options Options Options Options Total Of which, number of options January 1, granted during forfeited that exercised options 2017 the period during the expired during the exercisable at period during the period December 31, period 2017 August 6, 2015 plan Number of options 1,229,000 (60,000) 1,169,000 None Share price at the 26.33 26.33 grant date Exercise price 24.72 24.72 Term 7 years 7 years Unrecognized cost at 5,374,074 (520,800) (1,866,644) 2,986,630 period-end Remaining life 5.6 years 4.6 years Outstanding options Options Revaluations/ Increases Decreases Cost for the Options outstanding at In euros outstanding adjustments period December 31, 2017 In units for the at Options Options Options Options Total Of which, number of options January 1, granted during forfeited that exercised options 2017 the period during the expired during the exercisable at 04 period during the period December 31, period 2017 March 10, 2017 plan 2017 CONSOLIDATED Number of options 578,500 (26,000) 552,500 None FINANCIAL Share price at the 33.71 33.71 STATEMENTS grant date Exercise price 32.84 32.84 Term 7 years 7 years Unrecognized cost at 4,249,015 (228,539) (814,552) 3,205,924 period-end Remaining life 7 years 6.2 years Total expense for the fiscal year 3,326,937 euros At December 31, 2017, there was no shares intended for allocation and not yet allocated. This position amounted to 226,587 shares at December 31, 2016. 5.2.4. Grants In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Grants recognized in non-current liabilities 6,557 12,420 Grants recognized in current liabilities 3,948 – Total grants recognized as liabilities 10,505 12,420 PLASTIC OMNIUM 173 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.2.5. Provisions In thousand of euros December 31, Charges Utilizations Releases of ReclassiOther Actuarial Changes in Translation December 31, 2016 surplus fications reclassifications gains/ scope of adjustment 2017 adjusted provisions according to (losses) consolidation IFRS 5 (5) (derecognition) (5) Customer warranties 19,985 16,557 (7,899) (941) – – – – (299) 27,403 Reorganization plans(1) 10,752 13,098 (7,500) (263) – – – – (182) 15,905 Taxes and tax risks(2) 298 8,250 – – – – – – – 8,548 Contract risks(3) 80,480 13,047 (39,320) (7,701) 17,239 94 – (15,879) (310) 47,650 Claims and litigation 4,986 8,211 (1,557) (825) 848 (146) – (275) (70) 11,172 Other(4) 15,092 2,292 (1,070) (535) – 52 – – (877) 14,955 Provisions for liabilities 131,593 61,455 (57,346) (10,265) 18,087 – – (16,154) (1,738) 125,633 and charges Provisions for pensions 109,718 8,424 (3,375) – 9,990 – (2,427) (10,601) (5,212) 106,517 and other postemployment benefits(6) Total 241,311 69,879 (60,721) (10,265) 28,077 – (2,427) (26,755) (6,950) 232,150 (1) Regarding the reorganization of an Automotive Division site in Germany. (2) Regarding provisions for tax audits ongoing in the Automotive division. (3) Regarding the impacts of loss-making contracts and losses on completion in the Automotive Division. (4) The “Others” sub-section includes individually insignificant amounts. (5) Regarding provisions for companies classified in “Assets & Liabilities held for sale” in 2016 and actually sold in 2017 (see Note 5.1.16 for 2016 period). The two columns “Reclassifications according to IFRS 5” and “Change in scope of consolidation” are related. (6) The actuarial difference corresponds to the combined effect of the decrease in rates in the United States and the increase in rates in France. In thousand of euros December 31, Charges Utilizations Releases ReclassiOther Actuarial Changes in Translation December 31, Adjustments December 31, 2015 of surplus fications reclassigains/ scope of adjustment 2016 2016 provisions according to fications losses(4) consolidation published adjusted IFRS 5(5) (derecognition) (6) Customer warranties 17,296 9,853 (4,709) (2,707) – – – 326 (74) 19,985 19,985 Reorganization plans(1) 3,017 7,667 (9,148) (45) – 268 – 8,943 (47) 10,655 97 10,752 Taxes and tax risks 3,362 297 (3,361) – – (481) – 481 – 298 298 Contract risks(2) 36,865 13,407 (21,655) (6,825) (17,239) 1,551 – 34,542 (169) 40,478 40,002 80,480 Claims and litigation 2,657 3,097 (654) (551) (848) 167 – (2) (23) 3,843 1,143 4,986 Other(3) 6,321 2,081 (1,594) (559) – (1,505) – 6,679 596 12,019 3,073 15,092 Provisions for liabilities 69,518 36,402 (41,121) (10,687) (18,087) – – 50,969 283 87,277 44,315 131,593 and charges Provisions for pensions 101,991 7,826 (4,932) – (9,990) 12,806 409 1,609 109,718 – 109,718 and other postemployment benefits Total 171,509 44,228 (46,053) (10,687) (28,077) – 12,806 51,378 1,892 196,995 44,315 241,311 (1) Regarding the ongoing reorganization at the Compiègne-Laval site in France. (2) Regarding the impacts of loss-making contracts and losses on completion in the Automotive segment. (3) The “Others” sub-section includes individually insignificant amounts. (4) The actuarial difference corresponds to the decrease in rates in the Eurozone and United States. (5) See Note 5.1.16 on the breakdown of the items included in Assets and Liabilities held for sale in the December 31, 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements. (6) These are mainly impacts related to Faurecia’s Exterior Systems business. 174 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.2.6. Provisions for pensions and other postPlans for the payment of healthcare costs mainly concern North employment benefits America zone (United States). Post-employment benefits Other long-term employee benefits The generic term “post-employment benefits” covers both Other long-term employee benefits cover long-service awards and pension and other employee benefits. other long-service awards within the Group. Provisions for pensions Post-employment benefit plans are subject to the regulations applicable in each country. The benefits recognized in the finanProvisions for pensions mainly concern: cial statements are therefore not a function of the number of • end of career benefits; employees by region. • supplementary pension plans; The regions identified and presented are those for which the • and healthcare coverage plans. regulations are consistent allowing data to be aggregated. Where no such aggregation is possible, no reference actuarial rate is In France, supplementary pension plans only concern Executive given as a discrepancy in the parameters is too great to calculate Corporate Officers and consist end of career benefits (“IFC”). an average. Similarly, sensitivity tests are carried out on signifiSupplementary pension plans, which affect the other geogracant, homogeneous and regional data. phical regions, concern all employees. 5.2.6.1. Actuarial Assumptions The main actuarial assumptions used to value post-retirement and long-term benefits are the following: December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 France United States France United States 04 Managers and Managers and 2017 CONSOLIDATED non-managers non-managers FINANCIAL Minimum age for receiving a full pension 60-62 years 65 years 60-62 years 65 years STATEMENTS Age from which no reduction applies 65-67 years 65-67 years Discount rate – post-employment benefits 1.60% 3.75% 1.25% 4.25% Discount rate – length-of-service awards 1.10% 0.50% Inflation rate 1.70% 1.70% Rate of future salary increases 2.70% 3.50% 1.70% to 4.70% 3.50% Rate of growth in healthcare costs(1) 7.50% 6.70% Expected long-term rate of return on pension 1.00% 3.75% 2.00% 4.25% plan assets (1) In the United States, rates are expected to decline by 0.5% per year to reach 5% in 2019. Annual rate of discounting of post-employment benefits The expected long-term return on pension plan assets The Group uses, as a reference, the rate of bonds issued by good These rates are based on long-term market forecasts and take quality (AA) commercial and industrial companies and with matuaccount of each plan’s asset allocation. rity equal to the length of the commitment being valued. For other foreign subsidiaries, rate differentials are determined Inflation rates based on local conditions. In France, benefits are linked to inflation rates. The impact of inflation rates is not material in the United States. Average rate of future salary increases The average rates of future salary increases are weighted between “managers” and “non-executive” staff and the age of employees. PLASTIC OMNIUM 175 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.2.6.2. Changes in balance sheet commitments and benefit costs corresponding to the defined benefit plans The balance sheet amounts for these benefits are as follows: In thousand of euros Post-employment benefit plans Other long-term benefits Total December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Projected benefit obligation 150,173 135,123 125,733 4,876 5,678 6,989 155,051 140,802 132,722 at January 1 Service cost 11,108 8,929 8,300 263 658 371 11,371 9,587 8,671 Interest cost 3,626 3,881 4,068 44 94 99 3,670 3,975 4,167 Curtailments, settlements and other 632 (1,579) (6,652) (65) (239) (1,299) 567 (1,818) (7,951) Actuarial gains and losses 1,172 12,411 6,307 (466) 197 (20) 706 12,608 6,287 Of which, experience adjustments (1,715) 705 1,676 (327) (137) (37) (2,042) 568 1,639 Benefits paid from plan assets (368) (711) (13) 21 5 17 (347) (706) 4 Benefits paid by the Company (1,920) (2,050) (9,529) (324) (436) (574) (2,244) (2,486) (10,103) Change in scope (9,703) 572 – (898) (163) – (10,601) 409 – Reclassifications according to IFRS 5(1) 9,057 (9,057) – 933 (933) – 9,990 (9,990) – Translation adjustment (9,378) 2,654 6,910 (61) 15 95 (9,439) 2,669 7,005 Projected benefit obligation 154,399 150,173 135,123 4,323 4,876 5,678 158,722 155,049 140,802 at December 31 Change in projected benefit obligation 4,226 15,050 9,390 (553) (802) (1,311) 3,671 14,247 8,080 Fair value of plan assets at January 1 45,331 38,811 39,557 – – – 45,331 38,811 39,557 Return on plan assets 1,392 1,328 1,663 – – – 1,392 1,328 1,663 Employer contributions 6,655 4,996 4,757 – – – 6,655 4,996 4,757 Actuarial gains and losses 3,568 (459) 4,556 – – – 3,568 (459) 4,556 Benefit payments funded by plan assets (514) (405) (7,091) – – – (514) (405) (7,091) Curtailments, settlements and other (8,158) – – – (8,158) Translation adjustment (4,226) 1,060 3,527 – – – (4,226) 1,060 3,527 Fair value of plan assets 52,206 45,331 38,811 – – – 52,206 45,331 38,811 at December 31 Change in fair value of plan assets 6,875 6,520 (746) – – – 6,875 6,520 (746) Excess of projected benefit 102,194 104,842 96,312 4,323 4,876 5,679 106,517 109,718 101,991 obligation over plan assets = net provision recorded in the balance sheet • of which France 47,720 50,026 49,185 3,047 3,496 4,226 50,767 53,522 53,411 • of which Europe excluding France 9,927 10,947 11,105 827 880 916 10,754 11,827 12,021 • of which United States 35,224 34,842 28,142 449 500 537 35,673 35,342 28,679 • of which other regions 9,323 9,027 7,880 – – – 9,323 9,027 7,880 (1) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdown of components reclassified in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale”. The present value of partially funded commitments amounted to €99,903 thousand at December 31, 2017, including €12,712 thousand for French plans and €70,221 thousand for the United States plans. At December 31, 2016, the present value of partially funded obligations was as follows: at the end of the year, there were €95,859 thousand, including €12,817 thousand for French plans and €66,641 thousand for the United States plans. In 2017: The decrease in the commitments is mainly related to the increase in discount rates in Europe. In 2016: The significant impacts were due to lower discount rates in Europe and the United States. 176 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.2.6.3. Analysis of net obligations by region Details of net obligations by region are presented in the table below: In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 France Europe United Other France Europe United Other excluding States excluding States France France Post-employment benefit plans Length-of-service awards payable 46,378 738 – 9,323 45,857 691 – 9,027 on retirement Supplementary pension plans 1,342 9,189 31,968 – 4,169 10,256 31,093 – Healthcare plans – – 3,256 – – – 3,749 – Total post-employment benefit 47,720 9,927 35,224 9,323 50,026 10,947 34,842 9,027 obligations Other long-term benefits 3,047 827 449 – 3,496 880 500 – Total other post-employment 3,047 827 449 – 3,496 880 500 – benefit obligations Net obligations recognized 50,767 10,754 35,673 9,323 53,522 11,827 35,342 9,027 in the balance sheet December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 France United States France United States 04 2017 Average maturity of obligations (in years) 12 21 13 21 CONSOLIDATED Amount of obligations (in thousand of euros) 57,362 70,221 57,920 66,641 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of which: Retirees obligations – 2,263 – 2,140 Vested deferreds obligations – 3,203 – 2,094 Actives obligations 57,362 64,755 57,920 62,407 5.2.6.4. Sensitivity tests of Retirement obligations The sensitivity tests on retirement obligations on the main external variable, the discount rate, in 2017 and in 2016 show the following impacts: In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Basis Increase Decrease Basis Increase Decrease +0,25% –0,25% +0,25% –0,25% Amount % Amount % Amount % Amount % France Effect on service cost and interest 4,687 4,663 –0.52% 4,711 0.51% 4,629 4,678 1.06% 4,719 1.94% cost Effect on projected benefit obligation 57,362 55,568 –3.12% 59,229 3.26% 57,920 56,300 –2.80% 59,851 3.33% United States Effect on service cost and interest 7,329 7,162 –2.28% 7,496 2.27% 7,158 6,976 –2.54% 7,341 2.56% cost Effect on projected benefit obligation 70,221 66,835 –4.82% 73,784 5.08% 66,641 60,134 –9.76% 63,388 –4.88% PLASTIC OMNIUM 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.2.6.5. Changes in net balance sheet amounts of the benefits Changes in net balance sheet positions related to the full range of benefits are as follows: In thousand of euros Post-employment benefit plans Other long-term benefits Total December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Net projected benefit obligation 104,842 96,312 86,176 4,876 5,679 6,989 109,718 101,991 93,165 at January 1 Expense/income for the year Service cost 11,108 8,929 8,300 263 658 371 11,371 9,587 8,671 Curtailments, settlements and other 632 (1,579) 1,504 (65) (239) (1,300) 567 (1,818) 204 Benefits paid by the Company (1,920) (2,050) (9,529) (324) (436) (574) (2,244) (2,486) (10,103) Actuarial gains and losses (8) (431) 269 (20) (431) 261 (20) Benefit payments funded by assets 146 (307) 7,078 21 5 17 167 (302) 7,096 Employer contributions (6,655) (4,996) (4,757) (6,655) (4,996) (4,757) Net non-recurring post-employment 3,311 (11) 2,596 (536) 256 (1,505) 2,775 245 1,091 benefit plan costs recorded in operating expenses(1) Interest cost 3,626 3,881 4,068 44 94 100 3,670 3,975 4,168 Expected return on plan assets (1,392) (1,328) (1,663) (1,392) (1,328) (1,663) Interest costs of post2,234 2,553 2,405 44 94 100 2,278 2,647 2,505 employment benefit obligations(2) Balance sheet impact Change in scope (9,703) 572 (898) (163) (10,601) 409 IFRS 5 reclassification(3) 9,057 (9,057) 933 (933) 9,990 (9,990) Actuarial gains and losses (2,396) 12,878 1,751 (35) (72) (2,431) 12,806 1,751 Translation adjustment (5,152) 1,594 3,383 (61) 15 95 (5,213) 1,609 3,478 Balance sheet impact (8,194) 5,987 5,135 (61) (1,153) 95 (8,255) 4,834 5,230 Net projected benefit obligation 102,194 104,842 96,312 4,323 4,876 5,679 106,517 109,718 101,991 at December 31 (1) Including €65 thousand recorded as other operating income and expenses for 2017 versus €1,847 thousand for 2016. (2) See Interest costs of post-employment benefit obligations in Note 4.7 on ‘’Net Financial Income’’. (3) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdown of components reclassified in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale”. 5.2.6.6. Healthcare cost sensitivity tests in the United States The following table shows the impact of a 1-point change in the rate of growth of health care costs in the United States: In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Increase Decrease Increase Decrease Effect on provisions for post-employment benefit obligations 500 (633) 536 (680) 5.2.6.7. Breakdown of plan assets by category The funded plan assets at fair value – mainly in the United States – broke down as follows by category: In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Equities 25,083 22,263 Bonds 15,252 13,050 Real estate 598 217 Other 11,274 9,801 Total 52,206 45,331 178 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.2.6.8. Contributions paid in respect of defined contribution or credit position outside of the operating cycle. Net debt is plans determined as: Contributions paid in respect of defined contribution plans • long-term borrowings: a m o u n t s to € 11, 59 4 t h o u s a n d i n 2 017 c o m p a r e d to -drawdowns on lines of credit, €10,181 thousand in 2016. The jump compared to the 2015 amount of €7,136 thousand reported in the December 31, 2016 -private placement notes, Consolidated Financial Statements is due to the integration of the -bonds; German subsidiary of Faurecia “Exterior Systems” business. With the acquisition of this business, the Group absorbed nearly • less loans, negotiable debt securities and other long-term 3,000 employees in Germany where the pension plan is based on financial assets (see Note 5.2.7.3 “Loans, negotiable debt defined contributions. securities and other financial assets”); • plus short-term loans; 5.2.7. Non-current borrowings • plus overdraft facilities; 5.2.7.1. Definition of debt instruments within the Group Net debt is an important notion for the day-to-day management of • less cash and cash equivalents. Plastic Omnium cash. It is used to determine the Group’ s debit 5.2.7.2. Borrowings: private placement notes First Half of 2017 On June 19, 2017, the Group placed out the placement of a €500 million bond with European investors without “covenants” or “rating”. The features of this bond issue are presented in the table below: Bond issue Issued on June 19, 2017 04 2017 Fixed rate (in euros) 500,000,000 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Maturity June 26, 2024 STATEMENTS Interest rate 1.25% Listed Euronext Paris At December 31, 2017 The main features of the bonds and private placements as at December 31, 2017 are summarized in the following table: December 31, 2017 Private placement Private bond of “Schuldschein” Private placement bond issue of 2013 private placement bond issue of June 2012 of 2016 2017 Issue – Fixed rate (in euros) 250,000,000 500,000,000 300,000,000 500,000,000 Annual interest rate/coupon 3.875% 2.875% 1.478% 1.25% Features French institutional European investors International (Asia, European investors investors Germany, Netherlands, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Belgium) and French investors No “covenants” and “rating” Maturity December 12, 2018 May 29, 2020 June 17, 2023 June 26, 2024 5.2.7.3. Loans, negotiable debt securities and other financial Other financial assets also include short-term investment securiassets ties that do not meet the criteria for the equivalent of cash equiOther financial assets include loans, security deposits and surety valents. These assets are measured at their fair value at the bonds and negotiable debt securities and mutual funds holding closing date, and changes in fair value are recognized in net cash and bonds (UCITS – Undertaking for Collective Investment in financial income. Transferable Securities). They are valued at amortized cost. Whenever there is any objective evidence of impairment – i.e. a negative difference between the carrying amount and the recoverable amount – an impairment provision is recognized through profit or loss. This impairment is reversed if the amount recovered is favorable. PLASTIC OMNIUM 179 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In 2015, the Group subscribed to four negotiable medium-term notes with a credit institution and in 2017, the Group invested in UCITS comprising mutual funds holding medium-term bonds and cash. The summary is shown in the table below: Negotiable mediumClassified as current financial UCITS(2) term note receivables(1) Subscription date February 24, July 13; July 13, February 24, 2015 December, 2015 2015 2015 14 and 29, 2017 Nominal (in euros) 5,000,000 10,000,000 4,000,000 5,000,000 50,006,265 Maturity February 25, July 11, July 15, February 24, 2020 Indeterminate 2019 2018 2019 Not available for four quarters following the Not available for eight quarters subscription date following the subscription date Quarterly coupon: Sets the first four quarters following the issue Sets the first eight quarters N/A • Fixed rate 3-month Euribor + spread as of the fifth following the issue • Variable rate quarter 3-month Euribor + spread as of the ninth quarter Total at December 31, 2017 24,000,000 euros 50,006,265 euros (1) See Note 5.1.10 on Current financial receivables. (2) UCITS: Undertaking for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities. 5.2.7.4. Utilization of medium-term credit lines At December 31, 2017 as at December 31, 2016, the Plastic Omnium Group had access to several confirmed bank lines of credit exceeding the Group’s requirements. At December 31, 2017, the amount of these confirmed bank lines of credit amounted to €1,349 million with an average maturity of four years, compared with €1,303 million at December 31, 2016. 180 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.2.7.5. Reconciliation of gross and net debt In thousand of euros December 31, 2016 December 31, 2016 Total Current NonTotal Current Nonportion current portion current portion portion Finance lease liabilities 14,412 2,741 11,671 17,059 2,821 14,238 Bonds and bank loans 1,690,437 378,337 1,312,100 1,270,598 165,499 1,105,099 of which the bond issue in 2017 498,180 3,339 494,841 – – – of which the bond issue in 2013 506,067 8,546 497,521 505,091 8,546 496,545 of which the”EuroPP “ bond issue 249,964 249,964 – 249,390 531 248,859 of which the “Schuldschein” private placement 2012 – – – 45,000 45,000 – of which the “Schulschein” private placement 2016 301,173 2,393 298,780 300,960 2,393 298,567 of which commercial paper – – – 12,000 12,000 – of which bank lines of credit 135,053 114,095 20,958 158,157 97,029 61,128 Non-current and current borrowings (+) 1,704,849 381,078 1,323,771 1,287,657 168,320 1,119,337 Other current debt (+) 4 4 – 5 5 – Hedging instruments – liabilities (+)(1) 5,618 5,618 – 17,870 17,870 – Total borrowings (B) 1,710,471 386,700 1,323,771 1,305,532 186,195 1,119,337 Available-for-sale financial assets (-)(2) (27,514) (27,514) (30,451) (30,451) Other financial assets (-) (101,867) (42,807) (59,060) (88,367) (33,918) (54,449) 04 of which non-current financial receivables(3) (49,802) (49,802) (25,816) (25,816) of which trade accounts receivable(3) (4) (52,065) (42,807) (9,258) (62,551) (33,918) (28,633) 2017 Other current financial assets (83,209) (83,209) – (62,388) (62,388) – CONSOLIDATED and financial receivables (-) (4) FINANCIAL of which negotiable debt securities (74,018) (74,018) – (24,016) (24,016) – STATEMENTS of which receivables attached to available-for-sale – – – (30,179) (30,179) – financial asset Hedging instruments – assets (-)(1) (5,254) (5,254) (499) (499) – Total financial receivables (C) (217,844) (131,270) (86,574) (181,705) (96,805) (84,900) Gross debt (D) = (B) + (C) 1,492,627 255,430 1,237,197 1,123,827 89,390 1,034,437 Cash and cash equivalents (-)(5) 939,635 939,635 – 334,189 334,189 – Short-term bank loans and overdrafts (+) (9,993) (9,993) – (10,307) (10,307) – Net cash and cash equivalents as recorded (929,642) (929,642) – (323,882) (323,882) – in the Statement of Cash Flows (A)(6) Net debt (E) = (D) + (A) 562,985 (674,212) 1,237,197 799,945 (234,492) 1,034,437 (1) See Note 5.2.8 “Interest rate and foreign exchange hedges”. (2) See Note 5.1.7 “Available-for-sale financial assets”. (3) See 5.1.8 “Other non-current financial assets”. (4) See Note 5.1.10 “Current financial assets” and 5.2.7.3 for the principal amount. (5) See Note 5.1.13.1 “Cash and cash equivalents – Gross value”. (6) See Note 5.1.13.2 “Net cash and cash equivalents at close”. PLASTIC OMNIUM 181 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.2.7.6. Analysis of gross debt by currency The table below shows the gross financial debt after taking into account the swaps transactions that allowed the conversion of the euro into foreign currency. As a % of total debt December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Euro(1) 74% 63% US dollar 18% 25% Chinese yuan 3% 5% Pound sterling 4% 5% Brazilian real 1% 1% Russian ruble 0% 0% Polish zloty 0% 0% Other currencies(2) 0% 1% Total 100% 100% (1) The change of the relative weight of the euro in the Group’s debt structure is explained by the €500 million bond issue on June 19, 2017 (see Note 2.4.1). (2) “Other currencies” concerns various currencies, which, taken individually, account for less than 1% of total financial debt over the two periods. 5.2.7.7. Analysis of gross debt by type of interest rate As a % of total debt December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Hedged variable rates 0% 0% Unhedged variable rates 7% 8% Fixed rates 93% 92% Total 100% 100% 5.2.8. Interest rate and currency hedges In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Interest rate derivatives – (3,400) – (6,414) Exchange rate derivatives 5,254 (2,218) 499 (11,456) Total balance sheet 5,254 (5,618) 499 (17,870) 5.2.8.1. Interest rate hedges For derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS: Interest rate hedges included swaps and caps. The objective is to • the effective portion of the change in fair value of the derivahedge the Plastic Omnium Group against the increase in interest tives to hedge future periods is recognized in equity (“Other rates to which its financing is exposed. comprehensive income”); At December 31, 2017: • it is reclassified to the income statement in the same period • the total notional amount of derivative instruments used for the as the hedged cash flows (i.e. interest payments) affect profit; management of interest rate risks stood at €105 million • the time value of options is excluded from the hedging rela(swaps) compared with €255 million at December 31, 2016 tionship. Changes in the time value of options and the ineffec(swaps and caps). tive portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument are The Group does not have any derivatives that are qualified as recognized in profit or loss. cash flow hedges as defined in IAS 39 (“Cash flow hedge”). The Changes in fair value of instruments that do not qualify for hedge amount was €60 million at December 31, 2016. accounting are recognized directly in financial income. Instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are nevertheless part of the Group’ s interest rate hedging strategy, which is financed at variable rates, particularly in the context of its sales of receivables. The fair value of derivatives is recognized in the assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet under “Hedging instruments”. 182 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.2.8.1.1. Derivatives portfolio In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Fair value of Recorded Recorded Fair value of Recorded Recorded hedging in assets in hedging in assets in instruments liabilities instruments liabilities Interest rate derivatives (3,400) – (3,400) (6,414) – (6,414) (fair value) Outstanding premiums – – – (350) – (350) Total fair value – (3,400) – (6,764) and outstanding premiums Composition of interest rate derivatives portfolio: In thousand of December 31, 2017 euros Fair Recorded Recorded Effective Nominal Maturity Reference Outstanding Nature of value in assets in portion included interest rate premiums(2) derivative liabilities in OCI(1) Swaps (3,400) – (3,400) – 105,000 February 2019 Euribor 1M N/A Non qualified Total (3,400) – (3,400) – 105,000 N/A In thousand of December 31, 2016 euros Fair value Recorded in assets Recorded in Effective portion included Nominal Maturity Reference interest rate Outstanding premiums(2) Nature of derivative 04 2017 liabilities in OCI(1) CONSOLIDATED Caps – – – – 60,000 May 2017 Euribor 2M (140) CFH(3) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Caps – – – – 90,000 June 2017 Euribor 1M (210) Non qualified Swaps (6,414) – (6,414) – 105,000 February 2019 Euribor 1M N/A Non qualified Total (6,414) – (6,414) – 255,000 (350) (1) OCI: Other comprehensive income. (2) Cap premiums are paid out in installments over the duration of the instruments. Outstanding premium amounts are classified under liabilities and shareholders’ equity in the consolidated balance sheet under “Non-current borrowings” and “Current borrowings”. (3) CFH: Cash flow hedges. 5.2.8.1.2. Amounts recognized in equity under “Other comprehensive income” The amounts below are expressed as gross values before tax. In thousand of euros Balance before Transactions Change in Amount Fair value tax recorded in in the period fair value of reclassified adjustments OCI(1) at derivatives in profit or reclassified in profit December 31, loss in the or loss 2016 period December 31, 2017 Effect of August 2010 and 1,824 – – (804) 1,020 February 2012 restructuring of the derivatives portfolio(2) Effect of June 2013 restructuring (3,530) – – 1,630 (1,900) of the derivatives portfolio Total (1,706) – – 826 (880) In thousand of euros Balance before Transactions Change in Amount Fair value tax recorded in in the period fair value of reclassified adjustments OCI(1) at derivatives in profit or reclassified in profit December 31, loss in the or loss 2015 period December 31, 2016 Effect of August 2010 and 2,627 – – (803) 1,824 February 2012 restructuring of the derivatives portfolio(2) Effect of June 2013 restructuring (5,157) – – 1,627 (3,530) of the derivatives portfolio Total (2,530) – – 824 (1,706) (1) OCI: Other Comprehensive Income. (2) Restructuring of derivatives portfolio to extend maturity of hedging instruments. PLASTIC OMNIUM 183 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5.2.8.1.3. Impact of hedging on the income statement In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Effective component of hedging instruments related to derivatives portfolio (3,260) (3,622) (hedging of interest rates accruing over the period) Reclassification in profit or loss of accumulated gains and losses following (826) (824) past restructurings(1) Time value of caps 299 686 Changes in fair value of instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting 3,022 1,740 Total(2) (765) (2,020) (1) See Note 5.2.8.1.2 “Reclassified in profit or loss”. (2) See “Gains or losses on interest rate and currency hedges” in Note 4.7 “Net financial income”. See also the impact of currency hedges in Note 5.2.8.2. 5.2.8.2. Currency hedges The Group uses derivatives to hedge its exposure to currency risk. Since 2016, the Group has chosen a policy of hedging the highly probable future transactions in foreign currencies of its entities. Hedging instruments implemented in this framework are forward purchases of foreign currency. The Group has applied to these instruments the accounting treatment of cash flow hedges as required by IAS 39.89: instruments are valued at fair value and changes in value are recognized in equity for the effective portion. These amounts recognized in equity are transferred to profit or loss when the hedged cash flows affect the income. The Group also applies to certain instruments the accounting treatment of net assets as defined in IAS 39.89: instruments are measured at fair value and changes in value as well as their settlement are recognized in equity. At December 31, 2017, the fair value of the instruments implemented and recognized was a positive amount €3,036 thousand, of which a positive €2,216 thousand recognized in equity. Changes in the fair value of other currency hedging instruments are recognized in net financial income. 5.2.8.2.1. Portfolio of currency hedges December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Fair value Notional Medium-term Exchange rate Fair value Notional Medium-term Exchange rate in amount exchange at in amount exchange at thousand in thousands rate December 31, thousand in thousands rate December 31, of euros of currency (currency/ 2017 of euros of currency (currency/ 2016 units euro) (currency/ units euro) (currency/ euro) euro) Net sell position (net buy position if <0) USD – Forward exchange contract +2,216 (45,780) 1.1492 1.1993 (1,041) (45,135) 1.0992 1.0541 GBP – Forward exchange contract – – – – +361 (7,436) 0.8223 0.8562 HUF – Forward exchange contract (19) (283,982) 316.8402 310.3300 – – – – CNY – Forward exchange contract – – – – – – – – MYR – Forward exchange contract – – – – – – – – MXN – Forward exchange contract – – – – – – – – CLP – Forward exchange contract (1) +222,832 742.7733 – (11) (332,157) – 707.8000 KRW – Forward exchange contract (6) (2,225,591) 1,281.7979 1,279.6100 +139 (9,090,523) +1,265 1,369.3600 USD – Forward currency swap +2,739 (228,000) 1.1834 1.1993 (9,247) (283,300) 1.0923 1.0541 GBP – Forward currency swap (519) (48,000) 0.8980 0.8872 (281) (36,824) 0.8619 0.8562 CZK – Forward currency swap – – – – – – – – RUB – Forward currency swap (76) (127,670) 72.8100 69.3920 (263) (109,000) 77.4600 64.3000 CNY – Forward currency swap (1,300) (398,000) 8.0525 7.8044 (601) (380,443) 7.4766 7.3202 SEK – Forward currency swap – – – – +1 +642 9.7300 9.5525 JPY – Forward currency swap – – – – (13) +313,293 122.6700 123.4000 Total +3,036 (10,956) 184 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.2.8.2.2. Impact of unsettled foreign exchange hedges on income and equity In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Impact of change in foreign exchange hedging portfolio on income 11,587 (7,715) (ineffective portion)(1) Impact of change in foreign currency hedging portfolio on equity 2,403 (187) (effective portion) Total 13,990 (7,902) (1) See “Gains or losses on interest rate and currency hedges” in Note 4.7 “Net financial income”. See also Note 5.2.8.1.3 “Impact of hedging on the income statement”. 5.2.9. Operating and other liabilities 5.2.9.1. Trade payables In thousand of euros December 31, December 31, Adjustments December 31, 2017 2016 adjusted 2016 published Trade payables 1,146,885 1,151,155 2,431 1,148,724 Due to suppliers of fixed assets 86,336 77,894 77,894 Total 1,233,221 1,229,049 2,431 1,226,618 5.2.9.2. Other operating liabilities 04 In thousand of euros December 31, December 31, Adjustments December 31, 2017 2017 2016 adjusted 2016 CONSOLIDATED published FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accrued employee benefits expense 156,558 137,058 137,058 Accrued income taxes 31,741 31,837 31,837 Other accrued taxes(1) 125,574 113,068 113,068 Other payables 260,760 202,601 1,963 200,638 Customer prepayments 215,265 200,698 200,698 Total 789,898 685,262 1,963 683,299 (1) For the impacts of the Tax Credit-CICE for French entities, see in Significant Events of the period, Note 2.5.1. 5.2.9.3. Payables and other operating liabilities by currency In thousands Liabilities at December 31, Adjustments Liabilities at December 31, of currency units December 31, 2017 2016 2016 published adjusted Local Euro % Euro Euro Local Euro % currency currency EUR Euro 1,138,805 1,138,805 56% 977,378 4,394 972,984 972,984 51% USD US dollar 538,656 449,142 22% 437,946 461,639 437,946 23% GBP Pound sterling 118,456 133,512 7% 144,036 123,321 144,036 8% CNY Chinese yuan 878,575 112,574 6% 125,475 918,505 125,475 7% BRL Brazilian real 174,635 43,957 2% 40,280 138,182 40,280 2% Other Other 145,129 7% 189,196 189,196 9% currencies Total 2,023,119 100% 1,914,311 4,394 1,909,917 100% Of which: • Trade payables 1,233,221 61% 1,229,049 2,431 1,226,618 64% • Other operating 789,898 39% 685,262 1,963 683,299 36% liabilities PLASTIC OMNIUM 185 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Sensitivity tests of exchange rate movements of “Trade payables and other liabilities” give the following results: In thousands of currency Sensitivity tests on liabilities at December 31, AdjustSensitivity tests on liabilities at units December 31, 2017 2016 adjusted ments December 31, 2016 Base Increase – Decrease – all Base Base Base Increase – Decrease – all currencies currencies all currencies all currencies +10% +20% –10% –20% +10% +20% –10% –20% Local Conversion % % % % Local Local Local Conversion % % % % currency rate currency currency currency rate EUR Euro 1,138,805 1.0000 54% 52% 59% 62% 977,378 4,394 972,984 1.0000 49% 46% 54% 56% USD US dollar 538,656 0.8338 23% 24% 21% 19% 461,639 461,639 0.9487 24% 25% 22% 20% GBP Pound sterling 118,456 1.1271 7% 7% 6% 6% 123,321 123,321 1.1680 8% 8% 7% 7% CNY Chinese yuan 878,575 0.1281 6% 6% 5% 5% 918,505 918,505 0.1366 7% 7% 6% 6% BRL Brazilian real 174,635 0.2517 2% 2% 2% 2% 138,182 138,182 0.2915 2% 2% 2% 2% Other Other currencies 8% 9% 7% 6% 10% 12% 9% 9% Total (in euros) 2,023,119 2,111,554 2,199,985 1,934,690 1,846,258 1,914,310 4,394 1,909,916 2,003,609 2,097,302 1,816,223 1,722,529 Of which: • Trade payables 1,233,221 1,287,126 1,341,030 1,179,316 1,125,411 1,229,049 2,431 1,226,618 1,286,791 1,346,964 1,166,445 1,106,271 • Other operating liabilities 789,898 824,428 858,955 755,374 720,847 685,261 1,963 683,298 716,818 750,338 649,778 616,258 Exchange rate sensitivity tests on “Trade payables and other This is achieved through the use of capital markets, leading to liabilities” and “Trade and other receivables” (see Note 5.1.11) capital and financial debt management. show an insignificant net sensitivity to exchange rate fluctuations As part of its capital management strategy, the Group pays divias at December 31, 2017. dends to its shareholders and may make adjustments in line with changes in economic conditions. 6. Capital and market risk management The capital structure may be adjusted by paying ordinary or special dividends, through share buybacks and cancellation of Compagnie Plastic Omnium has set up a global cash managetreasury stock, returning a portion of capital to shareholders or ment system with its subsidiary Plastic Omnium Finance, which issuing new shares and/or securities giving rights to capital. manages liquidity, currency and interest rate risks on behalf of all The Group uses the gearing ratio, corresponding to the ratio of subsidiaries. The market risks strategy, which may result in enteconsolidated net debt to equity, as a ratio of the Group’s net debt. ring balance sheet and off-balance sheet commitments, is The Group includes in net debt all financial liabilities and commitapproved every quarter by the Chairman and Chief Executive ments, other than operating payables, less cash and cash equivaOfficer. lents and other financial assets, other than operating receivables, such as marketable securities and loans. At December 31, 2017 6.1. Capital management and December 31, 2016, the gearing ratio was as follows: The Group’s objective is to have, at any time, sufficient financial resources to enable it to carry out its current business, fund the investments required for its development and also to respond to any exceptional events. In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Net debt(1) 562,985 799,945 Equity (including non-current government grants) 1,760,791 1,516,131 Gearing ratio 31.97% 52.76% (1) See Note 5.2.7.5 “Reconciliation of gross and net debt”. None of the Group’s bank loans or financial liabilities contains • at December 31, 2017: covenants providing for early repayment in the event of non-com9,500 securities (shares), pliance with financial ratios. and €3,552,108 in cash; • at December 31, 2016: As part of its capital management, the liquidity account shows 25,032 securities (shares), the following positions: and €2,925,457 in cash. 186 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.2. Commodities risk – Exposure to plastics price commitments. Finally, inventories are managed in such a way as to minimize the impact of price fluctuations. risk In view of these measures, the Group considers that the price Plastic Omnium’ s business requires the purchase of large quanchanges of the raw materials do not have a material impact on its tities of plastic, steel, paint and other raw materials subject to operating margin. price changes that could have an impact on its operating margin. To limit the risks associated with price fluctuations, the Group has negotiated price indexation clauses with most of its automo6.3. Credit risk tive customers or, failing that, regularly renegotiates selling Credit risk covers customer credit risk and bank counterparty risk. prices. 6.3.1. Customer risk The Environment segment, as part of an active sustainability policy, manufactures its products using over 60% recycled plastic, At December 31, 2017, 13.2% of the Group’s trade receivables which is structurally barely affected by price swings. For the rest, were past due, versus 11.1% at December 31, 2016. Trade the segment negotiates contracts with its suppliers with annual receivables break down as follows: Ageing analysis of net receivables At December 31, Total Not yet Due and Less 1-6 6-12 More 2017 outstanding due past due than 1 months months than 12 In thousand of euros month months Automotive 886,624 772,123 114,501 73,557 23,287 13,186 4,471 04 Environment 46,369 36,849 9,520 4,995 3,792 654 79 Unallocated items 7,091 7,091 – – – – – 2017 Total 940,084 816,063 124,021 78,552 27,079 13,840 4,550 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31, Total AdjustTotal Not yet Due Less 1-6 6-12 More 2016 outstanding ments outstanding due and than months months than In thousands adjusted published past 1 12 of euros due month months Automotive 765,477 (205) 765,682 686,293 79,389 45,222 24,654 4,391 5,123 Environment 42,066 – 42,066 31,448 10,618 5,404 3,258 478 1,478 Unallocated items 1,876 – 1,876 1,847 29 29 – – – Total 809,419 (205) 809,624 719,588 90,036 50,654 27,912 4,869 6,601 IFRS 5 reclassifications(1) 25,231 – 25,231 22,759 2,472 1,966 220 125 161 (1) See the Note 5.1.16 on the Summary of Transactions classified in Assets and Liabilities held for sale. The risk of non-recovery is low and involves only a non-material 6.4. Liquidity risk amount of receivables more than twelve months past due. The Group must have at all times sufficient financial resources to 6.3.2. Bank counterparty risk finance the current business and the investments required to The Group invests its cash surplus with first class banks and/or support its development, but also to withstand any exceptional in senior securities. events. This objective is mainly achieved by using medium-term lines of credit with banking institutions but also through short-term bank facilities. The cash position of each division and the Group position are reviewed on a daily basis, and a weekly summary report is submitted to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officers. PLASTIC OMNIUM 187 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 6.4.1. Other long-term financial receivables – carrying amounts and undiscounted values Undiscounted values can be reconciled to the information in the table in Note 6.4.2 on “Liquidity risks by maturity”. In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Undiscounted Carrying Undiscounted Carrying finance amount finance amount receivables receivables Due in one to five years 10,100 9,153 30,731 28,515 Other receivables (see Note 5.1.8) 42 42 29 29 Finance receivables related to Environment finance 799 709 1,647 1,490 leases (see Note 5.1.8) Finance receivables related to Automotive 9,259 8,402 29,055 26,996 contracts (see Note 5.1.8) Due beyond five years 156 147 149 147 Other receivables (see Note 5.1.8) – – – – Finance receivables related to Environment finance 156 147 149 147 leases (see Note 5.1.8) Total 10,256 9,300 30,880 28,662 188 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.4.2. Liquidity risk by maturity Liquidity risk by maturity is calculated on the basis of the undiscounted contractual cash flows of financial liabilities. The liquidity risk analysis shows the following: At December 31, 2017 In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 Less than 1 to 5 More than 1 year years 5 years Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets – Equity interests 316 – 316 – Other available for sale financial assets 27,514 – 27,514 – Other financial assets 49,802 – 49,802 – Finance receivables(1) 53,103 42,889 10,058 156 Trade receivables(2) 940,084 935,534 4,550 – Other current financial assets and financial receivables 83,209 83,209 – – Hedging instruments 5,254 5,254 – – Cash and cash equivalents 939,635 939,635 – – Total financial assets 2,098,917 2,006,521 92,240 156 Financial liabilities Non-current borrowings(4) 1,427,177 11,332 599,713 816,133 Bank overdrafts 9,993 9,993 – – 04 Current borrowings(5) 393,796 393,796 – – Other current debt 4 4 – – 2017 Hedging instruments 5,618 5,618 – – CONSOLIDATED Trade payables 1,233,221 1,233,221 – – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total financial liabilities 3,069,810 1,653,964 599,713 816,133 Financial assets and financial liabilities – net(6) (970,893) 352,557 (507,473) (815,977) (1) Undiscounted amount (see Notes 5.1.10 “Current financial receivables” and 6.4.1 “Other long-term financial receivables”). (2) “Trade receivables” includes €124,021 thousand past due at December 31, 2017 against €90,036 thousand at December 31, 2016. See Note 6.3.1 on “Customer credit risk”. (3) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdown of items included in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale”, in 2016. (4) “Non-current borrowings” includes the amounts reported in the balance sheet and interest payable over the remaining life of the debt. (5) “Current borrowings” includes the amounts reported in the balance sheet and interest due within one year. (6) See Note 5.2.7.4 on confirmed medium-term credit lines compared to uses in 2017 and 2016, the confirmed and unused bank lines largely covered the Group’s cumulative medium-term financing requirements. PLASTIC OMNIUM 189 Notes to the consolidated financial statements At December 31, 2016 In thousand of euros December 31, Adjustments December 31, Less 1 to More 2016 adjusted 2016 than 5 years than published 1 year 5 years Financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 394 – 394 – 394 – – Equity interests Other available for sale financial 30,451 – 30,451 – 30,451 – assets Other financial assets 25,816 – 25,816 – 25,816 – Finance receivables(1) 64,889 – 64,889 34,038 30,702 149 Trade receivables(2) 809,419 (205) 809,624 803,023 6,601 – Other current financial asets 62,388 – 62,388 62,388 – – and financial receivables Hedging instruments 499 – 499 499 – – Cash and cash equivalents 334,189 – 334,189 334,189 – – Total financial assets 1,328,045 (205) 1,328,250 1,234,137 93,964 149 Reclassification of Financial 30,532 – 30,532 30,349 183 – assets IFRS 5 (3) Financial liabilities Non-current borrowings(4) 1,230,968 – 1,230,968 28,497 890,667 311,805 Bank overdrafts 10,307 – 10,307 10,307 – – Current borrowings(5) 174,117 – 174,117 174,117 – – Other current debt 5 – 5 5 – – Hedging instruments 17,870 – 17,870 17,870 – – Trade payables 1,229,049 2,431 1,226,618 1,226,618 – – Total financial liabilities 2,662,316 2,431 2,659,885 1,457,414 890,667 311,805 Reclassifications of financial 32,202 – 32,202 32,202 – – liabilities IFRS 5(3) Financial assets and financial (1,334,271) (2,636) (1,331,635) (223,277) (796,703) (311,656) liabilities – net(6) (1) Undiscounted amounts (see Notes 5.1.10 “Current financial receivables” and 6.4.1 “Other long-term financial receivables”). (2) “Trade receivables” includes €90,036 thousand past due at December 31, 2016, against €49,521 thousand at December 31, 2015. See Note 6.3.1 on “Customer credit risk”. (3) See Note 5.1.16 for the breakdown of components included in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale”. (4) “Non-current borrowings” includes the amounts reported in the balance sheet and interest payable over the remaining life of the debt. (5) “Current borrowings” includes the amounts reported in the balance sheet and interest due within one year. (6) See Note 5.2.7.4 on confirmed medium-term credit lines compared to uses in 2016 and 2015, the confirmed and unused bank lines largely cover the Group’s cumulated medium-term financing requirements. 190 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.5. Currency risks Plastic Omnium’s business is based for the most part on local plants: by producing locally what is sold locally, the Group has little exposure to currency fluctuations, except for the translation of financial statements. The Group’s policy is to minimize the currency risk arising from transactions that will result in future payment or future revenue. If a transaction does give rise to a material currency risk, it is hedged with a forward currency contract. The subsidiary involved places this hedge with the central treasury or, with the latter’s approval, locally. 6.6. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk relates to the effects of a potential increase in variable rates on variable rate debt, which would adversely affect net financial income. Interest rate risk is managed on the basis of the Group’ s consolidated debt with the main objective of maintaining relatively low financing costs in relation to the profitability of the Group’s operations. At December 31, 2017 as at December 31, 2016, the Group’s core funding was at fixed rates (see Notes 5.2.7.7 “Analysis of debt by type of interest rate” and 5.2.8.1 “Interest rate hedges”). Financial transactions, particularly interest rate hedges, are carried out with a number of leading financial institutions. A competitive bidding process is carried out for any significant financial transactions and counterparty diversification and sufficient participants is among the selection criteria. Sensitivity to interest rate changes At December 31, 2017, an increase of 1% in interest rates on variable rate debt would lead to a net increase of €1.3 million in interest 04 2017 expense after taking into account the impact of hedging instruments, compared with a reduction of €0.2 million (of interest expense CONSOLIDATED after taking into account the impact of hedging instruments for a 1% increase in interest rate) at December 31, 2016. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31, 2017, a 1% decrease in interest rates on floating rate debt would lead to a decrease of €1.3 million in the cost of interest after taking into account the impact of hedging instruments compared with an increase of €0.6 million (of interest expense after taking into account the impact of hedging instruments for a 1% decrease in interest rate on variable rate debt) at December 31, 2016. 6.7. Additional information on financial assets and liabilities Most derivatives are traded over-the-counter on which there are no listed prices. Therefore, their valuation is based on models commonly used by traders to evaluate these financial instruments (models for discounting future cash flows or options). Financial assets and liabilities by category and fair value break down as follows: In thousand of euros 2017 At At fair value Total Valued Instrument Valuations Valuations amortized Through Through Through Carrying at cost listed on based on based on cost the shareholders’ shareholders’ amount an active observable unobservable income equity (AFS) equity (CFH market market market data statement (2) hedge)(3) (level 1) data (level 3) Assets (level 2) Available-for-sale financial assets – – – 316 – 316 316 – – – Equity interests Available-for-sale financial assets – – 27,514 – 27,514 – 27,514 – – Other non-current financial assets 59,060 – – – 59,060 – – – – Finance receivables 42,807 – – – 42,807 – – – – Trade receivables 940,084 – – – 940,084 – – – – Other current financial receivables 33,202 50,007 – – 83,209 – 50,007 – – Hedging instruments – 5,254 – – 5,254 – – 5,254 – Cash and cash equivalents – 939,635 – – 939,635 – – 939,635 – PLASTIC OMNIUM 191 Notes to the consolidated financial statements In thousand of euros At At fair value Total Valued Instrument Valuations Valuations amortized Through Through Through Carrying at cost listed on based on based on cost the shareholders’ shareholders’ amount an active observable unobservable income equity (AFS) equity (CFH market market data market data Liabilities statement (2) hedge)(3) (level 1) (level 2) (level 3) Non-current borrowings(1) 1,323,771 – – 1,323,771 – – – – Bank overdrafts 9,993 – – 9,993 – – – – Current borrowings 381,078 – – 381,078 – – – – Other current debt 4 – – 4 – – – – Hedging instruments – 8,021 (2,403) 5,618 – – 5,618 – Trade payables 1,233,221 – – 1,233,221 – – – – In thousands 2016 of euros Published AdjustTotal Valued Instrument Valuations Valuations At At fair value Total ments Carrying at cost listed on based on based on amortized Carrying amount an active observable unobservable Through Through Through adjusted market market market data cost the shareholders’ shareholders’ amount published (level 1) data (level 3) income equity (AFS) equity (CFH (level 2) Assets statement (2) hedge)(3) Available-for-sale financial assets – – 394 – 394 – 394 394 – – – – Equity interests Available-for-sale financial assets – – 30,451 – 30,451 – 30,451 – 30,451 – – Other non-current financial assets 54,449 – – – 54,449 – 54,449 – – – – Finance receivables 33,918 – – – 33,918 – 33,918 – – – – Trade receivables 809,624 – – – 809,624 (205) 809,419 – – – – Other current financial receivables 62,388 – – – 62,388 – 62,388 – – – – Hedging instruments – 499 – – 499 – 499 – – 499 – Cash and cash equivalents – 334,189 – – 334,189 – 334,189 – 100,593 233,596 – In thousand of euros At At fair value Total AjusteTotal Valued Instrument Valuations Valuations amortized Through Through Through Carrying ments Carrying at cost listed on an based on based on cost the shareholders’ shareholders’ amount amount active observable unobservable income equity (AFS) equity (CFH published adjusted market market data market data Liabilities statement (2) hedge)(3) ajustée (level 1) (level 2) (level 3) Non-current borrowings(1) 1,119,337 – – – 1,119,337 – 1,119,337 – – – – Bank overdrafts 10,307 – – – 10,307 – 10,307 – – – – Current borrowings 168,320 – – – 168,320 – 168,320 – – – – Other current debt 5 – – – 5 – 5 – – – – Hedging instruments – 17,683 – 187 17,870 – 17,870 – – 187 – Trade payables 1,226,618 – – – 1,226,618 2,431 1,229,049 – – – – (1) See Note 5.2.7.5 “Reconciliation of gross and net debt”. This includes “Finance lease liabilities” and “Bonds and bank loans”. (2) AFS: “Available-For-Sale ”. (3) CFH: “Cash Flow Hedge ”. In 2017 as in 2016, there was no transfer between fair value levels. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities at amortized cost was close to the carrying amount, except for current and non-current debt. 192 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT In thousand of euros Balance sheet values at December 31, 2017 Fair value at December 31, 2017 Total Current Non-current Total Current Non-current portion portion portion portion Bonds and bank loans (1) (2) 1,690,437 378,337 1,312,100 1,734,589 387,243 1,347,346 In thousand of euros Balance sheet values at December 31, 2016 Fair value at December 31, 2016 Total Current Non-current Total Current Non-current portion portion portion portion Bonds and bank loans(1) 1,270,598 165,499 1,105,099 1,586,311 123,604 1,462,707 (1) See Note 5.2.7.5 “Reconciliation of gross and net debt”. (2) The significant variation in bond issues between 2017 and 2016 is due to the new bond issued by Compagnie Plastic Omnium on June 17, 2017 (see Note 2.4.1 in the “Significant events of the period”). Methods for measuring fair value: negotiable medium-term notes, etc.) (nominal and interest). The discount rate used in this framework is the market rate • The fair value of listed bonds is determined on the basis of matching the maturity and products’ characteristics. quoted prices (level 1). The fair value of other borrowings is determined for each loan by discounting future cash flows at a • Other non-current financial assets and finance receivables: rate corresponding to the Euribor yield curve at year-end, items consisting mainly of finance receivables recorded on the corrected for the Group’s credit risk (level 2). basis of a discounted value when their maturity is more than • The fair value of monetar y and non-monetar y UCITS is one year. 04 measured according to their last known liquidity value (level 1). • Most of the derivatives are traded over-the-counter on which 2017 CONSOLIDATED The fair value of interest rate products (certificates of deposit, there are no listed prices. As a result, their valuation is based FINANCIAL time-deposit accounts, negotiable medium-term notes, etc.) is on models commonly used by traders to evaluate financial STATEMENTS based on discounted future cash flows (the principal and inteinstruments using discounted cash flow models or option rest) for the remaining duration of the product on the balance valuation models (level 2). sheet date (level 2) (certificates of deposit, term deposits, 7. Additional information 7.1. Headcount at year-end December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Excluding Temporary Total Excluding Temporary Total Changes/ temporary temporary Total(3) France 3,703 867 4,570 4,456 1,037 5,493 –17% % 17.5% 19.8% 17.9% 20.4% 22.4% 20.7% Europe excluding France(2) 10,210 2,112 12,322 9,617 1,975 11,592 6% % 48.3% 48.3% 48.3% 43.9% 42.7% 43.7% North America 3,761 596 4,357 3,821 646 4,467 –2% % 17.8% 13.6% 17.1% 17.5% 14.0% 16.8% Asia and South America(1) (2) 3,453 802 4,255 4,000 970 4,970 –14% % 16.3% 18.3% 16.7% 18.3% 21.0% 18.7% Total 21,127 4,377 25,504 21,894 4,628 26,522 –4% (1) The “Asia and South America” region includes Turkey, South Africa and Morocco. (2) The headcount integrated through the acquisition of Faurecia’s Systems business represents a total of 4,662 employees in 2016. (3) The change in headcount mainly corresponds to the headcounts departures following the sale of the “Truck” business. PLASTIC OMNIUM 193 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 7.2. Off-balance sheet commitments 7.2.1. Commitments given and received At December 31, 2017 In thousand of euros Total Intangible Property, plant Financial Other non-financial assets and equipment assets and current assets/ liabilities liabilities Surety bonds given (15,141) – (2,760) (556) (11,825) Commitments to purchase assets (55,455) – (55,455) – – Debt collateral (mortgages) (3,221) – – (3,221) – Other off-balance sheet commitments(1) (340) (298) – – (42) Total commitments given (74,157) (298) (58,215) (3,777) (11,867) Surety bonds received 320 – – – 320 Total commitments received 320 – – – 320 Total commitments – net (73,837) (298) (58,215) (3,777) (11,547) At December 31, 2016 In thousand of euros Total Intangible Property, plant Financial Other non-financial assets and equipment assets and current assets/ liabilities liabilities Surety bonds given (15,642) – (1,448) (282) (13,912) Commitments to purchase assets (54,858) – (54,858) – – Debt collateral (mortgages) (3,695) – – (3,695) – Other off-balance sheet commitments (4,291) – – (3,946) (345) Total commitments given (78,486) – (56,306) (7,923) (14,257) Surety bonds received 422 – 72 – 350 Total commitments received 422 – 72 – 350 Total commitments – net (78,064) – (56,234) (7,923) (13,907) At December 31, 2017: (1) The change in other commitments given is explained as follows: The change in other off-balance sheet commitments given on assets and liabilities corresponds to non-renewal in 2017 of a counter-guarantee in favor of Plastic Omnium Automotive Argentina for €3,9 million (66 million of Argentinian pesos). 7.2.2. Operating leases where the Group is lessee In thousand of euros December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Minimum lease payments under non cancelable operating leases Due within one year 54,718 47,658 Due in one to five years 97,327 104,786 Due beyond five years 28,283 31,764 Total 180,328 184,208 194 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 7.3. Related-party transactions 7.3.1. Compensation paid to Senior Executives and Corporate Officers The Senior Executives are, in accordance with IAS 24 “persons with the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities” of Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its subsidiaries. The Board of Directors of February 22, 2017 granted 40,000 stock options to the Executive Corporate Officers. This plan took effect on March 10, 2017. It is exercisable as from March 11, 2021 for a period of three years and is subject to market and performance conditions. The total amount of compensation paid to members of the Board of Directors and Senior Executives is presented in the table below: In thousand of euros Paid or payable by… 2017 2016 Directors’ fees Paid by Compagnie Plastic Omnium 155 138 Directors’ fees Paid by companies controlled by Compagnie Plastic Omnium 404 381 (excl. Compagnie Plastic Omnium) and by Burelle SA Gross compensation Payable by the Plastic Omnium Group 6,889 6,735 Supplementary pension plans Payable by the Plastic Omnium Group 878 989 Cost of stock option plans Payable by the Plastic Omnium Group 786 947 Cost spread over the vesting period 685 947 Social contributions related to the new plan over the period(1) 101 – Total compensation 9,112 9,190 (1) Details of the social contributions of the plan allocated by Compagnie Plastic Omnium on March 10, 2017: 04 The rate of social contributions of March 10, 2017 share purchase plan is 30%. The Group did not grant any new stock option plan in 2016. 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The share of contributions related to the stock options of Executive Corporate Officers is presented in the table below and concerns only 2017: In thousand of euros 2017 2016 In units for the number of options plan plan Rate of contribution of payroll taxes on stock option plans 30.00% Total number of options forming part of the basis on which contributions are calculated 190,000 Total contributions subject to performance conditions (in thousand of euros) (1) 480 None Number of share options of Executive Corporate Officers 40,000 Social contributions on stock options of Executive Corporate Officers (in thousand of euros) 101 (1) All stock options granted to Senior Executives and Corporate Officers are subject to performance conditions. Contributions for all stock options subject to performance conditions amounted to €480 thousand, and €474 thousand for the others. 7.3.2. Transactions with Sofiparc SAS, Burelle SA and Burelle Participations SA At December 31, 2017 In thousand of euros Direct and Royalties and Financial Current Deposits Trade Trade Other Other indirect management income and accounts payables receivables receivables debtors costs fees expenses Sofiparc SAS – (5,468) 5 – 1,185 – – – 2 Burelle SA 2 (7,891) 12 – – 2,460 – – 11 Burelle Participations SA – – 6 – – – – – – At December 31, 2016 In thousand of euros Direct and Royalties and Financial Current Deposits Trade Trade Other Other indirect management income and accounts payables receivables receivables debtors costs fees expenses Sofiparc SAS (187) (5,261) 14 – 1,185 7 14 – – Burelle SA 3 (8,529) 15 17 – 2,975 41 – 11 Burelle Participations SA – – 6 – – – – – – PLASTIC OMNIUM 195 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 7.4. Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors In thousand of euros 2017 Mazars Ernst & Young Total Audit services (2,130) (1,954) (4,084) of which: Compagnie Plastic Omnium (416) (424) (840) Subsidiaries (1,714) (1,530) (3,244) Fees other than certification of accounts(1) (168) (602) (770) of which: Compagnie Plastic Omnium (78) (288) (366) Subsidiaries (90) (314) (404) Total (2,298) (2,556) (4,854) (1) The “Fees other than certification of accounts” are related to the review of the consolidated social, environmental and societal information provided in the management report, the certificates, the tax compliance services, the agreed procedures, the financial and tax due diligence. In thousand of euros 2016 Mazars Ernst & Young Total Audit services (1,879) (1,831) (3,710) of which: Compagnie Plastic Omnium (366) (353) (719) Subsidiaries (1,513) (1,478) (2,991) Fees and services specific to the duties of the Statutory Auditor (77) (229) (306) of which: Compagnie Plastic Omnium (59) (77) (136) Subsidiaries (18) (152) (170) Total (1,956) (2,060) (4,016) 7.5. Consolidating Entity Burelle SA holds 58.86% of Compagnie Plastic Omnium, after the cancellation of Compagnie Plastic Omnium’s treasury stock (57.57% before cancellation of treasury stock), and fully consolidates the Company. Burelle SA – 19, boulevard Jules Carteret 69342 Lyon Cedex 07 7.6. Subsequent Events No event likely to have a material impact on the Group’s business, financial position, earnings or assets and liabilities at December 31, 2017 has occurred since the closing date. 196 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT LIST OF CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 Legal name Reportable segment December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Automotive Environment Unaffected Method of % % Method of % control % Tax group consolidation control interest consolidation interest France COMPAGNIE PLASTIC * Parent company Parent company 1–a OMNIUM SA PLASTIC OMNIUM SYSTĒMES * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–b URBAINS SAS METROPLAST SAS * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–b LA RÉUNION VILLES * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–b PROPRES SAS PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–b CARAÏBES SAS INERGY AUTOMOTIVE * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a SYSTEMS FRANCE SAS PLASTIC RECYCLING SAS * EM_ 50 50 EM_ 50 50 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO x2017f * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a EXTÉRIEUR HOLDING SA PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a EXTÉRIEUR SERVICES SAS PLASTIC OMNIUM GESTION SNC * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a 04 2017 PLASTIC OMNIUM FINANCE * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a CONSOLIDATED SNC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LUDOPARC SAS * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–b PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a EXTERIORS SA PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a INERGY SAS PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a INERGY MANAGEMENT SAS VALEO PLASTIC OMNIUM e2016 * – – – EM_Ifrs_2014 50 50 SNC BEAUVAIS DIFFUSION SAS * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 PLASTIC OMNIUM AITO x2017e * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a EXTÉRIEUR SA TECHNIQUES ET MATÉRIELS * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–b DE COLLECTE – “ TEMACO ” SAS PLASTIC OMNIUM h2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a COMPOSITES SA – ca2017 MIXT COMPOSITES g2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 RECYCLABLES – MCR SAS – c2017 PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–b ENVIRONNEMENT HOLDING SAS SIGNALISATION FRANCE SA * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–b SULO FRANCE SAS * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–b INERGY AUTOMOTIVE d2016 * – – – FC 100 100 1–a SYSTEMS INDUSTRIES SAS PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a INERGY SERVICES SAS PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 1–a INERGY FRANCE SAS PLASTIC OMNIUM i2017 * FC 100 100 – – – MANAGEMENT 4 PLASTIC OMNIUM 197 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Legal name Reportable segment December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Automotive Environment Unaffected Method of % % Method of % control % Tax group consolidation control interest consolidation interest South Africa PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY SOUTH AFRICA (PROPRIETARY) Ltd Germany PLASTIC OMNIUM GmbH * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–b PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–b COMPONENTS GmbH PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–a ENTSORGUNGSTECHNIK GmbH PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–b INERGY GERMANY GmbH HBPO * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 BETEILIGUNGSGESELLSCHAFT Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 GmbH HBPO RASTATT GmbH * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 HBPO GERMANY GmbH * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 HBPO GmbH * EM_I 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 frs_2014 Ifrs_2014 PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–a ENVIRONNEMENT GmbH ENVICOMP SYSTEMLOGISTIK * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–a GmbH WESTFALIA INTRALOG GmbH * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–a SULO EISENWERK STREUBER d2016 * – – – FC 100 100 & LOHMANN GmbH SULO UMWELTTECHNIK * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–a GmbH SULO UMWELTTECHNIK e2016 * – – – FC 100 100 2–a BETEILIGUNGS GmbH SULO EMBALLAGEN GmbH c2016 * – – – FC 100 100 2–a PLASTIC OMNIUM URBAN d2016 * – – – FC 100 100 2–a SYSTEMS GmbH PLASTIC OMNIUM h2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–b COMPOSITES GmbH – ca2017 PLASTIC OMNIUM SYSTEMS f2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–a GmbH x2016a HBPO INGOLSTADT GmbH * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 HBPO REGENSBURG GmbH * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 SULO EA GmbH * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2–b PLASTIC OMNIUM b2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 2 – bi AUTOMOTIVE EXTERIORS GmbH HBPO VAIHINGEN Enz GmbH b2017 * EM_ 33.33 33.33 – – – Ifrs_2014 Argentina PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY ARGENTINA SA PLASTIC OMNIUM SA * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 PLASTIC OMNIUM b2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 AUTOMOTIVE ARGENTINA 198 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Legal name Reportable segment December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Automotive Environment Unaffected Method of % % Method of % control % Tax group consolidation control interest consolidation interest Belgium PLASTIC OMNIUM NV * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 PLASTIC OMNIUM ADVANCED * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INNOVATION AND RESEARCH NV PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY BELGIUM SA PLASTIC OMNIUM b2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 AUTOMOTIVE BELGIUM OPTIMUM CPV BVBA b2017 * FC 100 100 – – – Brazil PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY PLASTIC OMNIUM DO BRASIL * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 Ltda HBPO BRASIL AUTOMOTIVE a2016 * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 SERVICOS Ltda Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 PLASTIC OMNIUM b2016 * – – – FC 100 100 AUTOMOTIVE DO BRASIL Ltda d2016 Canada HBPO CANADA INC. * EM_ Ifrs_2014 33.33 33.33 EM_ Ifrs_2014 33.33 33.33 04 2017 Chil CONSOLIDATED PLASTIC OMNIUM SA * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS China PLASTIC OMNIUM g2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 COMPOSITES (JIANGSU) Co. – c2017 Ltd WUHAN PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 AUTO INERGY Co. Ltd YANFENG PLASTIC OMNIUM * EM_ 49.95 49.95 EM_ 49.95 49.95 AUTOMOTIVE EXTERIOR Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 SYSTEMS Co. Ltd PLASTIC OMNIUM INERGY * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 (SHANGHAI) CONSULTING Co. Ltd INERGY AUTOMOTIVE * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 SYSTEMS CONSULTING (BEIJING) Co. Ltd BEIJING PLASTIC OMNIUM x2016c * FC 60 60 FC 60 60 AUTO INERGY Co. Ltd CHONGQING YANFENG * EM_ 49.95 25.47 EM_ 49.95 25.47 PLASTIC OMNIUM Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 AUTOMOTIVE EXTERIOR FAWAY Co. Ltd GUANGZHOU ZHONGXIN * EM_ 49.95 25.47 EM_ 49.95 25.47 YANFENG PLASTIC OMNIUM Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 AUTOMOTIVE EXTERIOR TRIM Co. Ltd CHENGDU FAWAY YANFENG * EM 24.48 24.48 EM 24.48 24.48 PLASTIC OMNIUM Co. Ltd HBPO CHINA Co. Ltd * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 YANFENG PLASTIC OMNIUM * EM_ 49.95 49.95 EM_ 49.95 49.95 (SHANGHAI) AUTOMOTIVE Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 EXTERIOR SYSTEMS Co. Ltd PLASTIC OMNIUM 199 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Legal name Reportable segment December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Automotive Environment Unaffected Method of % % Method of % control % Tax group consolidation control interest consolidation interest DONGFENG PLASTIC * EM 24.98 24.98 EM 24.98 24.98 OMNIUM AUTOMOTIVE EXTERIOR SYSTEMS Co. Ltd GUANGZHOU PLASTIC * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 OMNIUM AUTO INERGY Co. Ltd SHENYANG PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 AUTO INERGY Co. Ltd YANFENG PLASTIC OMNIUM * EM_ 49.95 49.95 EM_ 49.95 49.95 YIZHENG AUTOMOTIVE Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 EXTERIOR SYSTEM Co. Ltd PLASTIC OMNIUM HOLDING * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 (SHANGHAI) Co. Ltd YANFENG PLASTIC OMNIUM * EM_ 49.95 49.95 EM_ 49.95 49.95 (SHENYANG) AUTOMOTIVE Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 EXTERIOR SYSTEMS Co. Ltd YANFENG PLASTIC OMNIUM * EM_ 49.95 49.95 EM_ 49.95 49.95 NINGBO AUTOMOTIVE Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 EXTERIOR SYSTEMS Co. Ltd YANFENG PLASTIC OMNIUM * EM_ 49.95 49.95 EM_ 49.95 49.95 WUHAN AUTOMOTIVE Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 EXTERIOR SYSTEMS Co. Ltd NINGBO PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 AUTO INERGY Co. Ltd HBPO CHINA BEIJING Co. Ltd * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 YANFENG PLASTIC OMNIUM a2015 * EM_ 49.95 49.95 EM_ 49.95 49.95 HARBIN AUTOMOTIVE Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 EXTERIOR SYSTEMS Co. Ltd CHONGQING PLASTIC a2015 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 OMNIUM AUTO INERGY Co. Ltd CHANGCHUN HUAZHONG b2017 * EM_ 24.98 24.98 – – – YANFENG PLASTIC OMNIUM x2016d Ifrs_2014 AUTOMOTIVE EXTERIORS Co. Ltd YANFENG PLASTIC OMNIUM b2017 * EM_ 49.95 49.95 – – – HANGZHOU AUTO EXTERIOR Ifrs_2014 SYSTEMS Co. Ltd South Korea SHB AUTOMOTIVE MODULES * EM_ 16.67 16.67 EM_ 16.67 16.67 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 HBPO KOREA Ltd * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 PLASTIC OMNIUM Co. Ltd * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 HBPO PYEONGTAEK Ltd * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 HBPO ASIA HQ Ltd * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 Spain COMPAÑIA PLASTIC * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 3 OMNIUM SA PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 3 EQUIPAMIENTOS EXTERIORES SA PLASTIC OMNIUM SISTEMAS * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 3 URBANOS SA 200 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Legal name Reportable segment December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Automotive Environment Unaffected Method of % % Method of % control % Tax group consolidation control interest consolidation interest PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 3 INERGY SPAIN SA PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 3 COMPOSITES ESPANA SA SIGNATURE e2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 3 SENALIZACION SA HBPO AUTOMOTIVE SPAIN SL * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 3 COMPONENTES EXTERIORES SL PLASTIC OMNIUM b2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 3i AUTOMOTIVE ESPANA United States PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 4 EXTERIORS LLC PLASTIC OMNIUM Inc. * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 4 PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 4 INDUSTRIES Inc. PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 4 04 INERGY (USA) LLC PLASTIC OMNIUM e2016 * – – – FC 100 100 4 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES Inc. 2017 CONSOLIDATED HBPO NORTH AMERICA Inc. * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 FINANCIAL Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 STATEMENTS AUTOMOTIVE EXTERIORS LLC b2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 4 Hungary HBPO MANUFACTURING * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 HUNGARY Kft Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 HBPO AUTOMOTIVE * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 HUNGARIA Kft Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 India PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 EXTERIORS (INDIA) PVT Ltd PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY INDIA PVT Ltd PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 55 55 FC 55 55 INERGY MANUFACTURING INDIA PVT Ltd Israel PO-CellTech b2016p * EM_ 50 23 EM_ 50 20 – f2017 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 Japan PLASTIC OMNIUM KK * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 HBPO JAPAN KK * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 Malaysia HICOM HBPO SDN BHD * EM 13.33 13.33 EM 13.33 13.33 Morocco PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY (MOROCCO) SARL PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO a2017f * FC 100 100 – – – EXTERIEUR PLASTIC OMNIUM 201 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Legal name Reportable segment December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Automotive Environment Unaffected Method of % % Method of % control % Tax group consolidation control interest consolidation interest Mexico PLASTIC OMNIUM d2016 * – – – FC 100 100 AUTOMOVIL SA DE CV PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INDUSTRIAL AUTO EXTERIORES RAMOS ARIZPE SA DE CV PLASTIC OMNIUM DEL d2016 * – – – FC 100 100 BAJIO SA DE CV PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY MEXICO SA DE CV PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO d2016 * – – – FC 100 100 INERGY INDUSTRIAL MEXICO SA DE CV PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO x2016b * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 EXTERIORES SA DE CV g2016 – c2017 INOPLASTIC OMNIUM d2016 * – – – FC 100 100 INDUSTRIAL SA DE CV PLASTIC OMNIUM SISTEMAS * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 URBANOS SA DE CV HBPO MEXICO SA DE CV * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 PLASTIC OMNIUM MEDIO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 AMBIENTE SA DE CV PLASTIC OMNIUM TOLUCA SA d2016 * – – – FC 100 100 DE CV PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INDUSTRIAL SRL DE CV PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY INDUSTRIAL SA DE CV HBPO SERVICES MEXICO SA a2016 * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 DE CV Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 HBPO MANAGEMENT a2016 * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 SERVICES MEXICO SA DE CV Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 Netherlands PLASTIC OMNIUM BV * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 5 PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 5 ENVIRONMENT BV DSK PLASTIC OMNIUM BV * FC 51 51 FC 51 51 PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO i2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY NETHERLANDS HOLDING BV Poland PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY POLAND Sp Z.O.O PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 EXTERIORS Sp Z.O.O SULO Sp Z.O.O * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO Sp * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 Z.O.O 202 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Legal name Reportable segment December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Automotive Environment Unaffected Method of % % Method of % control % Tax group consolidation control interest consolidation interest Czech republic HBPO CZECH S.R.O. * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 SULO S.R.O. * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 Romania PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY ROMANIA SRL United Kingdom PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 6 AUTOMOTIVE Ltd PLASTIC OMNIUM URBAN * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 6 SYSTEMS Ltd SIGNATURE Ltd c2016 * – – – FC 100 100 SULO MGB Ltd * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 6 HBPO UK Ltd * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 Russia OOO STRAVROVO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 AUTOMOTIVE SYSTEMS 04 DSK PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 51 51 FC 51 51 INERGY Singapore 2017 SULO ENVIRONMENTAL * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL SYSTEMS PTE Ltd STATEMENTS Slovakia PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 EXTERIORS S.R.O. PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY SLOVAKIA S.R.O. HBPO SLOVAKIA S.R.O. * EM_ 33.33 33.33 EM_ 33.33 33.33 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 PLASTIC OMNIUM b2016 * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 AUTOMOTIVE SLOVAKIA S.R.O – d2017 Sweden PLASTIC OMNIUM AB * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 Switzerland PLASTIC OMNIUM AG * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 PLASTIC OMNIUM RE AG * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 SWISS HYDROGEN b2017 * FC 100 100 – – – Thailand PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 INERGY THAILAND Co. Ltd PLASTIC OMNIUM * FC 100 100 FC 100 100 AUTOMOTIVE Co. Ltd Turkey BPO AS * EM_ 50 49.98 EM_ 50 49.98 Ifrs_2014 Ifrs_2014 PLASTIC OMNIUM 203 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Consolidation method and special features: FC: Full consolidation EM: Companies that were already consolidated by the equity method before the application of the new consolidation standards at January 1rst 2014. EM_IFRS_2014: Companies consolidated by the equity method since the application of the new consolidation standards at January 1, 2014 Movements for the period: Creation of companies: a2016 Companies created in 2016 a2017 Companies created in 2017 a2017f Companies being formed in 2017 created in 2018 Acquisition of companies: b2016 Companies acquired in 2016 b2016p Investments in 2016 b2017 Companies acquired in 2017 Disposal of companies: c2016 Companies divested in 2016 c2017 Companies divested in 2017 Disposal of sites and/or activities: ca2017 Disposal of sites and/or businesses Merging of companies: d2016 Companies merged in 2016 d2017 Companies merged in 2017 Liquidation of companies: e2016 Companies liquidated in 2016 Change in the percentage of Plastic Omnium ownership: f2016 Buyout of the minority stake in the company “RMS Rotherm Maschinenbau Gmbh”. See “x2016a” for change in name f2017 “ PO-CellTech” capital increase. Companies in the process of being sold: g2016 Truck business companies reclassified as “Assets and Liabilities held for sale” in 2016. They were sold in 2017. Companies with sites in the process of being sold: h2016 Companies with only the Truck business being reclassified in “Assets and Liabilities held for sale” in 2016. The activities concerned were sold in 2017. Activation of companies: i2016 Companies activated during 2016 i2017 Companies activated during 2017 Change in company name: x2016 Companies whose name was changed in 2016 x2016a “Plastic Omnium Systems GmbH” is the new company name of “RMS Rotherm Maschinenbau GmbH”. x2016b “Plastic Omnium Auto Exteriores SA de CV” is the new company name of “Inoplast Composites SA de CV”. x2016c “Beijing Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy Co. Ltd” is the new company name of “Inergy Automotive Systems Manufacturing (Beijing) Co. Ltd”. x2016d “Changchun Huazhong Yanfeng Plastic Omnium Automotive Exteriors Co. Ltd” is the new name of “Changchun Huaxiang Automotive Plastic Parts Manufacturing Co Ltd”. x2017 Companies whose name was changed in 2017 x2017e “Plastic Omnium Auto Exterieur SA” is the new name of “Plastic Omnium Vernon SAS”. x2017f “Plastic Omnium Auto Exterieur Holding SA ” is the new name of “Plastic Omnium Auto Exterieur SA”. Tax group: 1–a Plastic Omnium France 1–b Plastic Omnium Environnement Holding 2–a Germany Systèmes Urbains 2–b Germany Plastic Omnium GmbH 2 – bi Companies integrated during 2017 in the Germany Plastic Omnium GmbH tax group 2–c Germany Plastic Omnium Environnement 3 Spain 3i Companies integrated during 2017 in the Spain tax group 4 United States 5 Netherlands; 6 United Kingdom. 204 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 4.9 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 This is a translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This Statutory Auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the Statutory Auditors or verification of the information concerning the Group presented in the management report. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. OPINION In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your annual general meeting we have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Compagnie Plastic Omnium for the year ended December 31, 2017. 04 2017 In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL of the Group as at December 31, 2017 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International STATEMENTS Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. BASIS FOR OPINION Audit framework We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements section of our report. Independence We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from January 1, 2017 to the date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5 paragraphe 1, of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or in the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. JUSTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS – KEY AUDIT MATTERS In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the consolidated financial statements. PLASTIC OMNIUM 205 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements VALUATION OF REVENUE Note 1.1.7 “Revenue” and note 1.1 “Accounting policies, accounting rules and principles” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2017 in the income statement for Compagnie Plastic Omnium amount to €6,768 million. Key audit matter Parts and trading revenues are recognized when the main risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the customer, usually upon delivery of the goods, and measured at the fair value of the consideration received, after deducting discounts, rebates and other sales taxes and customs duties. Revenue from services and tooling is recognized on the basis of the stage of completion when the Group obtains: • a contractual agreement from his customers on the selling price of the hours of development; • a contractual agreement on the price of tools and a technical validation from his customers, at the latest, at the start of series production of the model concerned. The accounting treatment of the costs and revenues related to the activities carried out during the project phase of the automotive contracts has been modified from January 1, 2018 on by the application of IFRS 15. • The new accounting treatment is based on the Group’s identification of two performance obligations, separate from the production of parts, which are the Design of the part activity and certain specific tools, for which control is transferred to customers. • Revenue related to “lumps sums” payments and contractually stated amounts that will be paid via part price (“PPA”) that are explicitly identified in the contracts, and the negative or positive margin related to these performance obligations are recognized at the start of series production. Costs related to performance obligations are recognized as inventory during the project phase and then expensed when their control is transferred to the customer, i.e. at the start of series production. We have considered revenue recognition and the analysis performed by the Group in regards to the first application of IFRS 15 as a key audit matter given: • the volume of accounting entries related to sales of goods and the numerous ongoing discussions between the Group and its customers on prices; • judgments to be made by Management of the Group to estimate the incurred and projected costs related to the project phase that could lead to an incorrect turnover related to the services rendered and the production of tools. Our response We analyzed the process and identified key controls implemented by management regarding revenue recognition and tested their effectiveness by sampling. In order to assess the recognition of revenues related to the sale of goods, we conducted tests on a sample of contracts by: • comparing the sale prices applied to the deliveries of parts with the contractual prices; • examining the credit notes issued during the period. In order to corroborate the level of progress and the recognition of the turnover related to services and tooling, we conducted tests in order to: • analyze the estimations made by the Management of the Group of projected costs and revenues; • analyze the assumptions used to estimate the projected costs and the costs incurred at the end of the period. We have considered the following under the accounting standard IFRS 15: • justification of performance obligations (design / tooling / parts sales); • the procedures for identifying and monitoring revenue and the costs allocated to performance obligations; • the associated accounting schemes. We assessed the conformity of the methodology applied by the Group with IFRS 15 standard and the impact of the new accounting treatment on revenues and budgeted operating margin of the Group as it relates to fiscal year 2018 by analyzing a sample of contracts 206 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT EVALUATION OF FIXED ASSETS RELATING TO THE DEVELOPMENT COSTS Note 1.1.11 “Intangible assets”, note 1.2 “Use of estimates” of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2017, fixed assets related to development costs for Compagnie Plastic Omnium amount to €412 million. Key audit matter In the absence of a contractual agreement with the customer on the sale price of these costs, the costs incurred by the Group in the context of automotive projects and related to development hours and orders for specific tools and molds are recognized as fixed assets in progress during the development phase and amortized on a linear basis over the estimated duration of the series production, at the latest, three months after the start of series production of the model concerned. These fixed assets are subject to impairment tests whenever there are indications of impairment. The valuation of capital assets related to development costs is considered a key audit matter due to judgments to be made by Management to estimate: • the costs to be incurred in the development phase; • the recoverable value of these assets, based on forecasts of future sales volumes. Our response We have: 04 2017 CONSOLIDATED • acknowledged the process of identifying capitalized development costs; FINANCIAL STATEMENTS • analyzed the estimated development costs incurred for the Automotive projects; • analyzed the depreciation method used and carried out arithmetic checks. We also considered the relevance of the impairment indicators used by the Group at the closing date and, when appropriate, we examined the impairment tests performed. ACCOUNTING TREATMENT FOR THE CHANGES IN SCOPE Key audit matter • As indicated in note 2.1.1 “Acquisition of the Exterior Systems business of the Faurecia Group” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements: -The period of identification and valuation of assets and liabilities acquired at fair value ended twelve months after the acquisition date, namely July 29, 2017. At the end of the year of allocation of the price of acquisition, the final goodwill amounts to €310 million, revised upwards by €49 million compared to December 31, 2016. -At the end of the arbitration proceedings, the Plastic Omnium Group obtained on October 4, 2017 from Faurecia the payment of a sum of €37 million recognized for €1.8 million in exchange for goodwill and €35.2 million in other operating income. • As indicated in note 2.3 “Disposals of entities, real estate assets and site closures” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements: the Group has also announced its plan to sell its Environment Division. As of December 31, 2017, a process is underway to find an acquirer; however, considering the progress of the disposal plan, it is not possible at December 31, 2017 to conclude that the sale is highly probable. On this basis, IFRS 5 “Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations” has not been applied as of December 31, 2017. These changes in scope and accounting treatment are a key audit matter due to their significance, complexity and judgments that management has had to exercise. PLASTIC OMNIUM 207 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements Our response Our work consisted in considering: • the appropriateness and justification of the business combination adjustment entries; • the nature and the underlying of the entries constituting the €37 million paid by Faurecia to Plastic Omnium Group. As part of the proposed disposal of the Environment Division, we considered the accounting treatment used based on the progress of actions initiated by management as at December 31, 2017. VERIFICATION OF THE GROUP INFORMATION GIVEN IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT In accordance with the professional standards applicable in France, we have also performed the specific verification required by law of the information relating to the Group given in the management report of the Board of Directors. We have no comments to make as to their fairness and consistency with the consolidated financial statements. INFORMATION RESULTING FROM OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Appointment of the Statutory Auditors We were appointed as Statutory Auditors of Compagnie Plastic Omnium by the annual general meeting held on December 28, 1977 for Mazars and on May 15, 2001 for Ernst & Young et Autres (under the name Ernst & Young Audit on May 15, 2001 until April 29, 2010). As at December 31, 2017, Mazars and Ernst & Young et Autres were in the fortieth year and eightieth year of total uninterrupted engagement respectively. Responsibilities of management and corporate governance officers in the consolidated financial statements It is the responsibility of management to prepare consolidated accounts that present a true and fair view in accordance with the IFRS as adopted in the European Union, as well as to implement the internal control that it deems necessary for the preparation of consolidated financial statements. No material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for evaluating the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, to present in these accounts, where appropriate, the necessary information relating to the continuity of operations and operations apply the going concern accounting policy unless it is intended to wind up the company or cease trading. The Accounts Committee is responsible for following the process of preparing financial information and for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and, where applicable, internal audit, as regards procedures relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information. The consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. STATUTORY AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Objectives and audit approach Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. 208 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the Statutory Auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit and furthermore: • Identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control. • Evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the consolidated financial statements. • Assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein. • Evaluates the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the 04 underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 2017 CONSOLIDATED • Obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group FINANCIAL STATEMENTS to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. The statutory auditor is responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion expressed on these consolidated financial statements. Report to the Audit Committee We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and the related safeguards. Courbevoie and Paris-la Défense, February 14, 2018 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG et AUTRES Juliette Decoux Gilles Puissochet PLASTIC OMNIUM 209 05 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS AT DECEMBER 31, 2017 (AFR) 5.1 COMMENTS ON THE S  TATUTORY ACCOUNTS 211 5.6 SUBSIDIARIES A ND AFFILIATES 228 5.2 INCOME S TATEMENT 212 5.7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT  ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 230 5.3 BALANCE SHEET 213 5.8 SPECIAL REPORT OF THE STATUTORY 5.4 NOTES TO THE S TATUTORY ACCOUNTS 214 AUDITORS ON RELATED PARTY AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS 234 5.5 FIVE-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY 227 Comments on the Statutory Accounts 5.1 Comments on Net financial income for Compagnie Plastic Omnium was €99 million, versus €57.4 million in 2016. The change was largely the Statutory Accounts due to: • dividends from subsidiaries of €104.6 million in 2017, versus €176.1 million in 2016; BALANCE SHEET • net provisions of €8.7 million in 2017 on equity securities, versus €122.6 million in 2016. The main changes in the balance sheet involved the following After factoring in €12.3 million of exceptional non-operating items: income consisting in part of gains on treasury shares, net income • the sale of acquired entities to the Faurecia Group on July 29, before t a x amounted to € 94.1 million in 2017, ver sus 2016. This sale was made to fulfill the commitment Compagnie €43.3 million in 2016. Plastic Omnium had made to the Competition Authority as part A net income tax profit of €17.6 million was recorded in 2017, of the acquisition of Faurecia’s Exterior Systems business; compared with a tax profit of €3.4 million in 2016. • issue of the €500 million private placement bond on June 26, As a result, the net profit for 2017 was €111.7 million, compared 2017. At December 31, 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium with €46.7 million in 2016. ended the year with positive net cash flow of €20.5 million, compared with negative net cash flow of €13.8 million at No non-deductible overhead expenses were added back to December 31, 2016. taxable income during 2017, in application of articles 223 quater and 223 quinquies of the French General Tax Code. EARNINGS PERFORMANCE Compagnie Plastic Omnium posted operating revenue of €43.9 million in 2017, compared with €40.2 million in 2016. This revenue can be broken down as follows: • €29.6 million in trademark license fees from subsidiaries; • €11.8 million in rents. Net operating loss came to €17.1 million in 2017, compared with a loss of €10.9 million in 2016. 05 2017 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS PLASTIC OMNIUM 211 Income Statement 5.2 Income Statement In thousands of euros Notes 2017 2016 Net sales(1) 11,841 12,064 Production held as inventory 0 0 Provision reversals and expense transfers 2,447 113 Other operating revenue(1) 29,706 28,053 Total operating revenue J 43,994 40,230 Purchases and other external charges K (48,394) (40,138) Taxes other than on income (1,294) (1,609) Payroll taxes (118) (89) Depreciation, amortization and provisions L (7,308) (5,672) Other expenses (3,995) (3,708) Total operating expenses (61,109) (51,216) Net operating income (loss) (17,115) (10,986) Net financial income M 98,966 57,470 Income before non-operating items 81,851 46,484 Non-operating items N 12,318 (3,186) Income before tax 94,169 43,298 Corporate income tax O 17,559 3,372 Net income 111,728 46,670 (1) Net sales and other operating revenue 41,547 40,117 212 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Balance Sheet Statement 5.3 Balance Sheet ASSETS In thousands of euros Notes 2017 2016 Gross Depreciation, Net amounts Net amounts amortization and provisions Non-current assets Intangible assets A 7,457 931 6,526 7,939 Property, plant and equipment B 95,725 13,886 81,839 85,164 Investments C 1,735,273 20,282 1,714,991 1,874,714 Total non-current assets 1,838,455 35,099 1,803,356 1,967,817 Current assets Inventories and goods in process 0 0 0 0 Prepayments to suppliers D 22 0 22 0 Trade receivables D 7,462 0 7,462 7,524 Other receivables D 673,719 8,271 665,448 226,508 Cash and cash equivalents E 430,052 0 430,052 221,759 Total current assets 1,111,255 8,271 1,102,984 455,791 Prepaid expenses F 1,083 0 1,083 1,063 Deferred charges (debt issuance costs) F 4,736 0 4,736 3,438 Bond redemption premiums F 4,690 0 4,690 2,591 Translation loss on FX payables and F 97 0 97 993 receivables Total 2,960,316 43,370 2,916,946 2,431,693 LIABILITIES 05 2017 In thousands of euros Notes 2017 2016 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS Shareholders’ equity Share capital G 9,059 9,149 Additional paid-in capital G 17,389 17,389 Other reserves G 1,055,235 1,130,658 Net income for the year 111,728 46,670 Tax-regulated provisions G 694 649 Total equity 1,194,105 1,204,515 Provisions for contingencies and charges H 67,913 46,473 Liabilities Bonds 1,564,810 1,061,470 Bank borrowings I 3,290 41,907 Other borrowings I 24,170 24,789 Customer prepayments I 0 0 Trade payables I 15,964 11,142 Accrued taxes and payroll costs I 4,498 4,665 Other liabilities I 42,181 31,375 Total liabilities I 1,654,913 1,175,348 Prepaid expenses and accrued income-liabilities 15 5,357 Total 2,916,946 2,431,693 Note: Net cash and cash equivalents of Compagnie Plastic Omnium of +€20.5 million in 2017 (including mediumand long-term loans) versus a -€13.8 million net liability in cash and cash equivalents in 2016. PLASTIC OMNIUM 213 Notes to the Statutory Accounts 5.4 Notes to the Statutory Accounts In thousands of euros 2017 2016 Financial position Capital 9,059 9,149 Shareholders’ equity 1,194,105 1,204,515 Net financial liabilities 20,464 (13,811) Net non-current assets 1,803,356 1,967,817 Total assets 2,916,946 2,431,693 Results of operations Operating revenue 43,994 40,230 Net operating income (loss) (17,115) (10,986) Income before non-operating items 81,851 46,484 Non-operating items 12,318 (3,186) Net income 111,728 46,670 Earnings per share (in euros) 0.7 0.3 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR On July 18, 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium subscribed to the Aster IV professional equity fund of Aster Capital Partners SAS. At On July 29, 2016, the Compagnie Plastic Omnium Group acquired December 31, 2017, this investment amounted to €20 million out all the shares of entities comprising Faurecia’s “Exterior of a total of €40 million. Systems” business. This acquisition was subject to a commitOrganizational chart ment, imposed by the European Commission, to divest itself of four sites in France, one in Spain, and two front-end module Compagnie Plastic Omnium participated in the capital increase of assembly sites in Germany. its subsidiary Plastic Omnium, Inc. for €90 million and that of its subsidiary Plastic Omnium Holding (Shanghai) for €20 million. On March 31, 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium formally signed a sale agreement with the American company Flex|N|Gate for the Reduction of capital Faurecia Exterior Systems sites concerned by the European In accordance with the authorization conferred by the Combined Commission decision. Shareholders’ Meeting of April 28, 2016, at its meeting of On September 20, 2017, Plastic Omnium announced its plan to July 20, 2017, the Board of Directors decided to carry out a dispose of its Environment Division to focus exclusively on the capital reduction on August 14, 2017 amounting to €90,000 global development of its automotive businesses. corresponding to the cancellation of 1,500,000 shares each with a par value of €0.06. The capital was reduced to €9,058,603.20 Financial structure trend and is divided into 150,976,720 shares, each with a par value of On June 26, 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium obtained new €0.06. financing in the form of a “Euro-Bond” private placement of €500 million. Accounting policies The main characteristics of this scheme are described in Note I. During the year, Compagnie Plastic Omnium granted loans to The financial statements of Compagnie Plastic Omnium have subsidiaries totaling €133.3 million. Subsidiaries also repaid been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the French Compagnie Plastic Omnium €266.4 million on the loans granted, Commercial Code and the French Chart of Accounts (ANC including €30.2 million from the companies held by Compagnie Regulation No. 2015-06 of November 23, 2015). Plastic Omnium that own the sites concerned by the divestment The annual financial statements incorporate Regulation 2015-05 commitment. of the French accounting standards board (ANC) relating to forward financial instruments and hedging transactions, whose application is compulsory as of the fiscal year 2017. The regulation, whose purpose is to specify the accounting treatment of forward financial instruments and hedging transactions, has no material impact on the Compagnie Plastic Omnium annual financial statements. 214 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT The accounting conventions for preparing and presenting the Related receivables are valued at their par value. Depreciation is Company Statutory accounts have been applied in compliance recorded where the inventory value is less than the carrying with the following basic assumptions: amount. Related receivables are impaired through a provision by taking into account the overall situation and the likelihood of • going-concern; non-recovery. • consistency of accounting principles; Treasury stock • separation of accounting periods. The Company has been authorized by shareholders to purchase The basic method used for the items presented in the accounts is its own shares to (i) maintain a liquid market for its shares under the historical cost method. a liquidity contract with an investment firm, (ii) reduce the share The accounting policies used to prepare the 2017 financial capital by canceling shares, (iii) cover current or future stock statements are the same as those used in 2016. The significant option or stock grant plans for employees and officers of the accounting policies applied are described below: Group, or (iv) hold in treasury for subsequent delivery in exchange or payment for acquisitions. Intangible assets The accounting classification of treasury stock depends on its Intangible assets mainly comprise trademarks that are not amorfinal purpose: tized. • treasury shares held to pay for external growth acquisitions, However, patent filing fees are recognized as costs in the income reduce share capital or maintain stock liquidity are classified statement as incurred. as investments; Property, plant and equipment • treasury shares held for the exercise of current stock option Property, plant and equipment are initially recognized at cost and plans or for future plans still pending allocation are recognized depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful as short-term investment securities; lives, as follows: • treasury shares are measured in line with their accounting • Buildings 20-40 years classification (investments, stock option plans, acquired under liquidity contract) using a FIFO (first in, first out) method. • Fixtures and fittings 10 years They are initially recognized at cost and impairment is recorded • Office equipment and furniture 5-10 years where the carrying amount is higher than the market value. For When the component approach is applied, the Company uses shares allocated to covering stock option plans, market value is different depreciation periods for each significant part of the the lower of the exercise price of the options granted and the same fixed assets when one of these components has a different stock market price. useful life from the main asset of which it is a component. For shares otherwise classified, market value is determined on 05 Nanterre office complex the basis of the average quoted stock market price during the 2017 STATUTORY Compagnie Plastic Omnium owns a multipurpose office complex month before the balance sheet date. ACCOUNTS in Nanterre, France, that it rents out to Group companies. Receivables Lyon Gerland office complex Receivables are valued at their nominal value. Depreciation is The office complex is mostly rented out to non-Group companies. recorded where the inventory value is less than the carrying amount. Receivables are depreciated through provisions that Equity investments and related receivables take into account possible recovery problems. Investments in subsidiaries and affiliates are initially recognized at cost or transfer value. If applicable, a provision for impairment Short-term investment securities will be booked when the value in use or the probable realization The short-term investment securities are valued by securities value is lower than the net book value. category (shares held to maintain stock liquidity, unallocated Value in use is based on a proportional share of equity and profit treasury stock, other short-term investment securities), using a outlook in view of current market conditions as set out in the FIFO (first in, first out) method. subsidiaries’ medium-term business plans. PLASTIC OMNIUM 215 Notes to the Statutory Accounts When necessary, they are impaired, calculated for each line of Provisions for contingencies and charges similar securities. Provisions for contingencies are recognized when: For securities that represent listed securities, the impairment is • the Company is bound by a legal or implicit obligation resulting booked to bring their value to the closing price. from past events; Cash and cash equivalents • a likely outflow of resources, without any equivalent benefit, is These include cash, and other items with a similar nature to cash, required to extinguish the obligation; on hand and at the bank, as well as warrants that may be • the amount of the provision can be reliably measured. redeemed at any time after they have been subscribed. Non-current and current borrowings Cash and cash equivalents are valued at their nominal value. Debts are recognized at their nominal reimbursement value. They Foreign currency transactions are not discounted. Loans in foreign currencies are converted on the balance sheet at Issuance costs and redemption premiums incurred at the time of the exchange rates in effect at the closing date as an offset to borrowing are recognized as assets and spread over the life of items in “Translation differences – Assets/Liabilities” on the the bond using the compound interest rate method. balance sheet, except for hedges on loans in foreign currencies. Unrealized foreign exchange gains are not recognized in Revenue accounting income. Revenue is booked to profit (loss) if it is: A provision for foreign exchange losses is recognized for the total • realized, i.e. if the principle and amount are certain; amount of unrealized losses, except for the following situations: • and it was acquired during the year. • in the case of a hedge, the provision is recognized only for the amount of unhedged exposure; Corporate income tax • when unrealized gains or losses on foreign exchange relate to The Company is the parent company of the tax consolidation transactions maturing in the same accounting period, the group that it constitutes with its subsidiaries. provision is limited to the excess of the losses over the gains. The subsidiaries of the tax consolidation scope contribute the Bank accounts in foreign currencies are valued on the balance amount that they would have had to pay if there was no consolidasheet at the exchange rate in effect at the closing date as an tion to the Group’s tax consolidation tax expense. offset to foreign exchange gain or losses. The additional tax savings or expense resulting from the differFinancial instruments and hedging instruments ence between the tax owed by consolidated subsidiaries and the tax resulting from the determination of the overall profit/loss is The company may at times use currency derivative to hedge the recorded by the parent company. currency risk on loans granted to Group companies. Realized foreign exchange gains or losses on these derivatives are recogNon-operating items nized in financial income to match those of the hedged items. Non-operating income and expenses include exceptional items, Unrealized gains and losses on foreign exchange are recognized as well as items qualified as exceptional in their nature under in financial assets and liabilities as offsets to the income stateaccounting law, primarily income from noncurrent asset ment, to show on the balance sheet their exact correspondence disposals. with the monetary items in hedged currencies. Swaps are spread in the income statement under financial income/expense over the hedging term. At December 31, 2017, the Company does not hold any derivative instrument that does not qualify as a hedge. 216 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Notes to the balance sheet A – Intangible assets In thousands of euros 2016 + – 2017 Patents, trademarks and licenses 8,857 1,400 7,457 Total, gross 8,857 0 1,400 7,457 Accumulated amortization (918) (13) (931) Total, net 7,939 (13) (1,400) 6,526 B – Property, plant and equipment In thousands of euros 2016 + – 2017 Land 2,287 2,287 Buildings 85,732 57 85,789 Fixtures and fittings 3,845 122 3,967 Office equipment and furniture 3,433 247 3,680 Property, plant and equipment in progress 0 2 2 Prepayments to suppliers of non-current assets 0 0 Total, gross 95,297 428 0 95,725 Accumulated amortization (10,133) (3,753) (13,886) Total, net 85,164 (3,325) 0 81,839 C – Investments In thousands of euros 2016 + – 2017 Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates 1,289,165 109,567 272,390 1,126,342 Other long-term investments 16,176 27,038 12,511 30,703 Loans 711,342 133,307 266,421 578,228 Total, gross 2,016,683 269,912 551,322 1,735,273 Provisions for impairment (141,969) (37) (121,724) (20,282) Total, net 1,874,714 269,875 429,598 1,714,991 05 2017 STATUTORY Changes in shares in subsidiaries and affiliates and in provisions Compagnie Plastic Omnium also sold the shares in its subsidiary ACCOUNTS correspond to the sale of the Exterior Systems business of the Plastic Omnium Vernon to Plastic Omnium Auto Exterior as part of Faurecia group and the capital increases of subsidiaries a simplification of the legal structure of the Auto Exterior Division. mentioned in the section “Significant events of the year”. PLASTIC OMNIUM 217 Notes to the Statutory Accounts The list of subsidiaries and affiliates is presented as follows: Subsidiaries Share capital % interest and currency PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO EXTERIORS SA – 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France EUR 65,367,000 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO INERGY SAS – 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France EUR 119,796,330 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM GESTION SNC – 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France EUR 2,011,500 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM FINANCE SNC – 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France EUR 247,500 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM MANAGEMENT 4 SAS – 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France EUR 37,500 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM ENVIRONMENT BV – Beneluxstraat 4 – 6014 CC Ittervoort – Netherlands EUR 26,415,200 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM GmbH – Romanstrasse 35 – 80639 Munich – Germany EUR 13,500,000 100.0% COMPANIA PLASTIC OMNIUM SA Calle Pouet de Nasio – Parcela No. 5 – Ribarroja del Turia – Valencia – Spain EUR 30,350,500 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM RE AG – Schochenmühlestrasse 2 – 6340 Baar – Switzerland CHF 16,167,000 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM INC – 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 – United States USD 60,100 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM INERGY (SHANGHAI) CONSULTING CO. LTD 3502, Block 2, 391 Guiping Road – Xuhui District – 200233 Shanghai – PR China EUR 250,000 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM HOLDING (Shanghai) CO. LTD RM 3501, F35 Building 2 N° 391 Guiping Road Shanghai – PR China EUR 70,000,000 100.0% Affiliates BPO AS – Y. Yalova Yolu 8 km, Panayir – Bursa – Turkey TRL 5,000,000 50.0% PLASTIC RECYCLING SAS – ZA du Monay – Saint-Eusèbe – 71210 Montchanin – France EUR 123,000 50.0% The other long-term investments include 9,500 treasury shares, valued at €350 thousand and allocated to market making. Loans consist of mediumand long-term financing provided to entities of Plastic Omnium Group. D – Receivables In thousands of euros 2017 Maturity date Maturity date Less than More than 1 year 1 year Prepayments to suppliers 22 22 Trade receivables 7,462 7,462 0 Tax receivables 63,227 30,743 32,484 Short-term loans – Current accounts 583,794 583,794 0 Other receivables 18,427 18,427 Total, net 672,932 640,448 32,484 Trade receivables mainly consisted of €5.2 million of accrued Amounts received as competitiveness and employment tax income, including €3.5 million in royalties and €1.3 million for the credits will be used by wholly-owned subsidiaries in accordance re-invoicing of patent protection costs. with Article 244 quater C of the French General Tax Code. Tax receivables include €25.7 million of research tax credits from Other receivables represent: consolidated subsidiaries, €18.4 million of tax credits for • an additional payment of €6 million following the disposal of competitiveness and employment from subsidiaries consolidated the 3P – Performance Plastic Products business in 2008; in the 2014-2017 fiscal years , €7.7 million as a result of the ruling on the unconstitutionality of the 3% tax on dividends paid, • tax current accounts totaling €16 million owed by various €7.4 million of deductible withholding tax and €3.4 million of companies belonging to the tax group headed by Compagnie deductible VAT. Plastic Omnium. 218 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT E – Cash and cash equivalents In thousands of euros 2016 + – 2017 Short-term investment securities 48,332 15,166 9,122 54,376 Other short-term investment securities 124,610 113,481 16 238,075 Bank accounts 48,817 88,784 137,601 Total, gross 221,759 217,431 9,138 430,052 Impairment provisions 0 0 Total, net 221,759 217,431 9,138 430,052 The item “Short-term investment securities” includes 3,306,070 • 1,169,000 stock options approved by the Board of Directors treasury shares allocated to various stock option plans in the on July 21, 2015 acting on authorization granted at the amount of €54,376 thousand. Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2013; At December 31, 2017, Compagnie Plastic Omnium had granted • 552,500 stock options approved by the Board of Directors on the following stock purchase or subscription options: February 22, 2017 acting on authorization granted at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 28, 2016. • 574,012 stock options approved by the Board of Directors on March 6, 2012 acting on authorization granted at the The item “Other short-term investment securities” totaling Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 28, 2011; €238 million consists of €164 million in short-term investments, €50 million in money market funds and €24 million in negotiable • 687,160 stock options approved by the Board of Directors on, medium-term bank notes. July 23, 2013 acting on authorization granted at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of Thursday, April 25, 2013; F – Prepaid expenses and accrued income In thousands of euros 2017 2016 Prepaid expenses 1,083 1,063 Deferred charges (debt issuance costs) 4,736 3,438 Bond redemption premiums 4,690 2,591 05 Translation loss on FX payables and receivables 97 993 Total, net 10,606 8,085 2017 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS Redemption premiums and issuance costs of the Euro Bond and Prepaid expenses relate to €0.9 million of operating expenses Euro PP bonds are spread over the life of the bonds using the and €0.1 million of interest expense. compound interest rate method. G – Change in Equity In thousands of euros 2016 + – 2017 Capital 9,149 90 9,059 Additional paid-in capital 17,389 17,389 Revaluation reserve 245 245 Legal reserve 1,501 1,501 Other reserves 41,166 32,210 8,956 Carried forward 1,087,746 46,670 89,882 1,044,534 Net income for the year 46,670 111,728 46,670 111,728 Tax-regulated provisions 649 44 693 Total 1,204,515 158,442 168,852 1,194,105 A t D e c e m b e r 31 , 2 0 17, s h a r e c a p i t a l a m o u n t e d t o The number of shares held as treasury shares totals 3,306,070 €9,058,603.20, consisting of 150,976,720 shares of €0.06 each. and represents 2.19% of the Company’s capital. PLASTIC OMNIUM 219 Notes to the Statutory Accounts Movements for the year concerning treasury shares were as follows: In number of shares Number as at Purchases Sales Transfer Cancellation Number as at 01/01/2017 of shares 12/31/2017 Treasury stock allocated to external growth 436,811 1,580,000 (316,811) (1,500,000) 200,000 Treasury stock allocated to stock option plans 3,764,624 (984,865) 316,811 3,096,570 Treasury stock allocated to liquidity contracts 25,032 750,665 (766,197) 9,500 Total 4,226,467 2,330,665 (1,751,062) (1,500,000) 3,306,070 In value Amount at Purchases Sales Transfer Cancellation Amount at In thousands of euros 01/01/2017 of shares 12/31/2017 Treasury stock allocated to external growth 12,105 53,566 (8,723) (49,910) 7,038 Treasury stock allocated to stock option plans 48,332 (2,678) 8,723 54,377 Treasury stock allocated to liquidity contracts 756 25,230 (25,636) 350 Total 61,193 78,796 (28,314) (49,910) 61,765 H – Provisions for contingencies and charges Provisions for contingencies and charges 2016 + Utilized (–) Surplus (–) 2016 Provisions for foreign exchange losses 993 97 993 97 Provisions for other contingencies 165 8,500 7 0 8,658 Provisions for taxes (see Note O) 45,315 13,843 59,158 Total 46,473 22,440 7 993 67,913 Compagnie Plastic Omnium recognized a provision for income Compagnie Plastic Omnium also recognized a provision for finantaxes of €13.8 million to reflect the use by the tax group of tax cial risks €8.5 million in connection with the negative net position losses that might subsequently be used by its subsidiaries, of its subsidiaries. bringing the amount of this provision to €59.1 million at December 31, 2017. I – Liabilities In thousands of euros 2017 Maturity date Maturity date Maturity date Less than 1 year 1 and 5 years More than 5 years Bonds 1,564,810 264,810 500,000 800,000 Bank borrowings 3,290 3,290 0 0 Other borrowings 24,170 22,540 1,630 0 Total net financial liabilities 1,592,270 290,640 501,630 800,000 Trade payables 15,964 15,964 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 4,498 4,498 Other liabilities 42,181 11,361 30,820 0 Total 1,654,913 322,463 532,450 800,000 220 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Net financial liabilities Bonds The key features of bonds issued are as follows: Bond issue of Thursday, October 04, 2012 Private bond placement Euro PP Issuance amount (in euros) 250,000,000 Maturity December 12, 2018 Annual coupon – Fixed rate 3.875% Listed Euronext Paris Bond issue of May 21, 2013 Bond issue Euro Bond Issuance amount (in euros) 500,000,000 Maturity May 29, 2020 Annual coupon – Fixed rate 2.875% Listed Euronext Paris “Schuldschein” private placement of June 16, 2016 Private placement notes “Schuldschein” Issuance amount (in euros) 300,000,000 Maturity June 17, 2023 Annual coupon – Fixed rate 1.478% Bond issue of June 26, 2017 Bond issue Euro Bond Issuance amount (in euros) 500,000,000 Maturity June 26, 2024 Annual coupon – Fixed rate 1.250% Listed Euronext Paris 05 2017 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS The accrued interest payable on bonds totaled €14.8 million at Borrowings and other financial debts consist largely of the December 31, 2017. remaining financial commitment to the Aster VI fund of €19.5 million at December 31, 2017 and of €1.8 million of Bank borrowings currency hedges. The loans from credit institutions, amounting to €3.3 million at December 31, 2017 consist of fixed-rate loans due to mature in 2018. Forward financial instruments and hedging transactions The currency swaps portfolio, created to hedge foreign-currency loans granted to subsidiaries stood as follows: Portfolio at December 31, 2017 Currency Nominal Fair value Fair value Fair value In thousands of euros Currency Assets Liabilities CNY/EUR 350,000 87 (742) (655) GBP/EUR 48,000 – (517) (517) USD/EUR 113,300 2,415 (487) 1,928 Total 2,502 (1,746) 756 PLASTIC OMNIUM 221 Notes to the Statutory Accounts Portfolio at December 31, 2016 Currency Nominal Fair value Fair value Fair value In thousands of euros Currency Assets Liabilities CNY/EUR 77,000 (326) (326) GBP/EUR 8,000 – (366) (366) USD/EUR 173,300 134 (9,184) (9,050) Total 134 (9,876) (9,742) Trade payables, tax and other liabilities Other liabilities mainly relate to tax current accounts with the Compagnie Plastic Omnium is the parent company of a tax other corporate members of the tax group for €41.6 million consolidation group with debt amounting to €3.8 million. (including €40.1 million relating to tax credits). Accrued expenses In thousands of euros Amount Bonds 14,809 Bank borrowings and liabilities 22 Net financial liabilities 0 Trade payables 12,248 Other liabilities 515 Total 27,594 Related companies Balance sheet items In thousands of euros Related parties Assets Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates 1,106,573 Loans 578,007 Trade receivables 7,088 Short-term loans – Current accounts 583,795 Other receivables 16,027 Liabilities Trade payables 4,162 Other liabilities 41,635 222 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Notes to the income statement J – Net sales and other operating revenue Total operating revenue excluding expense transfers and provision reversals breaks down as follows: In thousands of euros 2017 2016 By business segment Rental payments and other expenses re-invoiced 11,841 12,064 Production held as inventory ––License and service fees 29,587 28,007 Total 41,428 40,071 By region France 16,983 17,913 International 24,445 22,158 Total 41,428 40,071 K – Purchases and other external charges In thousands of euros 2017 2016 General management services 1,765 1,919 Overheads and headquarters expenses 1,486 1,458 Professional fees 18,453 14,254 Advertising, print collateral and publication 5,824 2,639 Travel and entertainment 1,398 1,529 Bank charges 7,378 4,853 Other purchases and external charges 12,090 13,486 Total 48,394 40,138 Professional fees are mainly those incurred as part of external growth plans or the disposal of subsidiaries. L – Depreciation, amortization and impairment Change in depreciation In thousands of euros 2016 + – 2017 05 2017 Trademarks, patents and software 918 13 931 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS Land development 395 225 620 Buildings 6,847 3,118 9,965 Fixtures and fittings 2,456 171 2,626 Office equipment and furniture 435 240 675 Total 11,051 3,766 0 14,817 Changes in provisions 2016 + – 2017 On assets Investments 141,969 37 121,724 20,282 Other receivables 5,796 2,475 8,271 Total 147,765 2,512 121,724 28,553 On liabilities Tax-regulated provisions 649 45 694 Provisions for contingencies and charges 46,473 22,439 999 67,913 Total 47,122 22,484 999 68,607 PLASTIC OMNIUM 223 Notes to the Statutory Accounts M – Net financial income In thousands of euros 2017 2016 Dividend income 104,586 176,125 Other financial income and expenses 244 358 Interest income and expense (2,053) 5,817 Net gain on disposal of short-term investment securities (2) 104 Foreign exchange gains and losses 4,918 (2,280) Provision charges and reversals (8,727) (122,654) Total 98,966 57,470 Dividend income includes €36.4 million in dividends from French In 2017, provisions mainly concern the provision for financial risk subsidiaries and €68.2 million from international subsidiaries. in connection with the negative net position of the subsidiaries. The decrease in interest expense was related to the reduction in loans granted to subsidiaries. N – Non-operating items In thousands of euros 2017 Income Expenses Net On revenue transactions 8 –8 On disposals of intangible assets 126 1,400 –1,274 On disposals of non-current financial assets 168,763 272,389 –103,626 Other non-operating income and expenses 8,595 12,970 –4,375 Provision charges and reversals 121,645 44 121,601 Total 299,129 286,811 12,318 Disposals of intangible assets refer to the Inoplast brand sold Other non-operating income represents a gain on the sale of during the period as part of the disposal outside the group of the treasury stock. truck business. Other non-operating expense mainly represents a price reduction Non-operating income on disposals of non-current financial granted by the company as part of a previously completed internal assets are largely due to the sale outside the group of shares in disposal. Faurecia's Exterior Systems business and the intra-group sale of The extraordinary reversal of provisions is linked to the capital Plastic Omnium Vernon (see Note C to the balance sheet). loss realized through the sale of shares in Faurecia's Exterior Systems business. Related companies Income statement items In thousands of euros Related parties Income Net sales and other operating revenue 34,898 Financial income 141,367 Non-operating income 14,988 Expenses Operating expenses (21,338) Interest cost (433) Non-operating expenses (10,000) 224 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT O – Corporate income tax In thousands of euros 2017 Results Current portion Non-operating Net items * Income before tax 81,851 12,318 94,169 * Tax adjustments (91,291) (125,859) (217,150) = Tax base (9,440) (113,541) (122,981) Theoretical tax (34.43%) 0 0 0 Income after tax at standard rate 81,851 12,318 94,169 Impact of Group relief 22,899 Addition to provisions for taxes (13,843) Other impacts 8,503 Total corporate income tax 17,559 Income after tax 111,728 Compagnie Plastic Omnium is the parent company of a tax Unrecognized deferred tax assets and liabilities excluding tax loss consolidation group comprising 16 entities. carryforwards, calculated at a tax rate of 34.43%, broke down as follows at December 31, 2017: The impact of the tax consolidation for 2017 was income of €22.9 million. In thousands of euros During the year, Compagnie Plastic Omnium recognized a Translation adjustment on FX payables 2017 15 €13.8 million provision for taxes to reflect the use by the tax group Translation adjustment on FX receivables 2017 (97) of tax losses likely to be used in the future by its subsidiaries. Net deferred tax asset (82) The tax group has tax loss carryforwards totaling €149 million, equivalent to future tax savings of €43 million. 05 2017 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS PLASTIC OMNIUM 225 Notes to the Statutory Accounts Other disclosures Off-balance sheet commitments Commitments given In thousands of euros 2017 Guarantee(1) 317,068 Collateral 3,221 Total 320,289 (1) Guarantees given to banks on behalf of subsidiaries. Loans and advances to senior executives Other No loans or advances were made to senior managers as defined The identity of the parent company consolidating the financial in Article L. 225-43 of the French Commercial Code. statements of Compagnie Plastic Omnium: Burelle SA – 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69342 Lyon Cedex 07. Management compensation At December 31, 2017, Burelle SA held 57.57% of the capital of The total compensation paid to the Board of Directors in 2017 Compagnie Plastic Omnium (58.86% excluding treasury stock). amounted to €526,240. Subsequent events No significant events have occurred since December 31, 2017 that would be likely to have a material impact on the Company’s business, financial position, results or assets. 226 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 5.5 Five-Year Financial Summary In thousands of euros 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1 – Capital at year end a) Share capital 9,299 9,215 9,215 9,149 9,058 b) Shares outstanding* 154,977,021 153,576,720 153,576,720 152,476,720 150,976,720 c) Convertible bonds outstanding 0 0 0 0 0 2 – Revenue and profit/(loss) for the year a) Total operating revenue 27,605 40,542 38,395 40,230 43,994 b) Profit before tax, depreciation, amortization and provisions 211,614 186,503 223,159 171,273 (11,484) c) Corporate income tax before provisions 11,970 7,595 11,041 3,372 17,559 d) Net income 222,526 184,324 222,893 46,670 111,728 e) Dividends distributed(1) 51,142 56,823 62,966 74,714 101,154 3 – Per share data(1) a) Profit after tax, before depreciation, amortization and provisions 1.44 1.26 1.33 1.15 0.04 b) Net income 1.43 1.20 1.45 0.31 0.74 c) Dividend paid per share 0.33 0.37 0.41 0.49 0.67 4 – Employees a) Number of employees 0 0 0 0 0 b) Total payroll 0 0 0 0 0 c) Social Security and other employee benefits 0 0 0 0 0 * Restated for the three-for-one stock splits in 2013. (1) Before deducting dividends in respect of shares held in treasury at the date of the shareholders' Meeting, which do not carry dividend rights. 05 2017 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS PLASTIC OMNIUM 227 Subsidiaries and Affiliates 5.6 Subsidiaries and Affiliates Subsidiaries Share capital % interest PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO EXTERIORS SA 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France EUR 65,367,000 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM AUTO INERGY SAS 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France EUR 119,796,330 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM GESTION SNC 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France EUR 2,011,500 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM FINANCE SNC 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France EUR 247,500 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM MANAGEMENT 4 SAS 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France EUR 37,500 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM ENVIRONMENT BV Beneluxstraat 4 – 6014 CC Ittervoort – Netherlands EUR 26,415,200 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM GmbH Romanstrasse 35 – 80639 Munich – Germany EUR 13,500,000 100.0% COMPANIA PLASTIC OMNIUM SA Calle Pouet de Nasio – Parcela No. 5 – Ribarroja del Turia – Valencia – Spain EUR 30,350,500 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM RE AG Schochenmühlestrasse 2 – 6340 Baar – Switzerland CHF 16,167,000 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM INC 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 – United States USD 60,100 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM INERGY (SHANGHAI) CONSULTING CO. LTD Room 2802, Tower B – New Cao He Jing International Business Building n° 391 Guiping Road – Xuhui District – 200233 Shanghai – PR China EUR 250,000 100.0% PLASTIC OMNIUM HOLDING (Shanghai) CO. LTD RM 3501, F35 Building 2 N° 391 Guiping Road Shanghai – PR China EUR 70,000,000 100.0% Affiliates BPO AS Y. Yalova Yolu 8 km, Panayir – Bursa – Turkey TRL 5,000,000 50.0% PLASTIC RECYCLING SAS ZA du Monay – Saint-Eusèbe – 71210 Montchanin – France EUR 123,000 50.0% In thousands of euros Subsidiaries Affiliates Carrying amount of shares held • Gross 1,118,809 7,533 • Net 1,101,792 4,780 Loans and advances granted 960,351 1,345 Dividends received 97,053 7,533 228 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT STANDARD TABLE FOR PRESENTING INFORMATION ABOUT PAYMENT PERIODS FOR PAYABLES AND RECEIVABLES AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE D. 441-4 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE Invoices received or issued but not paid and overdue as of the closing date (Table pursuant to Article D. 441-4 of the French Commercial Code) Article D. 441 I. – 1° of the French Commercial Code: Article D. 441 I. – 2° of the French Commercial Code: Invoices received but not paid and overdue Invoices issued but not paid and overdue as of the closing date as of the closing date Total Total 0 days (as 1 to 30 31 to 60 61 to 90 91 days (1 day 0 days (as 1 to 30 31 to 60 61 to 90 91 days (1 day reference) days days days and over and over) reference) days days days and over and over) (A) Portion past due Number of invoices in question 20 22 Total amount of invoices in question 0.00 0.00 0.00 1 1 1,082 2 1,274 2,358 € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands € thousands (state if VAT incl. or VAT excl.) incl. VAT incl. VAT incl. VAT incl. VAT incl. VAT incl. VAT Percentage of total purchases in the period € thousands € thousands (state if VAT incl. or VAT excl.) incl. VAT incl. VAT Percentage of year’s revenue 0.00% 2.40% 0.00% 0.00% 2.82% 5.22% € thousands € thousands € thousands (state if VAT incl. or VAT excl.) incl. VAT incl. VAT incl. VAT (B) Invoices excluded from (A) involving disputed or non-recognized liabilities and receivables Number of invoices excluded 0 0 Total amount of invoices excluded 0.00 0.00 (state if VAT incl. or VAT excl.) (C) Reference payment periods used (contractual or legal periods – Article L. 441-6 or Article L. 443-1 of the French Commercial Code) Payment periods used in • 30 days from invoice date – 30 days from the end of the month calculating • 45 days from invoice date – 45 days from the end of the month late payments • 60 days from invoice date • Upon receipt 05 2017 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS PLASTIC OMNIUM 229 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements 5.7 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017 This is a translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This Statutory Auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the Statutory Auditors or verification of the management report and other documents provided to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders of the Annual General Meeting of Compagnie Plastic Omnium, OPINION In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your annual general, we have audited the accompanying financial statements of Compagnie Plastic Omnium for the year ended December 31, 2017. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 2017 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee. BASIS FOR OPINION Audit framework We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. Independence We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from January 1, 2017 to the date of our report and specifically we did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to in Article 5 paragraphe 1, of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014 or in the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. JUSTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS – KEY AUDIT MATTERS In accordance with the requirements of Articles L. 823-9 and R. 823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the financial statements. 230 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT VALUATION OF EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND RECEIVABLES RELATED TO EQUITY INVESTMENTS Note “Accounting principles and methods – Equity investments and related receivables”, note “C – Investments” and note “L – Depreciation, amortization and impairment” of the notes to the financial statements. Key audit matter Equity investments of Compagnie Plastic Omnium amount to €1,126 million as of December 31, 2017 (€1,106 million in net value). Gross values of investments in subsidiaries and affiliates are initially recognized at cost or transfer value. In the event of indication of impairment, the management of the group estimates the recoverable amounts of equity investments as the higher of the value in use or the probable realization value. If necessary, a provision for impairment is recorded when value in use or the probable realization value is lower than the net value. Value in use is determined by taking into account the share of net equity and profit outlook in view of current market conditions as set out in the subsidiaries’ medium-term business plans. The valuation of equity securities is considered to be a key audit matter given the importance of equity investments in the balance sheet and because of the judgments to be made by management to estimate the profit outlook of the subsidiaries. Our response Our work consisted in: • Comparing the net book value of equity securities with the net equity of these companies; • Assessing the existence of indication of impairment by: • interviewing the Group’s Finance Department on the results and profit outlook of the different companies, • assessing the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors of Compagnie Plastic Omnium. Assessing, when applicable, the valuation methodology and the arithmetical accuracy of the calculation of the recoverable value and verifying the consistency of assumptions used with the economic environment at the reporting and closing dates. VERIFICATION OF THE MANAGEMENT REPORT AND OF THE OTHER DOCUMENTS PROVIDED TO 05 2017 GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE SHAREHOLDERS STATUTORY ACCOUNTS We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by French law. Information given in the management report and other documents sent to shareholders on the financial position and the financial statements We have no observations to report as to the fair presentation and the consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors and in the other documents addressed to the shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. Report on corporate governance We confirm the existence, in the Board of Directors report on corporate governance, the information required by Articles L. 225-37-3 and L. 225-37-4 of the Commercial Code (Code de commerce). With regard to the information provided pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-37-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) on compensation and benefits paid to corporate officers and the commitments made in their favor, we verified their consistency with the financial statements or with the data used to prepare these financial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your company from companies controlling your company or controlled by it. Based on this work, we certify the accuracy and truthfulness of the information. PLASTIC OMNIUM 231 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements Other information In accordance with the law, we have ensured that the various information relating to the acquisition of equity interests and control and the identity of the holders of the capital or voting rights have been communicated to you in the management report. REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Appointment of the Statutory Auditors We were appointed as statutory auditors of Compagnie Plastic Omnium by the annual general meeting held on December 28, 1977 for Mazars and on May 15, 2001 for Ernst & Young et Autres (under the name Ernst & Young Audit on May 15, 2001 until April 29, 2010). As at December 31, 2017, Mazars and Ernst & Young et Autres were in the fortieth year and eightieth year of total uninterrupted engagement respectively. RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGEMENT AND THOSE CHARGED WITH GOVERNANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with French accounting principles and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and risks management systems and where applicable, its internal audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures. The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors. STATUTORY AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Objectives and audit approach Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. As specified in Article L. 823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our statutory audit does not include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit and furthermore: • Identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control. • Evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management in the financial statements. 232 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT • Assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the opinion expressed therein. • Evaluates the overall presentation of the financial statements and assesses whether these statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We submit a report to the Audit Committee which includes in particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures that we have identified. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this report. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) no. 537/2014, confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by Articles L. 822-10 to L. 822-14 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics (code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. Where appropriate, we discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and the related safeguards. Courbevoie and Paris-la-Défense, February 14, 2018 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG et AUTRES Juliette Decoux Gilles Puissochet 05 2017 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS PLASTIC OMNIUM 233 Special Report of the Statutory Auditors on Related Party Agreements and Commitments 5.8 Special Report of the Statutory Auditors on Related Party Agreements and Commitments This is a translation into English of a report issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. Annual general meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 To the Annual General Meeting of Compagnie Plastic Omnium, In our capacity as statutory auditors of your Company, we hereby present to you our report on related party agreements and commitments. We are required to inform you, on the basis of the information provided to us, of the terms and conditions of those agreements and commitments indicated to us, or that we may have identified in the performance of our engagement, as well as the reasons justifying why they benefit the Company. We are not required to give our opinion as to whether they are beneficial or appropriate or to ascertain the existence of other agreements and commitments. It is your responsibility, in accordance with Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), to assess the relevance of these agreements and commitments prior to their approval. We are also required, where applicable, to inform you in accordance with Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) of the continuation of the implementation, during the year ended December 31, 2017, of the agreements and commitments previously approved by the Annual General Meeting. We performed those procedures which we deemed necessary in compliance with professional guidance issued by the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this type of engagement. These procedures consisted in verifying the consistency of the information provided to us with the relevant source documents. AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING We hereby inform you that we have not been notified of any agreements or commitments authorized during the year ended December 31, 2017 to be submitted to the Annual General Meeting for approval in accordance with Article 225-38 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS PREVIOUSLY APPROVED BY THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Agreements and commitments authorized in prior years a) whose implementation continued during the year ended December 31, 2017 In accordance with Article R. 225-30 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we have been notified that the implementation of the following agreements and commitments, which were approved by the Annual General Meeting in previous years, continued during the year ended December 31, 2017. With Burelle SA which directly holds a 57.57% stake in your Company’s share capital Persons concerned: Mr. Jean Burelle, Chairman, Mr. Laurent Burelle and Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié, Executive CEOs, and Mrs. Eliane Lemarié and Mrs. Félicie Burelle, Directors. Nature and purpose: Burelle SA invoices your Company for services of general management according to cost allocation keys. This agreement was reviewed at your Company’s board meetings of February 24, 2016, July 26, 2016 and October 26, 2016, during which it was decided to modify the method of determining the incentive paid by Burelle SA to Mr. Laurent Burelle, Mr. Jean Burelle and Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié, then re-invoiced to your Company. Conditions: As at December 31, 2017, your Company recorded an expense of €1,765 thousands for Group executive services. With Yanfeng Plastic Omnium Automotive Systems Co. Ltd, in whose share capital your Company indirectly holds a 49.95% stake Person concerned: Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba, Director. 234 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Nature and purpose: This trademark license fees agreement was authorized by the Board of Directors on February 26, 2013 and ratified by the Annual General Meeting of April 25, 2013. Its purpose is the use of your Company’s trademarks. Conditions and duration: 0.25% of the turnover of the company benefiting from the agreement. The agreement has a duration of thirty years. As at December 31, 2017, your Company recorded a revenue corresponding to billing fees to be invoiced to Yanfeng Plastic Omnium Automotive Systems Co. Ltd in the amount of 1,791 thousands. With BPO-B.Plas Plastic Omnium Otomotiv Plastik Yan Sanayi AS Plastic Omnium, 50% of the voting rights of which are held by your Company Person concerned: Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba, Director. Nature and purpose: This license lee and technical support agreement was authorized by the Board of Directors on February 26, 2013 and ratified by the Annual General Meeting of April 25, 2013. Its purpose is the use of your Company’s industrial designs, and processes, know-how and related technical assistance services. This agreement was entered into on December 21, 2001 for a five-year term, renewable by tacit agreement. It can no longer be tacitly renewed and must be authorized every year and set out in the first part of the report on related party agreements. Conditions: The fee rate amounts to 1.5% of BPO-B.PLAS-Plastic Omnium Otomotiv Plastik’s net sales of licensed products. As at December 31, 2017, your Company invoiced BPO-B.PLAS-Plastic Omnium Otomotiv Plastik an amount of €463 thousands. With Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy SAS of which Mr Laurent Burelle is also President. Compagnie Plastic Omnium directly holds 100.00% of the share capital of Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy SAS Person(s) concerned: Mr. Laurent Burelle, President. Autorization: This agreement was authorized by the Board of Directors on March 15, 2011 and ratified by the General Meeting of April 28, 2011. Compagnie Plastic Omnium has expressed an interest in owning the portfolio of brands held by Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy SAS, and in the meantime has applied to be granted a license in its favor for a trademark license for manufacture or have manufactured, and/or sell or have sold the products covered by all the Brands. Terms / Reasons justifying why the Company benefits from this agreement: 0.1% of the turnover of all the entities of the Inergy division. Duration: The agreement took effect on September 1, 2010 and ends no later than December 31, 2012. Unless otherwise requested by the parties, this agreement continues. At December 31, 2017, Plastic Omnium Auto Inergy invoiced Compagnie Plastic Omnium for €2,630 thousands. 05 2017 b) Which were not implemented during the year ended December 31, 2017 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS In addition, we have been notified that the following agreements and commitments, which were approved by the Annual General Meeting in prior years, were not implemented during the year ended December 31, 2017 With the company Burelle S.A. which directly holds a 57.57% stake in your Company’s share capital Persons concerned: Mr Jean Burelle, Chairman, Laurent Burelle and Paul Henry Lemarié, Executive CEOs, and Eliane Lemarié and Félicie Burelle, Directors. Nature and purpose: This agreement was authorized by the Board of Directors on December 11, 2003 and ratified by the General Meeting of April 22, 2004. This agreement relates to a supplementary pension plan granted to corporate officers, who are employees of the Company, by which these latter are granted an additional pension of 10% of their current compensation. Part of the related cost paid by Burelle SA is theoretically allocated to Compagnie Plastic Omnium on the basis of the same ratio as that used to calculate its share of management fees. The agreement is renewable automatically every year. As at December 31, 2017, no invoice was made by the Company Burelle S.A. to your company, as there was no payment related to this supplementary pension plan. Courbevoie and Paris-la-Défense, February 14, 2018 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG et Autres Juliette Decoux Gilles Puissochet PLASTIC OMNIUM 235 06 RELATIONS WITH THE FINANCIAL COMMUNITY AND SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE 6.1 FINANCIAL C  OMMUNICATION 237 6.2.3 Trends in the price and volume of transactions 6.1.1 Institutional investors 237 in Compagnie Plastic Omnium shares 239 6.1.2 Individual shareholders 237 6.3 TIMETABLE FOR FINANCIAL COMMUNICATION A ND SHAREHOLDERS’ TIMETABLE 240 6.2 THE PLASTIC OMNIUM S  HARE 238 6.3.1 Calendar for financial communication 240 6.2.1 Trading data 238 6.3.2 Shareholders’ timetable 240 6.2.2 Shareholder dividends 238 Financial communication 6.1 Financial 6.1.1 INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS communication The Investor Relations Department communicates with the financial community, upon each release of annual and half-year results as well as during numerous meetings held throughout the year at The Investor Relations Department acts as liaison between the the Group’s headquarters for investors and financial analysts, Group and the financial community, composed of institutional and during roadshows, and conferences organized by brokers. investors including socially responsible investors (ISR) and bondThis year, close to 30 roadshows were held in France, the United holders, financial analysts, and individual shareholders. Investor Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Germany, Switzerland and Relations provides all these market participants with clear, elsewhere, attended by nearly 800 investors and analysts. On rigorous, and transparent information in real time, to keep them December 13, 2017, an Investor Day was held at our ∑-Sigmatech informed of the Group’s strategies, businesses, financial results, Lyon research and development center. The Group presented its and medium-term objectives. growth and innovation strategy for responding to the new challenges of the connected, autonomous, and carbon-free car. Plastic Omnium makes two areas dedicated to “Investors” and “Shareholders” available to the financial community and its shareholders on its website www.plasticomnium.com. Its website also contains regulatory information about the Group, including 6.1.2 INDIVIDUAL SHAREHOLDERS its Registration Document and Annual Report, its half-year financial report, all of its press releases, and its financial and investor At December 31, 2017, the Plastic Omnium Group had more than presentations. On the “Shareholders” page, a section entitled 30,000 individual shareholders (versus approximately 24,000 “Shareholders’ Meeting” contains all documents relating to the at December 31, 2016). Since 2016, Plastic Omnium strengthShareholders’ Meeting. All of this information is available as well ened its individual investor communications strategy by holding on smartphone or tablet through an app that Plastic Omnium site visits. Some twenty individual shareholders had the opportulaunched in January 2018. This application may be downloaded nity to tour the Ruitz (Hauts-de-France) production plant, dedivia the App Store for iPhones and iPads or Google Play for cated to the production of exterior body parts. In addition, in Androids. June 2017, on the occasion of the Group’s 70 th anniversary, celebrated at the Grand Palais in Paris, our shareholders had the chance to tour a temporary exhibit on 70 years of history and innovation. The Investor Relations Department provides its individual shareholders with two Shareholder letters, published in March for the annual results and in September for the half-year results; it also published a Shareholder’s Guide in 2017 for the first time. All of these documents may be found in the “Shareholders” section of the Group’s website. BNP Paribas Securities Services is the registrar for shares held in registered form. The issuers’ service can be reached at +33 (0)826 109 119. There you may obtain all share performance data. For any other requests, Shareholder Services’ toll free number is +33 (0)800 777 889. 06 RELATIONS WITH THE FINANCIAL COMMUNITY AND SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE PLASTIC OMNIUM 237 The Plastic Omnium share 6.2 The Plastic Omnium share FACT SHEET ISIN code: FR0000124570 Par value: €0.06 Eligible for the Deferred Settlement Service (SRD) 6.2.1 TRADING DATA Price as at December 31, 2017 €37.895 Average closing price of the last 30 trading sessions in 2017 €36.25 €38.08 Highest price in 2017 on December 22, 2017 €29.90 Lowest price in 2017 on January 4, 2017 Year on year increase as at December 31, 2017 Plastic Omnium +24.9% SBF 120 +10.8% CAC Mid 60 +22.13% Market capitalization as at December 31, 2017 €5,721,262,804 6.2.2 SHAREHOLDER DIVIDENDS Dividend per share proposed to the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2018: €0.67. Change in dividend per share (in euros) over five years: 0.67 0.49 0.41 0.37 0.33 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Dividends must be claimed within five years. Unclaimed dividends are paid back to the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations. 238 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 6.2.3 TRENDS IN THE PRICE AND VOLUME OF TRANSACTIONS IN COMPAGNIE PLASTIC OMNIUM SHARES Highest price Lowest price Transaction volume (in euros) (in euros) (daily average) 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 January 25.605 30.605 32.69 21.580 27.830 29.9 240,114 324,906 203,065 February 27.205 30.055 33.35 25.055 25.880 31.605 211,298 306,916 195,292 March 27.380 31.185 34.14 24.540 28.925 32.605 258,106 255,508 222,702 April 26.960 30.370 35.91 24.830 28.475 33.31 245,568 193,075 234,786 May 26.645 29.970 36.49 24.180 27.965 33.075 198,070 162,434 226,307 June 25.830 30.820 33.66 22.855 24.450 31.935 235,133 248,444 207,801 July 26.380 28.555 33.42 22.220 25.135 31.655 271,674 216,069 241,599 August 26.455 28.750 32.87 22.490 27.530 31.545 199,236 112,144 120,205 September 26.875 29.530 36.195 20.100 27.580 32.375 288,633 215,978 179,667 October 26.510 30.200 36.585 21.220 29.480 35.44 266,072 184,416 148,505 November 27.710 28.945 36.72 25.455 27.675 33.735 172,779 180,723 154,735 December 29.500 30.485 38.08 25.250 28.175 35.545 200,810 175,949 156,433 Trends in the Compagnie Plastic Omnium share price from January 2015 to February 2018 38.62 37.90 31.93 30.33 25.29 29.33 22.85 22.61 06 RELATIONS WITH THE FINANCIAL COMMUNITY AND SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE january february march april may june july august september october november december january february march april may june july august september october november december january february march april may june july august september october november december january february 2015 2016 2017 2018 PLASTIC OMNIUM 239 Timetable for financial communication and shareholders’ timetable COMPAGNIE PLASTIC OMNIUM SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE 57.57% Burelle SA 39.26% Public 2.19% Treasury stock 0.98% Employees 6.3 Timetable for financial communication and shareholders’ timetable 6.3.1 CALENDAR FOR FINANCIAL COMMUNICATION Publication of the annual results for 2017 February 15, 2018 Publication of revenue for the first quarter of 2018 April 24, 2018 Publication of the interim financial statements for 2018 July 20, 2018 Publication of revenue for the third quarter of 2018 October 25, 2018 6.3.2 SHAREHOLDERS’ TIMETABLE Meeting for shareholders in Lyon March 13, 2018 Shareholders’ Meeting April 26, 2018 Dividend payment date May 4, 2018 October 2018 Meeting for shareholders in Nice (date to be confirmed) Registrar: BNP Paribas Securities Services – tel.: +33 (0) 826 109 119. 240 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 07 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING 7.1 AGENDA 242 7.3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON THE RESOLUTIONS P RESENTED TO THE COMBINED 7.1.1 Ordinary resolutions 242 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING ON APRIL 26, 2018 250 7.1.2 Extraordinary resolutions 242 7.3.1 Report of the Board of Directors 7.2 TEXT OF THE RESOLUTIONS SUBMITTED on the resolutions presented FOR APPROVAL BY THE COMBINED at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting 250 SHAREHOLDERS’MEETING ON APRIL 26, 2018 243 7.3.2 Report of the Board of Directors on the 7.2.1 Ordinary resolutions 243 extraordinary resolutions presented at the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting 252 7.2.2 Extraordinary resolutions 247 7.4 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE FREE ALLOCATION OF EXISTING SHARES 253 Agenda 7.1 Agenda • Fourteenth resolution: Renewal of the term of office of Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk as Director • Fifteenth resolution: Acknowledgement of the non-renewal of the term of office of Mr. Alain Mérieux as Director, and appoint7.1.1 ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS ment of a new Director (Mr. Alexandre Mérieux) • First resolution: Approval of the financial statements for the • Sixteenth resolution: Amount of attendance fees allocated to year ended December 31, 2017 the members of the Board of Directors • Second resolution: Appropriation of net income and determina• Seventeenth resolution: Approval of the principles and criteria tion of the dividend for determining, distributing and awarding the fixed, variable and exceptional components of the total compensation and all • Third resolution: Statutory Auditors’ report on related-party kinds of benefits that may be granted to Executive Directors agreements – Acknowledgement of the absence of a new agreement • Eighteenth resolution: Approval of the Compensation components paid or awarded in respect of the year ended December 31, • Fourth resolution: Approval of the consolidated financial state2017 to Mr. Laurent Burelle, Chairman and Chief Executive ments for the year ended December 31, 2017 Officer • Fifth resolution: Authorization to be granted to the Board of • Nineteenth resolution: Approval of the Compensation compoDirectors to buy back the Company’s shares pursuant to the nents paid or awarded in respect of the year ended December 31, provisions of Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial 2017 to Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié, Chief Operating Officer Code (Code de commerce), duration of the authorization, purposes, terms, ceiling • Twentieth resolution: Approval of the Compensation components paid or awarded in respect of the year ended December 31, • Sixth resolution: Renewal of the term of office of Mr. Laurent 2017 to Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba, Co-Chief Executive Officer Burelle as Director and Chief Operating Officer • Seventh resolution: Renewal of the term of office of Mr. JeanMichel Szczerba as Director • Eighth resolution: Renewal of the term of office of Mr. Paul 7.1.2 EXTRAORDINARY RESOLUTIONS Henry Lemarié as Director • Ninth resolution: Renewal of the term of office of the company • Twenty-first resolution: Authorization to be granted to the Board Burelle SA as Director, represented by Mrs. Éliane Lemarié of Directors to allocate free existing shares in the Company to employees and/or corporate officers of the Company and/or of • Tenth resolution: Renewal of the term of office of Mr. Jean Group companies, duration of the authorization, ceiling, Burelle as Director minimum vesting and holding periods • Eleventh resolution: Renewal of the term of office of Mrs. Anne• Twenty-second resolution: Authorization to be granted to the Marie Couderc as Director Board of Directors to cancel the shares bought back by the • Twelfth resolution: Renewal of the term of office of Mrs. Lucie Company pursuant to Ar ticle L. 225 -209 of the French Maurel Aubert as Director Commercial Code, duration of the authorization, ceiling • Thir teenth resolution: Renewal of the term of office of • Twenty-third resolution: Amendment of Article 13 of the bylaws Mr. Jérôme Gallot as Director concerning the rules limiting the age of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief Executive Officers • Twenty-fourth resolution: Insertion of an Article 16 “Censors” of the bylaws permitting the appointment of non-voting members and an accompanying change to the numbering of the succeeding articles of the bylaws • Twenty-fifth resolution: Powers for the formalities 242 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 7.2 Text of the Meetings, the shareholders decide to allocate the net sum of €1,156,261,600 as proposed by the Board of Directors, namely: Resolutions Submitted In euros for Approval by the Total amount to be appropriated Appropriation: 1,156,261,600 Combined Shareholders’ Net dividend distributed for the 2017 fiscal year Carried forward 101,154,402 1,055,107,198 Meeting on April 26, 2018 Total appropriated 1,156,261,600 Consequently, the Shareholders’ Meeting set the net dividend for 7.2.1 ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS 2017 at €0.67 per share. As a reminder, for individual shareholders resident for tax First resolution: Approval of the financial purposes in France, who do not opt for withholding at the flat rate statements for the year ended December 31, of 30%, this dividend is eligible for the 40% tax relief resulting 2017 from the provisions of Article 158-3-2° of the French General Tax Code. The dividends for individual shareholders are subject to After having read the Company financial statements for the year withholding at 12.8%. ended December 31, 2017, the reports of the Board of Directors The ex-dividend date will be May 2, 2018. and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the Company financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, and voting in The dividend will be paid on the date set by the Board of accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for Directors, i.e. May 4, 2018. Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the shareholders approve the Compagnie Plastic Omnium shares held in treasury on the diviCompany financial statements for the year ended December 31, dend payment date will be stripped of dividend rights and the 2017 as presented, showing a net profit of €111,728,344, as related dividends will be credited to retained earnings. well as the transactions reflected in the said financial statements In accordance with the law, the Shareholders’ Meeting notes that, or described in the said reports. after deducting dividends not paid on treasury stock, dividends for the last three years were as shown in the table below. Second resolution: Appropriation of net In accordance with the provisions of Article 243 bis of the French income and determination of the dividend General Tax Code, the following table summarizes the amount of dividends and other income distributed in respect of the three Noting that the profit for the year ended December 31, 2017 preceding fiscal years, as well as their eligibility for the 40% tax shows a net balance of €111,728,344, that retained earnings relief, provided for in Article 158-3-2° of the French General Tax totaled €1,044,533,256 and voting in accordance with the Code, where applicable, for individual shareholders resident in quorum and majority requirements for Ordinary Shareholders’ France for tax purposes. Year Number Dividend Income eligible for the tax relief Income ineligible for the tax relief of shares with per share provided for in Article 158-3-2° of provided for in Article 158-3-2° of dividend rights the French General Tax Code the French General Tax Code Dividends Other income Dividends Other income 2014 148,197,149 0.37 54,832,945 _ _ _ 2015 147,589,746 0.41 60,511,796 _ _ _ 2016 147,494,915 0.49 72,272,508 _ _ _ 07 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING PLASTIC OMNIUM 243 Text of the Resolutions Submitted for Approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018 Third resolution: Statutory Auditors’ of Article L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code in order: report on related-party agreements – Acknowledgement of the absence • to use an investment ser vice provider to maintain the secondary market or the liquidity of Plastic Omnium’s shares, of a new agreement via a liquidity agreement complying with the AMAFI Code of After having read the special report of the Statutory Auditors on Ethics accepted by the AMF; related-party agreements referred to in Article L. 225-38 of the • to cover stock option and/or bonus share (or similar) plans French Commercial Code, the Shareholders’ Meeting notes (i) the awarded to Group employees and/or corporate officers and all absence of a new agreement during fiscal year 2017 and (ii) the allocations of shares as part of a Company or Group savings information mentioned regarding the continuation, during the (or similar) plan, or for purposes of Company profit-sharing current year, of agreements signed in the course of previous and/or any other form of allocation of shares to Group years. employees and/or corporate officers; • to retain the shares acquired and use them later on for Fourth resolution: Approval of the exchange or in payment for any external growth transactions, with the understanding that shares purchased for this purpose consolidated financial statements may not exceed 5% of the Company’s capital; for the year ended December 31, 2017 • to potentially cancel the shares purchased, subject to the After having read the reports of the Board of Directors and the authorization to be granted by this Shareholders’ Meeting in its Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statetwenty-first extraordinary resolution; ments, and voting in accordance with the quorum and majority • to implement all market practices currently accepted or requirements for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the shareaccepted in the future by the market authorities; holders approve the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017 as presented, as well as the and as per the following terms: transactions reflected in the financial statements or summarized • the maximum number of shares that may be purchased by in these reports and from which a net Group share profit of the Company cannot exceed 10% of the Company’s share €425,177 thousand resulted. capital on the date of this decision, i.e. a maximum of 15,097,672 shares as of this date; Fifth resolution: Authorization to be granted • the shares may not be repurchased at a price of more than €60 per share. In the event of a transaction affecting capital, in to the Board of Directors to buy back the particular, stock splits or reverse stock splits or free share Company’s shares pursuant to the provisions allocations, the aforementioned amount will be adjusted in the of Article L. 225-209 of the French same proportion (coefficient of the ratio between the number of Commercial Code, duration of the shares comprising the equity capital before the transaction and the number of shares after the transaction). authorization, purposes, terms, ceiling After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and voting in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting authorizes the Board of Directors to purchase the Company’s shares under the terms and conditions set forth in the provisions 244 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT On December 31, 2017, the Company held 3,306,070 treasury Seventh resolution: Renewal of the term shares. If these shares were canceled or used, the maximum of office of Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba amount that the Company would be allowed to spend in the buyback program would be €905,860,320 for the acquisition of as Director 15,097,672 shares. After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and having voted Shares may be purchased, sold or transferred using any method, in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for including by purchasing blocks of shares, on the stock market or Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting over the counter. Transactions may be made at any time, except renewed the term of office of Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba for a during a public offer period concerning the Company. three-year term. His term of office will expire at the close of the This authorization takes effect at the end of this Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve the 2020 Meeting and is valid for a period of eighteen months from today. It financial statements. cancels and supersedes the authorization granted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 27, 2017 in its sixth Eighth resolution: Renewal of the term resolution for the unused portion. of office of Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié as Unless it takes this action itself, the Shareholders’ Meeting Director authorizes the Board of Directors to adjust the aforementioned maximum number of shares and maximum purchase price as After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and having voted necessary to take into account the impact on the share price of in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for any change in the par value of the shares or any capital increase Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting by incorporation of reserves and bonus share issues, any stock renewed the term of office of Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié for a threesplit or reverse stock split, any return of capital or any other year term. His term of office will expire at the close of the capital transaction, within the aforementioned limits of 10% of Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve the 2020 equity capital and €905,860,320. financial statements. The shareholders grant full powers to the Board of Directors to use this authorization, to conclude any agreements, carry out any filing and other formalities, notably with the Autorité des Marchés Ninth resolution: Renewal of the term Financiers or any other authority that may replace it, and, more of office of the company Burelle SA generally, take all necessary action. as Director, represented by Mrs. Éliane Lemarié Sixth resolution: Renewal of the term of office After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and having voted of Mr. Laurent Burelle as Director in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and having voted renewed the term of office of the company Burelle SA, reprein accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for sented by Mrs. Éliane Lemarié, for a three-year term. Her term will Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting expire at the close of the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in renewed the term of office of Mr. Laurent Burelle for a three-year 2021 to approve the 2020 financial statements. term. His term of of f ice will expire at the close of the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve the 2020 financial statements. Tenth resolution: Renewal of the term of office of Mr. Jean Burelle as Director After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and having voted in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting renewed the term of office of Mr. Jean Burelle for a three-year term. His term of of f ice will expire at the close of the Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve the 2020 07 SHAREHOLDERS’ financial statements. MEETING PLASTIC OMNIUM 245 Text of the Resolutions Submitted for Approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018 Eleventh resolution: Renewal of the term Fifteenth resolution: Non-renewal of the term of office of Mrs. Anne-Marie Couderc as of office of Mr. Alain Mérieux as Director, and Director appointment of a new Director (Mr. Alexandre Mérieux) After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and having voted in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and having voted Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for renewed the term of office of Mrs. Anne-Marie Couderc for a Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting three-year term. Her term of office will expire at the close of the acknowledged the non-renewal of the directorship of Mr. Alain Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve the 2020 Mérieux, which expired at the end of the Shareholders’ Meeting, financial statements. and decided to appoint Mr. Alexandre Mérieux, in addition to the members currently in office, as Director for a three-year term, ending after the Meeting held in 2021 to approve the 2020 Twelfth resolution: Renewal of the term financial statements. of office of Mrs. Lucie Maurel Aubert as Director Sixteenth resolution: Amount of attendance After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and having voted fees allocated to the members of the Board in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for of Directors Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting renewed the term of office of Mrs. Lucie Maurel Aubert for a Voting in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements three-year term. Her term of office will expire at the close of the for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve the 2020 decides to increase the total annual amount of attendance fees financial statements. to be allocated to the Board of Directors from €580,000 to €640,000. Thirteenth resolution: Renewal of the term This decision applies from the current year until a new amount is of office of Mr. Jérôme Gallot as Director set. After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and having voted in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for Seventeenth resolution: Approval of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting principles and criteria for determining, renewed the term of office of Mr. Jérôme Gallot for a three-year distributing and awarding the fixed, variable term. His term of of f ice will expire at the close of the and exceptional components of the total Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve the 2020 financial statements. compensation and all kinds of benefits that may be granted to executive directors Fourteenth resolution: Renewal of the term Voting in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements of office of Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting, pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, as Director approved the principles and criteria used to determine, distribute and award the fixed, variable and exceptional components of total After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and having voted compensation and all kinds of benefits that may be granted in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for to executive directors in respect of their terms of office, as Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting detailed in the report on corporate governance, referred to in renewed the term of office of Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk for a ­articles L. 225-100 and L. 225-102 of the French Commercial three -year term. His term will expire at the close of the Code, presented in the Registration Document. Shareholders’ Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve the 2020 financial statements. 246 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Eighteenth resolution: Approval of the 7.2.2 EXTRAORDINARY RESOLUTIONS compensation components paid or allocated in respect of the year ended December 31, Twenty-first resolution: Authorization to be 2017 to Mr. Laurent Burelle, Chairman and granted to the Board of Directors to allocate Chief Executive Officer free existing shares in the Company to employees and/or corporate officers of the The Shareholders’ Meeting, pursuant to Articles L. 225-37-2 and L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, voting in accordance Company and/or of Group companies, with the quorum and majority requirements for Ordinar y duration of the authorization, ceiling, Shareholders’ Meetings, approved the fixed, variable and excepminimum vesting and holding periods tional components of the total compensation and all kinds of benefits paid or allocated to Mr. Laurent Burelle in respect of year The Shareholders’ Meeting, having considered the Board of ended December 31, 2017, in recognition of his position as Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ special report, voting Chairman and CEO, as presented in the Company’s report on in accordance with the quorum and majority rules applicable to corporate governance referred to in Article L. 225-37 of the same Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and pursuant to the provicode. sions of Article L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code: 1. authorized the Board of Directors, with the option of sub-deleNineteenth resolution: Approval of the gation under the conditions set by law, to allocate free existing compensation components paid or allocated shares in the Company, on one or more occasions, to to Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié, Chief Operating employees or certain employee categories which it will deterOfficer, in respect of the year ended mine from among employees and/or corporate officers of the Company or of related companies or groupings within the December 31, 2017 meaning of Articles L. 225-197-1, II and L. 225-197-2 of the The Shareholders’ Meeting, pursuant to Articles L. 225-37-2 and French Commercial Code; L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, voting in accordance 2. set the period of validity of this authorization to thirty-eight with the quorum and majority requirements for Ordinar y months starting from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting, Shareholders’ Meetings, approved the fixed, variable and excepand supersedes any previous authorization with the same tional components of the total compensation and all kinds of purpose, for the surplus fraction, previously granted by the benefits paid or allocated to Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié in respect of Shareholders’ Meeting of April 28, 2016 in its 18th resolution; the year ended December 31, 2017, in recognition of his position 3. decided that the total number of shares that may be allocated as Chief Operating Officer, as presented in the Company’s report free of charge pursuant to this authorization may not exceed on corporate governance referred to in Article L. 225-37 of the 1% of the number of ordinary shares comprising the Company’s same code. share capital on the date this Meeting is held, on the proviso that this is an overall ceiling for all awards of Company stock Twentieth resolution: Approval of the options to Group employees and/or corporate officers likely to take place pursuant to the 17th resolution adopted by the compensation components paid or allocated Shareholders’ Meeting of April 28, 2016 and all free share in respect of the year ended December 31, awards likely to be made pursuant to this resolution provided 2017 to Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba, Co-Chief that it is adopted by this Shareholders’ Meeting; Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer 4. decided that the Board of Directors shall determine, in accordance with the law, when making each allocation decision, the The Shareholders’ Meeting, pursuant to Articles L. 225-37-2 and vesting period after which the shares will be definitively L. 225-100 of the French Commercial Code, voting in accordance awarded. The vesting period must be no less than one year with the quorum and majority requirements for Ordinar y from the date on which the shares were allocated; Shareholders’ Meetings, approved the fixed, variable and exceptional components of the total compensation and all kinds of benefits paid or allocated to Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba in respect 5. decided that the Board of Directors shall determine, in accordance with the law, when making each allocation decision, the 07 SHAREHOLDERS’ of the year ended December 31, 2017, in recognition of his posiperiod for which Company shares must be held, which begins MEETING tion as Chief Operating Officer, Co-Chief Executive Officer as from the time the shares are definitively allocated. The holding presented in the Company’s report on corporate governance period may be no less than a year. However, if the vesting referred to in Article L. 225-37 of the same code. period is two years or more, the holding period may be canceled by the Board of Directors. PLASTIC OMNIUM 247 Text of the Resolutions Submitted for Approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018 Existing shares which may be allocated pursuant to this resoluresponse to transactions affecting the share capital subsetion must be purchased by the Company, either within the quent to this Shareholders’ Meeting; framework of Article L. 225-208 of the French Commercial • set the validity period for this delegated power at twenty-six Code, or, if applicable, under the share buyback program months as of the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting, and authorized by the fifth ordinary resolution adopted by this noted that this authorization supersedes any previous authoriMeeting pursuant to Ar ticle L. 225 -209 of the French zation with the same purpose, for the surplus fraction, previCommercial Code or any stock option program applicable ously granted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of before or after this resolution was adopted; April 28, 2016 in its 19th resolution; 6. granted all powers, subject to the limits set out above, to the • granted all powers to the Board of Directors to perform any Board of Directors to implement this authorization and in transaction(s) to cancel or reduce the capital by virtue of this particular to: authorization, determine the practical implementation of said -determine the identity of the beneficiaries of the allocations, transaction(s), acknowledge the completion of said transaction(s), charge the difference between the carrying amount of -determine the number of shares awarded to each benefithe canceled shares and their notional amount against all ciary, reserve and premium items in the balance sheet, amend the -set the conditions as well as any criteria for share awards, bylaws as a result, complete all formalities and generally do all particularly the minimum vesting and holding periods, that is required to implement this resolution. -allow, if applicable, for the option to defer the definitive award date for the shares and to adjust, for the same duration, the obligatory holding period for said shares (so that Twenty-third resolution: Amendment of the date from which the shares may be sold remains Article 13 of the bylaws concerning the rules unchanged), limiting the age of the Chairman of the Board -purchase those shares necessary under the share buyback of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer program and allocate them to the stock option plan, and the Deputy Chief Executive Officers -adjust the price of the shares and the number of shares After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and voting in awarded in the event of transactions on the Company’s accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for share capital which result in a change to the value of the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting shares comprising the share capital, decides to amend the last paragraph of Article 13 “Chairman and -determine the dates and terms of the awards and the exerSenior Executives” of the bylaws in the following manner, with the cise conditions pursuant to applicable legal and regulatory rest of the article remaining unchanged: provisions, and generally take all useful steps and enter into Article 13 – Chairman and Senior Executives all agreements conducive to ensuring the successful completion of the planned awards. “... The age limit for the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be eighty years. Twenty-second resolution: Authorization to be granted to the Board of Directors to The age limit for the positions of CEO and Chief Operating Officer shall be seventy-five years.” cancel the shares bought back by the Company pursuant to Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code, duration of the authorization, ceiling Having considered the Board of Directors’ report and the Statutory Auditors’ report, voting in accordance with the quorum and majority rules applicable to Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code, the Shareholders’ Meeting: • authorized the Board of Directors to reduce the share capital, on one or more occasions, in the proportions and at the times that it shall determine, by canceling all or some of the shares purchased or which could be purchased pursuant to the authorization granted by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, by the Company itself, by up to 10% of the share capital per 24-month period, on the proviso that this limit applies to a share capital amount which may be adjusted if necessary in 248 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Twenty-fourth resolution: Insertion of Twenty-fifth resolution: Powers for the an Article 16 Censors of the bylaws formalities permitting the appointment of censors and The Shareholders’ Meeting grants full powers to the bearer of an an accompanying change to the numbering original, a copy or an extract of the minutes of the meeting to of the succeeding articles of the bylaws carry out any and all legal filings and formalities. After having read the Board of Directors’ report, and voting in accordance with the quorum and majority requirements for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, the Shareholders’ Meeting decides to insert an Article 16 censors of the bylaws and changes accordingly the numbering of the succeeding articles of the bylaws. The Article is redrafted as follows: “Article 16 – Censors The Board of Directors may appoint one or more censors of the Board, either natural persons or legal entities, who may or may not be chosen from among the shareholders and whose number shall in no event exceed three. They shall be appointed for a term of three years, ending with the close of the Ordinary Shareholders Meeting called to approve the financial statements for the preceding year and held in the year in which their duties terminate. The censors shall be called to the meetings of the Board of Directors and take part in its deliberations on a consultative basis, and their absence shall not affect the validity of the deliberations. The Board of Directors may allocate directors’ fees to the censors as compensation for their participation. The Board shall determine their share and distribute it among them. That share shall be deducted from the total amount of directors’ fees set by the Ordinary Shareholders Meeting.” The numbering of the following articles shall be changed as follows: Article 17 – Shareholders’ Meetings Article 18 – Statutory accounts Article 19 – Dissolution Article 20 – Disputes 07 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING PLASTIC OMNIUM 249 Board of Directors’ Report on the Resolutions Presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018 7.3 Board of Directors’ Appropriation of net income and determination of the dividend for 2017 Report on the (second resolution) Resolutions Presented The second resolution concerns the appropriation of net income to the Combined and d eter mination of t he divid end for t he year end ed December 31, 2017. Shareholders’ Meeting In euros on April 26, 2018 Retained earnings at December 31, 2017 of 1,044,533,256 And net income for the year ended December 31, 2017 stood at 111,728,344 7.3.1 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Total amount to be appropriated 1,156,261,600 ON THE RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED AT THE ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING If the Shareholders’ Meeting approves this resolution, the net dividend for the year ended December 31, 2017 will amount to Approval of the 2017 parent company €0.67 per share, corresponding to a total distributed dividend of financial statements (first resolution) €101,154,402. Upon payment, the dividend attributable to treasury shares held The first resolution submits for your approval the parent company by the Company will be transferred to “Retained earnings”. financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, which result in a profit of €111,728,344. Shares will trade ex-dividend from May 2, 2018, and the dividend will be paid on May 4, 2018. For individual shareholders resident for tax purposes in France, who do not opt for withholding at the flat rate of 30%, this dividend is eligible for the 40% tax relief resulting from the provisions of Article 158-3-2° of the French General Tax Code. The dividends for individual shareholders are subject to withholding at 12.8%. As a reminder, the following dividends have been distributed over the past three years. Year Number Dividend Income eligible for the tax relief Income ineligible for the tax relief of shares with per share provided for in Article 158-3-2° of provided for in Article 158-3-2° of dividend rights the French General Tax Code the French General Tax Code Dividends Other income Dividends Other income 2014 148,197,149 0.37 54,832,945 _ _ _ 2015 147,589,746 0.41 60,511,796 _ _ _ 2016 147,494,915 0.49 72,272,508 _ _ _ The Board of Directors recommends that this amount be appropriStatutory Auditors’ report on related-party ated as follows: agreements continued during the year In euros (third resolution) Total amount to be appropriated 1,156,261,600 Appropriation: The purpose of the third resolution, in compliance with Net dividend distributed for 2017 101,154,402 Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code, is to acknowlCarried forward 1,055,107,198 edge the agreements mentioned in the special report of the Total appropriated 1,156,262,600 Statutory Auditors on related-party agreements pursued by Compagnie Plastic Omnium during 2017. 250 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Approval of the consolidated financial Reappointment of directors’ terms of office statements for the financial year 2017 (sixth to fourteenth resolutions) (fourth resolution) The Shareholders’ Meeting is asked to vote to renew, for a threeThe fourth resolution submits for your approval the consolidated year period as defined in the bylaws, the terms of office of the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2017, following directors: Mr. Laurent Burelle, Mr. Jean-Michel Szczerba, which show a Group share of consolidated net profit of Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié and Mr. Jean Burelle; of the company €425,177 thousand. Burelle SA, represented by Mrs. Éliane Lemarié, of Mrs. AnneMarie Couderc and Mrs. Lucie Maurel Aubert, Mr. Jérôme Gallot and Prof. Dr. Bernd Gottschalk. Authorization to the Board of Directors to buy Their term of office will expire at the close of the Shareholders’ back the Company’s shares (fifth resolution) Meeting to be held in 2021 to approve the 2020 financial statements. At the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 27, 2017, the shareholders Biographies for the candidates can be found in part 2 of this authorized the Company to buy back its own shares under the Registration Document – Report on Corporate Governance. The following terms and conditions: Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Appointments Committee, resolved that Mrs. Anne Marie Couderc and Maximum purchase price €60 per share Mrs. Lucie Maurel Aubert, Mr. Jérôme Gallot and Prof. Dr. Bernd Maximum shares that may be held 10% of share capital Gottschalk could be considered as independent directors within Maximum investment in the buyback the meaning of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. program €914,860,320 Between April 28, 2017 and January 31, 2018, the Company: Non renewal of the term of office of a director • purchased 914,156 shares for an overall amount of €31,547,771, and appointment of a new director i.e. €34,51 per share; 514,156 of these shares were purchased (fifteenth resolution) under the liquidity agreement, and 400,000 were purchased outside of this agreement; Having acknowledged the non-renewal of the term of office of Mr. Alain Mérieux, which expires at the end of this Shareholders’ • disposed of 1,112,541 shares as part of the liquidity agreement Meeting, it is proposed that Mr. Alexandre Mérieux is appointed for a total sale value of €26,626,537, i.e. €23,93 per share; as director, for a three-year period as defined in the bylaws, i.e. Details of these transactions and a description of the authorizauntil the end of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting called in tion submitted to your vote can be found in the section entitled 2021 to approve the 2020 financial statements. “Share buyback program” in the Board of Directors’ management The biography for Mr. Alexandre Mérieux can be found in part 2 of report. the Registration Document – Report on Corporate Governance. The authorization to buy back the shares of the Company granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting on April 27, 2017 expires on October 26, 2018. Amount of attendance fees You are being asked to grant the Board of Directors a new (sixteenth resolution) authorization to buy back the shares of the Company for a further The sixteenth resolution asks the Shareholders’ Meeting to period of 18 months. increase the amount of attendance fees granted to the members Share buybacks allow an investment service provider to make a of the Board of Directors to €640,000 starting in 2018. market in the Company’s shares under a liquidity contract complying with the Code of Ethics issued by the Association française des marchés financiers (AMAFI), while the subsequent Definition of principles and criteria for fixing, cancellation of shares improves our return on equity and earnings distributing and awarding the components per share. of compensation of executive directors Shares can also be repurchased to cover stock option and bonus share plans for employees or executive corporate officers, or for (seventeenth resolution) 07 SHAREHOLDERS’ any market practice accepted by stock market authorities. The seventeenth resolution asks the Shareholders’ Meeting to MEETING vote on the principles and criteria for fixing, distributing and The Board at Directors would not be authorized to use this awarding the components making up the compensation of the authorization during the course of a takeover bid for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Company’s shares. Officers pursuant to Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial We are seeking to renew this authorization on the following terms: Code, the details of which can be found in section 2 of this Registration Document. Maximum purchase price €60 per share Maximum shares that may be held 10% of share capital Maximum investment in the buyback program €905,860,320 PLASTIC OMNIUM 251 Board of Directors’ Report on the Resolutions Presented to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 26, 2018 Components of compensation paid or If the Shareholders’ Meeting votes for this resolution, any free share awards will be decided on the basis of proposals from allocated in respect of 2017 to the Chairman senior management and reviewed by the Compensation and Chief Executive Officer, and the Chief Committee. Operating Officers The Board of Directors will determine the identity of the benefi(eighteenth to twentieth resolutions) ciaries, the number of shares awarded to each one, as well as any criteria for allocating these equities. The eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth resolutions ask the Shareholders’ Meeting to vote on the components of compensaIt may make use of this authorization on one or more occasions. tion paid or allocated in respect of 2017 to Mr. Laurent Burelle, In accordance with Article L. 225-197-4 of the French Commercial Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to Mr. Jean-Michel Code, a special report will be drafted to notify the Shareholders’ Szczerba, Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Meeting of the transactions performed pursuant to this authorizaand to Mr. Paul Henry Lemarié, Chief Operating Officer, in accordtion. ance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Details of the proposed compensation can be found as presented Renewal of this authorization would be valid for a period of 38 in section 2 of the Registration Document. months from the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting, and in turn supersedes any authorization previously granted by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 28, 2016. 7.3.2 REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON THE EXTRAORDINARY RESOLUTIONS Authorization to be granted to the Board of PRESENTED AT THE ANNUAL Directors to cancel the shares bought back by SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING the Company pursuant to Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code (twen Authorization to be granted to the Board ty-second resolution) of Directors to allocate free existing shares The twenty-second resolution put before the Shareholders’ in the Company to employees and/or Meeting involves authorizing the Board of Directors, in accordcorporate officers of the Company and/or ance with the provisions of Article L. 225-209 of the French of Group companies (twenty-first resolution) Commercial Code, to reduce the share capital, on one or more occasions, in the proportions and at the times it shall decide, by The twenty-first resolution involves renewal of the authorization canceling all or some of the shares purchased or which may be granted to the Board of Directors at the Shareholders’ Meeting of purchased by virtue of an authorization granted by the Ordinary April 28, 2016 in its 18th resolution. It involves granting the Board Shareholders’ Meeting, by the Company itself, up to the limit of of Directors a new authorization to allocate free shares to 10% of the share capital per 24-month period, on the proviso that employees and/or corporate officers of the Company and of this limit applies to a share capital amount which may be companies related to it in accordance with the law and in accordadjusted in response to transactions affecting the share capital ance with the provisions of Articles L. 225-197-1 to L. 225-197-3 subsequent to the next Shareholders’ Meeting. of the French Commercial Code. This authorization shall be valid for a period of 26 months from Under this authorization, the number of shares which may be the date on which the next Shareholders’ Meeting is held. awarded free of charge may not exceed 1% of the share capital on the date of this Meeting. This total number of shares which may be awarded free of charge also includes shares purchased by Changes to the bylaws exercising stock options pursuant to the 17th resolution adopted (twenty‑third and twenty-fourth resolutions) at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting on April 28, 2016, authorizing the Board of Directors to grant stock options to The 23 rd and 24th resolutions propose to the Shareholders’ employees and/or corporate officers of the Company and/or of Meeting amendments to the bylaws to (i) change the rules Group companies. concerning the age limits of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the senior executives and (ii) insert an additional Free share awards shall become definitive for the beneficiaries: article allowing for the possibility of appointing censors to the • either after the legal vesting period of one year, on the proviso Board. that the beneficiaries must then hold these shares for a statutory minimum period of one year from the definitive allocation date; Powers of attorney to carry out formalities • or after the minimum vesting period of two years (in this case (twenty-fifth resolution) there will be no minimum holding period). The purpose of the twenty-fifth resolution is to authorize the The Board of Directors shall in either case have the option to set bearer of an original, a copy or an extract of the minutes of the a vesting or holding period in excess of these minimum periods. Shareholders’ Meeting to carry out any and all legal filings and formalities in relation to the execution of the decisions of this Shareholders’ Meeting. 252 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Statutory Auditors’ report on the free allocation Presented to the Combined Shareholders’ 7.4 Statutory Auditors’ report on the free allocation of existing shares General Meeting of April 26, 2018 Twenty-first resolution To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company and in compliance with Article L. 225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report on the proposed free allocation of existing shares, reserved for employees and/or directors of the company Plastic Omnium and group companies, in the sense of Articles L. 225-197-1, II and L. 225-197-2 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), an operation upon which you are called to vote. The total number of shares that may be allocated by the present authorization shall not exceed more than 1% of ordinary shares of the share capital at the date of the General Meeting. The shares to be allocated under the present resolution shall be acquired by the company, either as part of Article L. 225-208 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), or, as the case may be, as part of the shares purchase plan authorized by the fifth resolution voted by the present General Meeting under Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) or any other shares purchase plan applicable before or after the vote of this resolution. Your Board of Directors proposes that on the basis of its report it be authorized for a period of thirty-eight months to allocate, for free, existing shares or shares to be issued. It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to prepare a report on the proposed operation. Our role is to report on any matters relating to the information regarding the proposed operation. We have performed those procedures which we considered necessary to comply with the professional guidance issued by the French national auditing body (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) for this type of engagement. These procedures consisted mainly in verifying that the proposed methods described in the Board of Directors’s report comply with the legal provisions governing such operations. We have no matters to report as to the information provided in the Board of Directors’s report relating to the proposed free allocation of shares. Courbevoie and Paris-la-Défense, February 28, 2018 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG et Autres 07 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING PLASTIC OMNIUM 253 08 OTHER INFORMATION 8.1 GENERAL INFORMATION A BOUT THE COMPANY 255 8.2 LIST OF REGULATED INFORMATION P UBLISHED DURING THE LAST 12 MONTHS 258 General Information About the Company 8.1 General Information Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) About the Company “The Company’s corporate purpose is to: • process all forms of plastic, metal and other raw materials in order to manufacture all types of products and articles for all GENERAL INFORMATION uses, particularly industrial; • manage its property and capital assets; Company name and registered office • acquire, build, lease, develop, improve and exploit any land or buildings; The full company name is Compagnie Plastic Omnium. Its registered office is located at 19, boulevard Jules Carteret, 69007 • acquire any equity or other interest in any company, enterprise Lyon, France, and its administrative headquarters is at 1, allée or other entity, in France or abroad, irrespective of its corporate Pierre Burelle, 92300 Levallois-Perret, France. purpose in whatsoever form and in particular by acquiring or subscribing for any form of security, equity interest or other right in such entities; Registration particulars • manage its investment portfolio of equity interests and securiThe Company is registered with the Lyon Trade and Companies ties; Registry under number 955 512 611. • carry out all works and services relating to general administration and building maintenance (other than acting as a building manager); Legal form and governing law • and in general, make any transaction (commercial, industrial, Created in April 1946, Compagnie Plastic Omnium, created in financial or related to property and capital assets) that is April 1946, is a public limited company under French law (société linked, directly or indirectly, to the Company’s purpose; or that anonyme) with a Board of Directors. It is governed by the French could be relevant to it; or that could make the purpose easier Commercial Code (Code de commerce). to achieve. The Company may, both in France and abroad, create, acquire, Term use or grant licenses to use all trademarks, brands, commercial names, designs, models, patents and manufacturing processes The Company’s term will run until April 24, 2112. related to the above purpose. It may act directly or indirectly, on its own behalf or for a third Fiscal year party, in any country. It may do so either alone or with any other persons or companies in a partnership, joint venture, consortium The Company’s accounting period runs for twelve months, from or company, and may make any transaction within the scope of January 1 to December 31. its corporate purpose.” 08 OTHER INFORMATION PLASTIC OMNIUM 255 General Information About the Company General management Consultation of documents relating (Article 13 of the bylaws) to the Company The Board of Directors shall elect one of its members as Documents that must be made available to the public (Company’s Chairman. bylaws, reports from the Statutory Auditors, reports from the Board of Directors and past financial information relating to The Chairman organizes and directs the work of the Board of Compagnie Plastic Omnium and its subsidiaries, including that Directors and reports on said work to the Shareholders’ Meeting. included in this Financial Report) may be consulted, while they He oversees the proper running of the Company’s deciremain valid, at the registered office of Compagnie Plastic sion-making bodies and, in particular, ensures that directors are Omnium and also at its administrative registered office (1, allée able to carry out their duties. Pierre Burelle, 92300 Levallois-Perret, France). Some of these Either the Chairman of the Board of Directors or another natural documents may also be available in electronic format on person appointed by the Board of Directors as Chief Executive www. plasticomnium.com. Officer is responsible for running the Company. This Registration Document and the Compagnie Plastic Omnium The Board of Directors chooses in a free and majority vote one of Activity Report are both available in English. the two modes of supervision and can at any moment by a majority vote modify its choice. The Board of Directors may, in accordance with the law, appoint The role of Compagnie Plastic Omnium one or more natural persons as Chief Operating Officer to assist in relation to its subsidiaries either the Chairman, if he assumes the office of Chief Executive Compagnie Plastic Omnium is a holding company with the Officer, or the Chief Executive Officer. There can be no more than following role: five Chief Operating Officers. • to hold shares in the holding companies for each business line. The powers of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, if he is These holding companies own, directly or indirectly, shares in responsible for running the Company, and those of the Chief the operating subsidiaries; Executive Officer are set out by law. • to finance Group subsidiaries to provide them with optimal His powers may be limited by the Board of Directors in accordmarket conditions, either directly or via Plastic Omnium ance with the Company’s decision-making structures. Finance (the Group’s central corporate treasury); The Board of Directors determines, in accordance with the law, • and to grant Group subsidiaries the right to use the brands it the extent and duration of the powers conferred on the Chief owns. This is subject to a license fee paid by the licensees Operating Officers. Chief Operating Officers have the same (see the Statutory Auditors’ report on related-party agreepowers as the Chief Executive Officer with regard to third parties. ments). Subject to approval by the Shareholders’ Meeting of the change to the last paragraph in Article 13 of the bylaws, the age limit for the position of Chairman of the Board of Directors shall be eighty years and the age limit for the positions of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Of-ficer shall be seventy-five years. 256 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Statutory Auditors Agreements which, if implemented, could either provoke a change of control of the The financial statements of Compagnie Plastic Omnium are audited by two sets of Principal Statutory Auditors, in compliance Company, or could delay, postpone or prevent with Article L. 225-228 of the Code de Commerce. such a change Principal Statutory Auditors There is currently no bylaw, charter, regulation or provision that Ernst & Young and others could delay, postpone or prevent a change of control. Represented by Gilles Puissochet Tour First Material contracts 1, place des Saisons In March 2017, the Group finalized the sale to the American group 92037 Paris-la-Défense Cedex Flex|N|Gate of 7 European plants whose disposal was required by Mazars the European Commission in the context of the Faurecia Auto Represented by Juliette Decoux Exterior acquisition. 61, rue Henri Régnault On June 30, 2017, the Group signed an agreement for the 92075 Paris-la-Défense Cedex disposal of the heavy truck composites business to the German group mutares. Alternate Auditors On December 18 and 19, 2017 respectively, agreements were AUDITEX also signed for the acquisition of Optimum CPV and Swiss Tour First – 1, place des Saisons, 92037 Paris-la-Défense Cedex, Hydrogen, companies operating in the hydrogen fuel cell propulFrance. sion sector. Gilles Rainaut There are no other material contracts apart from those agreed in the normal course of business. 61, rue Henri Régnault, 92075 Paris-la-Défense Cedex, France The Company’s material financial contracts are described in The term of the Principal and Alternate Statutory Auditors was Note 2 – Significant events of the period to the consolidated renewed for a period of six years during the Shareholders’ financial statements. Meeting of April 28, 2016. The Statutory Auditors are members of the Versailles Auditors’ Association (Compagnie régionale de Versailles). Dependence Compagnie Plastic Omnium is not currently dependent on any Agreements entered into by the Company patents or manufacturing processes owned by third parties or on any special supplying contracts. which would change or end if control In the sector of the automotive industry in which Compagnie of the Company changed Plastic Omnium operates, sub-contractors do not generally define The bonds issued in October 2012, May 2013 and June 2017 the specifications for sub-contracted parts. When, exceptionally, include a clause allowing the investor to demand redemption or sub-contractors are able to do so, the Group’s policy is to define repurchase of his bond(s) if control over the Company changes. contractually the arrangements for the sub-contractor to transfer There is a similar clause in most other Group financing contracts. the design work, in order to be able to be used with other services. 08 OTHER INFORMATION PLASTIC OMNIUM 257 List of Regulated Information Published During the Last 12 Months 8.2 List of Regulated Information Published During the Last 12 Months Nature of the information References for the publications or releases Business and results 1st quarter revenue, 2017 April 25, 2017 First-half results, 2017 July 21, 2017 3rd quarter revenue, 2017 October 24, 2017 Full-year results, 2017 February 15, 2018 Share performance Half-year balance sheet 2017 from the liquidity agreement July 4, 2017 Full-year balance sheet 2017 from the liquidity agreement January 8, 2018 Declaration of transactions involving treasury stock April 10, April 13, May 22, May 29, November 7, November 20, November 27, December 4, December 11, December 18, 2017 Declaration of voting rights May 5, June 7, July 10, August 23, September 6, October 10, December 5, 2017, January 8, February 5, March 6, 2018 Regulated and permanent information 2017 Interim Results Report in French July 21, 2017 2017 Interim Results Report in English July 21, 2017 2017 Registration Document in French March 12, 2018 2017 Registration Document in English March 12, 2018 Plastic Omnium in China: Strong growth continues, doubling of revenue April 19, 2017 to 1.3 billion in 2021 Plastic Omnium draws upon the knowledge of internationally-renowned May 22, 2017 outside experts to boost its innovative capacity Plastic Omnium completes a €500 million bond issue, over 7 years, June 19, 2017 at 1.25% interest Plastic Omnium sells its heavy truck operations July 3, 2017 First-half 2017: strong growth in revenue and results, July 21, 2017 2021 revenue above €10 billion Capital reduction (cancellation of treasury stock) (0.98%) August 21, 2017 Plastic Omnium attends the 67th Motor Show in Frankfurt: the clean, September 11, 2017 connected car of the future Plastic Omnium, planned disposal of the Environment Division September 20, 2017 Economic revenue at September 30, 2017: €5,901 million October 24, 2017 Very sharp growth in Automotive operations: +22.6% Plastic Omnium invests in a venture capital fund November 9, 2017 Plastic Omnium invests in a €20 million extension to its global November 28, 2017 Research and Development center in Lyon Plastic Omnium, a growth and innovation strategy to SHAPE THE FUTURE December 13, 2017 NOW! Jean-Pierre Raffarin appointed as Director of Plastic Omnium in China January 11, 2018 Plastic Omnium is strengthening its position as world leader of front-end March 1, 2018 modules The press releases have been posted on the website of the French Financial Market Authority (Autorité des Marchés Financiers) and can be viewed on the Plastic Omnium website, www.plasticomnium.com. 258 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 09 NOTES 9.1 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE260 9.2 GLOSSARIES265 9.1.1 Registration document cross-reference table 260 9.2.1 Financial glossary 265 9.1.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table 263 9.2.2 Technical and sustainable 9.1.3 Management Report cross-reference table 264 development glossary 267 Cross-reference tables ﻿ 9.1 Cross-reference tables 9.1.1. REGISTRATION CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 1 RESPONSIBLE PERSON 269 2 STATUTORY AUDITORS 257 3 SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 7-8 4 RISK FACTORS 19-27 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 5.1 — Company history and development 9-11 5.1.1 — Business and trade name of the issuer 255 5.1.2 — Issuer’s place of registration and number 255 5.1.3 — Term of the issuer 255 5.1.4 — Issuer’s registered office and legal form, legislation governing its business activities, country of origin, address and telephone number of its registered office inside back cover 5.1.5 — M aterial events in the development of the issuer’s business activities 9-11, 13-14, 134-139, 211 5.2 — M ain investments 13-14, 134-139 5.2.1 — Investments made 8, 13-14, 134-138, 116 5.2.2 — Ongoing investments 134-138 5.2.3 — Investments to be made 116 6 OVERVIEW OF BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 6.1 — Main business activities 14-18, 140-146 6.2 — Main markets 14-16, 144 6.3 — Extraordinary events N/A 6.4 — Degree of dependence on patents, licenses, industrial, trade or financial agreements or on new manufacturing processes 257 6.5 — Competitive positioning 14-16 7 ORGANIGRAMME 7.1 — Description of the group 12 7.2 — List of major subsidiaries 12, 228, 197-204 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPEMENT 8.1 — Existing or planned material property, plant and equipment and any major spending relating thereto 116, 137-138, 157-160 8.2 — Environmental issues that could influence the use, by the issuer, of its property, plant and equipment 93-100 9 REVIEW OF FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS 9.1 — Financial position 113-116 9.2 — Net operating income (loss) 114-115 9.2.1 — Material factors with a significant impact on net operating income (loss) 19-22 260 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 9.2.2 — Explanation of changes in revenue or income 113-115 9.2.3 — Strategy or factors of a governmental, economic, budgetary, monetary or political nature having had, or that could have in the future, a direct, or indirect, material impact on the issuer’s transactions 19-23 10 CASH FLOW AND CAPITAL 10.1 — Equity capital 115-116 10.2 — Source and amount of cash flows 122-123 10.3 — Information on the issuer’s borrowing conditions and financing structure 62, 179-182 10.4 — Information about any restriction on the use of equity capital or any restriction that could have a direct, or indirect, material influence on the issuer’s operations N/A 10.5 — Information on expected financing sources for planned investments N/A 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES 16-18 12 TRENDS 12.1 — Main trends affecting production since the end of the last fiscal year 116 12.2 — Commitments likely to have a material impact on the issuer’s outlook N/A 13  PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES N/A 14 ADMINISTRATIVE, GOVERNING AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT 14.1 — Administrative and governing bodies 29-46 14.2 — Conflicts of interest in terms of administrative and governing bodies 41 15 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 15.1 — Amount of compensation and benefits in kind 47-54 15.2 — Total amount of sums set aside or recognized in order to pay pensions, and other post-employment benefits 50-52, 176-177 16 OPERATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND GOVERNING BODIES 16.1 — Expiry date of current terms of office 30 16.2 — Service contract binding members of administrative bodies 42 16.3 — Audit committee and compensation committee information 44-46 16.4 — Compliance with current corporate governance 47 17 EMPLOYEES 17.1 — N umber of employees 68, 82-85, 193 17.2 — Non-discretionary profit-sharing and stock options 52-57, 170-173 17.3 — Agreement on non-discretionary profit-sharing N/A 18 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 18.1 — Shareholders owning over 5% of share capital 62 18.2 — Existence of different voting rights 57 18.3 — Direct or indirect ownership or control of the issuer 62 18.4 — Agreement, known to the issuer, which could lead to a future change in its control 257 09 ANNEXES PLASTIC OMNIUM 261 Cross-reference tables ﻿ 19 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS 195, 234-235 20 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING THE ASSETS, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS OF THE ISSUER 20.1 — Historical financial reporting 7-8, 117-204, 212-226 20.2 — Pro forma financial reporting N/A 20.3 — Financial statements 117-204 20.4 — Audit of historical annual reporting 205-209, 230-233 20.5 — Date of latest financial reporting 258 20.6 — Interim financial reporting N/A 20.7 — Dividend distribution policy 238 20.8 — Legal arbitration procedures 22 20.9 — M aterial change in the financial or commercial position since the end of the last fiscal year N/A 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 21.1 — Share capital 57-62, 214, 227 21.2 — Constitution and bylaws 255 22 MATERIAL CONTRACTS 257 23 INFORMATION FROM THIRD PARTIES, EXPERT STATEMENTS AND DECLARATION OF INTERESTS N/A 24 DOCUMENTS ACCESSIBLE TO THE PUBLIC 256 25 INFORMATION ON AFFILIATES 228 262 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 9.1.2 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE Pages 1. STATUTORY ACCOUNTS 2017 211-235 2. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 113-209 3. MANAGEMENT REPORT (FRENCH MONETARY AND FINANCIAL CODE) Analysis of business development 9-11 Analysis of results 113-116 Analysis of the financial position 14-15, 113-116 Risk factors and control 19-27 Subsequent events 116 4. STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 269 5. INFORMATION ON STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES 196 6. STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 230-233 7. STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 205-209 8. SPECIAL REPORT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS ON RELATED PARTY AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS 234-235 9. REPORT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 29-63 09 ANNEXES PLASTIC OMNIUM 263 Cross-reference tables ﻿ 9.1.3 MANAGEMENT REPORT CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE INFORMATION ON THE GROUP’S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS IN 2017 1. The Company’s position and results of operations during the year  14-16, 113-116 2. Significant events of the year 2017  13-14, 116 3. Information on research and development  16-18 4. Outlook and Post-balance Sheet Events  116 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS 2017 5. Comments on the Statutory Accounts  211 6. Balance Sheet  21 3 7. Income Statement  21 2 8. Five-Year Financial Summary  227 9. Subsidiaries and affiliates  228 10. Supplier and customer payment terms as referred to in Article D. 441-4 of the French Commercial Code 229 RISK FACTORS 11. Business risks (operational, industrial and environmental risks)  19-20 12. Credit and/or counterparty risk (customers, suppliers, liquidity)  20-21 13. Market risks (Foreign exchange, rates, raw materials prices)  21-22 14. Legal risks (intellectual property, quality, compliance with competition law)  22 15. Tax risk  22-23 16. Insurance and Risk Coverage  23 17. Internal control risks  23-27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18. L  ist of the corporate offices and positions held in any company by each corporate officer during the year  31-39 19. Compensation and benefits paid to each corporate officer during the year  47-54 20. B reakdown of fixed and variable elements of compensation and benefits and their calculation criteria  48-54 21. Description of the share buyback program  61 22. Information on stock-options and awards of free shares  55-57 23. Transactions completed by senior managers, and persons closely related to them, in the Company’s shares  55 SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIETAL INFORMATION 24. Information on the way in which the Group addresses the environmental, social and societal consequences of its activity  65-100 25. CSR challenges and key performance indicators  72-76 26. Report of the independent third-party  107-109 INFORMATION REGARDING THE SHARE CAPITAL 27. Information related to the breakdown of the share capital and Treasury stock – Description of the share buyback program  60-62 28. Changes made during the year in the composition of share capital  61-62 29. Information regarding the equity capital  57-62 30. Information about Shareholders  62 31. Trading data  238-239 32. Change in dividends per share over five years  238 264 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Glossaries ﻿ 9.2 Glossaries 9.2.1 FINANCIAL GLOSSARY A AMF (French Financial Markets Financial institution and French independent administrative authority whose role is to set the Authority) operating and ethics rules of the markets, monitor the markets and protect investors and shareholders. B Broker Intermediary between a buyer and a seller, the broker facilitates trades between different traders or asset managers. C Capital expenditures and Corresponds to acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net of disposals, projects the net change in advances to suppliers of fixed assets and investment subsidies received (see Statement of Cash Flows and Note I.5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, line E “Net cash used in operations”). Consolidated revenue In accordance with IFRS 10, 11 and 12, consolidated revenue does not include the Company’s share of the revenue of joint ventures, which are accounted for by the equity method. E EBITDA Corresponds to the operating margin which includes the share of profit of associates and joint ventures before allowances for depreciation and operating provisions. Economic revenue Corresponds to consolidated revenue, plus revenue from the Group's joint ventures, consolidated at their percentage of ownership. BPO, HBPO and YFPO for Plastic Omnium Automotive. The figure reflects the operational and managerial realities of the Group. Equities Negotiable security representing a fraction of a company's share capital. Equities grant certain rights to its shareholders. The share may be held in registered or bearer form. Euronext Paris Market operator which organizes, manages and develops the Paris securities markets. It performs a market regulatory function (financial transactions, monitoring of brokers) through delegation of the AMF. Ex-dividend date The date on which the share's dividend is paid. The dividend amount is deducted from the closing price on the day preceding the ex-dividend date. The dividend will then be received by the shareholder on the payment date. On the ex-dividend date, the opening price theoretically loses the equivalent value of the dividend from its closing price of the day before. F Float Portion of the equity capital available to the public and used in stock market trading. Plastic Omnium's float is 39.26%. Free cash flow Corresponds to the operating cash flow, less tangible and intangible investments net of disposals, taxes and net interest paid +/the change in working capital requirements (cash surplus from operations). G Gearing The net debt rate (net debt/shareholders' equity) is the ratio which measures a company's level of indebtedness in relation to its shareholders' equity. I IFRS (International Financial International accounting standards established by the IASB (International Accounting Standards Reporting Standards) Board). Since January 1, 2005, the preparation of consolidated financial statements is mandatory for all listed companies in Europe to facilitate the comparison of their financial positions. M Market capitalization Value of all the shares of a company on the market at a given time. It is equal to the sock market price multiplied by the number of shares comprising the equity capital of the company. N Net debt Includes all long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts less loans, marketable debt instruments and other non-current financial assets, and cash and cash equivalents. Net dividend per share Share of the net income of a company distributed to shareholders. Its amount is voted on by shareholders at the Shareholders' Meeting, after approval of the annual financial statements and on the recommendation of the Board of Directors. Net profit Group share The profit or loss of the company is obtained by adding the operating margin, other income and expenses, net financing expenses, net income after tax of discontinued, or being discontinued, operations and by deducting net income tax and earnings payable to minority shareholders. 09 ANNEXES PLASTIC OMNIUM 265 Glossaries ﻿ O Operating margin Corresponds to the operating income including the share of profit of entities accounted for by the equity method and the amortization of acquired intangible assets, before other operating income and expenses. P Par value Initial value of a share set in the bylaws of a company. The share capital of a company is the product of the par value of the share multiplied by the total number of shares. Q Quorum Minimum percentage of shares present or represented and having the right to vote, necessary for the Shareholders' Meeting to legally deliberate. R Roadshow Institutional investor meetings during which the company's senior managers and/or the Investor relations team communicates their net income, their markets and their strategy. ROCE (Return on capital Return on capital employed: is the ratio of the operating margin compared to the sum of shareholders' employed) equity and net financial debt. S Share buyback Transaction where a company buys its own shares on the market, up to a threshold of 10% of its share capital and after authorization by the shareholders given at the Shareholders' Meeting Shares bought back are not included in the calculation of earnings per share and do not receive dividends. Shareholders’ equity The shareholders' equity is the financial resources of the Company (excluding debt) and is comprised of share capital, reserves, net income for the year and operating subsidies. Shareholder of an administered Equities held in administered registered form are registered with the listed company, but their registered share management remains with the financial intermediary who remains the preferred contact for all transactions. Shareholder of bearer shares Shares are held in an account opened with a financial intermediary (bank, broker). Shareholder of pure registered Equities held in pure registered form are held with the listed company, who has delegated the share management of them to its financial intermediary. SRD (Deferred Settlement Paid service enabling, for the most liquid shares, to defer the payment for orders and delivery of Service) shares until the last stock market day of the month. SRI Socially responsible investor Socially responsible investment includes, in addition to the usual financial criteria, environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria in the analysis and investment process. Subscription option It gives the right to subscribe for, at a price fixed in advance and during a pre-determined period, (Stock option) shares of a company. T Treasury stock Treasury shares represent the portion of the share capital held by the company which issued them. They do not have voting rights and do not receive dividends. Treasury shares A portion of the Treasury stock held by a company, regulated and capped at 10%. 266 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Glossaries ﻿ 9.2.2 TECHNICAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GLOSSARY B Bilan Carbone (carbon footprint) The Bilan Carbone, a registered trademark of the French Environment and Energy Management Agency (ADEME), is a tool to account for greenhouse gas emissions; it takes into account the primary and final energy used to make a product and/or provide a service. C Circular Economy The circular economy is an economic concept that is notably inspired by the ideas of the green economy, the economy of use or the economy of functionality, the performance economy and industrial ecology. It aims to produce goods and services whilst significantly limiting the consumption and waste of raw materials, and the use of non-renewable energy sources. CMR Carcinogenic, Mutagenic and Reprotoxic substance. Composite A composite material is an assembly of at least two immiscible components (but with a high penetration ability) with properties that complement each other. This process enhances the material’s performance for certain uses (lightness, rigidity, etc.). CO2 Carbon dioxide, or carbon gas, mainly from the combustion of hydrocarbons and coal (industry, energy generation, transport, etc.). CSR (Corporate Social CSR for Plastic Omnium is structured around three focus areas with the aim of becoming the leading Responsibility) partner for sustainable mobility: • sustainable production; • attention to employees; • responsible entrepreneurs. F Fuel cell This is an electrochemical device that produces electricity by reverse electrolysis of water. G GHG (Greenhouse gases) Greenhouse gases (GHG) are gas components that absorb the infrared radiation emitted by the Earth’s surface, and contribute to the greenhouse effect. Their increased concentration in the Earth’s atmosphere is one of the factors causing global warming. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) A not-for-profit organization that aims to develop directives applicable worldwide with respect to corporate sustainable development policies and reporting. www.globalreporting.org I ISO 14001 International environmental management system standard. ISO 50001 International energy management system standard. H HSE (Health, Safety and A function that deals with workplace Health, Safety and Environment issues. Environment) Hybrid This is a general operating principle which consists of combining an electrical engine (often reversible as a generator) with a combustion engine to propel a vehicle. Hydrogen «Hydrogen vehicle» refers to any type of transport that uses the chemical transformation of hydrogen as a propulsion energy source. Hydro-soluble paint Paint that uses water and not solvents as thinners. N NOx Comprising nitrogen and oxygen and including nitric acid and nitrogen dioxide gases. NOx are mainly produced by the combustion of hydrocarbons. O OHSAS 18001 International workplace health and safety management system standard. Open Innovation Plastic Omnium has chosen an «open innovation» approach. Its three main focuses are environmental sustainability, or how to move towards clean propulsion systems; the autonomous car and the shared vehicle, or how to integrate the new IT, data capture and processing technologies; and industrial performance (4.0 plant) or how to use data to create the most efficient production and logistics technologies while developing employees’ skills. R RobecoSAM RobecoSAM (Sustainable Asset Management): an asset manager specializing in sustainable investments and the analysis of non-financial corporate performance (environmental, social, governance, etc.). The quality of the analysis produced has led it to create and manage jointly with Standard and Poors the “Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes”, a family of indexes that assess the sustainable performance of the 2,500 largest companies ranked in the Dow Jones Global Total Stock Market Index. www.sustainability-index.com 09 ANNEXES PLASTIC OMNIUM 267 Glossaries ﻿ S SCR (Selective Catalytic Through the injection of the additive AdBlue®, this technology reduces NOx emissions (nitrogen oxides Reduction) which have adverse health effects) by 95%. T Tf1 Workplace accident frequency rate with lost time: number of workplace accidents with lost time multiplied by 1 million, divided by the number of hours worked (including temporary staff). Tf2 Workplace accident frequency rate with and without lost time: number of workplace accidents with and without lost time multiplied by 1 million, divided by the number of hours worked (including temporary staff). Tg (severity rate) Severity rate of workplace accidents: number of days lost as a result of accidents multiplied by one thousand, divided by the number of hours worked (including temporary staff). Thermosetting Polymer that hardens under heat. The constituting molecules connect to each other, making the polymer more rigid. Plastic Omnium uses this material in automotive parts for its lightness and resistance properties. Thermoplastic A thermoplastic material is one that softens (we sometimes observe fusion) repeatedly when heated above a certain temperature, but which becomes hard again below that temperature. TOP Planet Energy management system applicable to all subsidiaries and joint ventures controlled by Plastic Omnium. TOP Safety System to manage the security of people and property applicable to all subsidiaries and joint ventures controlled by Plastic Omnium. V VOCs Volatile Organic Compounds: VOCs comprising carbon, oxygen and hydrogen are easily found in gas form in the atmosphere. They are mainly the result of solvent evaporation. 268 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT DECLARATION BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT (AFR) Person responsible for the Registration Document NAME OF THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT CONTAINING THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Laurent Burelle, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Compagnie Plastic Omnium. DECLARATION BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT Laurent Burelle, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer I declare that, to the best of my knowledge, all reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the information contained in this Registration Document reflects the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements are drawn up in accordance with the accounting standards applicable and give a true and fair view of the assets, financial position and results of the company and the companies the Group consolidates, and the information in the management report gives a fair view of the business development results and financial position of the Company and the companies the Group consolidates, and describes the main risks and uncertainties to which they are exposed. I have received a completion letter from the Statutory Auditors in which they state that they have checked the information relating to the financial position and the financial statements appearing in this document and that they have read through the document in its entirety. Levallois, March 9, 2018 Laurent Burelle Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 09 ANNEXES PLASTIC OMNIUM 269 FIND OUT MORE Read our Follow us latest news @PlasticOmnium www.plasticomnium.com linkedin.com/company/plastic-omnium Download the app Plastic Omnium IR is available free of charge from App Store and Play Store so you can follow our share price in real time and read our latest financial news. 270 2017 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 1, allée Pierre Burelle – 92593 Levallois Cedex – France Tel. : +33 (0)1 40 87 64 00 – Fax : + 33 (0)1 47 39 78 98 www.plasticomnium.com COMPAGNIE PLASTIC OMNIUM Incorporated in France with limited liability and issued capital of 9,058,603.20 euros Headquarters: 19, boulevard Jules Carteret – 69007 Lyon – France Registered in Lyon, no. 955 512 611 – APE business identification code: 6420 Z Design and production: . Project coordination: Cap & Cime PR. This document is also available in French. This document is printed on paper Heaven 42 SoftMatt certified PEFC. Printed in France – March 2018. 1, allée Pierre Burelle – 92 593 Levallois Cedex – France Tel.: +33 (0) 1 40 87 64 00 – Fax: +33 (0) 1 47 39 78 98 www.plasticomnium.com
