COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Report 2018 – 1 June 2018 UN GLOBAL COMPACT STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FROM CARLO BARAVALLE, MANAGER AND FOUNDING PARTNER I am pleased to confirm that Explora (“Explora”), as the Fund Manager of African Minerals Exploration & Development Fund SICAR (“Fund I”) African Minerals Exploration & Development Fund II SICAR (“Fund II”) and African Minerals Exploration & Development Fund III SICAR ( Fund III ) (collectively referred to as “AMED Funds”), herewith reaffirms on behalf of AMED Funds its continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (“UNGC”) covering human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. We furthermore renew our on-going commitment to the initiative and its principles. AMED Funds aim to conduct its business openly and with honesty and integrity, and strive to promote an organisational culture that endorse ethical conduct, conforms to best practices and treats all its employees, suppliers, service providers and the community with respect. We are honoured to submit herewith our Communication on Progress (“COP”) Report for 2018 which describes our actions to integrate the Ten Principles into our investment analysis and daily decision-making. __________________________________ Carlo Baravalle Manager and Founding Partner Financial and Investor Related Matters 2|Page Communication on Progress Report 2018 – 1 June 2018 ABOUT THIS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT The UNGC is a United Nations-backed initiative and voluntary framework for businesses to bring their activities, operations and business strategies in line with the Ten Principles that uphold a set of core values covering human rights, labour rights, environmental and anti-corruption practices. As a signatory we are dedicated and undertake to submit a COP Report to the UNGC annually. Please note that for the purposes of this COP Report that AMED Funds (and we and us ) shall mean Explora, Fund I, Fund II, Fund III, African Minerals Exploration & Development GP, African Minerals Exploration & Development II GP and their related affiliates and its or their partners, managers, members, directors, officers and employees, as the context requires. AMED Funds has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 7 June 2012. This, our sixth COP Report, highlights the activities of AMED Funds in respect of the Ten Principles for the period from 7 June 2017 to 1 June 2018. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our Commitment or Policy We have committed to support internationally proclaimed human rights as defined by the Universal Declarations of Human Rights and to ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. AMED Funds ensures that all the investments over which it has control are made in an open, honest and ethical manner and that these investments and their operations are conducted in a manner that uphold, protect and support the interests and rights of all human beings. We have conformed to best practices and treat all our employees, suppliers, service providers and the community with respect and take into consideration their interests when doing business. A brief description of our systems AMED Funds had introduced and adopted an internal Environmental, Social and Governance Policy (“ESG Policy”) on the 8th of April 2013, which has subsequently been updated on the 29th of May 2014 and on the 2nd of June 2017. The ESG Policy confirms that we uphold Principles 1 and 2 of the UNGC. We confirm herein once again that in accordance with the ESG Policy, compliance officers to whom any violations of human rights can be reported, are appointed. The ESG Policy stipulates the process that individuals should 3|Page Communication on Progress Report 2018 – 1 June 2018 follow to raise any concerns. AMED Funds will ensure that the procedures and policies are monitored and reviewed independently and externally by auditors from time to time. AMED Funds is currently in the process of implementing a revised ESG Policy. We reinforce the support and respect for the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights through leadership and peer example. Human rights also form a key element of our due diligence process. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The ESG Policy adopted by AMED Funds ensures that Principles 1 and 2 of the UNGC are upheld. Human rights are also included in our due diligence protocols for possible investments. We report quarterly to our investors on whether any ESG issues were experienced in the specific quarter. The ESG Policy will be reviewed from time to time, at least annually, from the date of adoption. The ESG Policy is continuously available on our website www.amedfunds.com. Measurable results or outcomes There have been no reported breaches of any human rights in the organisation. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Our Commitment or Policy All employees are free to join any trade union and we ensure that we comply with all applicable legislation. A brief description of our systems AMED Funds’ ESG Policy confirms that we uphold Principle 3 of the UNGC. In accordance with this ESG Policy, compliance officers to whom any violations of labour rights can be reported, are appointed. The ESG Policy stipulates the process that individuals should follow to raise any concerns. AMED Funds will ensure that the procedures and policies are monitored and reviewed independently and externally by auditors from time to time. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The ESG Policy confirms that we uphold Principle 3 of the UNGC. All employees are informed that they have access to this ESG Policy which explains the relevant channels to deal with any violations of labour rights. We report quarterly to our investors on whether any ESG issues were experienced in the specific quarter. AMED Funds will ensure that the procedures and policies are monitored and reviewed independently and externally by auditors from time to time. The ESG Policy will be reviewed from time to time, from the date of adoption. 4|Page Communication on Progress Report 2018 – 1 June 2018 Measurable results or outcomes There have been no reported breaches of any labour rights in the organisation. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Our Commitment or Policy AMED Funds supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. We prohibit the use of child labour in any form. A brief description of our systems We do not employ anyone below the mandatory schooling age and AMED Funds conducts strict preemployment screening. Labour rights also form a key element of our due diligence where we are (rarely) involved in projects in countries where violation of labour rights may be an issue. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We confirm that AMED Funds’ ESG Policy uphold Principles 4 and 5 of the UNGC. In accordance with the ESG Policy, compliance officers to whom any violations of labour rights can be reported, are appointed. The ESG Policy stipulates the process that individuals should follow to raise any concerns. We report quarterly to our investors on whether any ESG issues were experienced in the specific quarter. AMED Funds will ensure that the procedures and policies are monitored and reviewed independently and externally by auditors from time to time. The ESG Policy will be reviewed from time to time, at least annually, from the date of adoption. Measurable results or outcomes There have been no reported breaches of any labour rights in the organisation. 5|Page Communication on Progress Report 2018 – 1 June 2018 PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Commitment or Policy AMED Funds employs individuals on the basis of job requirement and does not discriminate on grounds of ethnic or social origin, gender, age, sexual orientation, politics, religion or disability. We endorse workplace equality and stress the importance that our employees are properly trained and that they work in healthy and environmentally responsible ways. We are of the opinion that diversity improves business results. We endeavour to create an inclusive culture in which difference is valued and acknowledged. By bringing together employees from diverse backgrounds and giving each person the opportunity to contribute their skills, experience and viewpoints, we have great confidence that we are developing innovative thinking and solutions to challenges and deliver sustainable value for AMED Funds and its stakeholders. We aspire to ensure the provision of a working-environment that is conducive to motivating employees and encouraging a high level of individual performance, while continuing to maintain the fundamental elements of the organisation’s culture, which include, but are not limited to, “team ethos” and pride in AMED Funds and its reputation. A brief description of our systems AMED Funds conducts equitable processes for all recruitment, promotion and remuneration. We ensure that these processes uphold human rights, equal opportunity requirements and relevant employee protection legislation. These processes also support employment and promotion on the basis of job requirements and merit. Some of the fundamental principles that underlie our workplace-environment are: • Freedom of speech; • Encouragement of a positive working environment, in which mutual respect, courteousness, trust and support are vital to relationships between management and employees; • We are committed to effective internal communication and support two-way dialogue; • Preserving a high level of motivation, satisfaction and retention of employees including through proper recognition by management of individual and team performance; • Fair-mindedness in handling of employee grievances, dispute resolution and discipline; • Encouragement of both the professional and the personal development of employees at all levels and in all areas through suitable career-planning; and • Safeguarding the wellbeing of employees and realizing to the extent possible, a ‘healthy’ work/life balance for all employees. 6|Page Communication on Progress Report 2018 – 1 June 2018 Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The ESG Policy confirms that we uphold Principle 6 of the UNGC. In accordance with the ESG Policy, compliance officers to whom any violations of labour rights and any incidences of discrimination can be reported, are appointed. The ESG Policy stipulates the process that individuals should follow to raise any concerns. We report quarterly to our investors on whether any ESG issues were experienced in the specific quarter. AMED Funds will ensure that the procedures and policies are monitored and reviewed independently and externally by auditors from time to time. The ESG Policy will be reviewed from time to time, from the date of adoption. Measurable results or outcomes Although managers treat all issues and complaints with seriousness and professionalism, we are glad to report that there have been no incidences of discrimination in the organisation in the past year. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. Our Commitment or Policy We agree that in the current climate, businesses should: • support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies. . AMED Funds recognises that the projects which it invests in and their business operations could impact the environment both positively and unfavorably and therefore acknowledges the importance of our ongoing commitment to uphold Principles 7, 8 and 9 of the UNGC. 7|Page Communication on Progress Report 2018 – 1 June 2018 A brief description of our systems We conduct, as part of our due diligence process when we consider to invest in a project, an investigation whether the relevant environmental and social impact assessment reports as required by the applicable authorities were compiled and submitted. In our decision-making process, we consider whether the highest international environmental standards and whether considerable effort has gone into studying the project’s potential environmental impacts. AMED Funds also considers if the assessment reports have been independently reviewed by qualified and knowledgeable third parties. Each project’s performance in relation to environmental matters is monitored by the senior management of the relevant project and through its board of directors. The board of directors then has to report these findings to the senior management of AMED Funds. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year AMED Funds’ ESG Policy confirms that we uphold Principle 7, 8 and 9 of the UNGC. The procedures and channels to report any violations of these environmental principles are clearly described in this ESG Policy. We report quarterly to our investors on whether any ESG issues were experienced in the specific quarter. AMED Funds will ensure that the procedures and policies are monitored and reviewed independently and externally by auditors from time to time. The ESG Policy will be reviewed from time to time, from the date of adoption. Measurable results or outcomes There have been no reported breaches. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Commitment or Policy We do not tolerate bribery or corruption in relation to our business, anywhere or in any form, and we comply with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in the countries in which we operate. As such, our ESG Policy is consistent with recent changes to legislation and, in particular, the UK Bribery Act. AMED Funds is committed to open communication and provides an avenue for employees to raise their concerns and we reassure them that they will be protected from reprisals or victimization for whistleblowing. A brief description of our systems Our internal ESG Policy confirms that we uphold Principle 10 of the UNGC. In accordance with the ESG Policy, compliance officers to whom any acts of bribery, extortion or corruption can be reported, are 8|Page Communication on Progress Report 2018 – 1 June 2018 appointed. The ESG Policy stipulates the process that individuals should follow to raise any concerns. AMED Funds will ensure that the procedures and policies are monitored and reviewed independently and externally by auditors from time to time. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year The ESG Policy confirms that we uphold Principle 10 of the UNGC. We report quarterly to our investors on whether any ESG issues were experienced in the specific quarter. The ESG Policy will be reviewed from time to time, at least annually, from the date of adoption. Measurable results or outcomes No obstacles have been experienced to date. The ESG Policy made all employees aware of the consequences related to corruption and bribery violations. Senior management also ensures that junior and mid-level employees are not put in situations where they can prove guilty or victim of such violations. CONTACT US Please inform us of your opinion. If you have any comments, concerns or questions on the contents of this COP Report, you are welcome to contact one of our representatives listed below. Camille Wisniewski Email: camille.wisniewski@amedfunds.com Carlo Baravalle Email: carlo.baravalle@amedfunds.com 9|Page
