2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Shaping the Future of Trade Contents Contents Contents 01 06 Leadership’s statement 04 People 36 Workplace 42 Leadership with purpose 50 Occupational Health and Safety 54 02 About this report 06 07 Marketplace 58 03 Governance Customer excellence Innovation 64 72 76 Key highlights 08 Responsible sourcing 78 Women’s empowerment 86 04 08 About DMCC 10 Environmental stewardship 90 What DMCC does 12 Environment and infrastructure 95 Sphere of influence 13 Environment and community 98 Creating value 14 Environment and operations 100 05 09 Driving sustainability 16 Creating strong communities 102 Supporting the national sustainability effort 18 Smart and sustainable city 106 Building a long-term vision 22 Partnership 107 Engaging stakeholders 26 Engagement 108 What matters most 32 GRI and UNGC index 112 Glossary 120 2 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 3 Leadership's statement Leadership's statement DMCC is committed LEADERSHIP’S to the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable STATEMENT Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals that The leaders of the UAE are dedicated relation to our contribution. outline a vision aimed to supporting a corporate culture of These are the goals in which we believe we at targeting the urgent accountability and transparency and guiding can make the greatest difference through our a country that contributes to a sustainable business activities and they are highlighted in environmental, political and inclusive global economy. The UAE the relevant sections throughout this report. and economic challenges increasingly plays a part on the global stage, facing our world. exhibiting a leadership role for the region Our first sustainability report covers our and joining major players in the international growth, journey and footprint for 2017 drive to take responsibility and work for a and highlights our contribution to the Ahmed Bin Sulayem Executive Chairman, DMCC sustainable future for generations to come. UAE’s economy. As a government entity, a preeminent free zone and a unique DMCC is committed to the UN’s 2030 commodities eco-system, we aim to lead Agenda for Sustainable Development and its the field in sustainability, demonstrating 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) a leadership role and strong influence for that outline a vision aimed at targeting the progressive growth and positive change. urgent environmental, political and economic challenges facing our world. Locally, we are We aware of the critical significance of fully behind the government’s initiatives and embedding sustainability through everything align our activities with the UAE’s Vision we do, and we look forward to collaborating 2021. Being aligned to these high-level global with our stakeholders in delivering our We are signatories to sustainability initiatives makes sound business sustainability journey. the UN Global Compact sense; through them we can create value for and its 10 principles that both business and society; by revitalising partnerships and co-operation; by building our aim to meet fundamental reputation and brand equity; by identifying responsibilities in the operational efficiencies and improvements; Ahmed Bin Sulayem by innovating new products and services and Executive Chairman, DMCC areas of human rights, by building stronger relationships with our labour, environment and stakeholders. anti-corruption. We are committed to building partnerships that contribute to the UN agenda. We have Gautam Sashittal, Gautam Sashittal identified the most important global goals in Chief Executive Officer, DMCC Chief Executive Officer, DMCC 4 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 5 About this report About this report GRI 102-46 ABOUT THIS Reporting period The report presents the sustainability The report was developed by DMCC with REPORT performance of DMCC from 1 January to 31 December 2017. Activity conducted outside the reporting timeframe is also referenced in support from a global consultancy, which also conducted the assurance readiness exercise. Welcome to the first DMCC the report where relevant. DMCC reporting topic boundaries2 Sustainability Report. The report covers Information covered The report topic boundaries include entities the 2017 calendar year and it has been The report details DMCC’s approach and performance in managing its environmental, over which DMCC has direct control as disclosed in Chapter 4 ‘About DMCC prepared in accordance with the GRI social and economic impact. The report Sphere of influence’. This report does not registers progress under four pillars: include disclosures on DMCC subsidiaries: Standards: Core option. Marketplace, People, Community and Concordia, a facility management service Environment. provider, and Dubai Gold and Commodities Exchange (DGCX), which will be included in Reporting frameworks the 2018 sustainability report. Prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards ‘Core option’, the report includes Feedback DMCC’s Communication on Progress (CoP) DMCC welcomes your feedback in regards to on the United Nations Global Compact this report at DMCC.sdgs2030@dmcc.ae (UNGC) Principles. The report also outlines DMCC’s contribution to the United Nation’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) within the context of the UAE, UAE Vision 2021, and Dubai Plan 2021. Material topics Internal and external stakeholders were consulted during the DMCC materiality assessment workshops and interviews to help identify DMCC's environmental, social, and economic topics impact.1 1 Refer to Chapter 5 ‘Driving Sustainability What Matters Most’ for further information 2 DMCC follows GRI’s definition of topic boundary, which is to describe where the organisation’s environmental, social and economic impacts occur and the organisation’s involvement across its supply chain. 6 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 7 Key highlights Key highlights Marketplace KEY HIGHLIGHTS • The DMCC Innovation Hub – Launched in 2017 • The DMCC Sustainability Knowledge Series – Launched in 2018 • The SDG Awareness campaign – Launched in 2018 to promote the UN SDGs to DMCC employees and member companies • Policy updates – Published in the areas of Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Combating the Financing of Terrorism (CFT) • Zero reported incidents of corruption • Zero fines for non-compliance with social and economic laws or regulations • Participation in the OECD Alignment Assessment on the implementation of the DMCC Responsible Sourcing Programme First free zone in the GCC First free zone in the UAE • 88% of total procurement budget spent by DMCC on local suppliers, up from 81% in 2016 to join the UNGC to sign United Nations Women’s Empowerment • New Fraud Control policy – Launched in 2018 to target the prevention, deterrence, detection Principles (UN WEPs) and investigation of all forms of fraud • Membership in the UAE WEPs Taskforce and gap analysis on WEPs Assessment People • 333 – Permanent employees of 44 nationalities Environment Community • 37 – Average number of training hours per employee per • Construction standards – The Uptown • DMCC Smart and Sustainable District year, a 42% increase from 2016 Dubai district is currently under Strategy – Launched in 2018 construction and aims for Leadership in • zero – Employee fatalities Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) • Zero major safety incidents in the DMCC green building standard Gold (BD+C) master community reported • zero – Employee lost time injury • Power saving – 25 parking structures within • Volunteering policy – Day for Dubai • 87% – Overall employee satisfaction rate the DMCC master community are fitted internal programme launched in 2018. with power saving LED lights DMCC provides opportunities for its • 24% – Emirati representation in the senior management employees to participate in volunteering team • Water usage – Prohibition of pressure activities three days per year washing car services within the DMCC • 12% – Emirati representation in the total workforce master community led to a 75% decrease in water consumption compared to 2016 • 18 – Employees received the certificate of attendance of the GRI certified training programme across 8 departments 8 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 9 About DMCC About DMCC ABOUT DMCC DMCC Values Headquartered in Dubai, DMCC is a HIGH PERFORMANCE Government of Dubai entity, the world’s We deliver consistent HIGH PERFORMANCE through the services we flagship free zone, and the leading trade offer and the partnerships we forge. and enterprise hub for commodities. COMMITTED We are COMMITTED to all our stakeholders, Whether developing vibrant neighbourhoods with a community of over employees, members, partners and 100,000 people and world-class property like Jumeirah Lakes Towers residents – and to our own success. We (JLT) and its much anticipated Uptown Dubai district, or delivering bring the energy, focus and resources high performance business services to over 15,000 companies from required to achieve our goals and bring our over 170 countries, DMCC provides everything its dynamic community mission to life. needs to live, work and thrive. Made for Trade, DMCC is proud to sustain and grow Dubai’s position as the place to be for global trade BOUNDLESS and enterprise today and long into the future. Our ambition is BOUNDLESS. It redefines world trade, constantly seeking new opportunities through bold and visionary ideas. Our vision COLLABORATIVE Our vision is to consolidate Dubai’s position as the centre of global trade by We are COLLABORATIVE in the way growing, and empowering the world’s most innovative and interconnected we work. Pulling together as a diverse free zone and by becoming the indispensable partner and preferred team and working with our members and destination for progressive businesses and their employees. partners to understand each other’s needs. CLARITY Our mission We are CLEAR on direction, stand by our MADE FOR TRADE – As a Government of Dubai entity, we are dedicated decisions, and take responsibility for our to enhancing Dubai’s position as the global gateway for trade. We help actions. our members connect and trade with businesses across Dubai, the UAE and the world. We draw on our resources to help shape and grow key industries, commodities and drive the future of trade. 10 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 11 About DMCC About DMCC WHAT DMCC SPHERE OF INFLUENCE DOES DMCC has many stakeholders with varying levels of influence over each DMCC is a free zone and one of the world’s DMCC is home to some of the world’s leading leading hubs for commodities, trade and brands from start-ups, to SMEs to large enterprise that successfully attracts industry corporates including globally renowned Indirect influence participants throughout the entire value chain corporations such as Alcatel Lucent, American of a wide range of commodity sectors along Express, Carrera Y Carrera, Colgate-Palmolive, • Industry and trade associations with a range of businesses from shipping Dyson, Eurofin, John West Foods, Lukoil, to trade, recruitment to IT and advertising, LVMH, Nutricia Danone, Oddfjell, TAG • Tower owner associations through to restaurants, retail stores, gyms, Worldwide. nurseries, luxury brands, universities and more. • Academic institutions DMCC manages the sale and lease of the • Government institutions Facilitating the responsible trade of property it owns as well as the maintenance commodities, DMCC provides the necessary of infrastructure and facilities within the its • Financial institutions platforms, regulatory frameworks and Jumeirah Lakes Towers (JLT) community. standards for the trade of gold, diamonds, tea • NGOs and coffee among others. DMCC encourages green building practices across its community. DMCC is building Companies licenced by DMCC, member its upcoming Uptown Dubai district in Direct influence companies, enjoy access to physical and accordance with the Leadership in Energy and financial infrastructure such as gold and Environmental Design (LEED) green building • Free zone member companies diamond vaults, trading platforms like the Gold standard set by the United States Green DGCX, the Dubai Commodities Clearing Building Council (USGBC). DMCC is also • Suppliers, contractors and sub-developers Corporation (DCCC), Dubai Diamond committed to supporting the Government of • Members of DGD and members of Kimberly Exchange (DDE), DMCC Tradeflow, an online Dubai’s Smart Dubai initiative3. Process certification platform for registering possession and ownership of commodities and the DMCC Tea • JLT community Centre. Direct control • Free zone regulatory activities • DMCC’s owned and leased properties DMCC was awarded global free • DMCC permanent employees zone of the year by the Financial • DMCC assets and infrastructure Times fDi Magazine in 2017 for the third year running • Subsidiaries (Concordia, DGCX and DCCC) 3 Refer to Chapter 7 ‘Marketplace’ for further information. 12 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 13 About DMCC About DMCC Offering Value creation CREATING VALUE A unique combination of free zone status, residential and commercial property, commodity exchanges and legal and regulatory frameworks. Building awareness As a leading free zone, DMCC builds partnerships to positively contribute to the UN SDG 2030 agenda. Through its DMCC supplies its member companies with the services, infrastructure, regulatory framework Free Zone Sustainability Knowledge Series, DMCC and expertise required to grow. raises awareness about key sustainability • Licensing and company formation topics. The seminars provide a platform • 0% corporate and income tax to share knowledge and expertise • 100% company ownership among the business community and are • No capital repatriation restrictions 15K • Creating, nurturing designed to inspire change. • Online solutions and growing unique • Portfolio of services such as: legal clinics; marketplaces Dubai as global gateway for trade insurance and recruitment services; dependent Member With the combined revenue of its visa applications; medical fitness applications; companies member companies, DMCC contributes and property brokerage 9.8% to Dubai’s GDP. • Over 15,000 member Commodities Constant innovation and world-class companies with Facilitator and standards setter for key infrustructure more than 60,000 commodities sectors: regulatory activities to Innovation is at the heart of DMCC’s employees bring confidence to trade. Industry participants strategy to developing new business and DMCC member companies have access to a solutions and transform the JLT • Regulation and variety of trading platforms such as DGCX, DDE, community into a smart and sustainable compliance and DMCC Tradeflow, and the DMCC Tea Centre. district. Uptown Dubai, The Dubai practices Design Academy (DDA) and DMCC • Constant innovation Coffee Centre are currently under and world-class development and examples of this infrustructure approach. • Robust governance and Wellbeing and happiness regulatory model Value adding activities The JLT community is a family friendly community with over 100,000 people Better connectivity living and working across 68 towers, An interconnected free zone and a strategic complete with a 55,000m2 central park gateway linking businesses to the fast-growing and a network of promenades along its markets of the Middle East and beyond. lakes. With multiple choices for leisure, Resources and assets sporting and recreational facilities, JLT World-class customer experience is a vibrant community that promotes Talent Partnership and suppliers Development of services and support for customers, healthy living. A skilled and diverse workforce comprised of Industry and trade associations, financial ranging from multinational corporations to startover 44 nationalities institutions, government institutions and ups, where the majority of DMCC end-to-end international connectivity. business solutions are digital self-service solutions. Infrastructure and property A business and residential community spread Financial capital Connect market and people across 200 hectares and 68 towers. An Stable financial standing to ensure Stakeholder engagement is central to DMCC’s inspiring property environment with aspirations investment in future growth mission to connect markets, businesses and people. to become a smart and sustainable JLT district. 14 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 15 Driving sustainability Driving sustainability DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY 16 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 17 Driving sustainability Driving sustainability SUPPORTING THE NATIONAL SUSTAINABILITY EFFORT The commitment of the UAE to sustainable development is at the heart of the country’s vision for its future. Role in society DMCC plays an important role for its customers, the economy and society at large, and therefore has a responsibility to create The 17 SDGs were unanimously adopted by 193 UN member states in September 2015 as a long-term value for all stakeholders. universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity. The SDGs will guide DMCC policy until 2030 and beyond. Sustainability is an integral part of DMCC’s DNA and its future success. DMCC is committed to building partnerships that contribute to the SDGs agenda and as such, has identified the most pertinent global goals to its status as a global free zone. DMCC is committed to the UAE Vision 2021. As a leading free zone authority, DMCC has the responsibility to facilitate and drive the UAE Leadership agenda to its member companies and the The UAE led the 22-strong Arab countries wider JLT community. group in the SDGs negotiations and, in AINABILITY SUST January 2017, formed a National Committee Partnership building, awareness and education on SDGs to facilitate the UAE National on topics such as responsible sourcing, gender Implementation plan for SDGs. equality, employee welfare and climate are part of DMCC's mission. DMCC’s membership People The UAE has made remarkable achievements to the Global Compact reflects this vision. based on federal and local strategies and In August 2017, DMCC became signatory AWARENESS AWARENESS initiatives, including the UAE Vision 2021, the of UNGC. In September 2017 the Executive Community Marketplace UAE Centennial 2071, and the UAE Energy Chairman and CEO attended the UN Private Strategy 2050 among others. Sector Forum in New York. In addition, the UAE Ministry of Economy DMCC has worked closely with the UAE Global Environment announced a Corporate Social Responsibility Compact Local Network to increase awareness (CSR) programme in June 2017, which consists about the Global Compact principles and the of 11 initiatives to increase charitable activities 17 SDGs. across the UAE such as volunteering alongside AINABILITY SUST social and environmental initiatives. 18 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 19 Driving sustainability Driving Driving Sustainability sustainability UAE Vision 2021 Dubai Plan 2021 DMCC Initiatives Perspective Sustainability Reporting Wellbeing programme Diversity and inclusion People Cohesive society and City of happy, creative preserved identity and empowered people Leadership academy Competitive Inclusive and cohesive Emiratisation knowledge economy society Health and safety Iris Van der Veken, Employee welfare Director, International Public Affairs, DMCC Governance and compliance Preferred place to live, Marketplace work and visit Customer excellence Competitive knowledge economy Pivotal hub in the global Sustainability awareness economy and capacity building Safe public and fair Q: How does DMCC define sustainability? Q: Can you please share your future plans in judiciary Pioneering and excellent Innovation and Sustainability for DMCC is about building the sustainability space? government digitalisation shared value and working collaboratively to We are experiencing historical momentum deliver meaningful and lasting change for as DMCC is united by the UN’s 2030 Agenda Responsible sourcing good. It is also about setting the example by and the shared intention to drive vision into taking decisive action, and that is why DMCC action. Our roadmap enables us, as a free has embarked on a thorough and thoughtful zone, to serve as a catalyst for positive impact analysis of its activity and impact right across and growth. In the next five years, we want to Environment the organisation. Sustainability requires achieve qualitative and sustainable growth. Energy and emissions partnerships and collaboration more than ever, Performance counts. In addition, continuing to management Sustainable and it is a prerequisite for our growth plan. empower women is an integral part of driving environment and Smart and sustainable city the UN’s 2030 Agenda, and it is great to be Water preservation infrastructure Q: What do you believe are the major a part of an organisation that has officially challenges to sustainability? committed to the WEPs. Waste management Delivering a sustainability programme across any organisation is of course challenging. However, success is achieved through a process of continuous improvement, which takes time. Whilst DMCC has already made strides Sustainability for DMCC Sustainable is about building shared Community in the right direction in terms of sustainable environment and Smart and sustainable development, the principal challenge will value and working infrastructure Smart and sustainable city community be to build on this positive momentum and continually strengthen its systems and collaboratively to deliver Safe public and fair Inclusive and cohesive Volunteering processes. This journey is a team effort, across meaningful and lasting judiciary society the various DMCC departments. change for good. Cohesive society and Community engagement preserved identity 20 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 21 Driving sustainability Driving sustainability MADE FOR TRADE BUILDING A VISION LONG-TERM VISION DMCC commits to making a DMCC strives to be a valuable Purpose SHAPING THE positive impact across the value member of the communities in which and Mission FUTURE OF chain – through our people, it operates, as well as society at large. TRADE connections and Free Zone. DMCC’s sustainability strategy is anchored Global by four key pillars: Goals Local Actions Core PEOPLE MARKET PLACE ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY Pillars Embracing diversity Collectively raising Protecting Supporting JLT and fostering standards for how the environment and society at wellbeing business is done large People Marketplace Environment Community Wellbeing programmes Governance Energy Smart and Embracing Collectively Protecting the Supporting JLT and compliance managment sustainable Diversity and inclusion diversity and raising standards environment and society at Sustainability GHG emissions community fostering wellfor how business large Leadership awareness and capacity Volunteering academy building Preserve water being is done Community Emiratisation Waste managment engagement Objectives Innovation and digitalisation DMCC is DMCC is DMCC is DMCC is Health and safety Responsible committed to committed to committed to committed to Employee welfare sourcing providing a safe strong ethics working with working closely Women’s and rewarding and governance its members to with its member empowerment environment standards whilst build responsible companies and that promotes growing a global interaction with stakeholders Industry Government equality, trade hub as a the environment to create Employees Customers institutions Community Suppliers and trade associations happiness, health reliable partner for and reduce awareness and Key and wellbeing. business to thrive. the combined drive sustainable Stakeholders Reporting Financial Academic NGOs Media ecological development. agencies institutions institutions footprint. International Executive SDG Governance Management Public Affairs Champions Department Each pillar of the DMCC sustainability strategy is supported by a range of initiatives. While significant progress has been made, DMCC acknowledges that the full Dubai as a Shared UAE Vison Balanced gateway for Operational Employer Wellbeing and integration of sustainable practices across the organisation and the free zone is a Value 2021 regulations excellence of choice happiness trade process of gradual and continuous improvement. 22 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 23 Driving sustainability Driving sustainability Commitment from the top SDG Champions Sustainable practice is firmly on the Engaging and uniting the DMCC agenda of the DMCC leadership, employees is an essential first step to ensuring strategic alignment and integrating sustainability across the integration across the organisation. organisation. The DMCC Executive Committee To drive alignment with the SDGS and has identified the organisation’s Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), DMCC material economic, social and appointed and trained 18 employees from environmental topics. These will across departments to become ‘SDG form part of the organisation’s Champions’ – a dedicated team tasked sustainability strategy. with implementing the sustainability strategy and raising awareness across the The International Public Affairs organisation. department is responsible for developing and ensuring the implementation of the sustainability strategy, supported by the ‘SDG Champions’. 24 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 25 Driving sustainability Driving sustainability GRI 102-42, 102-43 GRI 102-40, 102-43 ENGAGING Reporting STAKEHOLDERS agencies Every day, at every level of the Industry business, DMCC engages with and trade associations a large variety of stakeholders, Financial Academic both formally and informally. institutions institutions Customers Suppliers These interactions are crucial to DMCC, in that they enable it to DMCC respond effectively to business opportunitites and challenges. The Employees engagement also helps DMCC to better understand, prioritise and manage its sustainability impact and evolve its business model accordingly. The key stakeholder groups on the next page were identified through a DMCC stakeholder mapping exercise. Communities Government institutions DMCC engages with stakeholders through a variety of mechanisms, including direct dialogue, roadshows, surveys, professional and industry forums, knowledge series, internal communications and Media NGOs reporting. Feedback collected from DMCC’s stakeholders helps to understand and communicate our goals, progress and performance more closely with stakeholder expectations. Stakeholder engagement is central to our mission to connect markets and people. In the realm of precious metals, we engage and collaborate with stakeholders around the world to discuss pertinent market developments, create new standards and platforms, and share best practice. As a result DMCC is considered a centre of excellence in the UAE on the gold, precious metals and diamond industries. Ajay Mathur – Director of Precious Metals, DMCC 26 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 27 Driving sustainability Driving sustainability GRI 102-43, 102-44 GRI 102-43, 102-44 DMCC stakeholder engagement model In 2018, DMCC started to engage with internal and external stakeholders on sustainability materiality. The process served as the foundation for the DMCC Sustainability Strategy and reporting mechanism. Who Objectives How Who Objectives How Customers • Provide diverse innovative • Customer satisfaction surveys Communities • Create economic and social • Events (e.g. member companies, solutions • Events (Knowledge Series, value for our community while • Publications property owners • Enhance industry insights seminars, workshops, training, minimising environmental • Social media associations, commodity and awareness of leading panel discussions) impact • Community engagement traders) practice • Industry clubs • Ensure a safe and healthy initiatives • Support member companies • Publications (e.g. DMCC community in their sustainability journey Thought Leadership reports) through knowledge sharing • Rules and regulations and collaboration on key • Members’ portal Industry and • Knowledge-sharing and • Meetings sustainability initiatives • Social media trade associations exchange of expertise • MoUs • Partner to research new • Ongoing dialogue technologies and solutions Suppliers, contractors, • Transparent procurement • Procurement processes sub-developers process • Suppliers portal • Digitalisation of tendering • Inspections Financial institutions • Facilitate trade through the • Meetings process • HSE (health, safety and creation of digital platforms • Contracts • Supporting the development environment) policy and • Identification of investment • Digital platforms of local suppliers construction manual opportunities • Ongoing dialogue • Employee welfare • Health and safety • Environmental performance Non-governmental • Partner for employee • Meetings organisations volunteering and community • MoUs engagement initiatives Government institutions • Partner to address global • Meetings • Collaborate to drive best (local and international) and local challenges • Member of governmental practices and enhance • Comply with laws, committees awareness of sustainability regulations and policies • Government relations team related topics • Events • Audits and inspections Media • Ensure DMCC is represented • Industry events accurately with up-to-date • Media campaigns International • Address global challenges • MoUs information organisations through partnership Events • Collaborate to enhance • Meetings certification standards • Ongoing dialogue Academic • Engage with universities to • Career fairs institutions support local graduates • Research and development • Partner with universities to projects incubate innovative solutions • MoUs DMCC employees and • Attract and retain the best • Satisfaction surveys and develop Thought representatives talent by being an employer • Internal communication Leadership reports of choice channels • Support the development • Social media and growth of our employees • Training • Employee welfare • Events • Health and safety • Policies • Employees internal portal • Social activities 28 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 29 Driving sustainability Driving sustainability Driving best practice through stakeholder The Global Dubai Tea Forum engagement and knowledge transfer 24 – 26 April 2018 The Global Dubai Tea Forum addressed every aspect of the tea Stakeholder engagement is central to DMCC’s mission to connect markets supply chain, bringing together producers, merchant exporters, and people, and its events are internationally recognised for their ability to buyers, blenders, machine manufacturers, raw materials suppliers convene industry leaders. and the relevant government organisations to discuss the opportunities and challenges facing the industry. Dubai Diamond Conference A key topic in the 2018 programme was Climate Change and its impact 16 – 17 October 2017 on the tea industry. Industry experts discussed the key challenges affecting the tea industry across regions, including climate change, deforestation, biodiversity loss, tea Held under the theme ‘Destination Next – Shaping the workers’ livelihoods, lack of organisation and capacity of smallholders to access land future of an interconnected marketplace’, the conference and services. gathered leaders of the global diamond industry for two days of debate on the challenges and opportunities ahead. 413 Attendees 378 Attendees DMCC Sustainability DMCC Sustainability Knowledge Series 1 Knowledge Series 2 How SDGs Make Strategic Gender Equality Equality means Business Sense business Dubai Precious Metals Conference 9 – 10 April 2018 Held under the theme ‘Connecting Markets the New Era of Global Trade’, the conference is an important gathering in the international precious metals industry calendar. A key topic in the 2018 programme was “Responsible Sourcing – The aim of the Knowledge Series is to raise awareness of sustainability among Expectations and Reality”. During this session, industry experts DMCC member companies. In 2018, DMCC organised two events in collaboration discussed the challenges and opportunities in integrating and with the UNGC. The events focused on the UN’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable driving responsible business practices. Experts explained that Development with a focus on SDG 5 Gender Equality. responsible practices should be embedded in the business model in order to reduce risks such as compliance and reputational. 278 Attendees 30 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 31 Driving sustainability Driving sustainability GRI 102-44, 102-46, 102-47 GRI 102-46, 102-47 Key Material SDGs Topic Page topics boundary WHAT MATTERS DMCC MOST Innovation and 77 customers and digitalisation services DMCC has identified the sustainability topics that are most material and relevant to its business. People DMCC employees 38 As defined by the GRI’s latest framework, by DMCC through an internal engagement the GRI Standards, material topics are process with its Executive Management and those that reflect an organisation’s SDG Champions who rated the topics based on DMCC customers Customer 72 significant economic, environmental DMCC’s potential impact. (e.g. member excellence companies) and social impact and those that substantively influence the assessment In addition, DMCC conducted 24 one-to-one and decisions of stakeholders. interviews with key external stakeholders. This group rated the sustainability topics that are DMCC’s materiality assessment is a material in regards to their relationship with Member companies, systematic process that combines insight DMCC. From 38 topics identified, 13 were Governance suppliers and DMCC 64 and analysis from internal and external evaluated as most relevant, which defined the employees stakeholders and global trends. content of this report. The below material topics were identified Member Anti-corruption companies and 70 suppliers High Influence on stakeholder decision making process Innovation and digitalisation Local communities People Health & safety Anti-corruption Customer excellence Non-discrimination Env. Socio-economic compliance Medium Governance Responsible sourcing DMCC operations, Environmental and member 94 Waste, water socio-economic Emergency & crisis companies and and energy management compliance suppliers Diversity, gender equality and women’s empowerment Low DMCC employees Low Medium High Health and safety and areas of 54 operation DMCC socio, economic and environmental impact 32 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 33 Driving sustainability Driving sustainability GRI 102-46, 102-47 Key Material SDGs Topic Page DMCC is proud to report its progress topics boundary towards the United Nations’ SDGs, Local communities DMCC employees and make public its committment to and community and areas of 104 pursuing environmental progress. This engagement operation will result in meaningful action and strengthen DMCC’s position as the preeminent global trade and enterprise Suppliers and members of 78 hub for commodities. Responsible sourcing certification initiatives Sanjeev Dutta – Executive Director, Commodities, DMCC Diversity, gender DMCC employees equality and women’s and member 45, 87 empowerment companies Emergency crisis JLT community 56 and management and DMCC employees Member companies, Non-discrimination suppliers and DMCC 45 employees DMCC areas of Waste, water and 101 operation energy 34 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 35 People People PEOPLE 36 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 37 People People PEOPLE DMCC places people at the forefront, actively cultivating and developing roles, strengthening skills, promoting diversity and ensuring health and safety of all employees. DMCC offers extensive training and development opportunities for its employees as well as leadership programmes. DMCC also intends to further expand its wellbeing programme, increase the number of UAE Nationals and women in its workforce. SDGs covered in this section Alignment to the UNGC DMCC fosters an HUMAN RIGHTS inclusive environment of learning and Principle 1 Businesses should support and development and offers respect the protection of internationally opportunities for its proclaimed human rights; and employees for continued education. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. DMCC is committed By investing in our employees, to the UN’s WEPs and LABOUR we not only build careers provides equal rights and opportunities to Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the but also drive progress and freedom of association and the effective women and men. recognition of the right to collective growth. Our corporate culture bargaining; is based on respect, fairness Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of and performance-based DMCC provides job forced and compulsory labour; compensation, through which opportunities for all. 17% of DMCC’s employees Principle 5 the effective abolition of child we aim to increase employees’ labour; and are less than 30 years of innovation, engagement, age. DMCC is committed to protecting labour Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination productivity, and satisfaction. rights and providing a in respect of employment and occupation. safe and secure working Suzanne Gandy – Talent Management, Director, DMCC environment. 38 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 39 People People Key Key Future The DMCC Code of Conduct reflects its core values of accountability, honesty and reliability and objectives achievements objectives governs the way in which the organisation conducts its business. DMCC’s Human Resources (HR) policies are designed to attract, retain and enhance the talented employees required to meet the organisation’s ambitious growth targets. Wellbeing • Initiatives around sports, • Implement a corporate wide policy programme fitness, health and wellbeing • Deliver regular events (based on the UN calendar) launched to promote health and well-being among our employees as well as member companies • Introduce annual health programmes and checks • Established in 2016 to develop Leadership Academy leadership skills required for • Expand Leadership Academy to include supervisors Human Resources Vision future succession planning • Introduce a new leadership course focused on • 5,823 training hours provided to ethics and purpose 99 employees • Integrate sustainability into the Leadership • 81 hours of coaching sessions Academy to create company wide embrace provided to 68 employees Attract talent Retain talent Diversity • 44 nationalities • Increase the number of female employees and inclusion • 37.5% female employees and increase women’s representation in senior among permanent employees management positions DMCC seeks to be an DMCC values its employees • 38% females in DMCC Senior • Provide work placements for individuals with employer of choice by and seeks to continuously Management special needs providing equal job motivate them through opportunities to all and competitive packages, fostering a respectful, performance-based Emiratisation • 24% of DMCC executives and senior • Increase Emirati workforce by 10% on yearly basis inclusive and diverse compensation, open management are UAE Nationals • Support UAE nationals with career plans upon • 12% of total workforce are Emiratis completing the DMCC Graduate Programme working environment feedback channels and • 9 new graduates enrolled in DMCC’s • Collaborate with local universities and develop an engagement methods Emirati Graduate Development Emirati students mentorship programme Programme Employee • DMCC code of conduct • Promote ethical recruitment practices and fair welfare and whistleblowing policy wages for outsourced employees launched • Collaborate with international organisations and Enhance talent NGOs to advance human rights DMCC provides career Health and • Revised HSE policy • Restructure our HSE governance under one corporate development opportunities Safety • 1.7 million man hours with zero umbrella and establish a DMCC HSE working to its employees through a lost time injuries, a zero lost committee variety of coaching, training, time injury frequency rate, • Introduce a recognition programme for HSE knowledge-sharing workshops zero fatalities and zero major Performance incidents • Increase H&S awareness training with member companies, contractors and tower owners associations • Reduce the number of minor incidents by 10% 40 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 41 People People WORKPLACE DMCC provides its employees with charitable leave, Hajj leave, maternity competitive employment packages as well as leave, paternity leave, marriage leave, non-wage employee recognition. Permanent bereavement and Iddah leave. employees are provided a range of benefits The DMCC recruitment policy ensures equal departments such as the call centre, delivery including, but not limited to, a comprehensive Permanent female employees are employment opportunities by selecting service and the DMCC Tea Centre. Companies medical insurance plan, life insurance, entitled to enhanced paid maternity candidates based on competence, experience that supply DMCC with personnel are disability coverage, annual paid flights above the requirement mandated in and qualifications. required to comply with UAE Labour Law to home country, education sponsorship, UAE Labour Law. Employees are also and DMCC contractual terms and conditions. end of service packages and professional entitled to daily nursing breaks for up The DMCC workforce comprises 87% Outsourced personnel receive all the qualification membership coverage. to 18 months after birth. Permanent permanent employees and 13% outsourced necessary technical training to perform in male employees are entitled to three personnel. Outsourced personnel are their role. They are encouraged to participate Permanent employees are also entitled to working days of paid paternal leave. contracted for a variety of roles in in DMCC’s employee engagement initiatives. paid annual leave, study leave, sick leave, Employee profile 2016 2017 Parental leave entitlement 2016 2017 TOTAL NUMBER EMPLOYEES ENTITLED 207 228 OF EMPLOYEES 388 419 TO PARENTAL LEAVE 44 Nationalities Male 144 155 Female 63 73 GENDER Male 248 265 Female 140 154 TOTAL NUMBER OF 17 20 EMPLOYEES THAT AVAILED PARENTAL PERMANENT 329 333 LEAVE Male 12 9 EMPLOYEES Female 5 11 GENDER Male 205 208 Female 124 125 TOTAL NUMBER 17 20 OF EMPLOYEES NATIONALITY RETURNING TO WORK UAE Nationals 39 40 IN THE REPORTING Others 290 293 PERIOD AFTER PARENTAL LEAVE AGE GROUP Under 30 75 55 ENDED Between 30-50 238 260 Male 12 9 Over 50 16 18 Female 5 11 OUTSOURCED 59 86 Male 43 57 Female 16 29 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 43 42 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade People People Overall employee satisfaction at DMCC is Human rights reflected in the turnover rate which in 2017 stood at 10%4. DMCC conducts exit interviews DMCC’s commitment to human rights is DMCC will conduct a human rights impact for departing employees to understand the anchored in its aherence with UAE Labour assessment, which will further support the reasons behind the decision to leave. laws, its HR Policies and Procedures and implementation of its policy and become the Code of Conduct. DMCC seeks to uphold the basis for future due diligence procedures. basic human rights of its employees and does not discriminate on the basis of race, colour, nationality, religion, gender, age, social and Employee hires and turnover 2016 2017 marital status and physical or mental disability. In 2017, DMCC did not Every employee is mandated to abide by TOTAL NUMBER OF 56 36 DMCC’s HR Policies and Procedures and face any legal action EMPLOYEE HIRES or any reported formal Code of Conduct and remain committed Male 31 19 Female 25 17 to DMCC corporate culture. The DMCC complaints related to corporate whistleblowing policy and grievance Under 30 25 11 procedure enable employees to file grievances discrimination within Between 30-50 30 22 Over 50 1 3 and concerns without risk of reprisal. the organisation. TOTAL NUMBER OF 44 32 EMPLOYEE DEPARTURE Male 23 16 Embracing diversity and inclusion Female 21 16 Under 30 9 10 Diversity and inclusion are central to DMCC’s culture and a Between 30-50 27 19 fundamental element of its growth strategy. DMCC has made a Over 50 8 3 conscious decision to foster a diverse workforce. Females in DMCC Of total workforce 38% senior management 37.5% is female TURNOVER RATE 13% 10% Of total workforce aged 44 78% Employee nationalities between 30-50 years Of senior Of total permanent 24% management is UAE 12% workforce is UAE nationals nationals 4 DMCC defines its turnover rate as the number of employees that leave DMCC due to termination, change of jobs, change of country, or retirement divided by the total number of its permanent employees. 44 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 45 People People Promoting local employment DMCC endorses the UAE Vision 2021 to build a competitive, knowledge-based economy. To support the nationalisation efforts, DMCC has introduced a series of programmes and initiatives to attract and nurture local talent and to support UAE nationals’ progress into senior positions. Attracting UAE Nationals Internships College and Emirati Graduate and Work University Development Placements Careers Fairs Programme DMCC offers opportunities DMCC participates in career DMCC provides work for internships and work fairs and recruitment events opportunities for UAE university placements to UAE nationals at universities and colleges graduates through the Almas studying in UAE colleges and across the UAE. graduate trainee programme, universities. DMCC’s Emirati Graduate New graduates seek Development Programme. Through internships and challenging, creative tailored work placements, and flexible working High potential graduates are students gain industry opportunities. enrolled as graduate trainees relevant work experience and allocated to relevant As soon as I graduated, I was excited to join which allows them to Participation in these departments of DMCC based help resolve real business events helps DMCC connect on their interests, skill set and DMCC. The combination of training, work challenges. with students to discuss qualifications. Throughout the experience and leadership and management internship and entry-level 12-month programme, graduates employment opportunities are provided with training coaching prepared me very well for gaining within the organisation. courses including accredited a position in the organisation. It is an Leadership and Management courses and structured work inspiring place to work. experience in their allocated departments. Zuhair Iskandarani – Executive Partnerships, DMCC During the programme, the performance, technical competency and work The Almas graduate trainee programme was commitment of Graduate Trainees is continuously assessed. a comprehensive, year-long scheme that Upon completion, candidates are given priority for suitable vacant allowed me to realise my potential and to roles within DMCC. develop my professional and interpersonal 67% of the UAE nationals who skills before applying for a permanent completed the programme in position. As an Emirati, I am proud to work 2017 have assumed permanent roles at DMCC. for an organisation that is as innovative and Nine new UAE national forward thinking as DMCC. graduates enrolled in the second Amna Makki – CRM Executive Precious Metals phase in July 2017. and Stones, DMCC 46 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 47 People People Driving inclusion through engagement Employee 2017 HR perfomance surveys satisfaction survey DMCC has gathered The survey was sent to 2755 employee feedback on employees with an 82% the performance of its HR response rate. function on an annual basis since 2012. Areas of strength In 2017, DMCC distributed Organisational culture and a human resources communications. 87% 87% satisfaction survey to assess and improve the Areas for improvement organisation’s culture, 79% Career development and policies and procedures, 75% training. In response, recruitment and resourcing, DMCC will implement a benefits, performance new learning management reviews and career 2014 2015 2016 2017 system in 2018. development opportunities. Employee recognition The DMCC Employee Recognition Scheme is a communications tool that rewards employees who deliver outstanding results. Encouraging high performance, DMCC deploys recognition opportunities for small and big achievements such as instant recognition toolkits, individual quarterly awards, biannual project team awards, and employee and project team of the year awards. 5 Excluding HR employees 48 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 49 People People Facilitating career development LEADERSHIP DMCC employees are entitled to WITH PURPOSE various avenues for career growth within the organisation. DMCC is committed to driving the career progression of its employees through a structured performance management Training DMCC runs various programmes to upgrade the skills of its programmes employees including specialised training courses, mandatory process underpinned by relevant training training courses (including anti-money laundering and H&S), opportunities. seminars and workshops, sponsorships of degrees and membership of professional bodies. The performance management process at In 2017, 100% of DMCC permanent DMCC involves an annual review that assesses employees received regular performance Leadership DMCC enrolls employees from senior and middle employee potential for development and and career development reviews as development management teams in a leadership development programme promotion. The review also identifies the that is aligned to their business requirements and tailored to part of their annual performance meet their leadership goals. professional training required to achieve management cycle. respective career goals. Coaching Employees are coached by line managers on their day-today responsibilities and provided with continuous support Achieving Leading Driving the and feedback on performance. commercial best sustainability of success practice the future of trade Transfers Employees are eligible for transfers within DMCC if they meet the minimum requirements of the role, have completed 12 months in their current position, and have approval from their line manager. DMCC BUSINES PURPOSE Developing leadership Leading change for a across business sustainable economy Job rotation Employees can be rotated for a certain period from one DMCC cultivates DMCC aligns its department to another within the organisation. The rotation period leadership at all levels. commercial targets with (limited to six months) is followed by a performance review. In 2017, DMCC provided the delivery of positive more than 25 trainings social and environmental aimed at ehancing outcomes to pursue a leadership skills sustainable future for Succession High performing employees are identified as potential successors trade planning to fill critical positions, and are provided with a detailed WE ASPIRE TO DEVELOP development plan to outline specific activities and training to LEADERS WHO ARE develop the required competencies for the role. Guided Cultivating the Reflective Alternative Employees are offered the opportunity to take on the temporary by necessary thinking and development responsibility of a vacant position for a minimum of two months in purpose values, and practice adaptive opportunities preparation of taking on senior positions in the future. 50 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 51 People People Perspective career progression Employee training To ensure effective training for employees, and as part of the annual performance management cycle, DMCC regularly conducts a detailed Training Needs Analysis (TNA) exercise at the corporate, departmental and individual levels. Based on the TNA result, every employee is eligible to apply for training courses (leadership, administrative and specialised) as per the annual overall corporate training calendar. Jignesh Sanghvi, Chief DMCC made significant investment in the training of its employees across the organisation Financial Officer, DMCC, during the reporting period. In 2017, DMCC conducted 12,309 hours of training, a 42% increase from 2016. discusses his career development since joining DMCC in 2006 Employee training increase in average hours and why sustainability performance 42% of training delivered per is non-negotiable at the employee in 2017 organisation. 2016 2017 ANNUAL AVERAGE HOURS 26 37 OF TRAINING RECEIVED Q: How does DMCC advocate a values-driven Through a tailored career plan involving approach to its business and stakeholders? training, development and leadership We truly are a family at DMCC. Our programmes I acquired the skills necessary GENDER Male 23 34 multinational and multicultural employee to fulfil my current, much broader role which Female 32 41 base originates from over 44 countries. is to develop, monitor and evaluate overall Imagine the breadth of experience that brings corporate strategy as part of our Executive to the table it is a vital ingredient of our Committee. EMPLOYEE CATEGORY continuous target to embrace innovation and be at the forefront of new technologies and Q: How does sustainability become part of Executive and Senior Management 39 80 business practices. At DMCC, we drive a high the domain of the CFO? Middle Management 35 79 performance culture, rewarding our employees Sustainability is key to businesses success All staff (professional, operational 23 19 accordingly not only financially but also in and at DMCC, we are integrating economic, and administrative) terms of opportunities to grow and develop. environmental and social issues into our Our approach is to create long-term value for business strategy, processes and decisionCASE STUDY: all our stakeholders employees, customers, making. Given sustainability’s potential Accelerating leadership development suppliers, government entities in order to revenue, cost and risk implications, it makes guarantee the sustainable future of DMCC. sense for me to be involved in driving our sustainability efforts. Sustainability strategies The DMCC Leadership Academy is a comprehensive leadership development programme Q: In your 12-year career at DMCC, you have frequently involve capital investment and at designed for senior and middle management and preparing supervisors at DMCC. The risen from Financial Analyst to Chief Financial DMCC, we are no exception as we play our programme seeks to address skill gaps and prepare managers for further progression. The Officer. How was that journey for you? part in creating a Smart Dubai. Sustainability programme consists of instructor-led training, ongoing coaching, an online platform, growth At DMCC, we invest in our people. We is also the driver behind the long-term assignment projects, on-the-job activities and train-the-trainer sessions. recognise that human capital is the success and longevity of any organisation organisation’s most vital asset. We believe and incorporates such areas as corporate that offering learning, development and governance and strategy in which I am also career planning opportunities is the recipe to heavily involved. In 2017, 99 senior employees attended modules accounting success. When I joined DMCC as a Financial for a total of 5,823 training hours. Coaching sessions were Analyst that was a relatively focused role. conducted for 68 employees totalling 81 hours. 52 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 53 People People At DMCC we consider Health and Safety at the core of everything we do; the health, OCCUPATIONAL safety and well-being of our employees and the wider community being a top HEALTH AND SAFETY priority for us. We are proud of our ‘zero’ record – zero fatalities and Health and Safety (H&S) is a key priority for organisation and promotes accountability. zero lost time injuries in our own DMCC and the organisation supports the operations during 2017 as well as Government of Dubai’s vision to provide a safe DMCC’s HSE policy covers all its operations and resilient built environment. including offices, construction sites, subsidiaries, zero major safety incidents within our management assets, consultants, outsourced staff master community. DMCC’s commitment to managing its H&S risks and the free zone community. The policy is in covers the organisation’s permanent employees accordance with local and federal H&S requirements Paul Sumner – Senior HSE Manager, DMCC (over which DMCC has direct control), and such as The Federal Law No (8) of 1980, and the extends to its contractors and sub-developers, Local Order No (61) of 1991 among others as part of the JLT community, member companies, towers DMCC’s regular review. and owners associations. DMCC conducts annual health and safety risk DMCC aims for a zero accidents record. One of assessments of its own internal activities and guides the core objectives in this regard is to develop external parties operating in its free zone. a safety culture that pervades the entire H&S challenges The number of construction projects within of contractors and sub-developers required. In the JLT community poses significant H&S addition, DMCC conducts regular inspections risks, particularly from lifting operations, heavy to ensure standards are maintained and equipment and working at heights. DMCC has employs specialist consultants to assist DMCC in developed an extensive construction manual maintaining standards and compliance in line with for contractors that details the H&S principles local and federal H&S law. that must be adhered to on all sites in line with DMCC policy and international best practice. A further challenge is the variety in the size of businesses and industries that DMCC member DMCC monitors H&S performance during companies operate in, and the differing H&S inspections and requests the training records factors involved. Developing employee awareness All new DMCC employees receive DMCC hosted an Institution of Occupational mandatory H&S training as part of the HR Safety and Health (IOSH) course for all staff on-boarding process. The training covers connected to the delivery of the HSE policy in 2017. the importance of H&S in the workplace Participants including DMCC Executive Management and a review of relevant local laws and discussed the value to an organisation of having a regulations. comprehensive and cohesive HSE policy. 54 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 55 People People Protecting the wider community 2017 overall health and safety performance DMCC adopts a multi-level H&S approach to cover its contractors and sub-developers, the JLT The boundary for which DMCC measures The minor incidents that occurred in 2017 community, member companies, and towers and owners associations. DMCC has a dedicated H&S H&S data performance in the reporting year were minor injuries and near misses. Through corner6 on its official website to raise awareness of H&S related issues among its stakeholders. covers DMCC permanent employees, the its awareness programme, DMCC expects In 2017, some of the key H&S topics addressed by DMCC online included: LPG gas and carbon Uptown district project, other projects8 and minor injuries to decrease. Throughout 2017, monoxide detection; H&S inspections of the workplace; working with hazardous substances and the JLT master community. DMCC encouraged the reporting of near UAE HSE legislation, among others. misses as a measure to prevent incidents DMCC recorded strong health and safety from occurring. performance in 2017. In over 1.7 million man Contractors and sub-developers hours undertaken, DMCC had zero lost time injuries or major incidents recorded9. Minor All contractors are bound by DMCC’s HSE incidents10 amounted to 161. Over 700 safety policy and vetted to ensure compliance with the inspections were carried out during the appropriate laws and regulations. Regular H&S course of 2017. site inspections conducted by DMCC reinforce this. Should violations occur, DMCC issues official warnings, fines and depending on the violation, H&S record of DMCC DMCC contractors and subimmediately suspends construction work. permanent employees11 developers HSE performance13 DMCC contractors logged a zero violation record Number of total hours worked 564,000 Number of total hours worked 782,837 in 2017 and throughout the year. In terms of subNumber of lost time injury 0 Number of lost time injury 0 developers, violations recorded in 2017 ranged Lost time injury frequency 0 Lost time injury frequency 0 from repeated noncompliance to regulations and Work-related fatalities 0 Work-related fatalities 0 minor fire incidents. By educating and changing Minor incidents 4 Minor incidents 29 the culture amongst its sub-developers, DMCC Major incidents 0 Major incidents 0 achieved a 50% reduction in violations compared Inspections 12 Inspections 188 to 2016. JLT master community DMCC JLT master community Overseen and monitored by DMCC, the wider Towers and owners associations managing agent HSE performance12 JLT community is managed by Concordia, a Towers located in the JLT community are required subsidiary of DMCC. DMCC undertakes regular Number of total hours worked 383,832 to work with owners associations, and identify inspections of the master community to monitor Number of lost time injury 0 all H&S hazards and risks. DMCC conducts H&S compliance and provide guidance to Lost time injury frequency 0 periodic inspections to ensure that all towers Concordia. DMCC also investigates accidents, Work-related fatalities 0 and their facilities comply not only with DMCC incidents and dangerous occurrences, which Minor incidents 138 requirements but also with local and federal law. If have the potential to cause loss of life or harm Major incidents 0 necessary, DMCC provides advice on preventative within the JLT master community. Inspections 546 action required. In addition, DMCC observes fire drills, reviews safety certificates of equipment DMCC holds monthly safety meetings with and machinery, inspects incident reports Concordia to maintain HSE standards and review and undertakes incident investigations when statistical performance reports. As for road necessary. Should violations or repeated incidents safety, all traffic safety signs and signals used 8 Other projects include: DMCC coffee centre, car park repairs, offices fit out, Silver Tower gantry, R6 Business Centre, mosque plot enabling works, central park infrastructure works, and diamond cutting and polishing plant. occur, DMCC has the authority to issue fines and within DMCC comply with Road and Transport 9 Major incident: an incident, including a security incident, involving any of the following: fatality or permanent total disability; multiple permanent partial disabilities; extensive damages; serious impact on company reputation; extensive adverse attention; significant cease any dangerous activity. Authority of Dubai (RTA) regulations7. adverse reactions from authorities, media or the general public. 10 Minor incident: a recordable incident, including a security incident, involving any of but not limited to the following: Minor injuries, which cannot be treated by first aid; any near miss; damages in excess of AED 10,000; external medical attention for less than 24 hours. 11 DMCC permanent employees fall under our direct control. 6 https://www.dmcc.ae/blog 12 The master community managing agent falls under our direct influence. 7 Executive Council Resolution No. (23) of 2013 on organizing roads signage in the Emirate of Dubai. https://bit.ly/2x5Nclu 13 Contractors and sub-developers fall under our direct influence. 56 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 57 Marketplace Marketplace MARKETPLACE 58 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 59 Marketplace Marketplace To position Dubai as the global gateway for trade, requires us to continuously excel, MARKETPLACE innovate, and ensure we have a robust regulatory framework. We are home to more Based on the DMCC materiality analysis, As a world leading commodities and trade than 15,000 companies and recognise digitalisation, governance, customer hub, DMCC will continue to drive responsible our responsibility to drive excellence, and innovation are among its most sourcing and supply chain management of material sustainability topics. gold and diamonds, by adopting international responsible, innovative, best practices such as the OECD Due Diligence and sustainable The DMCC governance framework Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of business practices. mandates the highest standards of integrity, Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk transparency and honesty. Whilst committed Areas14 and the Kimberley Process15. Feryal Ahmadi, Executive Director, to meeting all corporate governance Corporate Services, requirements, DMCC constantly seeks to DMCC identify new and more efficient ways to improve service offerings with a focus on innovation, entrepreneurship and smart city technologies. SDGs covered in this section Alignment to the UNGC DMCC’s operation is ANTI-CORRUPTION based on integrity and accountability through Principle 10 Businesses should work strong governance and against corruption in all its forms, a policy commitment to including extortion and bribery. anti-corruption and antimoney laundering. DMCC promotes an inclusive and sustainable economic growth plan by driving the diversification of the UAE economy by facilitating the trade of commodities. DMCC fosters innovation through several platforms and generates impactful services and solutions by engaging with both internal and external stakeholders. 14 http://www.oecd.org/corporate/mne/mining.htm 15 https://www.kimberleyprocess.com/en/kimberley-process-kp-0 60 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 61 Marketplace Marketplace Key Key achievements Future Key Key Future objectives objectives objectives achievements objectives Governance • Revised Anti-Money • Support the UAE’s Government policy to align Innovation • Launched a new innovation • Launch of DMCC Coffee Centre and Dubai Design and Laundering and Combating with international initiatives such as the Financial and hub Academy compliance the Financing of Terrorism Action Task Force (FATF) assessment digitalisation • 95% of services for member • Continue supporting and facilitating start-up (AML and CFT) policy • Conduct training on AML/CFT and the new Fraud companies made accessible enterprises in our free zone • A new Fraud Control Control policies online • Collaborate with entrepreneurs on circular policy that applies to • Integrate the SDG Steering Committee as part of • Introduced online economy models through the DMCC Innovation DMCC employees, member DMCC’s sustainability governance structure membership for commodity Hub companies, and affiliates • Integrate sustainability into DMCC Code of services • Support the digitalisation strategy of member Conduct for employees • Implemented key employee companies through training sessions and • Continue holding workshops and training sessions initiatives generated by the mentorship for member companies on the content of DMCC’s idea management programme • Further expand the idea management regulatory framework, international and domestic programme regulations, laws and best practice Responsible • Alignment Assessment • Enhance stakeholder engagement with key Customer • Recorded an overall • Provide world class services to customers by sourcing exercise with OECD international organisations such as the OECD excellence satisfaction rating of 84% leveraging technology and digitalisation Guidelines of DMCC Rules and Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) to build • Introduced four new • Continuously introduce new services supporting for Risk Based Due Diligence responsible supply chains services the lifecycle of member companies for Gold and Precious Metals • Address improvement opportunities identified by • Continue implementing improvements based on Supply Chain the OECD during the Alignment Assessment member companies satisfaction surveys • Promote RJC Code of Practices (COP) across the • Introduce programmes to support SMEs Middle East and entrepreneurs with training and skills • Build partnerships with international associations development to support farmers of tea and coffee on • Increase the number of sustainable solutions/ sustainable farming services provided to member companies • Introduce a responsible sourcing policy for DMCC suppliers • Build an awareness and education programme in partnership with industry organisations on human rights Sustainability • Introduced DMCC • Continue supporting the UAE in achieving its • Promote responsible sourcing practices among awareness Sustainability Knowledge sustainability goals in partnership with key member companies and capacity Series stakeholders building • Integrated sustainability related • Promote the UNGC principles and WEPs topics as part of existing throughout member companies and key industry events stakeholders • GRI training of 18 employees • Integrate sustainability into the agenda of DMCC Women • Joined the WEPs network • Build and implement a corporate wide policy outreach programme empowerment • Joined the UAE WEPs • Identify initiatives for WEPs and launch DMCC • Promote sustainability reporting among member taskforce WEPs platform – “barriers to women leadership companies • Participated in the SheTrades and trade” event • Build a mentorship programme for young women • DMCC Sustainability entrepreneurs within the free zone Knowledge Series delivered focused on WEPs 62 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 63 Marketplace Marketplace Governance framework GOVERNANCE The control environment is designed to enable DMCC to fulfil its obligations to external stakeholders. DMCC has a robust governance framework to ensure that it effectively and efficiently manages organisational risk in a transparent and accountable manner. Control Enviroment Control Fundamentals Organisation Processes DMCC’s governance framework is comprised of policies, procedures, a risk External regulatory and legal environment stakeholders management framework and effective internal controls that allow it to achieve objectives in a dynamic business environment. DMCC seeks to understand and Business Principles monitor its performance in the following areas: • Safeguard DMCC’s assets from misuse, loss or fraud Corporate Risk Management Code of • Identify, manage and mitigate economic and reputational damages or losses Policies Philosophy Business Ethics • Maintain proper records to ensure effectiveness of internal or external reporting • Ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations Advisory Committee Independent Members, Executive Chairman, CEO Executive Committee Other Principal Officers Working Committees Business and Support Departments At DMCC, good corporate Business Strategy Operating Policy, Risk Perfomance Compliance and governance is essential to our longand Controls, Management Appraisal Assurance Planning Authorities term sustainability. We are proud of our robust governance framework that helps us manage organisational risk, operate efficiently and conduct our work in an accountable, honest and transparent manner. Kiran Scarr – General Counsel, DMCC 64 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 65 Marketplace Marketplace DMCC’s governance structure consists of an Advisory Committee, Executive Committee, and other Working Committees. The Chairman, appointed by His Managing risk Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of UAE and Ruler of Dubai, is responsible for all DMCC activities. DMCC’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) policy provides guidance on identifying, assessing and managing DMCC’s business risk. The ERM framework follows the approach prescribed by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the way Tread Commission “COSO”16 in Advisory managing risks. The COSO framework is a leading guidance for control systems effectiveness. Committee Highest governance body DMCC ERM framework responsible for setting DMCC’s direction, approving business strategy, setting business goals, appraising DMCC’s Internal Environment In 2017, DMCC management on progress of strategic goals and ensuring established a Objective Setting compliance. The Advisory Control SelfCommittee is appointed by the Chairman and comprises Event Identification Assessment (CSA) six members, four nonRisk Assessment policy to assess executive members and two executive members. the effectiveness Risk Response of controls in Control Activities mitigating risks. Information and Communication Monitoring Executive Committee DMCC has identified the following systematic risks that can affect its business operations The Executive Committee comprises heads of business units who support the Executive Chairman and Fraud Cyber Security Public the CEO in discharging management responsibilities. • Forgery and theft • Virus • Physical theft • Environmental • Financial • Phishing • Workplace • Health and safety • Corruption and • Data breach violence • Employment rights bribery • Data loss • Geopolitical event • Regulatory breach • Stolen equipment • Terrorism Working • Money laundering • Lost equipment Committees • Procurement • Ransomware • Collusion • Wire transfer • Tax crime • Service disruption Support the Executive and/or loss Committee in executing its management responsibilities. 16 The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) is a joint initiative of private sector organisations and is dedicated to providing thought leadership through the development of frameworks and guidance on enterprise risk management, internal control and fraud deterrence 66 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 67 Marketplace Marketplace Sustainability related risks Policies for controls and compliance identified by DMCC in 2017 Operating responsibly means being a trusted business partner and corporate citizen for all stakeholders through fair business operations, reliable services and a commitment to the Key risks Mitigation communities DMCC serves and engages with. As a UNGC signatory, DMCC is committed to identified in 2017 measures supporting Principle 10 on Anti-Corruption. Member companies non Compliance policy with preventive and proactive measures. Assessment of compliance risks directs DMCC efforts in compliance monitoring and supervision. adherence to rules and Rules and regulations permit de-licencing any non-compliant Internally, compliance is assured through internal and external audits. Audit timing and regulations company frequency is based on risk assessments. DMCC’s internal audit team works independently, and shares audit reports directly with the Advisory Committee. Master community hazards Master community HSE policy, HSE construction (fire, HSE and security manual, developing HSE standards and guidelines, free Ensuring compliance incidents) zone HSE rules and regulations DMCC’s compliance framework ensures that it operates in accordance with applicable laws, Comply with information Internal audit security regulation (ISR) regulations and best practice. DMCC has a In 2017, DMCC did zero tolerance policy towards any form of corruption and every employee is expected to not face any reported Absence of smart integrated DMCC Smart and Sustainable District Strategy act in a responsible and ethical manner. incidents of corruption infrastructure nor did it suffer any legal The DMCC Code of Conduct, detailed in the organisation’s HR policy, sets out requirements action or fine for nonUnder achievement of Five year Emiratisation strategy and the UAE National for ethical behaviour. It provides clear guidance compliance with social Emiratisation target graduate training programme17 on compliance, anti-bribery, gifts, anti-money and economic laws or laundering and suspicious transactions. The Code of Conduct is also accessible to all regulations. employees through the company intranet DMCC identifies and manages compliance risks of DMCC and member companies. Risks are site and is explained during annual refresherprioritised based on a rating methodology. training sessions. and transparent manner, with suppliers chosen The method of risk identification follows top down (Executive Committee, Governance and Risk Employee adherence to DMCC values is on their ability to generate best value in terms Committee) and bottom up (department heads and key employees) approaches. administered through its HR Performance of cost, quality and sustainability. Once a vendor Management System where demonstration of is approved to join its supply chain, DMCC The Control Self Assessment (CSA) policy is one mechanism employed by DMCC to ensure compliance with its core values is assessed. implements strict controls to ensure continuous that various internal control elements are present and functioning. All DMCC department heads delivery of high standards. are required to self-evaluate the controls in their respective areas. The results of the control Employees are encouraged to report any assessment are monitored by Internal Audit. suspicious wrongdoing, illegal acts and/ When procuring any goods or services, DMCC or malpractice. The DMCC corporate prioritises local suppliers18, provided they Risk is assessed across two dimensions: likelihood of occurrence, and severity of the whistleblowing process enables concerns to meet all the technical, commercial and legal consequences. The risk assessment of individual risks including HSE risks involves a combination be raised anonymously. Any employee that qualifications. In 2017, 88% of DMCC’s total of qualitative and quantitative methods. The positive and negative impact of potential events are raises a concern about potential misconduct is procurement budget was spent with local examined at the department and corporate levels. Risks are assessed on both an inherent and protected from reprisal. suppliers, up from 81% in 2016. residual basis. DMCC’s procurement policy ensures that all procurement activities are conducted in a fair 17 Refer to Chapter 7 People ‘Promoting local employment’ 18 DMCC defines local suppliers as companies that are registered in the UAE. DMCC's significant location of operation is to be considered as UAE. Proportion of local procurement is based on processed payments. 68 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 69 Marketplace Marketplace Driving anti-corruption and anti-bribery practice through regulation CASE STUDY: Global effort to address compliance issues DMCC develops and implements a robust on the contents and impact of its regulatory regulatory framework that includes company framework. In addition, the DMCC website has law, employment law, community management a dedicated “Legal Corner” aimed at raising DMCC is committed to supporting both laundering and combating the financing regulations and H&S regulations and applies to awareness of legal and compliance related topics domestic and international efforts to combat of terrorism policies, and increased its DMCC member companies. among its stakeholders. money laundering and the financing of terrorism. communication with member companies on the subjects. To ensure appropriate levels of compliance, A training session was held in 2017 on anti-money In 2019, the UAE will be assessed by the DMCC has a dedicated compliance and due laundering, combating the financing of terrorism Financial Action Task Force (FATF) – an In addition, a new Fraud Control policy diligence team that screens member companies. (AML and CFT) and anti-corruption for member intergovernmental body whose purpose is aimed at the prevention, deterrence, Know Your Customer (KYC) and Ultimate companies. Delegates learned how to strengthen the development and promotion of policies detection and investigation of all forms of Beneficial Ownership (UBO) documentation their compliance through AML, CFT and KYC to combat money laundering and terrorist fraud was released. Fraud risk assessments form part of the process. The team also practices, enabling them to mitigate related risks. financing. FATF has 40 recommendations on are performed twice a year. The results conducts inspections of physical premises within The training received a 98% satisfaction rating. how to combat these issues and will assess are incorporated in DMCC’s Enterprise the free zone to confirm that the operation of the UAE’s performance. Risk Management Register to ensure that member companies are in line with free zone DMCC whistleblowing policy enables member appropriate actions are taken to prevent or rules and regulations. companies, their prospective, current and DMCC has participated in workshops mitigate the risks of fraud. The AML, CFT former employees to raise concerns and disclose throughout 2017, in preparation for a national and Fraud Control policies apply to DMCC In 2017, 7,182 member companies were information about a suspected wrongdoings risk assessment in 2018 that will determine the employees, member companies, and affiliates. inspected. A dedicated Controls and or illegal acts. Concerns can be reported to UAE’s preparedness for the FATF assessment. Guidance and training on the AML and CFT Assurance team monitors companies’ activities a dedicated email address. DMCC reviews all As part of the preparations, DMCC has also policy are provided to both DMCC employees through a number of tools including desktop reported cases and takes appropriate action been reviewing and enhancing its anti-money and member companies on a regular basis. investigations, enhanced due diligence while offering protection to the party filing the questionnaires and auditor programmes. The disclosure. nature and extent of enforcement actions taken against member companies (fines, terminations, suspensions, and other sanctions) Protecting privacy and ensuring are maintained electronically. information security DMCC regularly conducts workshops and training sessions for its member companies DMCC operates state of the art security External and government audits of DMCC systems that protect against internal data systems are supplemented by its own internal leaks which are reviewed quarterly. audit function. Based on DMCC internal audit against the ISR regulation, 140 controls were Compliance challenges Controls DMCC is committed to the information fully compliant and 89 controls were partially security regulation (ISR) issued by the Dubai complaint out of a total of 293-information DMCC regulates a large number of • Constant communication with local and Electronic Security Centre (DESC). security controls. diverse companies and licenses, which international regulators including the Central Bank makes compliance with regulatory and the Securities and Commodities Authortity In 2017, DMCC conducted an assessment No incidents of customer data breaches were change challenging (SCA) of the IT security awareness levels of recorded in 2017. • Regular review of media announcements its employees. The assessment helped • Continuous update of rules and regulations DMCC identify strengths and weaknesses • Creating greater transparency on regulatory and of its systems. DMCC is also developing compliance requirements through web-enabled an awareness programme to ensure that technology employees are aware of information security risks and how to report incidents or suspicious activities. 70 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 71 Marketplace Marketplace GRI 102-43 Driving customer engagement CUSTOMER In addition to providing business enabling services and offerings, DMCC works actively EXCELLENCE to connect its member companies through networking events, conferences, knowledge seminars and more. These are central to driving a vibrant community, allowing business to grow. DMCC has embarked on a customer excellence In 2017, DMCC organised over 60 local events for member companies that were mission, and one of its most material attended by over 3,000 people. Workshops covered subjects such as Value Added Tax (VAT), doing business in The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, cyber security, business sustainability topics is to equip its member contracts and compliance. These events received a 95% satisfaction rate by attendants. companies with services and offerings required In 2018, DMCC seeks to offer additional workshops that focus on sustainability. to make their business a success. Examples of networking and knowledge activities provided by DMCC are as follows: DMCC strives to meet the ever-evolving needs of its stakeholders through a business model focused on strategic innovation and service excellence, where the customer is International partners Publications at the core of its strategy. DMCC awards in 2017 Knowledge series Business incubator The 9x fDi Awards GLOBAL Free Zone of The Year Networking programme Business councils GLOBAL Free Zone of The Year for SME’s MIDDLE EAST Free Zone of The Year MIDDLE EAST Free Zone of The Year for SMEs Industry clubs Online business directory BESPOKE AWARDS: Facilities Upgrades, Legal Support, Smart City Strategy, Red Tape Reduction, Thought Leadership. DMCC is proud of its status as the world's leading free zone. We believe we are in this position due to our commitment to customer excellence and our inovative approach to creating an environment where business can florish. Krysta Fox – Executive Director, Free Zone, DMCC 72 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 73 Marketplace Marketplace GRI 102-44 Customer feedback Engaging innovation – idea management DMCC conducts annual DMCC member satisfaction surveys. In its sixth annual survey Launched in 2016, DMCC’s Idea Management conducted in 2017, DMCC recorded an overall satisfaction rating of 84%. Platform was introduced to foster employee innovation and recognition to enhance services, The DMCC member company satisfaction scores are monitored closely and contact processes and workflow. is made with any business with a decrease of more than 5% year-on-year, or has an overall rating of lower than 80%. Each month, DMCC selects a business area of focus and invites employees to submit feedback. All employees have the opportunity to vote, and comment on ideas submitted. In 2017, DMCC Overall satisfaction implemented around 20 improvements generated by the program, many of which focused on 100% updates to the customer facing company portal, 91% 89% making it easy for member companies to interact 84% 82% with DMCC. 80% The scope of DMCC’s Idea Management Platform 60% broadened in 2017 with external stakeholders also invited to submit ideas. To date, DMCC has 40% shortlisted five business improvement ideas submitted by external stakeholders. 20% 0% Member company sustainability gauge Overall Loyalty Willing to Recommendation satisfaction score expand 45% 53% 90% Member company satisfaction on specific topics Have a sustainability Would be interested in receiving Stated that sustainability is programme, strategy or more information about important to building their Customer Value Added Communication 82% 86% 91% vision in place sustainability and how it can business or corporate strategy Promise Services Channels positively affect their business model in the near future Service Area People Service 85% 87% 82% Perfomance Channels 74 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 75 Marketplace Marketplace The DMCC Innovation Hub launched in 2017 to build a new growth engine for the organisation, with the ultimate objective of directing investment in technology that will meet the demand of INNOVATION global commodities trade in the future. The DMCC Innovation Hub also has a particular focus on product and service innovation to create new marketplaces both physical and financial. DMCC has aligned its corporate strategy with the UAE National Agenda and Digital transformation Goal 9 of the UN SDGs. With a long-standing commitment to digital transparency and efficiency in its procurement innovation, DMCC uses technology to activities. In 2017, DMCC introduced a Peer-tostreamline and optimise its processes. peer (P2P) automated electronic system that not only ensures all spend is justified, but also By 2017, DMCC had successfully transferred that it complies with DMCC policy. 95% of its services online, providing member companies access to services through a digital In order to interact with both member portal. As one of the early adopters in the companies and external stakeholders, the DMCC region of Salesforce, DMCC has witnessed website is available in English, Arabic, Mandarin a marked improvement in service levels and and Spanish, with additional information pages customer satisfaction ratings. available in French and German. DMCC also implemented a best-in-class customer service platform to provide an omnichannel experience for its customers, including a call centre, construction collaboration, financial payment gateways, and more. DMCC’s e-procurement portal also utilises digitalisation to ensure the highest Encouraging entrepreneurship In support of the UAE National Innovation Astrolabs provides specialised coworking At DMCC we believe sustainability and Strategy to create an innovation-enabling space that hosts high potential digital innovation are complimentary fields environment, DMCC actively encourages the technology companies, assisting founders to for growth and disruption. It drives the formation of incubators and start-ups by establish their startups and providing them providing favourable service offerings for with a platform to scale globally. AstroLabs way we formulate and address business entrepreneurs. Academy delivers a variety of practical challenges; from providing the best training courses on topics related to digital Launched with the support of DMCC, business. possible business environment to our AstroLabs is MENA’s only Google partnered customers or looking for new business tech hub, hosting tech entrepreneurs from Over 100 companies form a diverse group of streams to embracing disruptive across the world in Dubai and delivers classes collaborative entrepreneurs representing every focused on teaching digital skills through industry from fashion to farming and digital to technology. AstroLabs Academy. design. Franco Bosoni – Director, Innovation Hub, DMCC 76 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 77 Marketplace Marketplace Commitment and approach RESPONSIBLE The goal of DMCC is to minimise negative impact and facilitate an enabling trade SOURCING environment by guiding its member companies on responsible sourcing practice. DMCC is committed to advance the responsible sourcing commitments through: • Ongoing analysis of risks and opportunities The Future of trade is about responsible sourcing • Assurance and accountability by member companies • Capacity building with industry networks Responsible sourcing is core to the trade DMCC is a participant in a number of industry • Education and awareness of commodities. It goes beyond economic initiatives that provide it with an opportunity considerations and takes into account to influence and guide member companies in environmental, social and ethical factors in the building a responsible supply chain in the gold process of sourcing. and diamond industry. Integrating responsible sourcing principles in the gold Responsible sourcing is critical as supply While the social and environmental impact chains continue to expand globally into of the operations of the member companies supply chain developing countries seeking lower costs and lies outside DMCC’s direct control, DMCC greater production capacity. This leads to is committed to promote and enhance DMCC was a pioneer in establishing the Minerals Initiative. companies being exposed to a wider array of responsible practices wherever possible. Dubai Good Delivery (DGD) accreditation The DGD standard is a globally recognised risks such as supply disruption, cost volatility, programme in 2005 for large refineries one kilo-bar standard for 995 and higher compliance with international and local to cater to the needs of the industry for purity gold, which is used widely by the regulations. a one-kilo bar standard. DMCC has also jewellery manufacturing industry in India and introduced the Market Deliverable Brand other countries. Companies must meet the growing (MDB) accreditation programme for smaller expectations of stakeholders to take enterprises. In 2017, 14 refineries in eight countries were responsibility for their suppliers’ accredited by the DGD standard. environmental, social and ethical practice. An integral part of these standards are While the DGD accreditation programme responsible sourcing requirements that are is administered by DMCC, there is a DMCC is the region’s dedicated global trading based on the OECD Due Diligence Guidelines governance framework in place to ensure hub, supporting the growth and development for Responsible Mineral Supply Chains, which the implementation of the standard in a of several commodity industries including require all members to submit annual audit transparent and consistent manner. gold, diamonds, tea, coffee and agro among reports prepared by an independent third others. party auditor against DMCC Rules for Risk Based Due Diligence in the Gold and Precious Metals Supply Chain v 1.1. DMCC has been working closely with the OECD since 2011 on the topic of responsible gold sourcing. DMCC continues to be a Signet Jewelers proudly shares member of the OECD Multi Stakeholder DMCC’s commitment to the continuous Group (MSG) along with other global industry improvement in the integrity of the players such as Responsible Jewellery Council, London Bullion Market Association, ITRI global jewelry supply chain. Tin Supply Chain Initiative and Responsible David A. Bouffard – Vice President Signet Corporate Affairs, Signet and Chairman, Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) 78 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 79 Marketplace Marketplace Key milestones The OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict Affected and High Risk Areas Results of Alignment Assessment announced by OECD with The OECD Due Diligence Guidance for areas. The objective of the OECD Guidance 2018 DMCC Rules being “partially aligned” (same result for all five Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals is ultimately to promote responsible private programmes reviewed by OECD under this exercise) from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas sector engagement in post-conflict fragile (the OECD Guidance) provides detailed states. The OECD Guidance is global in recommendations to help companies respect scope and applies to all mineral supply human rights and avoid contributing to chains. Companies sourcing or using conflict through their mineral purchasing minerals in their operations are expected 2017 Participation in the OECD Alignment Assessment and launch of updated version of the DMCC Rules decisions and practices. to ensure their supply chains are clean and transparent. The OECD Guidance is for use by any company potentially sourcing minerals or metals from conflict-affected and high-risk 2016 Launch of the DMCC Rules for Risk Based Due Diligence in the Gold and Precious Metals Supply Chain The OECD Guidance is based Establishment of the Independent Governance Committee on a five-step framework that oversees the implementation aspects of the DMCC's 2015 Responsible Sourcing of Gold and Precious Metals Programme Appointment in the Multi-Stakeholder Steering Group (MSG) of the OECD* 1 3 5 2013 Recognition of Signet Jewelers that DGD accredited refineries operate in accordance with Signet protocol for Establish strong Design and Report annually gold company implement a on supply chain management strategy to due diligence systems respond to 2012 Launch of the DMCC Guidelines for Responsible Sourcing of identified risk Gold 2 4 Identify and Carry out assess risk in the independent supply chain third-party audit 2011 Launch of the OECD Due Diligence Guidelines for of supply chain *In 2013, the OECD Investment due diligence Responsible Mineral Supply Chains and Development Assistance Committees (OECD bodies) approved a long-term governance arrangement to enable a dynamic, demanddriven implementation programme for the OECD DMCC contributed to the drafting of the Gold Supplement section of the OECD Guidance, and 2005 Launch of the DMCC Dubai Good Delivery Accreditation Due Diligence Guidance for continues to support the OECD’s work on supply chain due diligence and key projects such Responsible Supply Chains of Standard Minerals from Conflict–Affected as the OECD Alignment Assessment. DMCC is also a participant in the Gold Forum Multiand High-Risk Areas (the OECD Guidance) with strong Stakeholder Steering Group, which represents the interests of stakeholders from OECD and stakeholder engagement non-OECD countries, industry and civil society. 80 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 81 Marketplace Marketplace Alignment Assessment of industry programmes Responsible Jewellery Council with the OECD Guidance19 Founded in 2005, the Responsible Jewellery companies that span the entire jewellery Council (RJC) is a not-for-profit standards supply chain from mine to retail. In 2016, as part of the implementation of the The exercise found significant gaps between and certification organisation. RJC members OECD Guidance, the OECD launched a project the five industry programmes assessed and commit to and are independently audited RJC also works with multi-stakeholder to develop and pilot test an assessment the recommendations of the OECD Guidance. against the RJC Code of Practices – an initiatives on responsible sourcing and supply methodology for evaluating the extent to The 2016 assessment of standards and international standard on responsible business chain due diligence. which industry programmes align with the implementation found that out of the five practices for diamonds, gold and platinum detailed recommendations of the OECD participating industry programmes, three were group metals. The Code of Practices address Guidance. ‘not aligned’ (DMCC, RJC and RMI) and two human rights, labour rights, environmental were ‘partially aligned’ (ITSCI and LBMA). impact, mining practices, product disclosure Beyond the five programmes assessed20, the and any more important topics in the jewellery non-programme members, namely Global In 2017, the participating five programmes supply chain. The RJC has over 1,100 member Witness and the European Commission (who were given the opportunity to revise their funded the project), shared extensive and standards to better align with the requirements constructive feedback in the development of and recommendations of the OECD Guidance. the methodology as well as the review of the CASE STUDY: All five programmes were re-assessed in early pilot assessment. 2018 and were found to be ‘partially aligned’. Sustainability in the jewellery industry The Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) signed a Memorandum of Key strengths of the DMCC Key areas for Understanding (MoU) with DMCC to work cooperatively on advancing their programme improvement shared objectives of improving corporate social responsibility and responsible • DMCC staff oversight of the detailed findings • Enhance the vetting and capacity building of supply chain efforts in the jewellery supply chain. that result from the audit programme auditors to strengthen audit consistency and rigour The two organisations will work together to achieve • Engagement on responsible sourcing with common goals and strengthen collective efforts gold traders and government authorities in • More explicit clarification to DMCC refiners towards responsible business practices, the UAE and with producers and exporters and auditors that all Annex II risk areas should supporting RJC membership growth and in higher risk countries be considered during risk assessment and risk certification reach in the UAE. mitigation activities • An Independent Governance Committee Under the MoU, RJC and DMCC will: provides a mechanism for external oversight • Clarification to DMCC refiners and auditors that of the programme on the ground risk assessments should always • Work together to collect data be undertaken on red-flagged supply chains intelligence to manage risk and enhance industry reputation in the UAE • Develop methods and bespoke Looking ahead materials to raise awareness DMCC deems it important to share its commitment to streamlining and collaborating across all and educate the local industry the industry initiatives. The results of the OECD Alignment Assessment illustrated that there is a and beyond on solutions to need to build capacity and educate stakeholders in both the upstream and downstream sectors. implement robust sustainability efforts and ethical business In 2017, DMCC focused on the OECD Alignment Assessment and strengthened its team to practices enhance the corporate governance framework. • Develop joint communications and outreach programs to promote the implementation of responsible business 19 Full report is available here: http://mneguidelines.oecd.org/Alignment-assessment-of-industry-programmes-with-the-OECD-mineralspractices through various industry events guidance.pdf 20 Conflict Free Smelter initiative, International Tin Supply Chain Initiative, London Bullion Market Association, Responsible Jewellery Council, Dubai Multi Commdities Centre 82 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 83 Marketplace Marketplace Dubai Diamond Exchange Kimberley Process The Dubai Diamond Exchange (DDE), a DMCC In 2003, the UAE became the first Arab DMCC, was appointed by the UAE Ministry platform, was established in 2004 to facilitate country to join the Kimberley Process (KP), a of Economy to chair the international the development of the diamond industry in collaborative initiative between governments, organisation, and under his leadership the UAE, which currently has more than 1,000 industry and civil society to stem the flow of launched a number of key initiatives including: members trading in precious stones. conflict diamonds into the diamond trade. There are now 54 participants representing 81 • Special forums on rough diamond valuation As trade regulator and market maker for countries. • Establishment of Permanent Secretariat diamond and coloured stones businesses, • ‘Africa initiative’ the DDE is the only bourse in the Middle A federal decree was issued in 2006 • Special forums on synthetic damonds East affiliated with the World Federation mandating DMCC to bare sole responsibility • NGO funding and strengthening civil society of Diamond Bourses (WFDB) and World for certifying the entry and exit of diamonds participation Diamond Council (WDC). The DDE brings in the UAE21. The Kimberley Process office in • Building awareness about the KP by building together several large scale initiatives, such DMCC is the entity authorised by the UAE a new website and producing educational as rough and polished diamond tenders and Ministry of Economy to authenticate the videos trade benefits for pearls and coloured stones. ethical sourcing of rough diamonds traded in The DDE provides industry advocacy the country. In 2017, there were 640 registered members in and represents local stakeholders at the the UAE Kimberley Process Office accounting international arena by participating in the In 2016, the UAE became the first Arab for 16.6 billion USD in export and import of meetings of WFDB, WDC and the World country to Chair the Kimberley Process (KP). rough diamonds. Jewellery Confederation (CIBJO). Ahmed Bin Sulayem, Executive Chairman of There are several key challenges in the diamond industry that the DDE is addressing through its action plan including disclosure The UAE Kimberly Process Certification of lab-grown diamonds, access to financing Scheme offices ensures that its members mechanisms, revision of system of warranties and other measures that enhances transparency and compliance of the industry with the international standards. Satisfy ‘minimum Commit to Trade only Certify requirements’ transparent with fellow shipments and estabilish national practices and to members that as conflict-free legislation, institutions the exchange of comply with the and provide and import/export critical statistical fundamentals of the supporting controls data the agreement certification 21 Union Law No (13) of 2004 Regarding Supervision of Import/Export and Transit of Rough Diamonds gives authority to Ministry of Economy. Council of Ministers' Decision No. (10/153) of 2006 confirming adoption of Kimberley Process Office at DMCC as the entry and exit point for the import and export of rough diamonds in and out of the UAE. 84 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 85 Marketplace Marketplace SheTrades – Connecting Women Entrepreneurs to WOMEN’S International Markets EMPOWERMENT In February 2018, DMCC joined the SheTrades MENA launched by Dubai Exports together with the International Trade Centre (ITC). The initiative will support, develop, coordinate Growing evidence shows that the and catalyse stakeholders in the MENA region empowerment of women has a multiplier trade to create a transformative environment for women entrepreneurs. With a goal of effect on families, communities, businesses and connecting one million women to market by sustainable economies. 2020, SheTrades MENA rallies stakeholders around the world to work together on seven priority areas to address trade barriers and create greater opportunities for women DMCC cultivates a diverse workplace culture entrepreneurs. of respect for gender equality. At the end of 2017, the gender balance of the DMCC DMCC is committed to support SheTrades Executive Committee members was 62.5% MENA and helping it ensure that trade leads male and 37.5% female. to sustainable development, resilience and inclusive growth. On 8 March 2018, International Women’s day, DMCC signed the UN WEPS. The Principles are a set of Principles for business offering guidance on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. They are the result of a collaboration between the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the United Nations Global Compact, and are adapted from the Calvert Women's Principles. By signing the principles, DMCC is committed to support SDG 5 – Gender equality and the UAE government policy toward gender balance. DMCC is a member of the UAE WEPs Taskforce. 86 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 87 Marketplace Marketplace Principle Commitments Perspective Leadership 1. Establish high-level corporate • Promote and facilitate WEPs leadership for gender equality • Implement WEPs Assessment and Strategic 2020 Plan • Participate in WEPs Taskforce UAE 2. Treat all women and men fairly in the • Enhance HR Policies workplace, respect and support human • Drive culture of inclusion and diversity Feryal Ahmadi rights and non-discrimination Executive Director, Corporate Services, DMCC 3. Ensure the health, safety, and wellbeing • Implement wellbeing strategy of all women and men workers 4. Promote education, training, and • Enhance Almas graduate trainee Q: What does women empowerment mean to Q: As a leader what do you believe are the professional development for women programme you? How has your year at Harvard changed key priorities for DMCC? • Facilitate career development through the perspective on sustainability and Leadership Academy business including the role of women? Diversification and innovation are key in this • Deliver WEPs training throughout the market. We achieve this through a culture organisation and member companies Women empowerment first and foremost is where we invest in exploring opportunities a mindset and belief, which varies amongst while continuously exploiting what we do nations based on their culture, values and best. As an organization, we have always principles. What is common is the tremendous embraced diversity and strived to create 5. Implement enterprise development, • Develop knowledge sharing platforms for value that women bring to societies today equal development opportunities for men and supply chain and marketing practices that member companies by playing a central role in building stronger woman in our workforce. We have visibly seen empower women • Enhance partnership with SheTrades MENA economies and improving the quality of life the dedication and outstanding achievements across all sectors. Looking around, there of women on all levels. Women empowerment are no limits to what women can create and is part of our commitment to our country and accomplish in economies today. society in creating a sustainable economy. This 6. Promote equality through community • Deliver Sustainability Knowledge Series is part of our DNA. initiatives and advocacy • Participate in international conferences to At HBS (Harvard Business School), I was promote sustainability, youth innovation and delighted to work with participants from gender equality • Launch community impact programme with over 41 countries around the world, 40% of a focus on education whom were women in leaderships positions across the world from various governmental, commercial, profit and non-profit organisations. This is a testimony to the role of women today in creating and changing the 7. Measure and publicly report on progress • Conduct sustainability reporting in to achieve gender equality accordance with the GRI standards dynamics of economies. 88 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 89 Environmental stewardship Environmental stewardship ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP 90 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 91 Environmental stewardship Environmental stewardship Key Key Future objectives achievements objectives ENVIRONMENTAL Energy and • All parking structures, within • Develop and implement a corporate wide policy STEWARDSHIP emissions management DMCC master community, that consisted of tube lights were replaced with power • Develop DMCC’s energy consumption baseline and identify key performance indicators. Using this to determine energy consumption reduction saving LED lights targets • Uptown Dubai is being • Calculate and report on DMCC greenhouse gas DMCC is dedicated to prevent and minimise environmental performance, DMCC intends to constructed in accordance (GHG) negative impact on the environment while establish a baseline for its environmental indicators with LEED Gold (BD+C) • Adopt renewable energy sources improving operational efficiency, reducing costs and operate an integrated monitoring system. standards and preserving the ability to do business in the future. In line with the focus of the UAE Vision New HSE standards and guidelines published 2021 on improving the quality of air, preserving in 2018, set out the environmental requirements water resources, increasing the contribution of that contractors, sub-developers, tower owners Preserve • DMCC master community • Develop and implement a corporate wide policy. water recorded a 75% decrease in • Identify areas where water use efficiency is poor clean energy and implementing green growth associations, and member companies must comply water consumption compared and identify possible measures to improve the plans, DMCC is committed to continuously with. to 2016 water use efficiency assessing the impact of its operations on the • Introduce smart technology applications (IoT) to environment. Weekly environmental inspections on construction monitor and prevent water leaks sites, coupled with periodic inspections of existing DMCC is also committed to improving its towers based on trend analysis, will ensure environmental performance by developing compliance with the UAE Federal Law No. 24 and Waste • Zero complaints on waste • Develop and implement a corporate wide policy green buildings. In order to effectively measure future DMCC requirements. Management management • Identify and quantify types of waste generated, • Zero chemical spillages of set up recycling targets for each of the waste paint or diesel categories generated by our facilities • Set up waste generation targets for employees SDGs covered in this section Alignment to the UNGC and facilities and establish a reporting system for waste generation and separation • Introduce recycling initiatives and incentives to DMCC supports the UAE ENVIRONMENT increase awareness among JLT community National Agenda on • Engage with restaurants and hotels in JLT sustainable environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a community to facilitate the implementation of and infrastructure to ensure precautionary approach to environmental recycling within their operations sustainable development challenges while preserving the environment. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility DMCC monitors its consumption of natural Principle 9 Encourage the development resources and commits to and diffusion of environmentally friendly continuously increasing technologies. efficiency and reducing its environmental impact. DMCC is conscious of the environmental impacts caused by its activities and aims DMCC is committed to continuously to reduce energy consumption and assessing the impact of its operations on emissions. the environment. 92 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 93 Environmental stewardship Environmental stewardship With a number of projects under construction, DMCC recognises that it faces environmental challenges relating to water, air and energy consumption. DMCC proactively works to protect the environment by adhering to the law and regulations issued by the UAE Ministry of Climate Change & Environment. In addition, DMCC conducts its own environmental audits and inspections to monitor performance of its sustainable design approach. ENVIRONMENT AND During its materiality study, the four environmental topics that were identified as having the INFRASTRUCTURE most material impact to its internal and external stakeholders: Construction projects have a significant impact toxic chemicals, solvents, paints and oil that can on the environment. The excavation of land potentially affect the quality of water and soil causes loss of habitat and ecosystems, the through cross contamination. transportation of construction materials results in combustion emissions from heavy vehicles, In 2017, DMCC had two developments under and the overall construction process, contributes construction, the Uptown Dubai district and DMCC to climate change by emitting greenhouse gas Coffee Centre, and managed both construction (GHGs). Waste generated typically consists of sites to ensure minimal impact to the environment. Environmental Effluent and Energy Water compliance waste Approach DMCC has adopted the international Leadership of water and energy and will maintain best practice DMCC follows a multi-tiered approach issued by Dubai Municipality and UAE Federal in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) environmental approaches to lighting, air quality defining the responsibilities of its employees, Law NO. 24 of 1999 for the protection and green building standard set by the United States and thermal conditions. DMCC currently has two contractors, sub-developers and subsidiaries. development of the environment. Green Building Council (USGBC) for its Uptown LEED certified buildings in operation and one under Dubai district, to ensure sustainable property construction. DMCC’s contractors and sub-developers DMCC also oversees the performance of development while preserving the environment. are required to adopt its HSE policy and Concordia, a facilities management company Contractors and sub-developers working on our implement the requirements stipulated in the responsible for servicing the DMCC master Measures under this programme include development projects fall within our direct sphere DMCC construction manual that was revised community. Senior DMCC HSE staff offer waste segregation on site; selecting materials of influence. As such, monitoring and reporting in 2017. The construction manual sets out strategic council to Concordia on methods manufactured from recycled products and on environmental indicators including noise the environmental monitoring requirements to improve the environmental aspects of supplied by local sources and controlling our pollution, air pollution, water discharges, effluent for the protection of our sites based on the the district, as well as review statistical effluents. Incorporating these practices ensures and oil spills, energy consumption, and waste environmental impact assessment (EIA) performance reports submitted by them. the reduction of DMCC contribution to landfill generation as per the DMCC construction manual is findings and recommendations; those DMCC remains committed to preventing, and environmental pollution. mandatory. By closely reviewing the performance include the monitoring of environmental controlling and mitigating any potential against environmental indicators and conducting noise, air quality, water discharges and spills, environmental impacts that may result from In addition, once a LEED building is operational, weekly environmental site inspections, DMCC can energy consumption, and waste generation. our operations, and plans to implement the the sustainable design will ensure efficient use sustain continuous improvement towards a better In addition, DMCC conducts weekly following: environment. environmental site inspections to monitor compliance levels of construction sites. • Establish a baseline for DMCC’s environmental indicators The building managers of DMCC’s operational • Install and operate integrated environmental DMCC acknowledges that its construction projects towers in JLT are required to identify and monitoring systems have a significant impact on the environment. The manage their site-specific environmental risks. • Set targets to reduce energy, water consumption and waste generation organisation undertakes all possible precautionary To ensure that risks are well-managed, DMCC • Develop a formalised audit and inspection measures to mitigate this impact. All associated conducts regular environmental inspections on procedure for environmental matters contractors must comply with our strict environmental JLT towers and facilities to assess compliance • Monitor and report direct and indirect GHG with DMCC HSE policy and Local Order NO. 61 emissions standards and provide regular reports on such. Paul Ashton – Executive Director, Property, DMCC 94 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 95 Environmental stewardship Environmental stewardship Uptown Dubai DMCC Coffee Centre The Uptown Dubai district consists of seven • Installing waste segregation bins to reduce The DMCC Coffee Centre is projected to be towers and a central plaza that spreads over the amount of waste sent to the landfill and operational by late 2018 and provide logistics, a 10 million sq. ft. development which will be increase the percentage of waste recycled value addition, handling, and storage services a LEED Gold (BD+C) certified district. The and reused for around 20,000 tonnes of green coffee district aims to deliver the best in smart urban bean per year. Despite the Centre not being living and mobility with connectivity to public • Utilising dust control measures, such as built in accordance with the LEED guideline, transport. dust suppression, to limit the dispersion its contractor is required to follow the DMCC of particulate matter into the air thus construction manual and comply with its As the district is being constructed according maintaining good air quality conditions rigorous environmental requirements as well as to the LEED Gold certification, a number report on its environmental indicators. of environmental controls have been • Weekly inspections to ensure operations are implemented to reduce the impacts of the in compliance with LEED standard During construction work in 2017, the onsite new development including: facility consumed utility electricity for lighting 2017 environmental performance Diesel fuel was used for the power required and air-conditioning. The large majority of • Monthly noise level monitoring to ensure that onsite for lighting, air-conditioning and onsite tools and equipment operated on diesel Diesel consumption (GJ) 56 noise pollution does not exceed 55 decibels generating electricity for power tools, and fuel. Water was sourced from the local utility Electricity (GJ) 15 between 7am and 8pm and 45 decibels utility water used to mix concrete as well as and used to build concrete and test pipes, tanks Water consumption (m3) 2,309 between 8pm and 7am test pipes, tanks and vessels for leakage. and vessels for leakage. Waste sent to landfill (tonnes) 71 2017 environmental performance CASE STUDY: Smart and sustainable existing buildings Diesel consumption (GJ) 6,220 Water consumption (m3) 852 Recycled waste (tonnes) 698 One JLT and both the Jewellery and Gemplex warehouses are all DMCC Waste sent to landfill (tonnes) 13 projects that are LEED Gold Building Design and Construction (BD+C) certified. One JLT is a construction success story in that it demonstrates the benefits of smart design, sustainable construction and operation. This best practice will be shared with other building owners in the JLT community. To maintain the sustainable operation of One JLT, DMCC has committed to the following: In 2018, as the development of the district progresses, • Connect the existing Building Management Systems into DMCC’s Asset Management Systems; DMCC aims to reduce its diesel fuel consumption by 5% • Enable live data of energy consumption, HVAC and chilled water performance; • Enable live data of the performance and activation of the fire alarm systems; and in comparison to 2017 by monitoring consumption and • Automate the reporting of the building’s performance in compliance with the building’s LEED identifying unnecessary idle time and by implementing Gold status through USGBC online Arc platform. a preventive maintenance programme. In addition, One JLT and both the Jewellery and Gemplex warehouse were all registered with Arc in 2017 by DMCC plans to run environmental awareness sessions Green Business Certification Inc. (GBCI) a digital platform that uses data to help measure and for all connected construction workers. improve sustainability performance across the built environment, from buildings to cities. 96 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 97 Environmental stewardship Environmental stewardship Conserving water and energy in the DMCC master community ENVIRONMENT Water conservation through leakage prevention Energy saving initiatives within the master community AND COMMUNITY Undetected leaks in large development such DMCC is committed to promoting initiatives DMCC places high importance on the as JLT can lead to significant water wastage and the disruption of supply. In 2017, DMCC that save energy within the master community. Some of the initiatives adopted in 2017 include: quality of air, pollution reduction and 18 incidents of water leaks in DMCC master community were reported. • All parking structures with tube lights have waste management. been replaced with power saving LED lights To ensure its water supply network remained fitted with motion sensors functional, DMCC implemented the following • Lights in 100 lifts replaced with LED lights To ensure compliance with local waste monitored by the managing agent, as corrective measures: leading to a saving of 63,072 KW per year management requirements, a Dubai the natural parameters (such as algae, Municipality approved and licensed service pH value and legionella) of the water • 11,132.5 KW saving per year by replacing • Planned preventative service and 70WMH spike up lights in the central park provider was appointed. changes overtime and requires treatment. maintenance of the water network within with 9W LED DMCC launched an investigation to source the master community • 7,051.8 KW saving per year by replacing 150W The lakes around the JLT community a feasible biological solution for the • Regular monitoring of the water network by fountain lights with 12W LED lights at the consist of salty shallow underground water treatment of water as a means to avoid the a dedicated site team central park naturally found in the area. The natural usage of chemicals. • Monthly monitoring of water consumption ground water is pumped and stored inside • Continuous supervision and review DMCC monitors its energy consumption on a a High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) liner, of contractor activity through a monthly basis, and by continuously implementing fixed at the bottom of the lakes. The comprehensive permit-to-work system, extensive preventive maintenance and energy water quality of the lakes is continuously which in turn controlled the damage of saving initiatives, it was able to achieve 55,046 pipes and other related assets KW of savings in 2017. Key highlights of DMCC’s environmental achievements in the master community include the following: Overall environmental performance of DMCC master community 2017 Future Electricity from the local utility is consumed consumption in 2017 is the result of DMCC’s achievements objectives to light the parking areas, playgrounds, roads, decision of to prohibit the high pressure and the promenades of the DMCC master washing of cars in the community’s car parks. Zero complaints on Install waste collection community. waste management stations for recycling across Diesel fuel is used to power the pumps of the master community Water is consumed to irrigate the green the lakes to maintain the lake water level and landscapes, and clean public areas. The mitigate the impact of evaporation, especially Zero chemicals spillage of Identify environmentally significant decrease recorded in water in the summer. paint and diesel fuel friendly bio-agents for treating JLT lakes water 2016 2017 Diesel consumption (GJ) 675 858 Managing agent employees Conduct environmental Electricity (GJ) 4,837 4,639 received 45 environmental monitoring for ambient air awareness sessions at the quality (CO2, CO, Oxygen and Water consumption (m3) 510,967 125,769 master community Combustible Gases), noise levels, Recycled waste (tonnes) 85 90 light (Lux Level Test) and dust Waste sent to landfill (tonnes) 19,477 20,498 98 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 99 Environmental stewardship Environmental stewardship ENVIRONMENT AND Diesel consumption Electricity consumption (7,134 GJ) (8,458 GJ) OPERATIONS 858 56 15 3,804 DMCC is committed to establishing a • A 10% paperboard saving in the tea bag baseline for reporting and implementing an production line, resulting in cost saving and 4,639 integrated monitoring system to enhance reduction in environmental impact through the measurement of its environmental reduced waste 6,220 performance. Due to data restrictions, the environmental performance of DMCC’s The 2017 increase in electricity, water subsidiaries is not outlined in 2016 but will be consumption and waste generation from the in the 2017 edition. previous year is the result of an approximate 50% increase in production. The waste sent to Total energy consumption Total water consumption Key environmental highlights of the DMCC Tea landfill during the reporting period was largely (15,592 GJ) (133,349 m3) Centre in 2017 include: organic that was not harmful and had a fast decomposition. 71 852 2,309 • The replacement of 108 halide lights of 450 4,419 Watt with 150 Watt LED lights 6,220 3,804 DMCC Tea Centre Environmental performance 125,769 2016 2017 5,497 Electricity (GJ) 3,331 3,804 Water consumption (m3) 3,665 4,419 Recycled waste (tonnes) 44 46 Waste sent to landfill (tonnes) 47 60 Total waste sent to landfill Recycled waste (20,642 tonnes) (834 tonnes) Environmental performance 46 60 13 90 71 Uptown Dubai district, DMCC Coffee Centre, master community, and DMCC Tea Centre operations are summarised below: 698 Uptown DMCC Master DMCC Total Dubai Coffee Centre community Tea Centre 20,498 Diesel consumption (GJ) 6,220 56 858 0 7,134 Electricity consumption (GJ) 0 15 4,639 3,804 8,458 Total energy consumption (GJ) 6,220 71 5,497 3,804 15,592 Water consumption (m3) 852 2,309 125,769 4,419 133,349 Waste sent to landfill (tonnes) 13 71 20,498 60 20,642 Recycled waste (tonnes) 698 0 90 46 834 Uptown Master community DMCC Cofee Centre DMCC Tea Centre 100 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 101 Creating strong communities Creating strong communities CREATING STRONG COMMUNITIES 102 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 103 Creating strong communities Creating strong communities Key Key Future objectives achievements objectives CREATING STRONG Smart and • DMCC Smart and Sustainable • Implement DMCC’s Smart and Sustainable District COMMUNITIES sustainable community District Strategy 2018 – 2019 launched Strategy by conducting approximately two initiatives under each of the six themes identified • Integrate DMCC’s Smart and Sustainable District strategy with Dubai Smart City initiative • Support Dubai’s target to reduce energy demand DMCC’s master community, Jumeirah Lakes The programme aims to: by 30% by 2030, by collaborating with tower Towers (JLT) consists of 68 towers where owners and associations to reduce their energy over 100,000 people live and work. DMCC • Reduce operational costs without sacrificing consumptions is committed to continuously improve and quality through the establishment of a build a sustainable community that enhances more competitive environment for service the wellbeing of residents and preserves the providers Volunteering • Volunteering policy • Encourage employees’ involvement in environment. • Increase competitiveness and transparency launched that entitles volunteering opportunities by collaborating with employees to volunteer local NGOs for building owners and owner associations three working days per • Facilitate volunteering opportunities to mentor In 2017, DMCC introduced a new independent within the master community calendar year youth and women to be ready for the future of community management programme to • Provide a mechanism for greater business oversee the delivery of services within JLT, a collaboration between DMCC and building process which will be guided by consistency, owners to work on improving the quality of clarity, fairness, transparency and efficiency. buildings and their sustainability within JLT Community • Several initiatives • Develop and implement a corporate wide engagement implemented community engagement framework and initiatives based on focus areas such as education, wellbeing, and women empowerment • Develop awareness campaigns and awards to encourage sustainable living practices among SDGs covered in this section the JLT community • Introduce an engagement platform that allows community members to provide feedback on their living and wellbeing experience • Measure community engagement initiatives outcomes and impact on a yearly basis as of DMCC is the committed to 2020 delivering a smart and sustainable city. The strategy behind DMCC’s property development plan prioritises resource efficiency and minimises impact on the environment. In addition, it helps DMCC increase connectivity and mobility of the community. In 2017, DMCC introduced a new independent community management DMCC strives for a community programme to oversee the delivery of where people can live, work, and do so in a safe and secure services within JLT, a process which environment. will be guided by consistency, clarity, fairness, transparency and efficiency. 104 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 105 Creating strong communities Creating strong communities SMART AND PARTNERSHIPS SUSTAINABLE CITY Whilst committed to securing a safe licenced by DMCC. This policy change enables environment, DMCC is also focused on DMCC to address any challenges it faces in The UAE is at the forefront in pursuing a more information — creating the most enriched life building a cohesive, vibrant, participatory relation to HSE and emergency response sustainable development model, and tailoring and business experience possible for all. community. In 2017, the JLT district was awareness among tower owners, which we will its approach to the 17 SDGs. awarded ‘Family-friendly Location of the be achieved through new, mandatory guidelines Smart Dubai Government Establishment is the Year’ at the Khaleej Times inaugural award issued by DMCC. This commitment was demonstrated by technology arm of Smart Dubai and officially ceremony. the active involvement of the UAE in the directs and supervises the implemenation In 2017, DMCC started to collect and monitor negotiations of the 2030 Agenda and The of electronic and smart transformation of The physical security of the DMCC master data on security incidents and in 2018, the Paris Agreement. the Government of Dubai. In 2015, Smart community is managed by Concordia, and data will also include near misses. In 2017, we Dubai released its Smart District Guidelines. involves a comprehensive 24/7 security setrecorded around 1,500 incidents, many of which On a local level, Smart Dubai was launched in Within this, the role of Dubai’s districts were up of 200 security officers and an emergency were false alarms emanating from our gold 2013. It is a city-wide initiative to transform identified as critical in the execution and response protocol run by DMCC’s Control complex. The rest of the recorded incidents Dubai into the world’s smartest and happiest delivery of Smart Dubai. As a key district of Command Centre. The Control Command were minor such as vehicle incident, ambulance city. It envisages a city where all its resources Dubai, DMCC has a responsibility to meet and Centre communication system, depending on request and security equipment failure. 2017 are optimised for maximum efficiency, where play a lead role in the delivery of the Smart the situation, immediately alerts and informs data will be considered as DMCC’s baseline, services are integrated seamlessly into Dubai strategy. key members of the community via SMS which will help it to better monitor trends and daily life, where it protects both people and messages. performance going forward. Along with Concordia, DMCC collaborates DMCC has updated its crisis management plan with Dubai Police and Dubai Civil Defence to ensure that its emergency response plan DMCC’s Smart and Sustainable authorities to ensure the safety of the procedures are always up to date. District Strategy community. All operational towers in JLT must In 2017, DMCC created a strategy to transform DMCC is also committed to supporting comply with Dubai Police and Dubai Civil DMCC is committed to the safety of each its business, urban areas and free zone into the UAE Government’s contribution the Defence regulations as well as those of Dubai member of its community, and will continuously a sustainable and resilient community. The to SDGs by driving progress towards the Municipality. Companies managing towers work with its partners to maintain a positive strategic planning was not only necessary delivery of SDG 9 Industry, Innovation and report to DMCC directly to ensure compliance. state of wellbeing among the community. to ensure that DMCC retains its status as the Infrastructure, SDG 11 Sustainable Cities world’s number one free zone, but also to and Communities, SDG 12 Responsible A DMCC in-house security team generate new opportunities to support the Consumption and Production and SDG 13 communicates with tower managers and Smart Dubai initiative. Climate Action. retailers regarding updates in regulations and legislation related to security, in addition to issuing communications to raise awareness of safety and security best practices. We are delighted to be at the forefront of Smart Dubai, supporting the In 2017, DMCC did not have direct regulatory influence on tower owners but this is subject government initiative and coming up to change in 2018 when building managers with innovative solutions to make our hired by the tower owners will have to become city one of the most sustainable on the planet. James Garbutt – Head of Asset Management, DMCC 106 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 107 Creating strong communities Creating strong communities UAE CSR objectives DMCC contribution ENGAGEMENT Raise awareness of the values of corporate social responsibility • SDG Champions embrace volunteering throughout the organisation • Committment to Day for Dubai initiative • Launch of Community Education Impact Programme – DMCC provides both financial and voluntary support to nonShaping the Future in 2018 profit organisations, who work toward improving the quality of life • Launch of DMCC Sustainability Knowledge Series in 2018 aimed at increasing sustainability awareness amongst through their programmes and social contribution. DMCC strives to DMCC employees, member companies, and members of the fulfil its role as a good corporate citizen, and supports community community contributions at all levels of the organisation through its donations • Stakeholder engagement to identify key material topics and and volunteer work. DMCC endeavours to make lasting and promote SDGs agenda meaningful contributions to society, locally as well as globally. Launch and coordinate a • DMCC works closely with several government entities on DMCC’s commitment has a clear focus on promoting education sustainable development sustainability initiatives such as Dubai Smart City initiative, including giving special attention to enhancing development skills partnership between the information security, and Financial Action Task Force to especially among women, children and the most vulnerable. public and private sectors combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism • DMCC is planning to further strengthen its partnerships with DMCC’s long-term objectives include: member companies, NGOs, private companies, and other government organisations. DMCC’s active engagement with the UNGC Local Network and our participation in the UAE • Aligning with the leadership of His Highness Sheikh Mohammed Bin WEPs Taskforce drives the agenda forward Rashid Al Maktoum in education as the most effective tool to break the cycle of poverty linked to UAE priority focus areas Develop a sense of • DMCC fosters a family-friendly environment in the JLT • Building strategic priority projects to underscore DMCC’s community-based community with over 100,000 people commitment to impact the community responsibility • Leveraging the skills and competencies of DMCC staff in volunteering Engage corporations to • DMCC is building a social impact programme focused contribute to community on education. This data will be shared in the 2018 DMCC development projects Sustainability Report • Reporting measurable change 108 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 109 Creating strong communities Creating strong communities Community happiness Volunteering DMCC encourages its employees to volunteer their time and expertise to benefit non-profit partner organisations, community programmes and foundations. 100,000+ 68 DMCC also continuously seeks opportunities to participate in social development programmes and engage with its employees in different ways. People in the Residential and community commercial towers 600+ “Day for Dubai” Retail outlets Building on its commitment toward volunteering, DMCC supports the “Day 55,000m2 for Dubai” initiative launched by His Highness Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed Community park bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai and Chairman of the Executive Council. The initiative aims to motivate the community to foster a culture of volunteering and in doing so, promote the spirit of giving. DMCC will encourage its employees and the community to dedicate at least one day of the year to leverage 2 Million m2 Development their knowledge, interests, talents and skills to give back to the community, improve and maintain the city of Dubai and protect the environment. DMCC’s unique district provides a community • JLT Run: community run by Fidelity Fitness with numerous outdoor activities and green supporting Dubai 30x30 challenge which DMCC launched volunteering opportunities in 2018 under several categories spaces for children and families. A 55,000 brought together over 550 runners honouring the year of Zayed and supporting the ‘Day for Dubai’ initiative. The year m2 central park and pedestrian friendly • JLT Happiness day: fun filled day for JLT of Zayed is a national initiative to commemorate the memory of the late Sheikh promenades along the lakes enable the families with food and games Zayed, the Founding Father of the UAE. DMCC believes that volunteering benefits members of its community to lead active and • Dubai fitness challenge: Mobile gym for two the volunteer, the organisation, the community, and the city of Dubai. healthy lifestyles. days operation in the park • A free yoga and wellness awareness session Concordia, the master community managing for women Community engagement agent, facilitates a number of community • A free health awareness session and health events by partnering with local companies, check-up for the community by Red DMCC is building a community engagement framework and policy to ensure a some of the key events held in 2017 were: Diamond doctor consistent approach towards community engagement in line with its corporate strategy and the Government of Dubai directives. DMCC’s framework sets out initiatives that promote positive change in our strategic focus areas including Furthermore, DMCC has facilitated the following events in 2017 to raise awareness on health education, health and wellbeing. As education is one of the UAE Government’s issues, embrace culture, and support worthy causes: core priorities in its endeavour to develop human capital and a diversified knowledge-based economy; one of DMCC’s community engagement focus areas is education and youth development. A particular emphasis will be placed on the Health and wellbeing Culture nation’s youth, to prepare them for the future by opening their minds to the world • Breast Cancer awareness • National Day Celebration in the JLT of possibilities and helping them to achieve a successful career path. • Standard Chartered Bank Marathon community • Al Jalila Foundation Breast Cancer Awareness • Emirati Women’s Day • Al Jalila Foundation 7 Emirates Run • Dubai Autism Centre Donation Charity • Dubai Cares Walk for Education • Blood Donation Drive (Red Crescent) • Gifts for women and children at Dubai • Foundation for Women and Children 110 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 111 GRI and UNGC index GRI and UNGC index GRI content index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC GRI Disclosure Page number(s) and/ Omissions and UNGC Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles Standard or URL(s) clarifications Principles GRI 101: Foundation 2016 102-42 Identifying and selecting 26 stakeholders General Disclosures 102-43 Approach to stakeholder 26, 27, 28, 29, 73 engagement GRI 102: General Organizational profile 102-44 Key topics and concerns 28, 29, 32, 75 Disclosures 2016 raised 102-1 Name of the organization Front cover Reporting practice 102-2 Activities, brands, 12 For more information 102-45 Entities included in DMCC is a government products, and services please refer to: https:// the consolidated financial entity and do not disclose www.dmcc.ae/ statements its financial performance 102-3 Location of headquarters 10 102-46 Defining report content 7, 32, 33, 34 and topic Boundaries 102-4 Location of operations 10 102-47 List of material topics 32, 33, 34 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10, 65, 66 DMCC is a government of 102-48 Restatements of No restatements of DMCC's first Dubai entity information information sustainability report 102-6 Markets served 12, 14, 15 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes DMCC's first from previous sustainability report 102-7 Scale of the organization 10, 14 reporting periods 102-8 Information on employees 42 102-50 Reporting period 6 and other workers 102-51 Date of most recent It is DMCC's first 102-9 Supply chain 28, 69 report sustainability report 102-52 Reporting cycle DMCC commits to 102-10 Significant changes to No significant changes report its sustainability the organization and its supply to DMCC and its performance on an chain supply chain in 2017 annual basis 102-11 Precautionary Principle or 22, 92 Principle 7 102-53 Contact point for 7 approach questions regarding the report 102-12 External initiatives 8, 18, 63, 79 102-54 Claims of reporting 6 in accordance with the GRI 102-13 Membership of 8, 18, 63, 79 Standards associations 102-55 GRI content index 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, Strategy 118, 119 102-56 External assurance Assurance readiness was 102-14 Statement from senior 4, 5 sought for this report decision-maker Material Topics Ethics and integrity GRI 200 Economic Standard Series 102-16 Values, principles, 11, 41, 69 standards, and norms of Indirect Economic Impacts behaviour GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material 7 Management topic and its Boundary Governance Approach 2016 102-18 Governance structure 65, 66 103-2 The management 14, 15 approach and its components Stakeholder engagement 103-3 Evaluation of the 14, 15 102-40 List of stakeholder 27 management approach groups GRI 203: Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments 14, 15, 106 102-41 Collective bargaining Collective bargaining Economic and services supported agreements agreements are Impacts 2016 prohibited 203-2 Significant indirect 14, 15, 106 under UAE labour law economic impacts 112 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 113 GRI and UNGC index GRI and UNGC index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC GRI Disclosure Page number(s) and/ Omissions and UNGC Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles Standard or URL(s) clarifications Principles Procurement Practices Water GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 7, 69 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 34 Principle 8 Management material topic and its Boundary Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management 69 103-2 The management 92, 93, 94 approach and its components approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 69 103-3 Evaluation of the 92, 93, 94 management approach management approach GRI 204: 204-1 Proportion of spending 69 GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by 96, 97, 99, 100, 101 DMCC water usage is Procurement on local suppliers 2016 source sourced from the local Practices 2016 utility. Anti-corruption Effluents and Waste GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 33, 60 Principle 10 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 34 Principle 8 Management material topic and its Boundary Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management 60, 67, 69 103-2 The management 92, 93, 94 approach and its components approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 60, 67, 69 103-3 Evaluation of the 92, 93, 94 management approach management approach GRI 205: Anti205-1 Operations assessed for 69 GRI 306: 306-2 Waste by type and 96, 97, 99, 100, 101 Data reported is for Effluents and disposal method non-hazardous waste corruption 2016 risks related to corruption Waste 2016 only. 205-2 Communication and 51, 62, 70, 71 training about anti-corruption Environmental Compliance policies and procedures GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 33 Principle 7 205-3 Confirmed incidents of Management material topic and its Boundary 69 corruption and actions taken Approach 2016 GRI 300 Environmental Standards Series 103-2 The management 92, 93, 94 approach and its components Energy 103-3 Evaluation of the 92, 93, 94 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 34 Principle 8 management approach Management material topic and its Boundary GRI 307: Non307-1 Non-compliance with DMCC did not receive Approach 2016 any penalties or compliance with environmental laws and environmental regulations non-compliance 103-2 The management 92, 93, 94 with respect to approach and its components laws and environmental laws and regulations 2016 regulations in 2017. 103-3 Evaluation of the 92, 93, 94 management approach GRI 400 Social Standards Series GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption 96, 97, 99, 100, 101 Employment Energy 2016 within the organization 302-4 Reduction of energy 92, 99 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 33, 38, 41 consumption Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 38, 40, 41 approach and its components 114 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 115 GRI and UNGC index GRI and UNGC index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and 44 GRI 405: 405-1 Diversity of governance 45 Employment employee turnover Diversity bodies and employees 2016 and Equal Opportunity 401-2 Benefits provided to 43 2016 full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or Non-discrimination part-time employees GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 34 Principle 6 401-3 Parental leave 43 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 Occupational Health and Safety 103-2 The management 45 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 33, 54, 56, 57 approach and its components Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the 45 management approach 103-2 The management 54, 56, 57 approach and its components GRI 406: Non406-1 Incidents of 45 discrimination discrimination and corrective 103-3 Evaluation of the 54, 56, 57 2016 actions taken management approach Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining GRI 403: 403-2 Types of injury and rates 57 Occupational diseases, Occupational of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the Not applicable Principle 3 Health and lost days, and absenteeism, absenteeism were not Management material topic and its Boundary Safety 2016 and number of work-related included due to lack of Approach 2016 fatalities data 103-2 The management Not applicable Training and Education approach and its components GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 33, 53 103-3 Evaluation of the Not applicable Management material topic and its Boundary management approach Approach 2016 GRI 407: 407-1 Operations and suppliers Not available Collective bargaining 103-2 The management 50, 53 Freedom of in which the right to freedom agreements are Association of association and collective prohibited under UAE approach and its components labour law. and Collective bargaining may be at risk 103-3 Evaluation of the 50, 53 Bargaining 2016 management approach Child Labour GRI 404: 404-1 Average hours of training 53 Training and per year per employee GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 22, 23 Principle 5 Education 2016 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading 51 employee skills and transition 103-2 The management 38 assistance programs approach and its components 404-3 Percentage of 50 103-3 Evaluation of the 38 employees receiving regular management approach performance and career development reviews GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and suppliers DMCC operates in the Labour 2016 at significant risk for incidents UAE and complies Diversity and Equal Opportunity of child labour with UAE Labour Law, which prohibits GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material 34 child labour. Management topic and its Boundary Forced or Compulsory Labour Approach 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 22, 23 Principle 4 103-2 The management 40, 45 Management material topic and its Boundary approach and its components Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the 40, 45 management approach 116 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 117 GRI and UNGC index GRI and UNGC index GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC GRI Disclosure Page number(s) Omissions and UNGC Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles Standard and/or URL(s) clarifications Principles 103-2 The management 38 Socioeconomic Compliance approach and its components GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 33, 69 103-3 Evaluation of the 38 Management material topic and its Boundary management approach Approach 2016 GRI 409: Forced 409-1 Operations and suppliers DMCC operates 103-2 The management 54, 56, 62, 64, 65, or Compulsory at significant risk for incidents in the UAE and approach and its components 66, 68 69, 70, 71 Labour 2016 of forced or compulsory labour complies with UAE Labour Law, which 103-3 Evaluation of the 54, 56, 62, 64, 65, prohibits forced management approach 66, 68, 69, 70, 71 labour. GRI 419: 419-1 Non-compliance with laws 69 Human Rights Socioeconomic and regulations in the social Human Rights DMCC's approach to Human 45 Principles 1 Compliance and economic area Rights and 2 2016 Organisation specific material topic Local Communities Innovation and digitization GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 34, 104 Management material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 33 Principle 9 Approach 2016 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 104, 105 approach and its components 103-2 The management 76, 77 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 104, 105 management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the 76, 77 management approach GRI 413: Local 413-2 Operations with 54, 95, 96, 97, 98, Communities significant actual and potential 100, 106 Innovation and New services and digitilisation 77 2016 negative impacts on local digitilisation of existing services communities Emergency & crisis management Customer Privacy GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 34 Management material topic and its Boundary GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the 33 Approach 2016 Management material topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 103-2 The management 107 approach and its components 103-2 The management 71 approach and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the 107 management approach 103-3 Evaluation of the 71 management approach Emergency Safety of the JLT community 107 & crisis GRI 418: 418-1 Substantiated complaints 71 management Customer concerning breaches of Privacy 2016 customer privacy and losses of customer data 118 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 119 Glossary Glossary Glossary Academic Institutions An educational institution dedicated to education and research. Member company A company licensed to operate in or from the DMCC Free Zone or such other commercial entity regulated by DMCCA pursuant to the DMCCA Regulations. Communities Group of people with diverse characteristics who are linked by social ties, share common perspectives, and engage in joint action in geographical locations or Near miss An unplanned event that did not result in injury, illness, or damage but has the potensettings. tial to do so. DMCC License License issued by DMCC to operate within the DMCC Free Zone. Non-governmental Any non-profit, voluntary citizens› group which is organized on a local, national or organizations international level. DMCC Policies The relevant DMCC policies notified by DMCC to the Counterparty from time to time. Outsourced employees DMCC contracted employees, such as the call centre, delivery service and the DMCC DMCC’s Representative Concordia DMCC or such other facilities management provider as may be appointed Tea Centre employees. by DMCC from time to time. Owners’ Association An association of Owners of Jointly Owned Property formed pursuant to the Jointly DMCC Tradeflow A dedicated, online platform for registering the ownership of commodities stored in Owned Property Law. facilities in the UAE. Permanent employees Employees who have been hired for a position without a pre-determined time limit. DMCCA The regulating authority for DMCC. Reporting Agencies Reporting agencies are generally one of two types: reporting either on individuals or DMCCA Regulations All rules or regulations, directives and other orders, by laws, codes of practice and on businesses. Examples: MSCI, CDP, Bloomberg. other subordinate legislation of DMCCA as may be amended from time to time. Stakeholders Stakeholders are defined as entities or individuals that can reasonably be expected to Employees and their DMCC employees and their families and dependants. be significantly affected by the organization’s activities, products, and services; and representatives whose actions can reasonably be expected to affect the ability of the organization to successfully implement its strategies and achieve its objective. Global Reporting Initiative The Global Reporting Initiative is an international independent standards organization that helps businesses, governments and other organizations understand and Suppliers A supplier is an entity that supplies goods and services to another organization. This communicate their impacts on issues such as climate change, human rights and entity is part of the supply chain of a business. corruption. Topic Boundary As per GRI the topic boundary requests a description of ‘where the impacts occur’ Global Reporting Initiative The GRI Standards are the first global standards for sustainability reporting. They for each material topic, and ‘the organization’s involvement with the impacts’. Standards feature a modular, interrelated structure, and represent the global best practice for reporting on a range of economic, environmental and social impacts. Industry and trade associations An industry trade group, business association, sector association or industry body, is an organization founded and funded by businesses that operate in a specific industry. Master Community DMCC’s master community comprised in the JLT developed or to be developed on Abbreviations a portion of the land comprising Plot 814, Parcel ID No. 393 Emirates Hill First, Dubai and situated between 5th and 6th Interchanges, Sheikh Zayed Road, Dubai, which is divided into plots and Common Areas and includes all and any reductions and AML Anti-Money Laundering extensions from time to time. B2B Business-to-business Master Community Declaration Declaration relating to the management, administration, maintenance and control of the Master Community, as may be amended from time to time. BD+C Building Design and Construction Master Community Rules Rules of the Master Community, as may be amended from time to time. CFT Combating the Financing of Terrorism Master Developer DMCC CSA Control Self-Assessment Policy Master Plan The plan of the Master Community, approved by Authorities and as amended from CEO Chief Executive Officer time to time. CFO Chief Financial Officer Media A company licensed to operate in or from the DMCC Free Zone or such other commercial entity regulated by DMCCA pursuant to the DMCCA Regulations. CFSI Conflict Free Smelter Initiative COSO Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 120 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 121 Glossary Glossary CSR Corporate Social Responsibility OECD Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development DDE Dubai Diamond Exchange RICS Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors DGCX Dubai Gold & Commodities Exchange RJC Responsible Jewellery Council DGD Dubai Good Delivery Framework SDG The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (or Global Goals for Sustainable Development) DMCC Dubai Multi Commodities Centre, established pursuant to Law No. 4 of 2001 and by virtue of SMEs Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises Decision No. 4 of 2002 and Decision No. 2 of 2006, each issued in the Emirate of Dubai TNA Training Needs Analysis ERM Enterprise Risk Management UAE United Arab Emirates FATF Financial Action Task Force UBO Ultimate Beneficial Ownership GBCI Green Business Certification Inc. UNGC United Nation Global Compact GDP Gross Domestic Product VAT Value Added Tax GDPR European General Data Protection Regulation WDC World Diamond Council GRI The Global Reporting Initiative is an international independent standards organization that helps businesses, governments and other organizations understand and communicate their WEPs Women’s Empowerment Principles impacts on issues such as climate change, human rights and corruption WFDB World Federation of Diamond Bourses HDPE High Density Polyethylene HR Human Resources H&S Health & Safety HSE Health, Safety and Environment ILO International Labor Organization IoT Internet of Things ITSCI International Tin Supply Chain Initiative ISR Information Security Regulation JLT Jumeirah Lakes Towers KP Kimberley Process KPIs Key Performance Indicators KYC Know Your Customer LBMA London Bullion Market Association LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LTI Lost time injury LTIFR Lost time injury frequency rate Master DMCC Developer MoU Memorandum of Understanding 122 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 2017 Sustainability Report | Shaping the Future of Trade 123 dmcc.ae
