Avanade Corporate Citizenship Annual Report September 2017 Welcome to the Avanade Corporate Citizenship What is Corporate Report 2017 Citizenship? We present this report to our employees and other stakeholders to show how we are fulfilling our corporate citizenship mission to “help close the gender, technology and “Corporate Citizenship” stands for an income gaps for women to better enable them to realize their full potential.” We hope organizational mission that links how we that the stories we tell through the voices of the people participating in our conduct our business to its impact on ourselves, partnerships and programs will bring Avanade’s corporate citizenship to life. our customers, and the rest of the world with We fill out the picture with metrics, as a way of holding ourselves accountable to you the aim of aligning and creating value for all of as investors, since your work at Avanade and the revenue it produces every day is them. what makes any of this possible. We acknowledge that we are a citizen of the We hope you find this report inspiring and welcome your feedback as we strive to globe and that our ability to sustain ourselves increase our impact in fulfillment of our mission. and grow depends upon our ability to create value for Avanade, our clients and their customers. AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 1 REPORT Table of Contents Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer 03 The Netherlands 19 Austria, Switzerland and Germany (ASG) 19 Our Top 20 Corporate Citizenship South Africa 20 Highlights (FY17) 04 Australia 20 Corporate Citizenship in Practice 05 Avanade Gives 21 06 06 Environmental Protection 23 Corporate Citizenship Governance Global Outreach 07 and Performance 25 Avanade 15 for 15 Scholarship Program 08 26 Junior Achievement 10 27 The Aspire Foundation 12 27 Supporting Developing Countries 13 Local Outreach 14 Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate 15 Citizenship Council Chair 28 17 18 AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 2 REPORT Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship This is an unprecedented time in the world with Our global Corporate Citizenship approach Highlights (FY17) technology fundamentally changing the way we focuses on closing the gender, technology and live, work and relate to one another. income gaps for women to better enable them to Organizations are eager to embrace the latest realize their full potential. Alongside this, we aim technology innovations including Artificial to foster environmentally sustainable growth, Corporate Citizenship Intelligence, to drive innovation and speed to education through technology and uphold the in Practice market, increase productivity and collaboration, highest ethical standards in our business and enhance customer reach and experience. At operations. In 2017, I became a member of the Adam Warby the same time, organizations are rethinking Junior Achievement Europe Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer traditional business models and considering new helping to further Avanade’s support of this vital Global Outreach ways to attract, win and retain both employees partnership that is equipping girls with the and customers. professional skills essential for their lives. I personally encourage each of you to take the In parallel, worrying levels of climate and political opportunities available to you to actively engage instability and social inequality across the globe in our Corporate Citizenship approach at Local Outreach make it ever more important to engage, Avanade. motivate and empower society to promote global citizenship. Organizations have an important While we have a significant way to go, we are responsibility to provide work environments that proud of the exceptional efforts our team is allow people to feel part of a bigger community making today. This report provides an account of the actions we have taken in 2017 and Avanade Gives and to embrace technology as a force for good, improving the way we work and live. recognizes the teams involved across the globe. I would like to thank our Corporate Citizenship Our vision at Avanade is to be the leading digital Council and team for their leadership and innovator, realizing results for our clients and guidance, and our employees who do Environmental their customers through the power of people and remarkable things every day to change things for Protection the Microsoft ecosystem. Leading in today’s the better. marketplace demands “outside-in” thinking, which is why over the past two years, we have been working to align Avanade’s Corporate Corporate Citizenship Citizenship approach behind our business vision. Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 3 REPORT Our Corporate Citizenship Highlights (FY17) Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Highlights (FY17) Corporate Citizenship in Practice Global Outreach Local Outreach Over $100,000 raised for charities Avanade Gives across the globe since the launch of Avanade Gives Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 4 REPORT Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Highlights (FY17) Corporate Citizenship in Practice Corporate Citizenship in Practice Global Outreach Local Outreach Avanade Gives Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 5 REPORT Corporate Citizenship in Practice Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Our Approach an overarching framework to shape, steer, Highlights (FY17) communicate and report our Corporate Citizenship We change Our global Corporate Citizenship mission strategy, goals and activities. While there are several things for Our mission at Avanade is to help close the Global Goals that align with our business purpose the better and Corporate Citizenship mission, we highlight We act with We believe Corporate Citizenship gender, technology and income gaps for integrity and everyone women, to better enable them to realize two principal focus areas for Avanade below: in Practice respect counts their full potential. GOAL 4 We will achieve this by We deliver We innovate • empowering women to help close the QUALITY Ensure inclusive and equitable quality with with passion EDUCATION excellence and purpose Global Outreach gender gap education and promote lifelong • building programs that give women access learning opportunities for all to technology, and • upskilling women to make a living to help GOAL 5 close the income gap QUALITY Achieve gender equality and Local Outreach EDUCATION empower all women and girls Our Commitment as Signatories to the UN Global Compact Business has a key role to play as an engine of economic growth and employment and a source Avanade Gives of finance, technology and innovation. The UN Sustainable Development Goals – otherwise known as the “SDGs” or “Global Goals” – represent a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace Environmental and prosperity. Achieving the vision of a prosperous Protection world in 2030 will rely heavily on innovations across such areas as sustainable cities, climatesmart agriculture, clean energy and improved Corporate Citizenship medicine and health care. Governance and Performance We embrace our status as a global corporate citizen and acknowledge that our ability to sustain ourselves and grow depends upon our ability to Closing Remarks from create value, not only for Avanade and our clients Avanade Corporate but also for the planet we live on and for the Citizenship Council Chair people we live with. The 17 Global Goals provide AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 6 REPORT Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Highlights (FY17) Corporate Citizenship in Practice Our Global Corporate Citizenship Global Outreach Initiatives Local Outreach Help close the gender, technology and income Avanade Gives gaps for women, to better enable them to realize their full potential Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 7 7 REPORT Global Corporate With our first scholars about to graduate in 2018, Statement from Our Citizenship we hear from Tatiana Kambwa and Desislava Koleva Chief Executive Officer as they near the end of their studies: Our Corporate Citizenship I AM SO CLOSE TO ACHIEVING MY GOAL Highlights (FY17) “I am one semester away from graduating and I’m struggling to find the words that can Avanade 15 for 15 properly express my feelings about Avanade’s scholarship program. This scholarship has given me so much and enabled me to focus my attention on my education. It has provided me with Scholarship Program a mentor who gives me valuable advice and encourages me to participate in academic clubs, Corporate Citizenship extend my network, and always participate in job fairs. In celebration of our first 15 years in business, in Practice Avanade made a strategic decision in 2015 to Once I have graduated and found a good job, my first ambition is to become an active invest in the future of young women by awarding member of The Aspire Foundation. My dream is to be able to help and encourage women 15 university scholarships to women interested in across the world. I know I can do it. pursuing an education in science, technology, Global Outreach engineering or math (STEM) subjects. Thank you, Avanade for helping me to see that there is no dream that cannot be realized. Those who persevere and succeed are called achievers.” The Avanade 15 for 15 Scholarship Program is a long-term commitment by Avanade to build a Tatiana Kambwa network of women with the skills to succeed in Avanade 15 for 15 Scholar and Senior at California State Polytechnic University, Local Outreach STEM careers. In addition to a scholarship, Pomona, California Avanade provides mentoring and internship opportunities, a support network and will THIS EXPERIENCE HAS BEEN EXTRAORDINARY AND LIFE CHANGING ultimately create an alumni network for young “I was born and raised in Bulgaria and came to the UK having been awarded a scholarship in high school. I made the decision to stay in the UK and in 2015 I began to study computer women to remain connected through their Avanade Gives sciences at University College London. However, I was unsure about whether I had made the education and careers. Avanade also provides right decision on my place of study and my course subject. With no previous exposure to IT, I opportunities for our scholars to attend learning felt isolated in a room full of students that had previously studied the subject at school or in events, such as our annual Tech Summit, held at college. I decided to apply for a scholarship with Avanade and it was the best decision of my the Microsoft Conference Center in Washington, life. I was granted the scholarship and it has transformed my attitude and opened my mind USA. to future possibilities. Feeling part of a community that wants to support girls like me in their Environmental STEM studies is so important. In my own experience, around 15% of the course is made up of Protection We have continued to grow the program each girls, so it can be quite daunting being on a course that is overwhelmingly male-centric. year and now offer scholarships at 8 Universities across the globe, providing 40 women with the Attending the Tech Summit in June 2016, was the highlight for me; an experience of a lifetime seeing how the subjects that I had been studying were being practically applied to all sorts Corporate Citizenship opportunity to achieve their dreams of gaining of technologies. It boosted my confidence and enabled me to grow and develop as a person. Governance and an education in STEM subjects. I am so thankful to Avanade for giving me the support and encouragement and for opening Performance my mind to the opportunities that exist for me and those like me. To any girls reading this I would say, don’t give up and keep pursuing what you enjoy.” Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Desislava Koleva Citizenship Council Chair Avanade 15 for 15 Scholar at University College London AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 8 8 REPORT Global Corporate Scholars attending this year’s Tech Summit in Statement from Our Citizenship Washington, USA share their experiences: Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Avanade Tech Summit 2017 “One of the best parts of Tech Summit was meeting the amazing and inspiring people from Highlights (FY17) Each year, Avanade holds Tech Summit, a across the many areas of Avanade, who shared their knowledge about what they have learnt three-day technology event, at the Microsoft throughout their experiences and how they have evolved and built their careers. For me, Tech Conference Centre in Redmond, Washington. The Summit was life changing; it opened my eyes to the potential of technology and Artificial Intelligence. The presentations about projects that have been developed to help clients really Corporate Citizenship event brings together our top technologists from interested me. Having thought that I wanted to be a physical therapist, I now know that I want around the globe, along with key clients and in Practice to be on the technology side, developing innovative products that can transform the medical strategic partners to share ideas, knowledge and field by treating patients more effectively and efficiently.” showcase the latest technology innovations. Tracey Brereton We are proud to include our 15 for 15 Scholars as New Jersey Institute of Technology Global Outreach participants at Tech Summit. It provides them with a unique experience to learn about and be “Participating in Tech Summit has been a great and exciting experience, not only because I inspired by the amazing ways that technology is had the opportunity to gain insight into new technological innovations but it also enabled shaping and changing our world. me to meet talented and inspiring professionals from all over the world. I had the possibility to informally meet executives and leaders and speak with them about their career paths. One Local Outreach executive, during his presentation, offered me and other Italian scholars the opportunity to participate in an internship in South East Asia. The chance to interact with these professionals impressed me the most about Tech Summit.” Silvia Modino Polytechnic University of Milan Avanade Gives Our 2017 Scholars From September 2017, Avanade will be Environmental supporting ten more scholars who start Protection their degree courses at Ochanomizu University in Japan and the Institut National Sciences Appliqueés in Lyon, France. Corporate Citizenship Governance and They join the 30 scholars already a part of Performance this program at California Polytechnic University of Pomona, University College London, the University of Pretoria in South Closing Remarks from Africa, the New Jersey Institute of Avanade Corporate Technology, Politecnico Milano in Milan, Citizenship Council Chair Italy and Shaghai University in China. AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 9 9 REPORT Global Corporate Statement from Our Citizenship Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Junior Achievement The partnership between Avanade and JA is active to equip girls with critical and professional skills Highlights (FY17) across Brazil, Italy, Norway, Spain and Sweden. that empower, upskill, educate and enable them In 2016, Avanade made a strategic decision This partnership, which will grow in scale and to make considered choices of careers in STEM to collaborate with Junior Achievement (JA), a extend to more countries over time, set out to subjects. As volunteers, mentors, advisors and worldwide organization providing young people reach more than 500 girls in the first year. classroom presenters, Avanade employees Corporate Citizenship in primary, secondary and higher education provide practical advice and experience as well in Practice with quality education on practical skills linked By working to close the gender, technology and as encouragement and motivation. They are to enterprise, entrepreneurship, business and income gaps for women, Avanade is working important role models too. economics. For Avanade, we believe that diversity drives creativity, invention and a more humanGlobal Outreach centered approach; qualities that lie at the heart of innovation and digital transformation. JA is working hard to bring girls into STEM studies Statement from Caroline Jenner, and careers and Avanade is excited to support its mission. CEO Junior Achievement Europe Local Outreach Key facts: “Junior Achievement focuses on the skills that we think young people need to make it in • Despite the demand for STEM professionals a global economy. We want to help them with their work readiness, by developing the expected to grow by 8% between 2013 and financial and IT literacy skills that are often missing from national curriculum as well as other Avanade Gives 2025, women are still underrepresented complementary skills such as communications and languages. By involving business people in these fields with just 28% of the world’s in the initiative, we can demonstrate to young people the skills that are necessary to researchers being women. achieving fulfilling careers. • Women constitute 52% of the total European population but only 30% of start-up entrepreneurs. Environmental Given that young people make career decisions between the ages of 14 and 18 years, it is • Women represent 34.4% of all self-employed Protection so important they acquire soft competencies and entrepreneurial skills that will equip them people in the EU. throughout their careers. Let’s face it, people today are predicted to change careers up to ten • Over 50% of business leaders believe they times in their lifetime. These transitions, jumping from one rock to the next, can be daunting, need to do more to attract, retain and so it’s important to be able to help people to see where the next opportunities lie and give Corporate Citizenship promote women to leadership positions. them the confidence to make the leap. Governance and Performance Why the focus on girls? Based on our experience of working with other digital companies, I believe that girls have an intuitive way of focusing on the solution to any problem; they have an innate ability to think about how solutions can be applied in different ways and in different Closing Remarks from social contexts. Girls may not be so familiar with coding or other back-end work involved in Avanade Corporate digital solutions, but once they understand what it is designed for, they can apply it to any Citizenship Council Chair number of situations, for instance, how can it benefit older people or other marginalized AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 10 10 REPORT Global Corporate sections of society? Of course, entrepreneurship is all about coming up with a great idea in the first place. But being able to apply it – to see it through to fruition – is essential to making that Statement from Our Citizenship idea a success. Chief Executive Officer As with many great partnerships, our relationship with Avanade was serendipitous. Attending a Microsoft-hosted event to celebrate the promotion of girls into STEM and digital industries, I had the pleasure of meeting Avanade’s Global Director of Corporate Citizenship. The Our Corporate shared passion of our organizations for enabling girls to realize their full potential led to us Citizenship establishing a partnership in December 2016. Highlights (FY17) Avanade – like any successful business – is a microcosm of skills and talents. Every skill set is needed to make a business operate. So, although girls may not be immediately attracted to the Corporate Citizenship ICT sector, there are endless opportunities to build great careers in companies such as Avanade. in Practice Another exciting aspect of this collaboration is the appointment of Adam Warby onto the JA Europe Board. Adam’s story is inspiring; coming from an engineering background and working his way through the ranks in Microsoft, ultimately using the experience he acquired to establish Avanade as a successful business. Young people need to learn that success follows many years of honing skills and continually developing talent. Adam is a great asset to the Board and an Global Outreach equally inspiring role model for young people starting out in their careers. I am very excited about the opportunities that this partnership will bring and I look forward to exploring how we can further extend the reach to more countries where Avanade and JA operate.” Local Outreach Caroline Jenner CEO, JA Europe Avanade Gives Progress update Environmental In the first year of the partnership, 102 Avanade Protection volunteers supported 1,124 girls across Brazil, Italy, Norway, Spain and Sweden. This is an exciting start to our ongoing partnership with JA and it is very positive to see our reach exceeding Corporate Citizenship the targets we initially set. More details on the Governance and events and activities we have run in partnership Performance with Junior Achievement can be found in our Local Outreach section. Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 11 11 REPORT Global Corporate Reflecting on Avanade’s partnership with Statement from Our Citizenship The Aspire Foundation, Global Sales Lead, Chief Executive Officer Nigel Kirkham, comments: Our Corporate Citizenship The Aspire Foundation Highlights (FY17) “Being involved in our mentoring activities through The Aspire Foundation program has given The Aspire Foundation has a mission to make a me a whole different perspective outside of Avanade. I have had the chance to meet young, difference to the lives of 1 billion women around entrepreneurial women with a hunger for guidance on how to overcome challenges and the world by 2020 by empowering and upskilling develop their business ideas. The mentoring program is incredibly rewarding for both mentees Corporate Citizenship women working in charities and social enterprises. and mentors. I do not only feel that I helped to accelerate my mentee’s plans, the experience in Practice Women in the non-profit and social enterprise also challenged me, providing the opportunity to think creatively in areas of work in which space look to The Aspire Foundation for a variety of I don’t normally engage. I believe this program showed Avanade at its best; a caring business. skills and advice — from strategic planning to I am proud to share such stories of our Corporate Citizenship approach with our clients.” creating a budget to communicating effectively. Global Outreach The Aspire Foundation draws from its pool of Nigel Kirkham mentors to provide coaching and encouragement Executive, Global Sales Lead to women through one-to-one relationships that are developed over six months. Local Outreach Between 2015 and 2017, Avanade worked closely with The Aspire Foundation and, in just two years, Avanade employees mentored 1,000 women, providing them with the skills and motivation necessary to succeed in their careers. In addition, Avanade Gives Avanade worked with The Aspire Foundation to improve the organization’s IT infrastructure, enabling it to better process applications from mentors and mentees, and provided an interactive experience for mentors and mentees to participate Environmental directly in the matching process. Protection Although The Aspire Foundation has now closed its doors to new mentoring relationships, Avanade Corporate Citizenship continues to invest in the current mentoring Governance and relationships our employees have forged. We are Performance delighted with the outcomes of this partnership and look forward to hearing about the amazing work and ongoing success of The Aspire Closing Remarks from Foundation. Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 12 12 REPORT Global Corporate We asked Emma Scullion, Founder and Director Statement from Our Citizenship of Awamu what Avanade’s support means to her: Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Supporting Developing Countries “The story of Awamu began through my association with The Aspire Foundation. I was Highlights (FY17) fortunate to participate in the mentoring program and my mentor, Bernie, works for Avanade. UGANDA I learned that Avanade was looking to identify projects in Africa as part of the company’s Corporate Citizenship program. I had just finished making a film about the slums in Kampala and I felt compelled to do something that would help to make a difference to the lives of Corporate Citizenship Avanade are supporting Awamu, a charity the children living in these slums, many of whom were orphaned and were living with HIV. focused on enabling women in the slums of in Practice I met so many caring and compassionate women, many of whom provided shelter and Kampala to change the lives of vulnerable a family to orphaned children. But providing shelter and security is only part of the solution. children in their communities. With many families living in poverty, finding enough food for their extended families remains a constant worry. In Uganda, awamu means together , and to Global Outreach the many orphaned children living in the slums of Through Awamu, we have set up two women’s groups – in Bwaise and in Makerere – to create Kampala, the importance of being part of a network of community gardens. The women may live two miles apart, but they share the a community that comes together to create same issues around gaining an income and providing sufficient and healthy food for their lasting change cannot be underestimated. Many families and neighbors. The women will acquire the agricultural and business skills that will be of the children in Kampala are born with HIV, vital to their future. They will be responsible for training five gardening groups, including two gardening clubs in primary schools and one in a secondary school. Local Outreach which means that their immune systems are fragile, and with many of these children receiving Our community food gardens will be a source of food for over 600 children in the slums of antiretroviral medication, it is vital that they Kampala, and the women will learn how to run them as enterprises and start their own savings are given food to optimize the effectiveness groups from the profits they make selling the produce. This, in turn, can help towards the of their medication. education of children who are currently not in school because their guardians simply don’t Avanade Gives have the means to pay for their uniforms or tuition. Entrepreneur, Emma Scullian, was inspired to create her social enterprise, Awamu, which is I have seen hunger crush the aspiration of even the brightest and most ambitious children we creating networks of inspiring women to change work with, which is why we are determined to scale up the project. These children need the the lives of orphans through the provision of help of enterprises such as Awamu that can have a direct positive impact on their lives. If we Environmental sustainable feeding programs. Awamu has are to help them to change their lives, we must act now. Protection successfully piloted food gardens with 60 families Awamu runs on pure passion! All donations go directly to helping women and children and is now creating two community gardens that with the knowledge, skills, seeds and tools necessary to grow their own food. Everything will provide food for over 600 children. With core else is provided on a voluntary basis. I am delighted that Toni Handler, Executive, Global Corporate Citizenship funding from Avanade as well as other donors, Organizational and Leadership Development at Avanade is joining the Awamu board. Her Governance and Awamu can buy seeds, soil and tools and provide involvement in shaping our future will be tremendous. Thank you to Avanade, The Aspire Performance training to over 150 families, enabling them to Foundation and my mentor, Bernie Neville, who have supported me and given me the come together to create change. Importantly, the confidence to make Awamu a reality.” enterprise is helping to upskill women and Closing Remarks from children, enabling them to build gardens in their Avanade Corporate community to grow their own food. Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 13 13 REPORT Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Highlights (FY17) Corporate Citizenship in Practice Local Outreach Global Outreach Local Outreach Avanade Gives Driving change in Avanade and the communities where our people live and work. Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 14 REPORT Local Outreach Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Highlights (FY17) Corporate Citizenship in Practice Global Outreach Local Outreach Avanade Gives Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 15 REPORT Local Outreach Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Highlights (FY17) Corporate Citizenship in Practice Global Outreach Local Outreach Avanade Gives Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 16 REPORT Local Outreach Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship As a global company with 30,000 digitally UNITED STATES OF AMERICA After School All-Stars – Closing the income Highlights (FY17) connected people across 24 countries, and technology gaps to help young people Avanade strives to have an identity and brand Modern Muse – Inspiring the next generation realize their full potential that unites us in a shared purpose. We want of female leaders After School All-Stars (ASAS) strives to close all our people to feel a part of the same story Modern Muse is a hub for career inspiration the opportunity gap that exists between Corporate Citizenship of realizing results for our clients and their and advice. With a mission to change lives low income and higher income youths, in Practice customers. Despite our global scale, we recognize through knowledge, the charity’s online platform providing help with homework and offering that people identify most with what is closest to enables girls to connect with women (“muses”) enrichment through learning activities them – their work colleagues, their local offices, who share stories about their careers and the and health and fitness programs. their neighborhood, their country. Avanade subject choices they made along the way to Global Outreach works within each market to identify a non-profit inspire girls to explore careers they may never We know colleges are placing increasing organization that can realize our global mission had considered before. emphasis on students that have resumés through partnerships that are closer to home. demonstrating all kinds of extracurricular The process of selecting and aligning Avanade’s story with Modern Muse began activities, and we recognize that such organizations is ongoing, but many of our local as a commercial relationship in early 2016 but opportunities are often out of reach for many Local Outreach teams have already committed to projects, we were so inspired by their work that young people. We have partnered with ASAS in some of which are highlighted in this chapter. we decided to lend our support through New York City to provide exciting opportunities volunteering, with 11 Avanade employees to inspire young people with the world of to date becoming Modern Muses. Their profiles technology through interactive digital skills can be found at www.modernmuse.org. workshops. Our first, in July 2017, saw 15 young Key facts: Avanade Gives people learn about design and innovation. • Research by Microsoft revealed that while most young girls are attracted to STEM subjects around the age of 11, their interest drops off sharply by secondary school. The Environmental findings also revealed that girls are looking for Protection better access to role models. • While the percentage of women working in STEM has decreased by 1%, the number of roles available has increased by 13,000. Corporate Citizenship This means that STEM industries are thriving, Governance and and within these, so are the opportunities Performance for women. • Over half of STEM companies in the FTSE 100 have more than two female directors, and this Closing Remarks from figure is expected to grow. So, the future is Avanade Corporate looking bright for female STEM graduates! Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 17 REPORT Local Outreach Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Children’s Museum of Houston “I am so proud of what our team has achieved in such a short amount of time. It’s a great Highlights (FY17) Avanade co-sponsored the Shocks and Jolts exhibit at the Children’s Museum of Houston, feeling knowing the money we raised is now being used to change people’s lives. If there introducing young people to the exciting world is one thing I have taken away from the experience it is to aim high, with enough work and determination anything is possible.” of electrostatics, electromagnetism and electrical Corporate Citizenship circuits – all essential parts of the Texas state’s in Practice science curriculum. Using fun, interactive learning, the children converted mechanical energy into electricity using a bicycle and a hand crank James Pemberton and they launched objects into the air using Europe Marketing, Avanade Global Outreach electromagnetic forces. The Museum welcomed 548,170 visitors during the eight-month run and received overwhelmingly positive feedback from parents and caregivers with 98% agreeing UNITED KINGDOM Over six months, the teams work to turn seed that the exhibit helped children develop a better funding into a profit of £10,000 or more. The Prince’s Trust Million Makers Competition Avanade’s 2016-17 team rose to the challenge, Local Outreach understanding of electricity. Each year, a team of employees at Avanade publishing the second edition of an e-booklet UK enters The Prince’s Trust Million Makers to encourage young women into STEM careers Competition, which sees businesses competing and running numerous fundraising events. to raise the most money for The Prince’s Trust Overall, the Avanade team turned the £1,500 through microenterprise initiatives. The aim is to seed funding into an impressive £33,000, Avanade Gives raise £1 million to directly support disadvantaged seeing the chairman of Avanade UK’s Million young people in the UK, with three in four young Makers team, James Pemberton, take home the people supported by The Prince’s Trust moving Outstanding Individual award. into work, education or training. Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 18 REPORT Local Outreach Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship THE NETHERLANDS AUSTRIA, SWITZERLAND AND GERMANY (ASG) Highlights (FY17) JINC – Helping Young People into Vocational Uniting Communities and Businesses Girls’ Day at Avanade Germany Education and Training in Exchanging Essential Skills In April 2017, Avanade Germany invited ten JINC is the local charity partner of Avanade Avanade ASG has partnered with Proboneo, an pupils to spend the day in our offices. The girls Corporate Citizenship Netherlands and our employees volunteer their organization that brings dedicated professionals were introduced to Avanade Digital and the apps in Practice time to support the charity’s mission to help and community organizations together to share that we develop to directly support businesses, young people onto the employment ladder. technical and business skills. During a two-day and a female consultant shared her experience The Netherlands places an emphasis on workshop in Berlin, nine Avanade volunteers of working on exciting innovation-led projects. vocational education and training and JINC joined four local non-profit organizations to The girls enjoyed working with our IT Support Global Outreach encourages young people to remain in education learn about project management and project colleagues in dismantling and reassembling old to improve their employment prospects. Avanade implementation tools. The employees in the laptops, and it was especially impressive to find has partnered with JINC, providing career advice non-profit organizations got to enhance their that every laptop was still working afterwards! and training to help students apply for and knowledge of project implementation and secure employment. In March 2017, our Avanade facilitation, which was supported even further Local Outreach volunteers helped over 130 students with their when our employees spent a week with them to resumés and interview technique. help with things such as establishing consistent processes and creating communication plans. Avanade Gives Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 19 REPORT Local Outreach John Tadman, General Manager at Avanade South Africa Statement from Our discusses Avanade’s support of Home of Hope for Girls: Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship SOUTH AFRICA “Mam’s story of how she gave up her career, at great personal risk, to rescue young girls from a life of Highlights (FY17) prostitution is inspirational. From inviting girls to receive warmth and a cup of tea in her flat to running Home of Hope for Girls: Providing Vulnerable two homes where she not only rescues the girls from the streets but she looks after them and supports Girls with Shelter, Love, Security and Hope them through their education, she has personally driven a transformational journey. Mam lives our in Johannesburg Avanade values every day and we are privileged to support Mam and her Home of Hope for Girls.” Corporate Citizenship In Johannesburg, around 10,000 young girls every in Practice year fall victim to prostitution and trafficking. Home of Hope was set up by Khanyisile Motsa AUSTRALIA Following the success of the workshop, when she relocated to the Johannesburg suburb, Avanade organized for Graeme Hackland, Chief Hillbrow, and was shocked to see girls as young Bringing the outside world into the classroom Information Officer at Williams Formula 1 team, Global Outreach as nine working as prostitutes. Mam Khanyi, as For students at Melbourne Girls Grammar School, to talk to the girls about the role of innovation she is affectionately known, puts herself between experiential learning was taken to a new height when and technology in Formula 1 racing. Using the vulnerable girls and those who exploit them by teachers, with the help of Avanade, brought mixed HoloLens technology again, the girls were given providing security, protection and the love of a reality technology into the classroom. The Microsoft the opportunity to virtually change a tyre on a family of volunteers and support workers. HoloLens is the first self-contained, holographic Formula 1 racing car! computer, enabling users to engage with digital Local Outreach Employees at Avanade South Africa actively content and interact with holograms in the world Eleanor Mullins, a Year 9 student, said support the work of Home for Hope through around them. The technology provides critical “The HoloLens was amazing! At school, I could donations and fundraising efforts. In knowledge, expertise and intelligence in the work imagine using it in science to explain things, collaboration with Accenture, our employees environment, enabling, for example, medical experts such as how the brain works. I’ve learnt about to interact virtually with paramedics to interpret vital a whole new side of technology and how Avanade Gives donated ten laptops and raised $2500 through the sale of chocolates and candles. They also data on a patient and advise on treatment. working in technology does not mean simply organized a Fun Day to mark International sitting at a desk.” Mandela Day that raised $1,000. Avanade Australia provided “externships” to teachers through two-week placements where Environmental Thanks to Home of Hope, 76 young girls have they spent time in Avanade’s offices, discovering Protection regained their lives and their dignity and can now first-hand what it is like to work in the technology look forward to a brighter future. industry. The externships led to Avanade executives, Sandy Abrahams and Lee Hamilton, orchestrating a classroom learning experience Corporate Citizenship for students using the Hololens technology. Governance and Alongside a product demonstration, the girls Performance participated in a design-led workshop where they developed ideas for using the technology. The girls demonstrated their capacity for innovation Closing Remarks from with ideas such as military training, with virtual Avanade Corporate support on bomb disposals and guidance in Citizenship Council Chair realistic combat situations. AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 20 REPORT Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Highlights (FY17) Corporate Citizenship in Practice Avanade Gives Global Outreach Local Outreach A world class technology platform giving Avanade Gives employees access to fundraising, volunteering and payroll giving Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 21 REPORT Avanade Gives Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Avanade has been a proud supporter of many Payroll Giving Humanitarian Appeals Highlights (FY17) important community initiatives over the years and much of this effort has been driven by Avanade facilitates the administration of funds Avanade has established processes in place to the passion and dedication of our employees to charities on behalf of our employees through mobilize support in response to humanitarian across our global network. Avanade Gives is our our payroll giving program. So far, we have set disasters, channeling contributions from the Corporate Citizenship workplace giving technology platform, which up payroll giving schemes in 4 countries and will Company and our employees through trusted in Practice helps our employees to quickly and easily make continue to grow this number in FY18. non-profit partners to ensure aid is administered personal and financial contributions to further quickly and effectively. Avanade’s philanthropic goals and to improve Employee Volunteering the quality of life in the places our employees Earthquake in Central Italy Global Outreach live and work. Avanade supports employee-driven volunteer efforts by offering paid time off for Disaster struck Central Italy at precisely 0336 hours Avanade Gives was implemented globally in 2017 volunteering. As many of the stories of our on 24 August 2016, when an earthquake tore as an easy and flexible gateway to workplace global and local outreach programs testify, our through the historic town of Amatrice and the many giving, providing employees with access to tools people are the catalysts for change through small mountain-top settlements in the bordering Local Outreach and information to support their Corporate their passion and their dedication to supporting regions of Umbria, Lazio and Marche. With a Citizenship activities. causes close to their hearts – from helping magnitude of 6.2 at its epicenter, the tremor was felt inspire women and girls to engage in technology from Bologna in the north of Italy to Naples in the Corporate Match Giving and supporting young people in STEM education south. Around 300 people lost their lives and many and vocational training, to offering practical more sustained serious injuries or were left without Avanade Gives Through Avanade Gives we offer our corporate support and financial assistance to communities food and shelter. Through a coordinated effort, match giving program, which enables employees affected by humanitarian crises. During 2016-17 Avanade paid a donation to the Italian Red Cross to maximize their financial contributions up to our employees donated over 800 hours to of 16,000 Euros having matched the 8,000 Euros $250 per year. Employees can apply for match volunteering in their communities. donated by employees across the network. giving as individuals or as teams. During Environmental 2016-2017, over $45,000 of match funding was Protection donated to charities supported by our employees. Speaking in the immediate aftermath of the earthquake, Mauro Meanti, General Manager, Avanade Italy said: Corporate Citizenship Governance and “You all know what happened the other night in central Italy. None of us, or our loved ones Performance were involved in the tragedy, but to thousands of people the situation is extremely tragic. Your generosity in the last few days raised Euro 8000, which Avanade has doubled to Euro 16000. Thank you to everyone who donated; in a disaster like this, it is heartening to see that solidarity Closing Remarks from remains an important value to everyone.” Avanade Corporate Mauro Meanti Citizenship Council Chair General Manager, Avanade Italy AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 22 REPORT Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Highlights (FY17) Corporate Citizenship in Practice Environmental Protection Global Outreach Local Outreach Foster environmentally sustainable Avanade Gives growth and education through access to technology Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 23 REPORT Environmental Statement from Our Protection Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship At Avanade, we are committed to minimizing Environmental, Health and Safety equipment, we reuse and recycle office Highlights (FY17) the negative effects of our operations on Management Systems consumables such as paper and cardboard, glass, the environment while promoting safe and plastic and aluminum, and we compost food sustainable practices through education and Avanade, in conjunction with our parent company, waste where practicable. technology solutions. We work closely with our Accenture, is committed to implementing Corporate Citizenship parent company, Accenture, and in partnership effective environmental management systems Travel and Transportation in Practice with our business partners, our suppliers and our and occupational health and safety measures clients to identify risks and incorporate leading across our global operations. To date, we When choosing our office locations, environmental practices in our business practices have obtained ISO 14001 certifications for our the accessibility of public transit options and operations. We also foster environmental and operations globally, and we have achieved OHSAS is an important consideration. We actively Global Outreach health and safety awareness and responsibility 18001 certifications for our operations in India, promote the use of technology to reduce among our employees through training, the UK, Ireland and Spain. the need to travel for business. campaigns and collaborative opportunities. Energy and Emissions Refurbishment and Reuse Our environmental impacts are measured Local Outreach and managed through our parent company, Avanade donates its used assets and equipment We are committed to optimizing energy usage Accenture, who report annually on their to InterConnection, a non-profit organization and efficiencies in our office locations and data environmental performance and that of their providing high-quality refurbished equipment centers and we consider renewable energy affiliated companies. With leadership and to under-served communities around the world. sources where feasible. In addition, we promote guidance from Accenture, we implement best Since March 2017, Avanade has donated 373 the use of efficient heating, ventilation and air Avanade Gives practice environmental initiatives to minimise the laptops, 80 monitors, four desktop computers, conditioning (HVAC) technology where applicable effects of our operations. two servers and 10 cell phones as well as to reduce operating costs and lower greenhouse gas emissions. miscellaneous hardware. We have also donated cell phones and phone Environmental Waste and Water chargers for reuse to educate and connect Protection We monitor waste generated and water usage women and children in developing countries. We and discharge across our operations and we have donated a total of 236 smart phones and conduct our business in ways that minimize the 69 battery chargers to A Partnership in Education Corporate Citizenship consumption of natural resources and prevent in Rwanda and to Falling Whistles in the Eastern Governance and pollution. We operate programs promoting the Democratic Republic of Congo. Performance reuse, reconditioning and recycling of technology Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 24 REPORT Statement from Our Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Highlights (FY17) Corporate Citizenship in Practice Our Corporate Citizenship Global Outreach Governance and Performance Local Outreach Avanade Gives Environmental Protection Corporate Citizenship Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 25 REPORT Our Corporate Citizenship Statement from Our Governance and Performance Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Meet the council Highlights (FY17) “I am proud of the strengthening of It was great to meet several of I’m very proud about the work we Corporate Citizenship our relationship with Junior Achievement, our 15 for 15 scholars at an are doing with Junior Achievement in Practice with Adam Warby’s stepping onto Aspire event, hearing their stories in Brazil. We are creating new and their board as a sign of our mutual and experiencing the reality of exciting opportunities that brighten commitment. You can already see the how our investment in Corporate the futures of hundreds of girls. enthusiasm throughout Avanade for Citizenship is “paying forward” the greater impact we can make with for these outstanding scholars. Rodrigo Caserta this partnership.” GM Brazil Global Outreach Chris Buckley David Oskandy Global Business Operations I am proud to be able to support our General Counsel,Legal (Chair) Corporate Citizenship initiatives and enable our teams to contribute I’m most proud of the launch of I am most proud of our new Avanade towards a better tomorrow. Our Avanade Gives which is providing Gives Program for our employees. This people devote their time and their matching funding and 8 hours of program allows us to match our volunteer time to our employees. skills to develop innovative ways to Local Outreach employees’ charitable contributions, help people and our planet. People want to work for a company that and I am thrilled to be part of an cares and Avanade is demonstrating organization that values and Rajiv Khanna they do just that by allowing our encourages social responsibility. Avanade GDN Business employees to make a larger impact with Management Lead the charities they are personally Toni Handler O&LD HR committed to. Avanade Gives Every company wants to create a Dean Olmstead great experience for clients. At “I am so proud of the work we do Regional GM Avanade, we recognize that to achieve with Awamu. They are a small that, employee experience is equally organization with a big heart, helping I am extremely proud of the important. I’m proud of how some of the most disadvantaged incredible organizational participation passionate and engaged our team Environmental children in the world. we have achieved globally with members are when it comes to Corporate Citizenship. Whether it’s Protection Avanade Gives – as well as Avanade’s Bernie Neville official recognition at a local level in providing mentoring, getting involved Global Business Management Lead Houston, Texas, for our 3rd in our communities, or supporting one consecutive Annual Top Workplace another through natural disasters. I’m As a father of 3 daughters, Avanade’s Award based on employee job excited to be able to help that happen Corporate Citizenship focus on closing the gender, technology, satisfaction survey results. through Corporate Citizenship at Avanade. Governance and and income gaps for women resonates with me at a personal level. It is great to Adam Drutz Performance see the global and local outreach Sales Management Executive Stella Goulet programs making such an impact to Chief Marketing Officer individuals across the world. Closing Remarks from Chris Miller Avanade Corporate CTIO Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 26 REPORT Our Corporate Citizenship Statement from Our Governance and Performance Chief Executive Officer Our Corporate Citizenship Corporate Citizenship Governance Corporate Citizenship Metrics Highlights (FY17) Executive Oversight The Corporate Citizenship Council sets the direction for Corporate Citizenship at Avanade Corporate Citizenship and reports to the CEO and the Executive Avanade Gives Portal Employee Volunteering in Practice Committee. The Council reviews progress on the 10% of employees using the portal 10% of employees volunteering various programs and other components of our FY17: 342 (4% of FTE) FY16: 194 Corporate Citizenship approach through regular FY17: 196 (2.3% of FTE) structured updates prepared by the Global Global Outreach Director of Corporate Citizenship. Operational Management The Global Director of Corporate Citizenship is responsible for delivering Avanade’s Corporate Junior Achievement Local Outreach Citizenship approach. Reporting to the Corporate 500 girls in five or more countries Avanade 15 for 15 Scholarship Program Citizenship Council, the Global Director identifies to be supported in STEM education 100% of scholars completing and manages our global approach, liaises with FY17 Target: 500 their courses our partners and other stakeholders, develops FY17 Actual: 1,124 FY16: 100% of women completed Year 1 the Corporate Citizenship policies, monitors FY17: 100% of women completed Year 2 Avanade Gives performance and prepares internal and external progress reports. Environmental EcoVadis Protection Achieve ratings of 46 and above to The Aspire Foundation maintain Silver Medal in annual 1,000 women working in the non-profit assessment sector supported by Avanade mentors FY16: 46% FY17: 1,000 women mentored Corporate Citizenship FY17: 50% Governance and Performance Closing Remarks from Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 27 REPORT Closing Remarks from Statement from Our Chair of the Corporate Chief Executive Officer Citizenship Council Our Corporate Citizenship “We founded Avanade’s Corporate Citizenship tackling the ongoing challenge of unemployment. This report offers a way to hold ourselves Highlights (FY17) approach with the mission to link how we In short, we “help close the gender, technology accountable to our people on Corporate conduct our business to its impact on ourselves, and income gaps for women to better enable Citizenship. It’s a way to celebrate our successes our clients, and the rest of the world, with the them to realize their full potential”. so far. It is also an acknowledgment of how much aim of aligning and creating value for all of them. we’ve accomplished in a short time. But most Corporate Citizenship This is something that we must take the care and I am proud of the increased engagement and importantly, it should serve as inspiration and in Practice time to tailor to our own culture and people in enthusiasm for the programs we have established a pathway for the future. I am inspired by the order to hold meaning for us as a community. As as part of our Corporate Citizenship approach tremendous possibility that remains for us to fulfil this report hopefully shows, we’ve put key pieces so far, and the rising aspiration amongst our and the fun we will have getting there together!” of our approach in place. However, much more employees and senior managers to fulfill our effort, and fun, lies ahead! Global Outreach mission. We have launched Avanade Gives – our program to inspire employee giving and Corporate Citizenship rounds out our identity as matching funds from Avanade – and we have a mature innovation organization that stakes out continued to evaluate established programs, leadership positions not just in our industry, but such as the Avanade 15 for 15 Scholarship also in the community. More and more clients Local Outreach Program. More and more of our people tell me consider Corporate Citizenship, or aspects of it, that they consider Corporate Citizenship to be a as a factor in determining whether to work with central part of their life here at Avanade and us, while also giving us another way to connect they’re yearning for more. David Oskandy with them besides the work at hand. Both our Executive, General Counsel & Secretary and clients and our people expect Avanade to be During 2018, we look forward to amplifying our Chair, Corporate Citizenship Council Avanade Gives a good corporate citizen, which means being impact through collaborative opportunities with aware of and remaining relevant to the challenges Microsoft. We are also forging a new partnership we all face in today’s world. They are looking with Junior Achievement following the for an explicit commitment and they want to tremendous success we have enjoyed through Environmental see evidence of follow-through. We will judge our collaboration with The Aspire Foundation. Protection ourselves using high standards that give weight to real actions where the density of meaning and impact are there for all to see. It’s tempting to try to do everything all at once, but this approach Corporate Citizenship ends up being self-defeating. That’s why we Governance and vigorously debated our theme, acknowledging Performance that a disciplined focus would increase our chances of success. We finally coalesced around a theme that combines how to attract and retain Closing Remarks from more women into the STEM industry, while Avanade Corporate Citizenship Council Chair AVANADE CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP ANNUAL 28 REPORT Anti-Corruption Avanade stands against any form of corruption, Ethics and Compliance Business Intermediaries which includes out-and-out bribery that the laws of virtually every country in the world prohibit, as well Avanade has an established Ethics and Compliance Avanade allows only ethical, qualified business as a broader array of activities that the U.S. Foreign team that assesses the risk of corruption in business intermediaries to help Avanade sell and deliver its Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act matters. This team also is involved when a Code of services. Avanade hires business intermediaries to sell prohibit. Avanade complies with these global and Business Ethics or policy violation is reported. Avanade’s services only after they have passed our due local anticorruption laws wherever it does business. Additionally, Avanade has a multitude of ethical diligence and approval procedures. Proper approval at Avanade standards may be higher than some local behavior policies in place that ensure that internal the highest level in the organization are requested. customs or some other companies’ business procedures support Avanade’s anti-corruption Avanade requires all business intermediaries to comply practices. Avanade does not tolerate illegal or commitment. All employees, contractors and interns are with its anticorruption policies and procedures. questionable conduct, even if some of our trained on Avanade’s anticorruption policies during the competitors do. onboarding process and continually throughout employment. No Avanade employee or Avanade representative will suffer adverse consequences for refusing to pay Finances or take a bribe or kickback, even if this results in the loss of business to Avanade. Through Avanade Avanade operates to maintain and present up to date policies, employees are required to pay attention to accounting and financial records, as well as reports warning signs, to bring arrangements with a client, produced from those records, in accordance with the business intermediary or other business partner laws of those countries where Avanade maintains a that appear questionable to the attention of the legal entity. Moreover, Avanade refuses to make or Avanade Legal Group immediately upon finding accept questionable payments from vendors or clients. out about them. Quick detection and attention is a key priority for Avanade anti-corruption programs as it can make all the difference in preventing behavior that can harm Avanade or its clients. ©2017 Avanade Inc. All Rights Reserved. <Confidential> See Avanade’s Data Management Policy 1 Labor Avanade is committed to respecting the rights of Recruitment Process Audit Committee of Avanade: the individual as outlined by various international labor standards. Avanade has taken steps to ensure Avanade bases employment decisions, Avanade audit committee regularly reviews and oversees that we are compliant with the globally respected including selection, development, promotion among other things the Avanade compliance programs policies. and compensation decisions, on and initiatives. individuals’ qualifications, skills, performance, With the international standards in mind, Avanade and overall business needs without regard to race, color, Ethics and Compliance Counsel: respects and is compliant with all minimum wage age, religion, gender, national origin, sexual identity or standards and all regulations pertaining to antiexpression, sexual orientation, disability, veteran, Avanade has an established Ethics and Compliance slavery, anti-child labor, and anti-human trafficking. military or marital status, genetic information, or Counsel that discusses and administers compliance any other protected status. programs and initiatives. This Counsel meets on a Safe Workplace quarterly basis. Avanade ensures that all employees have a safe workplace. This includes compliance with health Governance Within its legal department Avanade has a dedicated compliance team which advices on, assesses, investigates regulations, and safety and emergency procedures. and reports on Compliance related issues. Governing Bodies The policy is outlined in Avanade's Policy Corporate Citizenship: surrounding Physical Security. Employees are regularly trained on this subject. Corporate Citizenship is governed by a Corporate Citizenship Counsel made of representatives of senior Suppliers and Contractors global leadership and led by a Senior Director. This group meets bi-monthly and provides executive sponsorship for Not only does Avanade enforce and respect Citizenship initiatives. The Council also provides insights international standards of labor within the and guidance for new initiatives, policies, and the company, but all our suppliers must also meet the direction of Citizenship as a whole. The Council is same standards. significant to our mission as leadership sponsorship helps advance companywide awareness of Citizenship's initiatives and the company culture. ©2017 Avanade Inc. All Rights Reserved. <Confidential> See Avanade’s Data Management Policy 2
