MAY 2018 EFICO Group Communication On Progress Year 2017 Based on the COP of the United Nations Global Compact Foreword T his annual repor t, May We are proud to again be one solutions towards a sustainable 2018 edition, is based on step further in our sustainability coffee supply chain. the Communication On journey and also report our proProgress (COP) requests gress towards the Sustainable As always, we welcome feedof the United Nations Global Development Goals for which back and ideas to continue to Compact (UNGC). EFICO formulated its ambition learn and improve our dynamic, towards 2030. sustainability journey. As a global compact signatory since 2003, EFICO is committed This report contains our stateWe report according to the GC to transparently report its progress ment of continued support, and ACTIVE LEVEL. and challenges, and share this our progress towards sustainable with its partners. sourcing, the impact on farmers’ livelihoods and prosperity and our This report reflects our commitenvironmental impact. ment towards the ten principles of the UNGC and reports our proCombining these three angles, gress made in 2017. we aim to positively drive systemic Just like the previous reports, this COP report is published on www.unglobalcompact.org and on www.efico.com/un-global-compact. i Education for the Future Santander, Colombia Table of Contents Foreword ................................................................................................................................................................. i Statement of continued support 2017 ............................................................................................................... 1 United Nations Global Compact Principles versus Sustainable Development Goals ........................... 2 UNGC Principles and EFICO’s Progress Implementation .................................................... 4 SDGs and EFICO’s Progress Implementation .......................................................................... 4 Sustainable Sourcing Impact ............................................................................................................................ 4 Positively impacting farmers’ livelihoods and prosperity ........................................................................... 6 Reducing our environmental impact ............................................................................................................. 12 What is next ......................................................................................................................................................... 14 ii Wet processed coffee to dry on patio Acatenango, Guatemala Statement of continued support 2017 Dear Partner, Dear Stakeholder, Dear Member, Anno 2017, no company can publish a blog post, article or its annual report without addressing sustainability or corporate social responsibility. For EFICO it is different. As a family company, our sustainability journey started back in 1926, and is part of our coffee genes. Passionate about coffee, we started to establish strong partnerships with suppliers and customers, based on mutual trust and respect, creating a profitable business for all, and most importantly partnerships that could sustain for the future. Throughout the years, our commitment towards sustainable development was formalized. Back in 2003, EFICO subscribed to the United Nations Global Compact principles as first green coffee trading company, and in the same year we launched the EFICO Foundation. In 2016, EFICO formulated its ambition towards 5 out of the 7 Sustainable Development Goals and integrated these within EFICO’s business model: Today, we see many positive evolutions in the coffee sector: increasing demand for high-quality and sustainable coffees, investments in environmental-sound technology, new coffee varieties, new processing techniques, and sector platforms to exchange coffee know-how are some examples. Additionnally, we are also confronted with challenges that go much beyond our core activities. Many farmers are facing low coffee yields and incomes. With the low coffee prices of today, it is extremely hard for coffee farmers to be profitable and improve their livelihoods. On top of this, climate change leading to rising temperatures, more extreme weather events and changes in rainfall patterns resulting in unpredictable harvests and so unreliable supply and farmer income. As a medium-sized company with strong family values and a passion for coffee, we take our responsibility in this difficult environment. We act transparently in our business activities and stay authentic and close to our intrinsic values that drive our business since 1926. We aim to establish sustainable value chains, positively impacting farmers’ livelihoods and prosperity and reducing our environmental impact. A significant part of the coffee we source receives premium prices for quality and sustainability. Over 85% is sourced from local actors, boosting local development. We share knowledge and information with our partners to connect our customers with the coffee farmers, and invest in a sustainable coffee chain. In this way coffee is much more than a commodity. Together we can achieve more. Collaboration with different actors in the coffee sector is needed to jointly built a sustainable coffee future. As a member of amongst others the UNGC, Global Coffee Platform, Sustainable Coffee Challenge and World Coffee Research, EFICO fosters partnerships and aims to be a catalyst, sparking action in the coffee sector to make coffee the first commodity to be 100% sustainable. This EFICO Group Communication On Progress Report reflects our actions taken in 2017 and our ambitions for the future. We kindly invite you to evaluate our progress and welcome your feedback. Michel Germanès Philip Van gestel Managing Director Executive Chairman 1 THE 10 UNGC PRINCIPLES EFICO integrates the ten United Nations Global Compact principles in its strategies and actions: HUMAN RIGHTS Principles based on the Universal Declaration Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOUR Principles resulting from the International Labour organization’s Declaration Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and recognize effectively the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Principles derived from the Rio Declaration principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle based on the UN Convention against Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery 2 THE 17 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs) The Millenium Development Goals Goal 6 Ensure availability and Goal 15 Protect, restore and prowere transformed into the postsustainable management of mote sustainable use of terrestrial 2015 Sustainable Development water and sanitation for all ecosystems, sustainably manage Goals. forests, combat desertification, Goal 7 Ensure access to afforand halt and reverse land degraThe UN Member States agreed on dable, reliable, sustainable and dation and halt biodiversity loss the proposed 17 goals at the UN modern energy for all Summit in September 2015; Goal 16 Promote peaceful and the new framework came into Goal 8 Promote sustained, incluinclusive societies for sustainable effect as from January 2016: sive and sustainable econo development, provide access to mic growth, full and productive justice for all and build effective, These new goals give an overemployment and decent work accountable and inclusive instituview on how to tackle the world’s tions at all levels most pressing problems, including Goal 9 Build resilient infrastrucpoverty, inequality and environture, promote inclusive and sustaiGoal 17 Strengthen the means of mental destruction: nable industrialization and foster implementation and revitalize the innovation global partnership for sustainable Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms development everywhere Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutriGoal 11 Make cities and human tion and promote sustainable settlements inclusive, safe, resilient agriculture and sustainable Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and Goal 12 Ensure sustainable conpromote well-being for all at all sumption and production patterns ages Goal 13 Take urgent action to Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and combat climate change and its equitable quality education and impacts promote lifelong learning opportunities for all Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and Goal 5 Achieve gender equality marine resources for sustainable and empower all women and girls development 3 SUSTAINABLE SOURCING IMPACT OUR HISTORY EFICO is a green coffee trading company, established in 1926, with headquarters in Belgium, sourcing offices in Brazil, Ethiopia and Guatemala and sales offices in Switzerland and Germany. We our proud to have opend a new sales office in 2017: EFICO USA LLC in Miami. 2009 2015 SEABRIDGE Noord Natie Zeebrugge reinforces Belgium Mgt participation 2003 2005 in EFICO Group 1926 Member of UNGC EFICO Fund 2010 2017 EFICO founded within KURU Ethiopia Duo Mgt Team: EFICO USA LLC as green coffee Establishment King Baudouin Ethiopian office Philip Van gestel American office trading company EFICO Foundation Foundation Addis Ababa & Michel Germanès Miami 1990 2004 2006 2011 2016 E Emile EFICO GmbH EFICO SA EFICO Brazil EFICO Group F François German office Swiss office Brazilian office Commitment I Installé & Hamburg Porrentruy Santos to 5 out of CO Company the 17 UN SDGs 2007 2013 EFICO Central America † Patrick F. Installé Duo Mgt Team: Patrick F. Installé Central America office & Michel Germanès Guatemala City OUR SUSTAINABLE SOURCING COMMITMENT As a family company, sustainability is in our coffee genes. By implementing a sustainable sourcing policy, we aim to support the long-term supply of quality coffee, whilst preserving ecosystem services for future generations. This commitment connects with the following SDGs and UNGC principles for impact measurement: SDG 12 : Responsible Consumption & Production UNGC Human Rights and Labour SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth UNGC Human Rights, Labour and Anti-Corruption SDG 17: Global Partnership for Sustainable Development UNGC Human Rights,Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption OUR COMMITMENT TO DELIVER A SAFE, SUSTAINABLE AND QUALITATIVE GREEN COFFEE Coffee Quality is the basis for EFICO’s purchasing and sales activities. We assess quality systematically from harvest up to delivery, at several moments in the supply chain. The detailed evaluation by our Green Coffee Quality Experts and Trade Team includes physical, sensorial, and microbiological analysis. We strive for excellence in providing correct and safe products and a personalized service with consideration of all actors in the supply chain, meeting our customers’ expectations. 4 Coffee drying Quindio, Colombia Ambition: 40% sustainable sourcing by 2020 and 50% latest by 2025 In 2017, 51% of our coffee sourced was verified or certified according to various sustainability standards. Over the last 10 years, this volume quadrupled from 13% to 51%. Ambition: more than 80% sourcing from cooperatives or local exporters by 2020 At EFICO, personal relations with our suppliers COOPERATIVE are key. In 2017, we sourced 87% directly from LOCAL EXPORTER cooperatives, unions or local exporters, boosting local development and economic growth. INTERNATIONAL Ambition: think global, act local We stimulate our suppliers and our clients towards a more sustainable coffee future. By actively listening to the needs of our partners, we build partnerships amongst private, public and civil society actors and join efforts to drive change & impact. ABOUT EFICO GROUP Trading green coffee since 1926, sourcing from over 40 countries and serving over 400 clients worldwide Offices in Belgium, Switzerland, Germany, USA, Brazil, Ethiopia and Guatemala Quality & Sustainability are in our ‘Coffee Genes’: e.g. EFICO Foundation since 2003 & SEABRIDGE since 2008 First coffee trader to sign up to 10 United Nations Global Compact principles in 2003, commitment towards 5 out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals since early 2016 Following the highest standards in Quality, Safety, Health and Environment; compliant with ISO 9001 / ISO 22000 / ISO 26000 / AEO // ISO 45001 & FSSC 22000 in progress 5 POSITIVELY IMPACTING FARMERS’ LIVELIHOODS & PROSPERITY In 2003, we launched the EFICO Foundation as a commitment of the EFICO Group to sustainable development and promote it among coffee roasters. Established as a private foundation, the EFICO Foundation’s goal is to positively impact coffee farmers’ livelihoods, prosperity and environment. The multi-stakeholder approach adopted is unique and is a dynamic tool to foster partnerships and innovation in the coffee supply chain, multiplying impact. The EFICO Foundation is about people from coffee farmers, their families and local communities to coffee consumers purchasing a sustainable product. This commitment connects with the following SDGs and UNGC principles for impact measurement: SDG 4 : Quality Education UNGC Human Rights and Labour SDG 17: Global Partnership for Sustainable Development UNGC Human Rights,Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption Via our EFICO Foundation, we make a difference by supporting sustainable multi-stakeholder development projects in coffee producing countries with the aim to improve hereby the livelihoods of many. Ambition: quality education, knowledge transfer, climate change & sustainable income increase In 2017: • 8 projects supported in Africa, PROJECT BENEFICIARIES PARTNERSHIPS Central & South America • 810 direct beneficiaries with improved possibilities, empowerment and prosperity • Indirectly generating a positive impact on the lives of over 2,200 coffee families Ambition: foster partnership building In 2017: • 32 partners directly involved • 18 indirect partners DIRECT INDIRECT EFICO FOUNDATION PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS 2017 EDUCATION FOR A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE COLOMBIA, SANTANDER In Santander, Colombia, a cooperation between the Collibri Foundation, the Regional Coffee Growers Committee of Santander, the Colombian Technical Education Platform (SENA), Florentino Gonzales Rural school and EFICO, was set up end of 2014. We aim to improve development opportunities for young students and graduates through qualitative rural education programs in the municipality of Coromoro, Santander, as a basis for welfare, sustainability & settlement in the rural area. “Education for the Future” is a local initiative to foster capacity building, peaceful coexistence and income generation for 100 youngsters and their families. Indirectly younger students, teachers, and neighbor families benefit from the improved education program, a total of 300 coffee families. 6 The project ended in 2017, and an impact assessment has been performed, with following results: • Technology & ICT is integrated in the educational program: 25 teachers are certified for information & communication technologies, 100 youngsters have improved technological skills, of which 27 are certified for computer maintenance. • Stronger family and community coexistence: Improved awareness of 100 smallholder families on social skills, gender equity, leadership, peaceful coexistence and conflict resolution. 25 youngsters and 25 teachers were trained in a comprehensive human development program and act as leaders to drive positive change amongst the community. • Increased income through sustainable coffee growing: 100 youngsters, of which 44% women, each established a coffee farm with productive and rust-resistant varieties. All of them report improved living conditions, and 65% wants to continue growing coffee and is ready for generational take-over. This is an increase of 22% in 3 years’ time. Sharing our learnings: Engaging youngsters and women in leadership is key to foster a sustainable coffee future. Our target group consisted of youngsters below 30 years old, though given the massive migration of youth to cities, we can increase our impact by including the age group of 30 to 40 years as well. Visibility of women leadership of the project team is essential to change cultural practices. For active involvement of women, individualized support is key. Domestic violence needs to be addressed at both family and individual level. Education for the Future Santander, Colombia Continued partnership and Efico Foundation project since 2004 ETHIOPIA, SIDAMA ZONE This project for structurally supporting 4 primary schools in quality education, is a collaboration between Fero Cooperative, a Dutch coffee roaster, Action For Self Reliance (AFSR) and EFICO. 442 school children are supported in 4 selected schools to complete their primary education, positively impacting 466 coffee families. In 2017, we observe a reduced drop-out rate of the school children, the establishment of a coffee garden to sustainably increase the income generation for the school, courses on sustainable and qualitative coffee production are officially approved to integrate in the school curriculum as from 2018, multi-stakeholder committees are established to improve the involvement and commitment of teachers, children, parents and the local government and a special program is run to provide girls with sanitary materials increasing school attendance. Sharing our learnings: Investing in quality education brings direct results. Though the challenges in Ethiopia are huge. There is a strong need for knowledge transfer and improving the quality of education, but also the basic needs for IT infrastructure, hygiene, food provision and so on need to be addressed. Teaming up with other organizations with complementary focus areas can be a solution. 7 IMPROVED LIVING CONDITIONS HONDURAS, LEMPIRA A healthy living and environment for the coffee community is key to improve the quality of life. This project targets 50 families through the development of local capacities. Through a “Healthy Family Plan” and training, knowledge and skills are developed for a healthier behavior and self-health family care. Housing is improved by providing a concrete kitchen floor, a wood-efficient stove and a water filter to each family. Additionally, investment in a vegetables garden with multiple harvests will provide more nutritious food and improve the health of the families. The project is a partnership of Fundación Amigos del Café, a Dutch coffee roaster and EFICO. Sharing our learnings: Investing in basic needs is essential in order for the rest to follow. Eating nutritious food and creating a healthy environment stimulates self-care and provides a backbone to feel good. This is the essence of life for all: the foundation needs to be solid in order to further build upon. El Platanillo School Renaud Cuchet and proud students San Marcos, Guatemala Efico Foundation project since 2004 GUATEMALA, SAN MARCOS In 2017, we started a new project with Finca El Platanillo, Nuevo Platanillo Association, a Belgian coffee roaster and EFICO, as a follow-up on previous successful projects “Education and food production gardens” and “ICT school maintenance”. The aim is to scale-up the previous efforts and continue installing vegetable gardens with edible mushrooms, to improve the nutrition habits and health of both children and adults in the communities. On top of this, a scholarship will be given to 2 highly motivated students to obtain a “High School Coffee Diploma” to improve knowledge on quality and sustainable coffee production. This program won the 2017 SCA Sustainability Award. Overall 25 adults and 35 children will benefit from this program. Sharing our learnings: A specific “High School Coffee Program” is a great way to make students proud to work in the coffee sector and brings hope for the future. GUATEMALA, RETALHULEU In Retalhuleu, 40 “Healthy Home Kits” improved the daily lives of 40 coffee producing families. This project was initiated in 2017. This project was carried out by Habitat for Humanity Guatemala and supported by a Dutch coffee roaster and EFICO. A Healthy Home Kit consists of a water filter, a wood efficient stove and a sanitary latrine. The 40 beneficiary families helped building the stoves and latrines. Training was also given about health and nutrition, financial responsibility and savings and appropriate use of the Healthy Home Kits. Sharing our learnings: It is amazing to see the effect on communities being involved in building the stoves and latrines. 8 Building a wood efficient stove Sustainable coffee garden Renaud Cuchet and HFHG Team income increase for the schools Retalhuleu, Guatemala Sidama zone, Ethiopia INCOME DIVERSIFICATION AND WOMEN EMPOWERMENT PERU, LOS CHILCHOS A mudslide destroyed the washing station of the Ucumari coffee farmers’ association in Los Chilchos back in 2016: Farmers could not process their high-quality and environmental-friendly coffee anymore. Coffee being the main income for the farmers in the region, it directly impacted the livelihoods of 43 families. As an emergency support program, the supply chain partners launched a fundraising action to collect 25,000 EUR and rebuilt the washing station so farmers could process their coffee again. In 2017, the farmers could anew sell their high-quality coffee at differentiated prices, directly increasing their income. Sharing our learnings: As a rather new coffee association, Ucumari has limited financial resilience, making them very vulnerable for external shocks. Upon the start of a new project, prior attention should go to organization structure and financial resilience of the organization. NICARAGUA, JINOTEGA We develop and improve the technical capacity of 30 young and motivated coffee farmers to fulfill requirements of coffee certification. In 2017, the youngsters are trained to improve productivity and quality, climate-smart farming practices, improve cost efficiency by unifying different internal certification processes (Aldea Global for Fairtrade, Organic, Rainforest Alliacne, UTZ, etc.). A train-the-trainer model will be applied where each youngster trains 40 farmers to leverage impact. We expect after project completion that the 30 youngsters will have improved job opportunities. This new and low cost model “Aldea Certification” can be replicated across Latin America. This project is carried out by Aldea Global and supported by a Luxembourg coffee roaster. Sharing our learnings: The next generation is the future. By empowering them, they develop more self-confidence. This sparks enthusiasm amongst the rest of their communities. By integrating knowledge and technology, the coffee sector becomes again more attractive for youngsters. Cruz Grande 2 farmers of the project Huehuetenango, Guatemala (see next page) 9 IMPROVING WET MILLING & WASTE WATER MANAGEMENT GUATEMALA, HUEHUETENANGO In 2016, the construction of a wet mill for cooperative Cruz Grande was finalized with the support of ANACAFÉ, FUNCAFÉ, a Danish coffee roasting company and EFICO. The direct beneficiaries of this project are 43 coffee farmers, members of the cooperative and their families. The centralized wet mill has the potential to improve quality, reduce 60% of the water consumption and re-use waste water as organic fertilizer thanks to an evaporation pool. Although this project has great potential for quality improvement and applying environmental-sound technologies, we faced quite some challenges. Many farmers were not bringing their coffee cherries to the mill caused by multiple reasons: lack of trust in the cooperative, short-term cash needs, distance to travel and so on. We jointly decided to expand the project by 1.5 year and focus on training of the coffee farmers in 4 different areas: 1/ organization structure & governance; 2/ technical capacity & quality; 3/ operations; 4/ and finance Sharing our learnings: While some people from the cooperative had a willingness and motivation to improve their livelihoods & coffee quality, but due to short-term needs of cash and lack of a strong cooperative structure, results were not up to the expectations. Cruz Grande Wet Mill and patio Huehuetenango, Guatemala ABOUT EFICO FOUNDATION Private foundation, established in 2003 Co-designs and supports projects that create a positive impact on coffee farmers’ livelihoods, prosperity and environment Projects are selected by an independent jury of experts A flexible tool for a sustainable supply chain : support by sourcing coffee with EFICO contributing 0.25 EUR/kg or directly transfer to the EFICO Fund: www.eficofoundation.org/donate 100% of the contribution goes directly to the projects, EFICO covers operational expenses, funds are managed independently and transparently by the King Baudouin Foundation Working together: a multi-stakeholder approach, fostering partnerships 10 Aldea Certification Jinotega, Nicaragua 11 REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT SEABRIDGE is a state-of-the-art warehouse, combing excellence in quality, sustainability and traceability. It is one of the major achievements during the last decade that allow EFICO to position itself as innovator in the development of sustainable supply chain solutions, to meet our stakeholders’ concerns and setting a standard for the future. With SEABRIDGE, the EFICO group actively contributes to its ambition of 100% green energy use and recycling 95% of the waste streams. This commitment connects with the following SDGs and UNGC principles for impact measurement: SDG 7 : Affordable & Clean Energy UNGC Environment Ambition: 100% green energy use within the EFICO Group and recycling of 95% of all waste streams In 2017, we report a 95% green energy use at our offices & SEABRIDGE warehouse. INBOUND OUTBOUND At SEABRIDGE: • 4,600 solar panels produce 83% of the total energy need, a CO2 reduction of 1,504 MT • 89% of all waste is up/recycled, 11% has energy recuperation • 98% of inbound and 57% of outbound volume is sustainably transported, a CO2 reduction of 1,224 MT TRAIN VESSEL/BARGE TRUCK SEABRIDGE warehouse Zeebrugge, Belgium 12 TAKING CARE OF YOUR COFFEE COFFEE STORAGE IN THE BEST CONDITIONS The SEABRIDGE warehouse is dedicated and designed to store coffee in the best conditions. Coffee is a hygroscopic product. It can absorb and desorb water from its environment. The structure of the green beans change, resulting in microbiological and enzymatic reactions. At SEABRIDGE, green coffee reaches its equilibrium when no absorption or desorption occurs. To reach these conditions, temperature, relative humidity, air ventilation and filtration are continuously regulated and monitored. At this point, shelf life will be at its longest. A team of experts in coffee handling takes care of reworking, screening, drying, blending and repackaging of coffee in boxes, bags, big bags, according to our customers’ requirements. A unique track-and-trace system allows real-time stock visibility. All batches are barcoded and scanned, allowing instant traceability. Interfacing is possible. PROFOUND QUALITY CONTROL IN OUR LABO Our quality team works in a dedicated laboratory for physical, sensorial and microbiological analysis of coffee samples. Each sample is taken automatically on bag-per-bag basis during unloading of the containers. They are barcoded, analyzed and stored for minimum 14 months. The laboratory is not only used for daily control of samples but also offers a customized service towards our clients for quality training sessions by our Q-grader. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OH&S) We take care of our people, and safety is one of the key pillars at SEABRIDGE. In 2017, there was a specific focus on OH&S, and compliance with ISO 45001. Q-Grader Ivan Lamilla Muñoz No work accidents occurred and a succesfull re-integration trajectory was conducted after long-term absence of one of the workers. Interior SEABRIDGE warehouse ABOUT SEABRIDGE Established in 2008, part of the EFICO Group of companies 20,000 m2 warehouse solely dedicated to green coffee customs warehouse EU Strategic location in Belgium, in the center of Europe: Direct UK connection / 1 hour from Calais Tunnel / 1 hour from port of Antwerp Following the highest standards in Quality, Safety, Health and Environment; compliant with ISO 9001 / ISO 22000 / ISO 26000 / ISO 45001 and AEO Developing long-term business partnerships, sharing the same vision 13 WHAT IS NEXT ? Although we are proud of our achievements of 2017, there are still many challenges ahead of us. For the coming years, we aim to continue to grow our business activities, sourcing sustainably and directly from local actors. We are open to discover new and exciting coffee origins and work together with trustable suppliers. A specific focus will be the geographical expansion in North America for the sales of high-quality and sustainable coffee, and continuing to meet our customers’ expectations. A sustainable coffee future means that all actors can benefit without harming the potential for the future generations. We continue to address the challenges of low coffee market prices, and dialogue with partners on a sustainable coffee price and how to create win-win partnerships for all actors, putting the farmer at the forefront. We are transparent in our business activities and aim to ensure a profitable business for all. Joining sector and innovation platforms and organizations such as World Coffee Research, Global Coffee Platform and the Sustainable Coffee Challenge gives us a voice in the transition towards a sustainable coffee future, inspiring others to act. In terms of quality, we work to obtain a SCA certified quality laboratory at SEABRIDGE in 2018, offering Q-grading seminars to our partners. Our QSHE standards will be upgraded according to the IFS standard, including food defense and food fraud, and the new ISO 9001. With the EFICO Foundation we continue making a difference by supporting multi-stakeholder projects in coffee producing countries. For 2018 2020 our focus areas are knowledge transfer, sustainable income increase for farmers and adaptation and mitigation to climate change. Particular attention goes to motivating young coffee farmers to continue in the coffee sector by integrating knowledge and technology. Already 6 new projects are being confirmed for 2017 and beyond: in Burundi, Congo, Guatemala, Honduras and Colombia. In 2018, we celebrate 15 years of EFICO Foundation and United Nations Global Compact membership. Reflecting on the achievements of the past 15 years, we are excited to continue our dynamic sustainability journey. www.efico.com @EFICOCOFFEE www.facebook.com/EFICO-218238252574/ www.youtube.com/eficogroup www.linkedin.com/company/efico 14 15 This EFICO report is also available on the United Nations Global Compact Website and on www.efico.com/un-global-compact. EFICO chose another UNGC and The Shift member as printing partner, climate neutral company Artoos. This brochure is printed climate neutrally. Italiëlei 181, B-2000 Antwerpen Tel. : +32 (0)3 233 78 65 efico@efico.com www.efico.com
