Title 1 The LEGO Group Responsibility Report 2017 Responsibility Report A letter from our owner 3 Content Inspired by children: a letter from our owner 3 Inspired by children: 18 Case: Build to Give for children a letter from our owner in hospitals around the world Children are our role models. They are natural learners 4 Many steps forward in 2017: 20 ENVIRONMENT a letter from our CEO and a source of imagination, discovery and wonder. 22 Case: Celebrating our 100% Through the power of play we inspire children of 6 Our commitment to the UN renewable energy milestone all ages. Sustainable Development Goals 24 Case: Inspiring children to put Play is vital to every child’s development. When employer we can be. This also 8 The LEGO Foundation: together the building blocks of ­children play, they learn to solve problems, be means taking care of our communibuilding skills for the future a better planet ­creative and become resilient. It helps them to thrive ties and always striving to do better, in a complex and challenging world. The great – and year after year. powerful – thing about play is that children can build At the LEGO group, we have 10 CHILDREN 26 Case: First sustainable LEGO® valuable life skills while they are having fun. always believed we can build elements produced Children’s natural approach to learning is an anything we can imagine, and we 12 Case: Children’s right to play ­essential part of their development toward becoming will continue to push the boundathe best possible builders of our shared future. This is ries of what is possible – and every 28 PEOPLE why the shared mission of the LEGO® brand is ‘­To insingle step will take us closer to 14 Case: Safeguarding children spire and develop the builders of tomorrow’. ­Together, leaving the best in a digital world 30 Case: Dare to Care: we all we strive to promote a systemic change around how possible world have to look after each other play is perceived and how learning through play is for children to adopted in early child development around the inherit. 16 Case: Building, coding and world. We want to show how children can cleaning up a river 32 Case: ‘Training for the develop new skills through playful learning unexpected’: LEGO employees so that they have the best opportunities embody the spirit of play to become creative problem solvers and fulfil their potential. My great-grandfather, Ole 34 Case: Responsible supply Kirk Kristiansen, founded our Kind regards, Read more at chain engagement company on the principle that Thomas Kirk K ­ ristiansen LEGO.com/ ‘Only the best is good enough’. It means Representing the ­fourthresponsibilitythat we want to make the best play generation owners of the story ­experiences and be the best partner and LEGO Group 4 Responsibility Report A letter from our CEO 5 Many steps forward in 2017: a letter from our CEO We are committed to making a positive impact on the world our ‘I am proud of the children will inherit. Children inspire us – we admire their intuitive progress we have made. approach toward play and learning, and we in turn want to inspire We will continue to challenge children to take care of their society and environment. ourselves to reach the limits of what is possible to In 2017, the LEGO Group took many steps – big and • More sustainable products and packaging. We shape a better and brighter small – toward meeting our responsibility ambitions. are on a journey to make all our products and tomorrow for children’. Here are some of our most significant achievements: packaging from sustainable materials by 2030. In early 2018, the first sustainable LEGO elements will Niels B. Christiansen • The importance of learning through play and start to appear in boxes around the world. CEO of the LEGO Group children’s right to play. We worked with the LEGO Foundation and our partner, UNICEF, to • Engaging with our local communities. We give ­children a voice during World Children’s Day, reached over 400,000 children around the world where kids took over key roles in our organisation. with creative play experiences, engaging them in environmental and social issues and in build• Delivering safe and high-quality play experiences ing their ideas for a better world. Thousands of for children. We launched LEGO® Life, a social passionate LEGO volunteers made this possible network for kids that provides a fun and safe onduring work hours and in their spare time. line environment. It gives children a space to share their creations, to inspire other builders around the • Improving working conditions in our supply world and to become capable digital citizens. chains. We worked closely with our partners in 2017 to care for their employees and the many • Reducing our environmental impact. 100% of others ­behind the bricks. the energy used to make LEGO bricks is now balanced by renewable energy generation in I am proud of the progress we have made. We will the form of wind power. We also renewed our continue to challenge ourselves to reach the limits partnership with the World Wide Fund for Nature of what is possible to shape a better and brighter (WWF) Climate Savers programme and together tomorrow for children. set ambitious targets to reduce our environmental impact. Kind regards, Niels B. Christiansen, CEO, the LEGO Group 6 Responsibility Report Goals 7 Our commitment to Goals the UN Sustainable Development Goals The LEGO Group’s responsibility strategy is based on our LEGO® Brand Framework, which encompasses our mission, aspiration and values. Quality education Responsible Climate action Partnerships Our Planet Promise captures our commitment to create a positive impact on the world. We are committed to upholding the highconsumption and est global standards for sustainability, and our actions support production the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). In 2003, we became the first toy company to join the United Nations Global Compact – the world’s largest corporate social Ensure inclusive and quality education Ensure sustainable consumption and Take urgent action to combat climate Revitalise the global partnerships for ­responsibility initiative. We remain committed to the UN Global for all and promote lifelong learning. production patterns by reducing, reusing change and its impact. sustainable development. Compact, and we have embedded sustainability initiatives into and recycling. the company’s daily operations. The UN Global Compact and the 17 UN Sustainable We advocate for the transformative We will use sustainable materials in our In 2017, we achieved our ambition to We work with strong and inspiring partners ­Development Goals provide a guiding framework for our power of learning through play to be core products and packaging, and we balance 100% of energy used at factories, to make the greatest positive impact for ­responsibility strategy. Because children are the primary focus of ­adopted in education and early childhood will eliminate all waste from our factories, offices and LEGO retail stores globally with children, the environment and people. Our the LEGO Group, we have concentrated on four UN Sustainable Dedevelopment around the world. We do ­offices and stores by 2030. energy from renewable sources. Furtherpartnerships with UNICEF and the WWF velopment goals, where we can, through our work, create the greatthis through the solutions we develop more, we aim to reduce CO2 emissions in provide a source of constant guidance, est impact in the lives of children and the world they will inherit. in LEGO ­Education and in partnerships Read more on pages 21 and 27. our factories and value chain. expertise and inspiration. and p­ rojects supported by the LEGO Foundation. Read more on pages 21 and 22. Read more on pages 11 and 21. Mission Inspire and develop the builders of tomorrow Aspiration Globalise and innovate the LEGO System in Play Read more on pages 8 and 11. Promises Play Promise Partner Promise Joy of building. Pride of creation Mutual value creation Planet Promise People Promise Positive impact Succeed together Spirit Only the best is good enough Values Imagination Creativity Fun Learning Caring Quality 8 Responsibility Report LEGO Foundation 9 The LEGO Foundation: Theory of change – how we work building skills for the future Evidence Programmes The LEGO Foundation is dedicated to promoting the value of Evidence Programm learning through play and empowering children to become creative and engaged lifelong learners. The LEGO Foundation works by redefining play, reimagining learning and enabling children to succeed through playful learning. Buy-in Buy-in The LEGO Foundation owns 25% of the LEGO Group, These activities are used by opinion leaders and ensuring that the profits from every LEGO® product regulators who have the ­power to make play a priority sold help bring learning through play to children in children’s lives. around the world. The ownership structure demonIn 2017, the LEGO Foundation reached 1.3 million strates the LEGO owner family’s unwavering commitchildren through its activities. For instance, in Bangment to positively supporting children’s development ladesh, Tanzania and Uganda, the LEGO Foundation and funding research into creativity, play and learning. has established a partnership with BRAC, one of the The funding and research of the LEGO Foundation world’s largest NGOs. T ­ ogether, we are developing are also at the core of our worldwide Local Community and piloting an affordable, high-­quality, play-based Engagement activities. early-childhood programme for 3–5-year-old kids. The The LEGO Foundation equips, inspires and programme is starting by launching 240 Play Labs for activates ‘champions for play’ in the form of thought 7,000 children. It will also train 400 play leaders to run leaders, influencers, educators and parents. play-based learning activities with young children. The LEGO Foundation creates systemic and lastAcross the Atlantic Ocean, in Mexico, the LEGO ing change through programmes that reach millions Foundation will support 9,300 early childhood of children. It undertakes and shares research into ­centres through its new partnership with the N ­ ational 1.3 m creativity, play and learning, and builds ­System for Integral Family Development (DIF). DIF the evidence that underscores the will ­implement play-based learning using the LEGO importance of play for chil­dren’s ­Foundation’s methodology, and this will have a development and learning. ­positive impact on a large number of children. children engaged through LEGO Foundation activities in 2017 10 Responsibility Report Children 11 Children We want to inspire children to Read more at LEGO.com/ learn through play and promote responsibilitystory their safety and right to play Children are curious, creative and imaginative, and they experience the world through play. We believe that a happy childhood full of playful learning empowers children to become lifelong learners. We work closely with our partners to change how play – and learning through play – is perceived. The LEGO® name comes from the Danish ‘LEg GOdt’, policy. And we launched LEGO Life, a social network which means ‘play well’. A growing body of evidence for kids and tweens, to empower children by providshows how play helps children develop the physical, ing them with safe online play. We want to inspire and social, cognitive, creative and emotional skills necdevelop the builders of tomorrow. essary to thrive in a challenging and changing world. The LEGO Group strives to deliver innovative physical and digital play experiences that stimulate and inspire 10 Children’s Rights and Business Principles the builders of tomorrow. The 10 Children’s Rights and Business Principles Children’s rights, needs and opinions must be are developed by UNICEF, the UN Global Compact taken seriously, and children should have a role in and Save the Children. They are the first compre­influencing issues that affect all our futures. We hensive set of principles to guide c ­ ompanies on the were the first brand in the toy industry to full range of actions they can take in the workplace, establish a global partnership with UNICEF ­market­­place and community to respect and support to promote and implement the 10 Children’s children’s rights. Rights and Business Principles in our work. We invest in quality and safety, and our approach ensures that safety is an over­ riding principle in how we design both physical and digital play experiences. We implemented UNICEF’s Child Online Protection Guidelines when we developed the LEGO Group’s Digital Child Safety 12 Responsibility Report Case Children’s right to play To celebrate World Children’s Day, the LEGO Group and the LEGO Foundation opened their doors to the world’s most creative geniuses – children. We wanted to help children voice support for their peers and share their thoughts on why every child should have the right to play. World Children’s Day celebrates the Conventions on ment about the power of play – using their own words the Rights of the Child – 54 essential rights for all and creative ideas. The advert premiered across our children, including the right to voice their opinion and online channels and gives a voice to the millions of the right to play. The theme for UNICEF’s activities was children around the world who live without play. ‘Kids Takeover’, where children took over key functions in UNICEF-related entities and with partners and Play is fundamental to the development of supporters around the globe. c ­ hildren’s c ­ ritical social, cognitive and creative skills that they need to thrive and succeed in a complex ‘Children are our role models. We listen closeand changing world; we can’t let them miss out on it. ly to what they have to say in everything we do, from creating sets to telling stories. We Gary Stahl, Director of the UNICEF Division of Private are excited to join our partners to raise Fundraising and Partnerships said, ‘We are thrilled ­awareness of children’s rights, especially to be working with organisations such as the LEGO the right to play which is critical to their Group and the LEGO Foundation, as we collectively development’, said Julia Goldin, CMO invest in the critical early years of children’s lives of the LEGO Group. through love, nutrition and play. Our wholehearted thanks go to both partners for helping make World A select group of children took Children’s Day a global day for children, by children’. on the key responsibilities of LEGO Children Group Chief Marketing Officer, Julia Goldin, and Chairman of are our role the LEGO Foundation, Thomas models Kirk Kristiansen. The children ­directed a LEGO® advertise14 Responsibility Report Case Be safe, be cool, Safeguarding children respect others and have fun in a digital world For 85 years, our values of imagination, creativity, fun, learning, caring and quality have been at the heart of our commitment to provide the best play experiences with LEGO® bricks. Those same values now guide our ambition to deliver inspiring and safe digital experiences. Our research shows that millions of parents around There is also a safety pledge: ‘Be safe, be cool, the world understand that digital technology is now a respect others and have fun’. This supports parents big part of their children’s lives. Overwhelmingly, these in talking to their children about digital safety and parents want trusted partners to provide social media ­establishes a shared commitment to ground rules channels designed for their children. for online social behaviour. We encourage parents to Social media offer possibilities for children to share digital experiences together with their children, ­connect with each other across the world, and share take an interest in their favourite apps, talk about creativity and play experiences. We developed LEGO digital protection, and take the safety pledge together Life, a safe social platform that inspires children to with their children. build and share their stories and creations with thouWith our partner UNICEF, we have developed an sands of other children around the world. industry-first digital child safety policy. LEGO Life is designed to be a child’s first digital ­social experience. It takes users by the hand and introGary Stahl, Director of the UNICEF Division of ­Private duces them to the core concepts of a social network. Fundraising and Partnerships said, ‘With more LEGO Life features community moderation to ensure children going online around the world we need to the content uploaded by users is safe for children, and strike a careful balance between children’s right that the comments are limited to fun LEGO emojis. to protection and their right to access information LEGO Life users choose an anonymous, randomand express themselves online. The LEGO Group ly generated name, and build their own mini-figure has helped us advance this agenda to ensure that avatar. The network features lots of cool, inspirchildren benefit from safe online experiences, while ing building challenges to engage children, as enabling them to create, play, learn and share in the they follow their favourite LEGO themes. digital world’. Recode 17 Case Linking the physical Building, coding and and digital play experience cleaning up a river The LEGO Group challenged children in London, UK, to apply their creativity and imagination, and solve real-world environmental and social challenges through coding. RE:CODE London encouraged 450 school children to abstract challenges to life in a fun way and design, build and code a LEGO® prototype device empower children to help solve real world to help remove rubbish from the River Thames, environmental challenges’, said Kathrine Kirk harnessing the power of physical and digital play in Muff, Vice President of Social Responsibility a playful and engaging environment. The programme at the LEGO Group. gives children the freedom to explore, experiment and problem solve, nurturing skills such as critical thinkPartnerships with the Mayor of London ing, collaboration and innovation. The ambition of the LEGO Group’s partnership is RE:CODE London is a core component of an to provide more opportunities for children across exciting partnership between the LEGO Group, the London to access playful learning ­experiences that Mayor of London and the Institute of Imagination. It is support the development of the skills needed for also a part of the London Curriculum, a free resource children to become future leaders and innovators. for London schools that encourages classes to use The aim is to stimulate critical science, technology, the city as a living classroom. engineering and mathematics (STEM) abilities, as well Credit: Greater London Authority as other life skills. ‘We want to enable children These initiatives will focus on early childhood to shape their own future, by educational resources and promote inclusiveness in imagining it and then building STEM subjects through play and hands-on learning. it brick by brick. By combining Each initiative will bring organisations together to the physical play experience help children make the most of the city’s creative and with digital coding, we release scientific opportunities. the potential to bring 18 Responsibility Report Case Build to Give for children in hospitals around the world To lift the spirits of children in hospitals during the holiday season, the LEGO Group ran a campaign called ‘Build to Give’. We invited children from around the world to build and display ornaments, and in exchange, the LEGO Group donated over 40,000 LEGO® sets to hospitalised children in time for the holidays. Tens of thousands of children at events throughout In the UK, LEGO certified professionals were in the UK, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Denmark, stores and at events to inspire children with expert Germany, Hungary, Russia and the USA built imagiLEGO building tips. Community partner Fairy Bricks native decorations using LEGO bricks. The children took on the role of Santa’s helpers to deliver donated ­displayed them on Christmas trees, windowsills, LEGO sets to hospitalised children across the country. ­dinner tables and multiple social media channels, including LEGO Life. For every beautiful creation that ‘Build to Give is a truly amazing representation of the was built and shared, we donated a LEGO set to power of play. Through the simple act of building a ­children’s hospitals around the world. Christmas decoration with LEGO bricks, thousands LEGO employees at offices and factories of children around the world helped share joyful play 40,000 around the world were also experiences with children less fortunate than themengaged in building selves’, said Kathrine Kirk Muff, Vice President, Social thousands of beautiful Responsibility at the LEGO Group. holiday decorations, kids in nine sparking festive The Build to Give campaign reached over countries ­creativity and spread40,000 children in nine countries around the world. ing seasonal cheer. ­Thousands of LEGO ornaments were shared on LEGO built to give Life and at LEGO Brand Retail stores. Read more at LEGO.com/ 20 Environment 21 responsibilitystory Environment We focus on combatting climate change and reducing resource use Together, we can build a brighter future for children by doing our part to protect the planet for future generations. Our biggest contribution to society is to inspire Climate action ­children to learn through play and help them realise Our climate efforts include investing in renewable their full potential. In our work, we strive to safeguard energy, reducing the amount of CO2 consumed per the natural resources that children will inherit and minLEGO brick produced and working with our suppliimise our environmental impact. To achieve this, we: ers to reduce CO2 emissions in the supply chain. In • work to reduce CO2 emissions in our 2017, the LEGO Group was awarded a score of ‘A-’ by operations and supply chain, the non-profit organisation CDP (formerly the Carbon • invest in renewable energy and sustainable Disclosure Project). materials, • work to reduce and recycle waste, and Partnership with the WWF • inspire children to imagine sustainable solutions In June, we extended our partnership with the WWF. to important environmental challenges. We have committed to further reduce CO2 emissions in manufacturing and supply chain operations through Responsible resource consumption this collaboration and to promote global action on We continue to innovate, driven by our ambition of climate change. making all products and packaging from sustainable materials by 2030. In 2018, we will take ‘Our partnership with the LEGO our first small step on this longer journey and Group is a showcase of introduce a selection of LEGO® elements prohow businesses and duced from plant-based plastic. We also have a NGO’s can share 2030 target to reach zero waste in operations, and important goals for in 2017, we introduced sustainable paper pulp trays protecting nature for the LEGO advent calendar, reducing the amount and our planet’, of plastic waste going into landfills. said Bo Øksne­ bjerg, CEO of WWF Denmark. 22 Responsibility Report Environment 23 Case Celebrating our 100% renewable energy milestone In 2017, we achieved our ambition to balance 100% of the energy we used to make LEGO® bricks with energy from renewable sources, three years ahead of schedule. Since 2012, the LEGO Group’s parent company KIRKBI ‘Our investment in the Burbo Bank Extension wind A/S has invested more than DKK 6 billion to support farm means we have now reached the 100% renewthe development of more than 160 megawatts of able energy milestone three years ahead of target. renewable energy generation. In 2017, the total energy Together with our partners, we intend to continue output from the investments in renewables was 546 investing in renewable energy to help create a better gigawatt hours, greater than the energy consumed at future for the builders of tomorrow’, said Niels B. all LEGO factories, stores and offices. Christiansen, CEO of the LEGO Group. The latest investment in renewable energy is a 25% stake in the Burbo Bank Extension wind farm The LEGO Group works with other partners to off the coast of Liverpool, UK. The advocate for investments in renewable energy, and wind farm generates clean power for more than 230,000 British households. we have joined RE100, a global initiative of companies committed to using 100% renewable energy. 546 GWh In addition to the Burbo of renewable Bank Extension, KIRKBI A/S energy generated owns 31.5% of the Borkum Riffgrund 1 off­shore wind farm Largest LEGO brick wind turbine To celebrate reaching the 100% renewable energy in 2017 in Germany, which can protarget, the LEGO Group built the world’s largest LEGO duce enough clean energy brick wind turbine – a Guinness World Records™ title. 313 GWh for 320,000 German Built with 146,000 LEGO bricks, the wind turbine stands households each year. 7.5 m tall. It is a tribute to the record 200 m tall wind turbines of the Burbo Bank Extension wind farm – the largest windmills in operation globally. of energy used in our factories in 2017 24 Responsibility Report LEGO.com/ 94% planetcrew Case of all waste recycled in Inspiring children to put 2017 together the building Join the LEGO Planet blocks of a better planet Crew on our mission to protect the planet We want to inspire children to learn through play and to imagine and build their ideas and solutions for a better world. Today’s children are tomorrow’s inventors, ­scientists, their creativity and imagination to build a ­renewable artists, educators and entrepreneurs. They express their energy machine that can capture the wind and creativity and imagination through play. ­Children’s ­provide energy to power their lives. ability to think differently about the world is a strength As a part of the activities, children across the and vital resource we want to nurture through building world were encouraged to join the LEGO Planet and play activities focused on sustainability. In 2017, Crew on LEGO.com, where they took part in a miswe reached over 11 million children and parents with sion to help protect the planet for future generaactivities on environmental and social issues in local tions and share their views on the responsibility communities, at LEGO® stores and online. issues they feel the most passionate about. To raise awareness of the importance of r­ enewable We also engaged children and parents on energy, we built the world’s largest LEGO brick wind the effects of climate change at the Climate turbine: a Guinness World Records™ title. Built with Planet event in Aarhus, Denmark. The LEGO 146,000 LEGO bricks, the wind turbine stands 7.5 m Group and our partner the WWF marked tall and is a tribute to the Burbo Bank ­Extension wind the occasion with a building event that farm, off the coast of ­Liverpool, UK. involved hundreds of children creating Hundreds of children in Liverpool were habitats for endangered animals using invited to the LEGO Brand retail store to green LEGO bricks. take part in building challenges. The children were encouraged to use 26 Responsibility Report Environment 27 Case First sustainable LEGO® elements produced Children around the world can soon play with the first sustainable LEGO elements that have been made using plant-based plastic. We believe it is possible to make great play products Working with our suppliers and industry partners, for children using sustainable materials, and we are we can influence and build demand for sustainably working hard with our partners to create new and sourced materials. The LEGO Group has also joined ­exciting sustainable materials to be used in all our the Bioplastic Feedstock Alliance, an organisation core products and packaging. founded by the WWF, which seeks to engage in an Our first step on this journey is the new LEGO informed and inclusive discussion about the critical ­botanical range of elements, made from plant-based issues facing the industry. The plant-based polyethylpolyethylene. Polyethylene is a soft, durable and ene used to make LEGO elements is certified by the flexible plastic used in LEGO elements such as Bonsucro Chain of Custody standard for responsible leaves, bushes and trees. The new elements meet sourcing. the high standards for quality and safety that ­consumers expect from LEGO ­products and will ‘At the LEGO Group, we want to make a positive help children add a touch of s ­ ustainability to impact on the world around us, and we are working their imaginative creations. hard to make great play products for children using Core products and Although polyethylene elements make up sustainable materials. We are proud that the first a small amount of the total number of differLEGO elements made from plant-based plastic are packaging to be made ent elements produced by the LEGO Group, it in production and will be in LEGO boxes this year. from sustainable is an important step, a first for us. We will continue This first step is only the beginning of our ambitious materials by to innovate and develop improvements to reach ­commitment of making all LEGO bricks using susour ambition of making all core products and tainable materials’, said Tim Brooks, Vice President, 2030 packaging from sustainable materials by 2030. Environmental Responsibility at the LEGO Group. Read more at LEGO.com/ 28 People 29 responsibilitystory People We do business the LEGO® way because we care Caring is one of the LEGO Group’s values and captures our desire to make a positive difference in the lives of children and for our partners, colleagues and the world we live in, all while considering their perspective in everything we do. We do it not because we have to: but because it feels right, and most of all, because we care. Caring also involves being the best place to work for Engaging local communities our employees. We engage employees in our mission, We actively engage with the local communities where in learning through play and in engaging with our we are present. In 2017, our programmes inspired and local communities. We believe that people who are improved the lives of more than 400,000 children in curious, creative and imaginative – who have a childover 20 countries around the world. like desire to learn – are the best equipped to thrive in a constantly changing world. We work in partnership with the LEGO Foundation 2017 was a challenging year for the LEGO Group. to inspire and develop children, build employee Business growth slowed, and we took steps to reset ­engagement, and demonstrate our commitment to rethe organisation. In September 2017, the LEGO Group sponsible corporate citizenship. Local Community announced it would reduce its global workforce by Engagement activities rely approximately 8%, or 1,400 positions. We provided on the passion and dedicaaffected employees with support to move to new tion of thousands of LEGO positions internally or opportunities outside the employees volunteering LEGO Group. their time and ­efforts to this worthy cause. A responsible supply chain When making LEGO products, people matter. We care for the suppliers and partners with whom we do ­business, as well as the well-being of their employees. We expect all our suppliers to treat workers with respect, pay fair wages, and ensure reasonable ­working hours. 30 Responsibility Report Case Dare to Care: we all have zero accidents is to look after each other our long-term ambition To achieve our long-term ambition of zero accidents, we must all take care of each other. We launched the Dare to Care programme pilot in 2017, which empowers employees to take responsibility for safety in the workplace and promotes mental health. The goal of the Dare to Care programme is to The Dare to Care programme was rolled out to ­encourage employees to play an active role in their 65% of the employees at the headquarters in Billund, own well-being, and look after that of their colleagues Denmark. Employees across the LEGO Group will and business partners. Employees were trained take part in the training in 2018. in small group sessions where the focus was on ­education and awareness of health and safety. ‘The health and safety of all our employees is a key The Dare to Care programme also promotes priority that we will never compromise. Our ambition mental health across the company. During times of is to improve on our strong safety record and embed uncertainty, it is critical to ensure support systems a safety culture throughout the organisation’, said are in place to allow people to recognise the signs Niels B. Christiansen, CEO of the LEGO Group. of stress in themselves and their colleagues, making sure they can act upon those signs. The work with safety and well-being is not about rules and finger-wagging; instead, we feel that it should be completely natural to reach out to ­colleagues and offer – or ask for – help. People 33 Case ‘Training for the unexpected’: LEGO® employees embody the spirit of play Our employees are ambassadors for play in local communities. Their passion and dedication are behind the many events and activities that engage children in learning through play. We encourage LEGO employees to become ‘Play as Play Agents, bringing the total ­number of LEGO Agents’. This involves a serious (but fun) training Play Agents to more than 3,000. programme developed in partnership with the LEGO The Play Agent Heroes programme was introFoundation. It provides an understanding of what play duced to expand Play Agents into new markets and is, its significance and the tools they need to inspire languages. The programme aims to equip colleagues children in our local communities. with the skills needed to train many more LEGO colleagues as Play Agents. In 2017, with more Heroes ‘Play is training for the unexpected, it prepares us for on board, the Play Agent programme grew to include life’, said Thomas Kirk Kristiansen, representing the new markets such as China and Australia, and our fourth-generation owners of the LEGO Group. partner, UNICEF. Play Agents were introduced to the LEGO idea 1,200 that lifelong learning, imagination and creativity are stimulated by playful employees and activities that encourage hands-on and minds-on creation, fun, togethpartners trained as erness, sharing of ideas and new Play Agents solutions. in 2017 In 2017, almost 1,200 e ­ mployees and external partners were trained 34 Responsibility Report 2017 People 35 Case 100% Responsible supply of suppliers in high-risk countries chain engagement audited in 2017 We are working closely We want to have a positive impact on society – specifically on with them to the lives of all the workers who help produce LEGO® products resolve any and on the environment. issues We work with our suppliers to promote continuTo tackle environmental issues in our supply ous improvements and ensure that they meet the chain, we run the Engage-to-Reduce programme, ­requirements of the LEGO Code of Conduct. We which aims to lower the CO2 emissions outside our ­expect suppliers to treat workers with respect, pay own ­operations. The programme has been running fair wages and ensure reasonable working hours. for three years and supports key suppliers. The LEGO Child labour and forced labour are strictly prohibited. Group takes our suppliers with us on our sustainaThis year, we reviewed how we report on social bility journey, and we work with them to introduce compliance so that we could be even more transpar­improvement measures that ­minimise their carbon ent and ensure that we share the data that are most output a ­ nd ours. relevant to our stakeholders. We publicly disclose our Suppliers first need to map their CO2 emissions first-tier suppliers, and we report on the number of output to be able to reduce their footprint. We support high-priority non-­conformities found. our suppliers in this process by helping them report We believe it is important to apply our Code of data through CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Conduct to suppliers of raw materials, including all Project), as well as identifying carbon reduction ­ingredients for LEGO bricks. Where needed, we will ­projects specific to their business. We also set up go deeper into our supply chain. In 2017, we introforums for knowledge sharing among their peers. duced a policy on responsible sourcing of minerals Carbon emission reductions are our first priority used for electronic or metal components, ensuring with our suppliers, and we plan to start working with these come from smelters that are part of the Conflict them on reducing waste and water use too. Free Smelters Programme. 39 key suppliers reported their CO2 emissions In our annual report, you can find detailed information on the LEGO Group’s 2017 financial results. LEGO.com/aboutus You can also find more stories, videos and our non-financial results for 2017 online. LEGO.com/ responsibility-story The LEGO Group LEGO, the LEGO logo, the Brick and Aastvej 1 Knob configurations, the Minifigure, DK 7190 Billund BOOST, CITY, CLASSIC, CREATOR and Tel. +45 7950 6070 MINDSTORMS are trademarks of the LEGO.com LEGO Group. 04 0 Cover photo: Greater London Authority © 2018 the LEGO Group 5 4 1P 05 ri n te d m att er
