Safety First ZOO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS THAT TRANSFORM LIVES Our Vision To be the leading company the world seeks for innovative and effective environmental solutions. Our Mission To provide efficient and cost-effective solutions to meet our clients’ needs through innovation and technological advancement. Contents 2 Welcome & Readers Guide 3 CEO’s Message 7 About Hyflux 15 Deciding On Our Material Issues 17 Stakeholder Engagement 19 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 21 Our Environment 29 Governance & Risk Management 33 Our People 45 Our Community 50 GRI Content Index We are committed to delivering sustainable and innovative environmental solutions for municipalities and industries worldwide to address the global resource challenge. WELCOME & READERS GUIDE Hyflux Ltd (Hyflux) is pleased to introduce our inaugural Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) framework aligned sustainability report. We recognise the increasing importance of corporate sustainability and the central role it plays in creating long term value for all our stakeholders. Hyflux aims to present a transparent approach to sustainability and to share our key economic, environmental and social considerations. This report also allows us to measure and assess our progress in sustainability responsibility. Scope OF THIS REPORT Our sustainability report covers data and relevant activities in the financial year ending 31 December 2016 (FY2016) in the Group’s key markets in Singapore, China, the Middle East and Africa. Produced in accordance with the GRI G4 Core Option, this report will be produced annually for each financial year moving forward. The GRI Content Index can be found on page 50 of this report for reference. AVAILABILITY This sustainability report is available online on our website at www.hyflux.com. A small number of this report is printed on eco-friendly Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified sustainable paper. Feedback Hyflux listens to our stakeholders. We welcome your feedback on this report at investor@hyflux.com. 03 CEO’s MESSAGE OLIVIA LUM Executive Chairman & Group Chief Executive Officer Dear Stakeholders, Hyflux was founded in 1989 based on a simple generation and waste-to-energy projects. dream to make clean, safe drinking water In all these projects, we remain dedicated to accessible to all. Over the past 28 years, we our commitment to provide innovative solutions have stayed true to this basic fundamental, that contribute to resource optimisation and continuously making a difference in the sustainable growth. communities where we have a presence. Today, we provide clean drinking water not only in our We have always viewed sustainability home country Singapore, but also to communities development and its responsibility central in other parts of Asia, the Middle East and to how we operate, and how we behave as a North Africa. corporate body. In this FY2016 sustainability report, we have aligned our reporting to the In view of evolving needs in the communities globally applicable GRI Sustainability Reporting around us, we have expanded our environmental G4 Guidelines. solutions capabilities to include power Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 04 Our business operations are rooted in the Sustainability Approach in our principles upheld by the United Nations Business and Communities Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection Today, we operate desalination plants worldwide and anti-corruption. In the area of corporate that have a combined capacity to produce responsibility, we are committed to the best more than 1.3 million cubic metres (m3) of water practices in corporate governance and processes per day. As we seek to extend the sustainability that will enhance our Group’s effectiveness, impact of our business, we are actively pursuing ensure the appropriate degree of accountability opportunities to offer our solutions in Asia, and transparency, and increase long-term the Middle East and North Africa region as value and return to stakeholders. Listed on the well as the Americas. At Hyflux, best practices Singapore Stock Exchange (SGX), we subscribe to underscore all our projects. the Code of Corporate Governance in Singapore and comply with all applicable legislation and In Singapore, Hyflux plays a critical role in recognised standards. national water security, being the current sole provider of desalinated water supply to the We have a robust human resource framework nation. Asia’s first integrated water and power which encompasses recruitment, retention, plant (IWPP), Tuaspring in Singapore, was the development and human capital policies first industrial plant to be awarded the Active, and practices. Within this framework, Beautiful, Clean Waters certification by PUB, we provide a diversified, inclusive and fair Singapore’s National Water Agency. Water work environment where we encourage open reduction initiatives such as the collection and communication, employee engagement and recycling of rain water for use are implemented nurture our employees to their full potential. at the plant. Tuaspring IWPP is also designed All our employees are also expected to abide to reduce energy footprint with its compact by a Code of Ethics and Conduct. and energy-efficient architecture while our proprietary Kristal® polymeric ultrafiltration Our commitment to quality, environment, health membranes, high efficiency motors and and safety standards is affirmed by the various advanced energy recovery technology lower third-party certifications that we attained, energy consumption in the seawater desalination including ISO, OHSAS for occupational health process. Tuaspring IWPP was awarded the Best and safety, bizSafe, and National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) International Standards for safe drinking water. 05 CEO’s MESSAGE of the Best award at the Combined Cycle Journal Embedding Sustainable Business Best Practices Awards in 2016. The award Practices now and in the future recognised the plant’s adoption of a fullyintegrated enterprise asset management system Being at the forefront of sustainable as a central platform for teams to work together, technologies means moving fast to adapt to which improved workplace efficiency and a rapidly changing reality. To thrive in this minimised operations and maintenance costs. environment, we adopt sustainable practices that generate long-term value and drive Currently under construction, TuasOne Wasteefficiency in our processes. Our internal to-Energy (WTE) plant is Singapore’s sixth and sustainability objectives are carefully defined largest WTE plant. Boasting one of the best and implemented by ISO 9001, ISO 14001 land utilisation factors in terms of incineration and OHSAS 18001, management systems for capacity per unit floor area, it will also be one of quality, environment, occupational health and the most efficient in terms of energy recovery safety respectively. per unit waste incinerated in the world, when completed. At Hyflux, innovation is ingrained into our corporate culture. In the face of global urgency Besides achieving business excellence, to mitigate climate change, we believe it is the Hyflux maintains good social and community key to finding robust solutions that optimise commitment. Over the years, Hyflux has resource usage. Since the signing of the Paris contributed towards various community Agreement on Climate Change in December programmes in Singapore and the region. 2015, we have seen a trend towards more Our community initiatives touch on the environmental-related regulations. For instance, environment, education, entrepreneurship, the Singapore government recently announced a and community outreach. carbon tax on large direct emitters, as part of a regulatory push towards a low-carbon economy. In Singapore, a recent initiative in environmental While we will be affected by this regulation conservation saw Hyflux leveraging on through our Tuaspring Power Plant in the future, our technical expertise in water filtration we believe our continuous pursuit of resourcetechnologies and partnering Wildlife Reserves efficient solutions positions us well for future Singapore in their Go Green for Wildlife regulatory changes. campaign. Hyflux developed and installed customised potable water dispensers at the Singapore Zoo to encourage park guests to use refillable bottles. The aim was to reduce generation of plastic waste from single-use bottles and educate the public on recycling. Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 06 Founded on the principle Moving forward, Hyflux will continue to engage of providing clean drinking the community, and at the same time taking a long-term strategic community approach water to the world, towards improving health. With Singapore’s sustainability lies at the heart aging population and having one of the highest incidence of diabetes globally, we intend to direct of Hyflux’s business model. our corporate social responsibility efforts more towards such causes. In addition, we engage in research partnerships Motivated by a shared sense of purpose to with institutions and universities around the create a better world, our people work hard world in our drive for innovative solutions. every day towards our vision to offer sustainable Most recently, we signed a Memorandum solutions that transform lives. We are deeply of Understanding (MoU) with the Nanyang grateful to our stakeholders for their support, Environment Water and Research Institute and are humbled by the opportunity and (NEWRI) in Singapore to collaborate on research responsibility they have given to us. in biomimetic membranes, a potential lowenergy alternative to conventional membranes in desalination. OLIVIA LUM Executive Chairman & Group Chief Executive Officer 07 ABOUT HYFLUX Hyflux Innovation Centre As a global provider of sustainable solutions, Hyflux is committed to resource optimisation and sustainable development. A specialist in water treatment and among the top global desalination plant providers, Hyflux is distinctive in its ability to address the challenges at every point of the water value chain. The Group has expanded its offerings to include power generation and waste-to-energy. It also entered into the wellness industry with the ELO brand to broaden its consumer market portfolio. Headquartered and listed in Singapore, the Group employs more than 2,800 staff worldwide. Hyflux’s track record spans across Asia, the Middle East and Africa. It includes one of the world’s largest seawater reverse osmosis desalination plants in Algeria and Asia’s first Integrated Water and Power Plant in Singapore. Water & Wastewater Treatment Desalination Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 08 CORE CAPABILITIES ACROSS THE VALUE CHAIN FULLY INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS PROVIDER Research & Project Origination / Development Market Access Design & Process Membrane Engineering Manufacturing Engineering, Procurement Operations & & Construction Maintenance Engineering, Procurement and Operations and Maintenance Construction (EPC) (O&M) The development of large-scale desalination, power Hyflux operates water, wastewater, water recycling, and waste-to-energy plants lies at the core of Hyflux’s desalination and power plants worldwide. As at the business. Depending on the client’s tender specifications, end of FY2016, the Group’s O&M order book was such construction projects are executed on an EPC, approximately S$1.9 billion. This amount will be Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) or Build-Own-Operate recognised progressively over the service concession (BOO) basis. As at end FY2016, the Group’s EPC order periods of Hyflux’s various projects. Recurring income book stood at S$1.0 billion. from O&M is expected to grow with the completion of the Qurayyat IWP in 2017 and the TuasOne WTE plant in 2019. Waste-to-Energy Water and Power Consumer 09 ABOUT HYFLUX Geographical PRESENCE LANDMARK PROJECTS Magtaa Desalination Plant, Algeria Mexico Capacity: 500,000 m3/day Souk Tleta Desalination Plant, Algeria Capacity: 200,000 m3/day Qurayyat Independent Water Project, Oman* Capacity: 200,000 m3/day SingSpring Desalination Plant, Singapore Capacity: 136,380 m3/day Tianjin Dagang Desalination Plant, China Capacity: 100,000 m3/day TuasOne Waste-to-Energy Project, Singapore* Capacity: 3,600 tonnes/day Tuaspring Integrated Water and Power Project, Singapore Capacity: 318,500 m3/day and 411 MW Ain Sokhna Integrated Water and Power Project, Egypt* Capacity: 150,000 m3/day and 457 MW *Projects under development Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 10 China Saudi Arabia Oman India Algeria Nigeria Singapore Our Offices Desalination Plants Waste-to-Energy Plants Water and Power Plants Membrane Installations 11 ABOUT HYFLUX SingSpring Desalination Plant, Singapore Magtaa Desalination Plant, Algeria The SingSpring Desalination Plant at Tuas is Singapore’s With a designed capacity of 500,000 m3/day, first seawater desalination plant and currently meets the project is one of the world’s largest ultrafiltration approximately 10% of the nation’s water needs. Under a and reverse osmosis desalination plants. The Group 20-year BOO arrangement with PUB, the plant produces won the bid amidst intense global competition with top 136,380 m3/day of potable water, enough to fill about 55 international players shortly after winning the 200,000 Olympic size swimming pools. It adopts reverse osmosis m3/day Souk Tleta desalination project in October 2006. technology with semi-permeable membranes. The plant This landmark win has helped the Group surge ahead was one of PUB’s pioneering public-private partnership in the global water landscape. It won the Global Water initiatives and was completed three months ahead of Intelligence (GWI) Commendation Award for Desalination schedule in September 2005. The project financing deal Deal of the Year in 2010 and the GWI Commendation was awarded the Euromoney Asia Pacific Water Deal of Award for Desalination Plant of the Year in 2015. the Year in 2003. This award has set a new benchmark in terms of scope as well as complexity of execution in the growing market of privately financed water projects. Souk Tleta Desalination Plant, Algeria It also won Distinction Award for Desalination Plant of the Year at the Global Water Awards 2006. The Souk Tleta Desalination Plant is a joint venture project with Malakoff AlDjazair Desal Sdn Bhd and Algerian Energy Company, the state-owned company Tuaspring Integrated Water & Power Project handling power and water privatisation exercises (IWPP), Singapore in Algeria. It marks the Group’s entry into the water treatment market in Algeria and the Middle East North The Tuaspring IWPP is Singapore’s second and largest Africa region. seawater desalination plant. It is Asia’s first IWPP, with an on-site 411 megawatt (MW) combined cycle gas The plant, which is situated just 50 metres from the turbine power plant to supply power to the desalination coast, produces water for both the state-owned water plant (318,500m3/day) and to the National Electricity entity and national oil company of Algeria. With the Market of Singapore. Together with the SingSpring Souk Tleta and Magtaa projects, Hyflux is Algeria’s single Desalination Plant, it can meet up to 25% of the largest provider of desalinated water, contributing to country’s current water needs. It won Distinction Award more than 30% of total capacity currently. for Desalination Plant of the Year at the Global Water Awards 2014. For water and energy reduction initiatives, please refer to page 24. SingSpring Tuaspring Magtaa Souk Tleta Desalination Plant IWPP Desalination Plant Desalination Plant Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 12 Tianjin Dagang Desalination Plant, between OPWP and Hyflux’s subsidiary, Qurayyat People’s Republic of China (PRC) Desalination SAOC. Qurayyat IWP will employ reverse osmosis technology and has a designed capacity of The Tianjin Dagang Desalination Plant is the largest 200,000 m3/day. The project is scheduled to commence membrane-based seawater desalination plant in the commercial operation in 2017 under a 20-year water PRC and one of the world’s most northern large-scale purchase agreement with OPWP. Hyflux’s role includes desalination plants. It utilises the Group’s proprietary turnkey EPC as well as O&M of the plant. Kristal® polymeric ultrafiltration membranes for the pre-treatment process and a double-pass reverse osmosis process to produce water for Tianjin’s TuasOne Waste-to-Energy (WTE), Singapore petrochemical industries. TuasOne WTE Plant is Singapore’s sixth and largest Sited next to the existing Dagang power plant, the WTE plant. When completed in 2019, it will have the Tianjin Dagang Desalination Plant derives its feed capacity to process 3,600 tonnes of waste per day and water from the cooling water discharge of the power generate 120 MW of clean and renewable electricity. plant. With the intake water being 5°C warmer than It will have one of the best land utilisation factors in the ambient temperature, lower osmotic pressure is terms of incineration capacity per unit floor area and required during the treatment process, resulting in will also be one of the most efficient in terms of energy lower energy consumption and higher efficiency levels. recovery per unit waste incinerated in the world. The plant’s modular design has also enabled the delivery For more information, please refer to page 25 . of water on specification only three months from testing and commissioning. Ain Sokhna Integrated Water & Power Plant (IWPP), Egypt Projects under Developments Commissioned by the General Authority for the Suez Qurayyat Independent Water Project (IWP), Canal Economic Zone (SCZone), the plant is designed to Sultanate of Oman produce 150,000 m3 of desalinated water per day and generate 457 MW of power when completed. Contract The Group was formally awarded the project from the negotiations for the project are ongoing. Oman Power and Water Procurement Company (OPWP), following the signing of the water purchase agreement Tianjin Dagang Qurayyat IWP TuasOne WTE Ain Sokhna IWPP Desalination Plant 13 ABOUT HYFLUX EXPANDING CONSUMER MARKET FOOTPRINTS ELO Water Backed by over 10 years of science and research, ELO Drinking Water is an oxygen-rich water that nourishes the body from within, enhancing overall well-being. Leveraging on Hyflux’s water expertise in the production process, the revolutionary technology behind ELO Drinking Water allows a high level of oxygen to exist in a unique, stable and bound form that is believed to allow quick absorption by the body, restoring its natural balance and enhancing health. ELO Water is available in a variety of products – ELO Drinking Water, an ELO skincare range, and ELO Lab Sessions. Hyflux exclusively manufactures, sells, markets and distributes the ELO line of products within Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa. ELO Drinking Water ELO LAB ELO Lab Sessions are innovative soaking sessions that enhance body tissue oxygen levels. Each 50-minute ELO Lab Session in oxygen-rich ELO Water delivers a positive, relaxing effect on the body. ELO Lab Bath Therapy ELO Skincare Range Made with ELO Water, the ELO skincare range features a unique oxygen-rich formulation that enhances the oxygenation of body tissue cells, promoting selfregenerative capabilities for healthier skin. Formulated according to the requirements of regulations no. 1223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Cosmetic Products, the ELO skincare range includes the following products: ELO Gold Essence – an oxygen-rich facial essence that features an exquisite nano gold formulation for anti-aging effect ELO Gel+ – an oxygen-rich booster for the face that enhances oxygenation of the skin, improving its intensity of absorption to restore youthful brilliance ELO Gel+ Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 14 Residential PRODUCTS Hyflux retails a range of residential water filtration products that adopt its proprietary ultrafiltration membrane technology. ALKALINE-3 UF DRINKING WATER SYSTEM HF1P-3AA Utilising Hyflux’s proprietary ultrafiltration hollow-fiber membrane technology, our under sink filtration system provides fresh drinking water on demand. The premium antioxidant alkaline filter reduces free radicals and increases pH level of the drinking water. With anti-oxidant alkaline filter to reduce free radicals and increase pH levels Easy twist-type cartridge replacement Carbon post-filter to reduce chlorine and improve taste PUB Water Efficiency Labelling System Certified Drinking Faucet Accredited ball valve in accordance to PUB stipulated standards DEW Water Dispenser D800 The DEW Water Dispenser D800 is a top of the range lifestyle product, which dispenses both hot, cold and ambient water immediately. The intelligent DEW Water Dispenser D800 is able to track the lifespan of the water filtration system at home. Hot and cold water at one touch Eco mode to minimise power consumption Child-Lock protection mode available Unique filter cartridges replacement reminder Compact and space saving Tested and certified in accordance to IEC standards by TÜV SÜD with registered Safety Mark 141150–11 SPRING Water Filtration Pitcher S38 The SPRING Water Filtration Pitcher S38 is a newly launched water pitcher able to soften the water and reduce chlorine content. Comes with digital filter lifespan indicator 3 stage filtration technology Micro-screen filter effectively blocks out rust and water contaminants Ion exchange resin softens water effectively for better absorption Reduces chlorine, improves taste and removes bad odour For more information on the full range of the products available, please visit www.hyfluxshop.com 15 DECIDING ON OUR MATERIAL ISSUES Materiality Analysis Process For this sustainability report, we undertook a Once identified, an interactive prioritisation exercise comprehensive materiality analysis to identify of these sustainability material issues was conducted and prioritise the environmental, social, economic during a workshop. The prioritisation of these material and governance issues important to our internal issues was then presented to Hyflux’s Board of Directors and external stakeholders. We considered the and Senior Management team for validation. following factors: risk and regulation requirements, commitments and processes, as well as relevant issues We aim to conduct an annual review of our material reported by industry and professional associations issues, as we recognise that their materiality may for our sector. This analysis was facilitated by an evolve over time. To ensure that we proactively manage independent sustainability consultancy and the process our sustainability performance, we seek to integrate is aligned with GRI G4 and AccountAbility’s1 five-part material environmental and social issues from across the materiality test. organisation into our business approach. Hyflux workshop 1 The five-part test for materiality, designed by the standards firm AccountAbility, takes into account Direct Short-term Financial Impacts, Policy-related Performance, Business Peer-based Norms, Stakeholder Behaviour and Concerns, and Societal Norms. Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 16 KEY MATERIALITY ANALYSIS The key material issues identified as integral to our business are outlined in five key areas below and have been used to define the content of this report. OUR ENVIRONMENT Water Use and Reduction Waste and Effluents Energy Efficiency and Climate Change Sustainable Resource Use Air Emissions Governance & Risk Management Compliance Fair and Ethical Operating Practices Risk Management Sustainable Procurement OUR PEOPLE Occupational Safety and Health Diversity and Equal Opportunity Talent Retention and Development Labour Management Relations Fundamental Rights at Work OUR COMMUNITY Customer Satisfaction Impact on and Communication with Local Communities Economic Performance Economic and financial contribution to the business and its stakeholders (Refer to page 3 of Hyflux Annual Report 2016 for Group Financial Highlights, pages 23-28 for Operating Review and pages 64-160 for Financial Statements) Where do these impacts occur? With the exception of labour management relations and talent retention and development, which are internally focused, all of the above key material issues have an impact on the organisation, internally and externally. 17 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT As part of the materiality assessment for this report, we undertook a formal stakeholder mapping exercise across our value chain. Hyflux believes in engaging in a continuous, two-way dialogue with our key stakeholders to improve our decision-making process and to assess material environmental and social issues. OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS FORMS OF ENGAGEMENT KEY TOPICS Investment Community & Results briefings and quarterly Financial results Shareholders earnings calls Key developments Annual General Meetings & Investor relations Extraordinary General Meetings One-on-one meetings and investor conferences Site visits Bilateral communication Investor mailbox SGX announcements and press releases Clients for Regular meetings Operational efficiency Municipal Projects Presentations Cost-competitiveness Tradeshows Business opportunities Site visits Environmental and Website social impact Bilateral communication Technological innovation Events Regulatory & Forums and dialogues Human capital development Municipal Bodies Tradeshows Health, safety and Networking events compliance Roundtable discussions Environmental and Site visits social impacts Seminars Regulatory industry trend Bilateral communication Briefings and consultation Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 18 Trade Associations African South East Asia Chamber Industry updates, dialogues of Commerce and issues Association of Process Industry International Desalination Association International Women’s Forum (Singapore) Membrane Industry Association of China (中国膜工业协会) Singapore Business Federation Singapore Productivity Association Singapore Water Association Business Partners Tradeshows Business needs and viability (Suppliers and Site inspection Information access Distributors) Distributor training programmes Product specifications Customers for Promotion events Service and Consumer Products Electronic direct mailers quality assistance Bilateral communication Product knowledge Hotline Customer satisfaction Points-of-sale Promotions Employees Quarterly CEO conversation Career development Performance appraisals Staff welfare Seminars and training sessions, Health and safety including orientation program for Staff bonding new staff Company strategic Intranet communication direction and operational Safety briefings (for on-site performance employees) Media Regular communication with Hyflux’s latest relevant journalists developments Media releases and briefings Financial results Local Community Community engagement activities Community projects Blood donation drives twice a year Local welfare organisations Environmental care 19 United Nations SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Global goals were developed by the United Nations for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Hyflux has identified how some of our key focus areas based on our key material issues relate to these goals. Applicable goals are: Ensure healthy lives Achieve gender equality and promote well-being and empower all women for all at all ages and girls As a specialist in water treatment solutions, Hyflux seeks to offer equal employment Hyflux aims to play a part in promoting health opportunities to all regardless of gender, in line and preventing disease by providing a clean and with Fair Employment Practices espoused by stable supply of water to communities around the Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive the world. Employment Practices (TAFEP) in Singapore. For information on female employee Hyflux is also investing in clinical trials to representation, please refer to page 44. understand how our ELO Water, an oxygen-rich water for consumers, can potentially benefit certain conditions affected by hypoxia and improve well-being. Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Ensure availability and sustainable Hyflux aims to provide access to affordable, management of water reliable and sustainable sources of energy and sanitation for all through its power generation and waste-toenergy projects. We also seek to promote Hyflux operates desalination plants worldwide, energy efficiency across our business operations. which collectively have the capacity to produce Today, Hyflux supplies electricity to the Singapore more than a million cubic metres of clean water National Electricity Market through its 411 MW per day. It also offers industrial wastewater Tuaspring Power Plant. TuasOne Waste-to-Energy treatment solutions through its proprietary project will be the largest plant in Singapore Kristal® polymeric ultrafiltration membrane, and one of the most efficient in terms of energy FerroCep® stainless steel membrane and recovery per unit waste incinerated in the world PoroCep® hollow fibre submerged membrane. when completed. Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 20 Promote sustained, Build resilient inclusive and sustainable infrastructure, promote economic growth, full and inclusive and sustainable productive employment industrialisation and decent work for all and foster innovation With more than 2,800 employees worldwide, We aim to ingrain innovation into our Hyflux seeks to provide a safe and inclusive corporate culture and cultivate a global work environment that enables our people to community of talents who share our drive to maximise their potential. In FY2016, Hyflux had innovate for a better future. We engage in zero fatalities across our construction sites and research partnerships with institutions and operations. universities around the world in our search for sustainable solutions, such as an MoU signed with NEWRI in Singapore to collaborate on research in biomimetic membranes, a potential low energy alternative to conventional membranes in desalination. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable As an environmental solutions provider, Take urgent action to sustainability lies at the heart of Hyflux’s combat climate change business model. We aim to offer municipalities and its impacts an integrated suite of water, power and waste management solutions that will address growing The world is experiencing rapid climate change. resource limitations arising from increased Hyflux’s projects seeks to pursue resourceurbanisation and population growth. efficient solutions. Please refer to pages 11, 12, 24-26 for Hyflux’s projects. For more information on the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development goals, please refer to www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment 21 OUR ENVIRONMENT Managing the environmental impact of our activities WATER USE AND REDUCTION and operations is an integral part of Hyflux’s business processes. Hyflux exercises a precautionary approach The Group’s core business is in water treatment in managing its environmental impact. Data in this solutions. It aims to provide a clean and stable supply sustainability report covers: of water to communities around the world. 1. O&M projects (power and desalination plants): Tuaspring IWPP (Singapore), SingSpring Desalination Performance Plant (Singapore) and Tianjin Dagang Desalination Plant (China) In FY2016, total water withdrawal at our desalination 2. EPC projects (in construction phase): TuasOne WTE plants, EPC projects and corporate offices was 338 Project (Singapore) and Qurayyat IWP (Oman) million m3. More than 99% of total water withdrawal 3. Corporate offices in Singapore: Hyflux Innovation was seawater used in our desalination and power Centre, Hyflux Building and Tuas Manufacturing Hub plant operations2. Approximately 40% of the seawater withdrawn for desalination is recovered through the ISO 14001 guidelines on environmental management reverse osmosis process. systems govern all of Hyflux’s operations, and all construction sites are ISO 14001 certified. Before Testing and commissioning of the Tuaspring Power the commencement of any construction project, all Plant contributed to the increase in water withdrawn necessary due diligence in the form of Environmental in FY2015 as compared to FY2014. In FY2016, Impact Assessments (EIAs) and/or Environmental, the Tuaspring Power Plant began commercial operations Social and Health Impact Assessments (ESHIA) are in March. Seawater intake is used by the power plant carried out. Close monitoring and follow-ups are as cooling water to condense steam and to cool conducted throughout the construction phase until auxiliary services. project completion. Water withdrawal for desalination and power plant operations million m 3 400 338 313 300 222 200 100 0 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 2 Desalination and power plant operations refer to data from Hyflux’s O&M Projects: Tuaspring IWPP (Singapore), SingSpring Desalination Plant (Singapore) and Tianjin Dagang Desalination Plant (China). Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 22 ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND In terms of Scope 2 GHG emissions from electricity CLIMATE CHANGE consumption, Hyflux generated about 130.0 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide in FY2016. Hyflux’s energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions emanate primarily from our desalination Hyflux has constantly pursued innovations that improve and power plant operations, as well as our energy efficiency, given the high energy requirement of construction projects. desalination. Our approach is evidenced by the lower electricity consumption per m3 of desalinated water Performance produced by our newer plants when compared to our older plants. In FY2016, Hyflux’s total energy consumption was 1.18 million gigajoules. Electricity used for desalination Compliance with Mandatory Energy operations comprised approximately 73% of Hyflux’s Management Practices in Singapore total energy consumption, while power plant operations contributed to about 17% of energy consumption. Hyflux’s two desalination plants in Singapore, Fuels used to operate generators and cranes at our the Singspring and Tuaspring Desalination Plants, construction projects accounted for approximately 7% of have been in compliance with the National total energy consumption, while operations at corporate Environmental Agency (NEA) Energy Conservation facilities made up the rest. Act since 2014. As per the requirements of the act, we report the energy use of the plants periodically and For Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHG), Hyflux generated submit an annual Energy Efficiency Improvement Plan about 670.0 thousand tonnes of Scope 1 GHG emissions for each plant. in FY20163. A significant proportion of emissions can be attributed to the combustion of natural gas to generate electricity at the Tuaspring Power Plant, which began commercial operations in March 2016. Total electricity consumption With approximately 0.37 tonnes of GHG emissions for desalination plants generated per MWh of electricity produced, we are in MWh line with industry standards. 350,000 292,920 304,202 300,000 241,428 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 3 Source of fuel caloric values: Carbon Dioxide Emissions Coefficients from US Energy Information Administration (2016). 23 Our environment ENERGY MANAGEMENT AT HYFLUX INNOVATION CENTRE Hyflux Innovation Centre Recognised for its model of innovative environmental design and construction, Hyflux Innovation Centre received the BCA Green Mark Platinum Award in FY2012. The building features environmentally sustainable designs such as a solar-powered gym and a grey water recycling system that utilises Hyflux’s proprietary Kristal® polymeric ultrafiltration membranes. These innovative measures meet the most stringent criteria set by the Building & Construction Authority of Singapore and lower energy consumption by approximately 30% and conserve about 15.6 million litres of water a year. For energy saving purposes, all common areas such as lift landings are also fitted with motion sensor lightings. Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 24 Tuaspring Integrated Water and Power Plant Tuaspring IWPP, Singapore Water Reduction Initiatives Energy Reduction Initiatives First industrial plant to be awarded the ABC Compact design to reduce energy footprint per m3 (Active, Beautiful, Clean) Waters certification by of desalinated water produced PUB, Singapore’s National Water Agency Use of proprietary Kristal® polymeric ultrafiltration A bio-retention basin collects and filters surface membranes, high efficiency motors and advanced rain water from 11% of the plant’s total site area energy recovery technology to lower energy for reuse in landscape irrigation consumption A rainwater harvesting tank on the rooftop Plant architecture designed to take advantage of collects rainwater for toilet flushing natural sunlight and sea breeze for lighting and Approximately 3 million m3 of water recirculated cooling respectively and reused as feed water for ultrafiltration process 25 Our environment Tuasone Waste-to-Energy Plant TuasOne WTE, Singapore, Artist’s Impression Ensuring Proper Discharge of ii. Dry catalytic fabric filter system to remove Air Emissions dust particles, acidic and other gaseous pollutants The plant will have a dedicated flue gas treatment system to ensure that air emissions discharged Minimising the Environmental Impact comply with more stringent Environmental of Construction Protection & Management (Air Impurities) Regulations implemented since 1 June 2015. Environmental Control Measures are in place to The tighter emission standards mandated by ensure silted water runoff from the construction Singapore’s National Environment Agency site are treated before being discharged into include a new daily site-average limit for sulphur the public drainage system. Monitored by realdioxide (SO2) aimed at regulating SO2 emissions time CCTV cameras located near the discharge from combustion sources. outlets, alerts will be triggered when muddy flows are captured. This is to ensure compliance The main processes encompassed by the flue gas with the Total Suspended Solids (TSS) standard treatment system are: for discharges. i. Selective non-catalytic reduction to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOx) concentration in the flue gas Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 26 ELO Lab Opening of ELO Lab at City Square Mall, Singapore The grand opening of our first ELO Lab was on 8 September 2016 at City Square Mall in Singapore. Building and Construction Authority of Singapore (BCA) has awarded ELO Lab with a BCA GREEN MARK GOLD PLUS in 2017 under the Green Mark for Retail scheme. This award marks another milestone in our sustainability efforts in Hyflux’s projects and anchors our sustainability practices in our operations. The ELO Lab features 20 rooms, each with its personal bath which allows guests to relax and enjoy the benefits of soaking in warm, oxygen-rich ELO water in the complete privacy of a contemporary and tranquil setting. 27 Our environment AIR EMISSIONS FY2016 Air Emissions from Tuaspring Power Plant4 (Tonnes) Hyflux’s NOx and SO2 emissions are carefully managed worldwide. We not only aim to meet all regulatory standards in the jurisdictions in which our plants operate, but also strive to achieve international best practice. 327.0 0.4 Nitrogen Sulphur Compliance with Mandatory Air oxides (NOx) dioxide (SO2) Emissions Limits In December 2016, a source emission test was conducted at the Tuaspring Power Plant to determine the concentration levels of particulate mass (PM), nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (CO) and sulphur dioxide (SO2). The test results showed that emissions from the plant is in compliance with regulatory limits stipulated in the Environmental Protection and Management Act, EPMA 2008 (Air Impurities) Regulations 2001. WASTE AND EFFLUENTS Desalination Operations Construction Projects Hyflux’s desalination plants use large volumes of seawater to produce potable water. The by-products The main types of waste generated at Hyflux’s of desalination, which include high-concentration brine construction projects include scrap metal, wood and and backwash waste water, are discharged back into small amounts of boiler slag. In addition, some waste the sea. Before release, online analysers installed such as ash, soil and sludge wastes are collected and in the outfall pipe measure discharge flow rate, treated before being sent to landfills. dissolved oxygen, turbidity, conductivity, free chlorine, temperature and pH. These parameters are monitored In FY2016, approximately 770 tonnes of non-hazardous continuously by a SCADA5 system to ensure they fall waste was generated during the construction of the within allowable limits. TuasOne WTE project in Singapore and the Qurayyat IWP in Oman. At the TuasOne WTE construction site, Samples are also sent regularly to external consultants to there were 35 occurrences of TSS in excess of the measure suspended solids and chlorine levels to ensure discharge limit. To prevent such occurrences, we have they are within regulatory allowable limits. In Singapore, put in place a 24-hour monitoring system which will all parameters listed in NEA water quality standards of trigger alerts when muddy flows are captured. Trade Effluent Discharge to Watercourse are also tested, in accordance with regulatory allowable limits. 4 Air emissions data is based on measurements made at the Tuaspring Power Plant. 5 SCADA refers to supervisory control and data acquisition, a computer system used for gathering and analysing real time data. Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 28 Corporate Facilities Hyflux’s corporate facilities produce mainly domestic and municipal waste, which we work with local municipalities to recycle. Non-recyclable waste is treated and disposed of according to local regulatory requirements. FY2016 WASTE DISPOSAL METHOD TOTAL WEIGHT (TONNES) PERCENTAGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE Recycled waste 89 66%, mainly from construction at Qurayyat IWP6 Incineration 468 0% (Mostly generated at TuasOne WTE construction site7) Landfill 271 0% (Mostly generated at Qurayyat IWP construction site) On-site storage 0.06 100%, disposed via (Generated at SingSpring Desalination Plant waste disposal contractor and Tuaspring IWPP’s lab facilities8) SUSTAINABLE RESOURCE USE Hyflux is committed to resource optimisation while maintaining its product and service quality. Purchasing is centralised at Hyflux’s headquarters to allow for the efficient allocation of resources. 177.6 thousand tonnes of non-renewable input materials, including ready-mix concrete, steel rebar, and structural steel, were used for EPC projects. Hyflux uses recycled input materials whenever possible. 58.6 tonnes of materials used in the construction of the Qurayyat IWP were recycled input materials. The recycled inputs were mainly metal-based construction materials. 6 During construction stages, waste generated includes used engine oils and glass reinforced plastic pipes waste. 7 TuasOne WTE waste was tracked from May to December 2017. 8 Lab waste contains caustic substances, sulphuric acid and other chemicals. 29 GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Hyflux is committed to maintaining high standards of The Board of Directors (“Board”) is the Company’s corporate governance and processes that will enhance highest governance body that provides general the Group’s effectiveness, ensure the appropriate degree oversight of the Group’s activities and performance of accountability and transparency and an increase and for setting the Group’s overall strategic direction. in long term value and return to shareholders. The It provides leadership and guidance on corporate Group subscribes to the Singapore Code of Corporate strategies, business directions, risk policies and Governance issued by the Monetary Authority of implementation of corporate objectives, thereby taking Singapore and believes that this forms a sound platform responsibility for the overall corporate governance of the for supporting good corporate governance practices. Group. To assist in the execution of its responsibilities, the Board has established several Board Committees, namely, Audit Committee (“AC”), Nominating Committee, Hyflux is committed to a high Remuneration Committee, Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) and Investment Committee. These Board standard of corporate governance, Committees function within clearly defined terms of which defines our business conduct, reference, which are reviewed on a regular basis. The Board is updated on developments around approach to ethical matters and sustainability and has reviewed Hyflux’s material risk assessment process. environmental, social and governance issues. Business ity Risk Strategy abil En Management in vi Sus ta ent nm ro Go Board of ve Directors rn an ce ci a l So Company Employee Policies Compensation Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 30 RISK MANAGEMENT The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a sound system of risk management and internal control to safeguard the shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets, and to manage risks. The AC and the RMC oversee and ensure that such a system is appropriately implemented and monitored. The risk management and internal control processes framework are intended to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, to safeguard assets and maintenance of proper accounting records, reliability of financial information, compliance with appropriate legislations, regulations and best practices, and the identification and containment of business risks. The RMC comprises five Directors and its primary functions are: To review with management and sometimes with external consultants on areas of risk that may affect the viability and smooth operations of the Group, as well as management’s risk mitigation efforts. i iii ii To direct and work with To make recommendations to the Board in relation to management to develop and business risks that may affect review policies and the Group, as and when processes to address and these may arise. manage identified areas of risk in a systematic and structured manner. 31 GOVERNANCE & Risk Management FAIR AND ETHICAL a benefit are also in place. All employees in Singapore OPERATING PRACTICES are made aware of the consequences of corruption and bribery violations during their orientation training CODE OF ETHICS AND CONDUCT programme at Hyflux. Risk assessments are conducted across the Group as part of the annual internal audit The internal Code of Ethics and Conduct requires all programme to ensure compliance. employees to act with high standards of business integrity, to comply with local regulations where we An Ethics and Ethical Behaviour course is also conducted operate globally, and to ensure that our business yearly by the Internal Audit department, where common standards are not compromised. The code covers ethical risks and red flags are shared. During the training, aspects such as conflict of interest, corruption and employees engage in group discussions on how to handle bribery, securities purchase guidelines and is accessible various scenarios that pose ethical risks. by all employees through Hyflux’s intranet. WHISTLE-BLOWING POLICY ANTI-CORRUPTION AND BRIBERY Hyflux’s confidential communication programme As a responsible corporate citizen, Hyflux has a encourages employees to promptly report a breach or worldwide policy relating to bribery and prevention of suspected breach of a law, regulation, company policy corruption. All employees are prohibited, directly and or other alleged irregularities without fear of reprisals, indirectly, from soliciting or accepting any gratification provided such concerns are not raised in bad faith. from third parties in exchange for a benefit. Conversely, The policy is made available to all employees on Hyflux’s prohibitions against offering bribes in exchange for intranet and allows concerns to be raised in confidence. Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 32 Sustainable Procurement Hyflux has in place a comprehensive process to work with business partners in our supply value chain in a fair and ethical manner, to procure equipment and material which comply with technical specifications in all our projects. Our Supply Chain Hyflux works with a broad range of local and foreign suppliers for the different segments of our businesses. The Group’s main suppliers consist of industrial component suppliers for our plants, raw material suppliers for production purposes, as well as contractors for general and specialised professional services in our projects. Hyflux qualifies and appraises the suitability of our suppliers based on a supplier scorecard. Suppliers are assessed technically and commercially on their project track record and type, experience and quality among other evaluation criteria. The due diligence process may include financial audits, operational risk assessments, and visits to suppliers’ premises and reference project sites. Some of our partners have implemented their Working together at Hyflux own sustainability practices. In general, suppliers with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHAS 18001 certifications are preferred. We monitor our suppliers’ and service providers’ compliance with applicable laws, regulations, contractual requirements, as well as their quality, health and safety standards. To mitigate concentration risk and to ensure sustainable supply streams, Hyflux procures from a broad pool of suppliers and service providers. 33 OUR people Our PEOPLE With more than 2,800 employees worldwide, Hyflux believes in providing a safe and inclusive workplace for its people. In Singapore and China, where we have our largest workforces, 34% and 35% of our employees are in full-time permanent positions respectively. Hyflux’s Workforce Worldwide Singapore Algeria FY2016 58% 5% Total China Workforce: Indonesia, 28% Saudi Arabia, >2800 Oman and India 6% 3% OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH How We Manage Safety Safety is a core value for Hyflux. We are committed to The Group is committed to set and comply with its own the well-being of our people and seek to maintain a safe health and safety standards across all operations, and and healthy workplace. business unit heads are responsible for ensuring health and safety management systems are implemented and Group Quality, Environmental, Health and complied with on the ground. Safety (QEHS) Policy The Group QEHS policy is applied across all of Hyflux’s Safety is deeply rooted into operations and projects worldwide. It exemplifies Hyflux’s organisational culture. Hyflux’s commitment to control its accidental losses, to comply with applicable standards and legislation, as well as to achieve excellence in QEHS. The policy is QEHS objectives and performance are monitored and reviewed yearly and was revised in FY2016 to include reviewed by the QEHS Management Committee, which energy management as the Tuaspring Power Plant reports to the Group’s Chief Operating Officer. The Group became officially operational in March. Surrounding seeks to make continuous safety improvements through communities were identified as a new stakeholder the sharing of insights gathered from health and safetygroup, in which Hyflux’s projects and operations related incidents and risks. may impact. Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 34 QEHS Committee meetings are also held monthly at all occupational health and safety. Hyflux was also awarded sites for the project manager to communicate with key the bizSAFE Star certification from the Singapore stakeholders on QEHS matters and for performance to Workplace Safety and Health Council, which recognises be reported. Hyflux’s sustained efforts towards promoting good workplace safety conditions. In July 2016, Hyflux passed the BS OHSAS 18001:2007 recertification audit affirming that its policies and procedures comply with international standards for Group Chief Operating Officer QEHS Management Committee 35 Our people 0 Safety Performance In FY2016, we recorded zero fatalities across our construction Fatalities sites and operations. We also across our celebrated two major safety construction sites in FY2016 milestones at our construction sites: Safety First One million Half-million safe man-hours at safe man-hours at TuasOne Qurayyat IWP in Aug 2016 WTE site in Oct 2016 Accident Frequency Rate (AFR)9 FY2015 FY2016 Accident Severity Rate (ASR)10 FY2015 FY2016 Singapore 2.0 3.6 Singapore 25.4 49.3 Algeria & Oman 11.3 0.9 Algeria & Oman 113.111 18.4 Group 3.4 2.3 Group 38.7 35.0 In FY2016, AFR and ASR for Singapore increased slightly from the construction of the TuasOne WTE project. 9 Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) = (No. of Workplace Accidents Reported/Total No. of Man-hours worked) x 1,000, 000. 10 Accident Severity Rate (ASR) = (No. of Man-Days lost to Workplace Accidents/Total No. of Man-hours worked) x 1,000, 000. ASR excludes fatalities. 11 In FY2015, one fatality incidence by our contractor in Algeria occurred. To prevent future occurrences, we have since placed greater emphasis on communicating our safety standards to contractors and conduct regular unannounced audit checks on their safety practices. In FY2016, there was no incidence recorded. Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 36 Health and Safety Training At Hyflux, training for health and safety is an ongoing effort which includes day-to-day safety sharing tips, toolbox sessions and regular QEHS talks. They are aimed at equipping employees with the relevant technical knowledge, safety awareness and Hyflux’s values for a safe working environment. Mandatory in-house QEHS management system training is provided to all supervisory personnel for projects. Contract workers and all new workplace staff also attend a QEHS induction training to ensure they are trained in proper safety practices before starting work. For employees engaged in high-risk work, monthly training sessions and refresher courses are conducted. At project sites, health and safety practices are reinforced in the following ways: Weekly QEHS talk QEHS officer communicates and holds consultation with all stakeholders at site. Monthly QEHS committee meeting project manager communicates with representatives of all project stakeholders in resolving QEHS matters and grievances. Monthly QEHS committee inspection – QEHS inspection by project manager of all stakeholders’ on-site behaviour and facilities. Areas for improvement are identified. 37 Our people As part of the Annual QEHS HMM Got Safety! Awareness Promotion Programme, the “HMM Got Safety” competition was held in January 2016 at Hyflux’s Tuas Manufacturing Hub in Singapore. Employees from three different departments presented their ideas for improving QEHS performance to a panel of judges comprising management staff and non-executive representatives. Aimed at encouraging employees to inculcate safety values into their daily work routine, the event drew many useful recommendations. These recommendations were then considered by Hyflux’s Workplace Safety and Health committee, with appropriate measures implemented Hyflux Membrane Manufacturing (HMM) Got Safety competition after further refinement. Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 38 Hyflux’s key management, employees and contractors on-site Formal Worker Representation Contractors All our employees at our EPC sites and Singapore Hyflux’s contractors are expected to comply with corporate offices are represented in formal joint safety standards that are aligned with the Group’s management-worker health and safety committees policies. To ensure compliance, certain conditions are that monitor occupational health and safety issues. stipulated and made known to all contractors during the pre-contract stage. Emergency Preparedness and Response All employees on Hyflux’s sites are made aware of Emergency Preparedness and Response procedures and evacuation plans in cases of non-routine incidents, accidents and emergency situations. 39 Our people TALENT DEVELOPMENT Performance Training Talent Talent Welfare Reviews Acquisition Retention Performance Reviews Performance appraisals are conducted annually at Hyflux. Corporate employees are evaluated by their managers and given feedback on their strengths and areas for improvement. Employees’ career progression and rewards are determined at this annual appraisal. Key performance indicators for the next year are set during the session and a training needs analysis is conducted to identify skill gaps. Employees are thereafter provided coaching and training sessions tailored to help improve their performance. Training AND DEVELOPMENT Hyflux’s learning and development practices are based on ISO 9001 standards. In FY2016, training hours per employee in Singapore improved significantly from 15.4 hours per employee to 25.5 hours per employee, exceeding ISO’s target of 16 hours per employee. We believe in nurturing the full potential of our employees by giving them opportunities to develop their careers and capabilities through training courses, on-the-job training, job rotations, overseas postings and mentorship. We have programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees. Hyflux also conducts a range of in-house customised courses. Courses in the following categories are made available to all corporate employees: Orientation Personal Managerial Internal Subject Technical Lecture Series Effectiveness Series Matter Expert Series Series Series Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 40 Talent Acquisition Talent Retention In Singapore, Hyflux participates in the national effort Hyflux places great emphasis on building our bench to groom talents from the community. We are currently strength to bring the Group into our next phase of partnering the government in initiatives such as the growth. With global operations spanning the Middle Singapore-Industry Scholarship (SgIS), Young Talent East, Africa, Latin America and Asia, Hyflux encourages Programme Scholarship (YTP) and SkillsFuture Earn Singapore-based employees to move geographically and Learn Programme. The SgIS and YTP programmes to gain a deeper understanding of overseas markets, are scholarships offered to students pursuing their develop their leadership capabilities and foster undergraduate studies at local tertiary institutions. global mindsets. Upon graduation, these students join Hyflux and undergo a rigorous management trainee programme, Localisation is another important pillar for our overseas aimed at nurturing their leadership ability. Over the past operations and expansion. Locally-recruited staff are five years, we have sponsored 10 students through these encouraged to take on key roles, as they can add value two programmes. with their local socio-political and cultural insights. In FY2016, two Omani nationals were selected for The SkillsFuture Earn and Learn Programme is a Hyflux’s Internship Programme, conducted annually work-learn programme to support fresh graduates’ at our headquarters in Singapore. While recruitment transition into the workforce. Through an 18-month job is typically limited to Singapore-based students, the attachment, students are trained in industry-relevant programme was opened to students in Oman last year. competencies. Still in the pilot phase, Hyflux has With the upcoming completion of the Qurayyat IWP two participating students stationed at its Tuaspring in 2017, the aim was to raise awareness of the project Power Plant. among the local community and attract young local talents to join Hyflux. 41 Our people Welfare Hyflux’s employee policies meet all requirements of the Employment Act (Singapore). In FY2016, Hyflux implemented two days of eldercare leave for employees to better care for their elders at home. To promote an active lifestyle, the Group also organised various health-related workshops, as well as lunchtime yoga and kickboxing classes. Every year, Hyflux organises a ‘Bring Your Child to Work’ day to allow our employees’ children to have a glimpse of their parents’ work environment, while enjoying child-friendly activities such as magic shows, movie screenings and food festivals. To promote a healthy work-life balance, the Human Resources department tracks overtime hours to minimise the risk of employee burnout. If overtime hours exceed a certain threshold, the relevant Head of Department is notified. Lunchtime yoga sessions “Bring your child to work” day Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 42 FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS AT WORK/LABOUR MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Human Rights Hyflux strictly adheres to all applicable laws, For potential business opportunities or projects, regulations and the International Finance assessing any potential human rights issue is part Corporation (IFC) Performance Standard 212. of the due diligence process. Hyflux abides by the Our employees are required to abide by the Code employment laws and regulations in the countries we of Conduct, which emphasises the right to be operate in, including the minimum age for employment. treated with dignity and respect as well as work We practise fair employment and do not condone any under conditions that are healthy and safe. form of discrimination against employees. We also do not tolerate the use of forced or child labour. Grievance Handling Policy Grievance Handling procedure flowchart Grievance alleged to have occurred 3 WORKING DAYS Investigation by Inform Unresolved Human Resources Hyflux Department Investigation process 10 WORKING DAYS Grievance Appropriate Aggrieved action to panel meeting be taken employee informed Unresolved 20 WORKING DAYS Appeal Appeal to drafted by a Appeal Human Resources member of the Management outcome Department Committee Member with the CEO’s approval 12 The IFC Performance Standards define organisations’ responsibilities for managing their environmental and social risks. Performance Standard 2 relates to Labour and Working Conditions. 43 Our people Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) retirement age. Hyflux’s commitment to progressive employment practices is further demonstrated by our Hyflux upholds the PDPA which comprises rules involvement in the Human Capital Partnership with governing the collection, use, disclosure and care of TAFEP and the Ministry of Manpower in Singapore personal data. It recognises both the rights of individuals which is geared towards enhancing local workforce to protect their personal data, including rights of competitiveness. access and correction, and the needs of organisations to collect, use or disclose personal data for legitimate Hyflux is also a participant in the WSG Career Support and reasonable purposes. For FY2016, Hyflux had no Programme (CSP). The CSP encourages employers to reported breaches of personal information. offer suitable job opportunities to eligible Singaporean PMETs who have been unemployed for at least six months, and to tap on the wealth of experience DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY they bring to the workplace. Currently, we have two employees under this programme and will continue In accordance with Fair Employment Practices espoused to leverage on it as a channel for recruitment. by the Tripartite Alliance for Fair and Progressive Employment Practices (TAFEP), Hyflux provides In Singapore, two out of four key management equal employment opportunities regardless of gender committee members are female, 32% of senior or age. For instance, we have assigned female engineers management employees and 13% of non-senior to overseas projects in Algeria. Hyflux also offers management employees are female. re-employment to employees who have reached Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 44 2 Gender diversity In Singapore out of 4 Key Management Committee members are female senior non-senior management management 32% 13% 45 OUR Community CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Hyflux is committed to exceeding customer HSA expectations and complying with all applicable laws, as well as continually improving our QEHS performance. As a producer of drinking water, we adopt high QEHS standards for quality assurance and product safety. Hyflux’s ELO Water meets all standards mandated by Singapore’s Health Sciences Authority and Agri-Food AVA and Veterinary Authority. For FY2016, Hyflux had no fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Hyflux customer event ZOO Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 46 Go Green for Wildlife, WRS event, Singapore IMPACT ON AND COMMUNICATION WITH LOCAL COMMUNITY Partnership with Wildlife Reserves Singapore (WRS) Leveraging our technical expertise in water filtration technologies, Hyflux supported WRS in their Go Green For Wildlife campaign. In November 2016, the eco-friendly project was launched to promote the use of refillable bottles and reduce the generation of plastic waste from single-use bottles. Children utilising refillable water system As part of the project, Hyflux developed and installed customised potable water dispensers at the Singapore Zoo and River Safari. Equipped with At Hyflux, we are committed to infra-red sensors that automatically dispense water, achieving business excellence the dispensers also feature a screen counter which tallies the number of single-use plastic bottles saved while sustaining good social and daily. In conjunction with the campaign, Hyflux and environmental performance. WRS produced a co-branded high quality refillable bottle, made from Tritan™ copolyester, a BPA-free and shatter-resistant material, which is available for sale in WRS’ retail outlets. 47 OUR Community Blood donation drive at Hyflux Innovation Centre Community Programmes Hyflux also supported various community programmes in Singapore. In partnership with the Singapore Red Cross Society, we organised two public blood donation drives at our corporate headquarters in Singapore in FY2016. 196 donors responded to the cause and a total of 180 units of blood were collected. During the year, we also conducted donation drives for Canossaville Children’s Home and Lions Befrienders, Hyflux staff volunteering at HCA Hospice fulfilling more than 200 wishes of the beneficiaries. In the spirit of volunteerism, 30 Hyflux staff spent two afternoons conducting soap-making workshops for the patients at the HCA Day Hospice Centre and HCA Kang Le Day Care Centre. Tuaspring IWPP educational site visit Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 48 Educational Site Visits In FY2016, Hyflux hosted more than 30 educational site visits at our Tuaspring Integrated Water and Power Plant for schools, educational institutions, ministries and government-linked bodies. During the visits, our Operations & Maintenance employees showcased the systems and technology behind the desalination process, as well as the Singapore approach to water resource management. SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS GOVERNMENTS & GOVERNMENT-LINKED BODIES Singapore Singapore • School of Architecture and the Built • Energy Market Authority Environment, Singapore Polytechnic • Singapore Water Association • Republic Polytechnic • Ministry of Education • Methodist Girls’ School • Temasek Foundation Water International Leadership Programme • Forum of Small States Fellowship Programme • Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy • Johor State Department Public-Private-Partnership Module • Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, Thailand International • Thailand Department of Water Resources • EDHEC Business School (Ecole des Hautes • Metropolitan Waterworks Authority, Thailand Etudes Commerciales du Nord) • Federation of Thai Industries • McIntire School of Commerce, University • Ministry of Industry and Information of Virginia Technology, China • Africa Journalist Visit Programme • Shandong-Singapore Business Council Delegation • Korea Water Research Institute • Hong Kong Legislative Council Panel on • Water Institute for Sustainability, Thailand Development • Hong Kong Water Supplies Department • Water Resource Management: The Singapore and Mexico Experience Training Programme • Ministry of Public Service and Human Resource Development, Ethiopia • Daegu Metropolitan City Team, Korea • Istanbul Water Supply and Sanitation, Turkey • Electricity & Co-Generation Regulatory Authority, Saudi Arabia 49 OUR Community Asia p3 hub (Asia Public-Private-Partnerships Hub) Hyflux has been involved as an advisor to the Asia P3 Hub since the run-up to its launch. An incubator riding the wave of change to alleviate Asia’s water woes and pave the path for more collaborative action to meet the region’s needs, the Asia P3 Hub was launched in July 2016 under the auspices of non-governmental organisation World Vision International. Hyflux is a member of the Asia P3 Hub’s founding ‘Combinatorial’ team, providing a business perspective as a Singapore Large Local Enterprise and technical water expert. In June 2016, Hyflux also hosted and participated in one of three co-creation workshops to discuss the basic foundation for the business model of the Asia P3 Hub. After completion of all three co-creation workshops, the Asia P3 Hub established its cross-sector partnership approach to bring together companies, start-ups, non-profit organisations, and the government to develop market-driven solutions to solve the issue of water in Asia. Asia P3 Hub’s founding combinatorial team Community Investments February To Singapore Council of Women’s Organisations, for bronze sponsorship of their International Women’s Day 2016 Gala Dinner February To Social Innovation Park, for GSIF and 10th Year Anniversary Gala Dinner 2016 February To Malay Youth Literary Association, for 4PM Fairway to Charity golf event March To Singapore Lyric Opera, as donation to the Opera Ball March To National University of Singapore, Hyflux Bursary Awards April To Nanyang Polytechnic, for sponsorship of awards June To Securities Investors Association Singapore, to pledge and support Corporate Governance September To HCA Hospice Care, for HCA Charity Golf 2016 September To HighPoint Community Services Association (HCSA), for HCSA 20th Anniversary Charity Dinner October To Touch Community Services Limited November To Accountant-General (National Population & Talent Division), for Singapore Day 2016 December To Singapore Polytechnic, for Hyflux Silver Medal for Singapore Polytechnic’s Diploma in Environmental Management and Water Technology course In FY2016, a total contribution of over S$150,000 was made by Hyflux towards community investments and scholarship awards in Singapore and the region. Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 50 GRI CONTENT Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES CHAPTER REFERENCE General Disclosure Title Chapter Reference Standard Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organiCEO’s Message, pg. 03-06 sation ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the organisation Welcome and Readers Guide, pg. 02 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services About Hyflux, pg. 07, 13-14 G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters About Hyflux, pg. 07 G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and Welcome & Reader’s Guide, pg. 02 names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability About Hyflux, pg. 09-12 topics covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Welcome & Reader’s Guide, pg. 02 CEO’s Message, pg. 04 G4-8 Markets served About Hyflux, pg. 09-10 G4-9 Scale of the organisation About Hyflux, pg. 07-10 Hyflux Annual Report 2016 Group Financial Highlights, pg. 03-04 G4-10 Employees Profile About Hyflux, pg.07 Our People, pg.33 Our People > Diversity and Equal Opportunity, pg.43-44 34% of our employees and 35% of our employees in Singapore and China respectively are in full-time permanent positions. We have 2 part-time employees in Singapore. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining Hyflux’s employees are not covered by agreements collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain Our Community > Sustainable Procurement at Hyflux, pg. 32 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Hyflux Annual Report 2016 Message from Executive Chairman & Group Chief Executive Officer, pg. 05-10 Hyflux Annual Report 2016 Financial Review, pg. 19-22 Hyflux Annual Report 2016 Operating Review, pg. 23-28 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Our Environment, pg. 21 addressed by the organisation 51 GRI CONTENT Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES CHAPTER REFERENCE G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social CEO’s Message, pg. 04 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses Our People > Diversity and Equal Opportunity, pg. 43-44 G4-16 Memberships of associations Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 18 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 List of entities included in the organisation’s consolidated Hyflux Annual Report 2016 Hyflux Group of financial statements or equivalent documents Companies, pg. 167-168 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Deciding On Our Material Issues, pg. 15 Boundaries and how the organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining Deciding On Our Material Issues, pg. 15 report content G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the Deciding On Our Material Issues, pg. 16 organisation G4-21 Report the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation Deciding On Our Material Issues, pg. 16 G4-22 Explanation effect of any restatements of information provided Not Applicable as this is Hyflux’s first in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements sustainability report. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope Not Applicable as this is Hyflux’s first and Aspect Boundaries sustainability report. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 17-18 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 17-18 to engage G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 17-18 of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Stakeholder Engagement, pg. 17-18 stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information provided Welcome & Reader’s Guide, pg. 02 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Not Applicable as this is Hyflux’s first sustainability report G4-30 Reporting cycle Welcome & Reader’s Guide, pg. 02 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Welcome & Reader’s Guide, pg. 02 G4-32 Report on ‘in accordance’ option, GRI Content Index, reference to Welcome & Reader’s Guide, pg. 02 the External Assurance G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external This report has not been externally assured. assurance for the report GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organisation Governance & Risk Management > Compliance, pg. 29 Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 52 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES CHAPTER REFERENCE ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of CEO’s Message, pg. 03-06 behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Governance and Risk Management > Fair and Ethical Operating Practices > Code of Ethics and Conduct, pg. 31-32 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Hyflux Annual Report 2016 Financial Review, pg. 19-22 Hyflux Annual Report 2016 Operating Review, pg. 23-28 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Hyflux Annual Report 2016 Consolidated Income Statement, pg. 66 Our Community > Impact on and Communication with Local Community > Community investments, p. 49 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our Environment > Sustainable Resource Use, pg. 28 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Our Environment > Sustainable Resource Use, pg. 28 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Our Environment > Sustainable Resource Use, pg. 28 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our Environment > Energy Efficiency & Climate Change, pg. 22 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Our Environment > Energy Efficiency & Climate Change, pg. 22 MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our Environment > Water Use and Reduction, pg. 21 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Our Environment > Water Use and Reduction, pg. 21 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water No water sources were significantly affected by Hyflux’s withdrawal of water. G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Our Environment > Tuaspring Integrated Water and Power Plant, pg. 24 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our Environment > Energy Efficiency & Climate Change, pg. 22 53 GRI CONTENT Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES CHAPTER REFERENCE G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Our Environment > Energy Efficiency & Climate Change, pg. 22 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Our Environment > Energy Efficiency & Climate Change, pg. 22 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Our Environment > Energy Efficiency & Climate Change, pg. 22 G4-EN21 NOX, SO2 and other significant air emissions Our Environment > Air Emissions, pg. 27 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our Environment > Waste and Effluents, pg. 27 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Our Environment > Waste and Effluents, pg. 27 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Our Environment > Waste and Effluents, pg. 28 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills There have been no significant spills in FY2016. MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our Environment > Energy Efficiency & Climate Change > Compliance with Mandatory Energy Management Practices in Singapore, pg. 22 Our Environment > Tuasone Waste-toEnergy Plant, pg. 25 G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonFor FY2016, Hyflux had no significant fines monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental for non-compliance with environmental laws laws and regulations and regulations. Our Environment > Waste and Effluents > Construction Projects, pg. 27 CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our People > Occupational Safety and Health, pg. 33-38 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Our People > Occupational Safety and Health management-worker health and safety committees that help > Formal Worker Representation, pg. 38 monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Our People > Occupational Safety and Health days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related > Safety Performance, pg. 35 fatalities, by region and by gender MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our People > Talent Development, pg 39-41 Our People > Occupational Safety and Health > Health and Safety Training, pg. 36 Governance and Risk Management > Fair and Ethical Operating Practices > Anti-corruption and Bribery, pg 31 Hyflux Ltd Sustainability Report 2016 54 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES CHAPTER REFERENCE G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and Our People > Talent Development > Training, by employee category pg. 39 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Our People > Talent Development, pg. 39-41 support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Our People > Diversity and Equal Opportunity, pg. 43 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Our People > Talent Development > career development reviews, by gender and by employee Performance Reviews, pg. 39 category MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity, pg. 43-44 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity, per employee category according to gender, age group, minority pg. 43-44 group membership, and other indicators of diversity MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR PRACTICES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Governance & Risk Management > Sustainable Procurement, pg. 32 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour Hyflux is not tracking this data for FY2016 practices criteria MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOUR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our People > Fundamental Rights at Work > Grievance Handling Policy, pg. 42 G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, Our People > Fundamental Rights at Work > and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Grievance Handling Policy, pg. 42 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our People > Fundamental Rights at Work, pg. 42 Our People > Diversity & Equal Opportunity, pg. 4344 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective There were no incidents of discrimination actions taken and corrective actions in FY2016. SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our Community, pg. 49 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Hyflux has conducted community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs engagements for operations in Singapore MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Governance & Risk Management > Fair and Ethical Operating Practices, pg. 31 G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks Governance & Risk Management > Fair and related to corruption and the significant risks identified Ethical Operating Practices > Anti Corruption and Bribery, pg. 31 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and Governance & Risk Management > Fair and procedures Ethical Operating Practices, pg. 31 55 GRI CONTENT Index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES CHAPTER REFERENCE G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There were no cases of corruption in FY2016. MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Governance & Risk Management > Compliance, pg. 29-30 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Hyflux has had no significant fines for non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and FY2016. regulations SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our Community > Customer Satisfaction, pg. 45 G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Our Community > Customer Satisfaction, and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of pg. 45 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our Community > Customer Satisfaction, pg. 45 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of For FY2016, Hyflux has had no reported customer privacy and losses of customer data breaches of personal information. MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) Our Community > Customer Satisfaction, pg. 45 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws Our Community > Customer Satisfaction, and regulations concerning the provision and use of products pg. 45 and services OUR VALUES Boldness Dare to dream, dare to do and dare to excel Entrepreneurship Nurture the entrepreneurial spirit, embrace challenges and master change Satisfaction Exceed internal and external customer satisfaction, take pride in work and deliver excellence Testimony Be the face behind the brand, excel in business conduct and embrace best practices in corporate governance www.hyflux.com
