2017 Sustainability report Content Martela in brief 3 Key responsibility indicators 2014 – 2017 16 A good working environment Contents and scope of report 4 Sustainability programme for 2018 – 2022 17 CEO’s and sustainability team’s interview 5 Economic responsibility 18 is a source of creativity and Martela Lifecycle® 7 Social responsibility 22 enables employees to reach Values 9 Environmental responsibility 26 optimal productivity and Sustainability in Martela 10 GRI index 31 Materiality assessment 11 Contact details 35 wellbeing. Value creation 12 Stakeholders and their expectations 13 Management of Sustainability 14 Martela in brief MARTELA DESIGNS AND CREATES the best workmarket that support the maintenance and modificaplaces and learning environments for its customers. tion of interior solutions. We offer a comprehensive We offer user centric solutions for modern working service that can cover the entire process of change environments – for mobile work and activity based from initial inventory and design to removal and offices. Martela’s objective is to provide its customers maintenance. and partners with the best service and high-quality, Martela is a family company founded over 70 years ergonomic and innovative products. Fast deliveries ago and its shares are quoted on the OMX Nordic and an efficient delivery network help us attain this Exchange Helsinki. The company has production objective. facilities in Finland and Poland. Our main markets Martela is one of the leading companies in Nordic include Finland, Sweden and Norway. countries to concentrate in working environment. In 2017, Martela Group’s turnover was EUR 109.5 We also offer the widest range of services in the million and it employed an average of 508 employees. MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 3 Martela joined the United Nations’ Global Compact Initiative in 2011. Contents THIS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, MARTELA’S EIGHTH, contains Standard Disclosures according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Global Compact Reporting Martela joined the United Nations’ Global Compact Initiative in 2011. Global Compact has approved the Report. In the section ‘Management of Sustainability’, the roles and duties of the Board of Directors, the Group Management Team and the Sustainability Steering Group and scope Reporting Guidelines (version G4). The report covers all of Martela’s operations. Reporting boundaries and the data reported have been determined in use of the GRI guidelines as indicators of the level and progress of actions. In this report, we continue Global Compact reporting by marking in the G4 content index in developing corporate responsibility are described. The performance in different areas of operation is presented in the economic, social and environmental of report accordance with the recommendations of the GRI Boundary Protocol. Martela’s performance indicators for the GRI G4 content index have been selected the indicators that we use to measure the extent to which the principles of human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption are in place. sections of this report. The sustainability report presents the progress of the sustainability programme for 2017–2020 and the new programme for 2018–2022. on the basis of the materiality assessment and the indicators have been reviewed by the Sustainability Reporting Structure Assurance of the report Steering Group. The disclosed results include moni­ At the beginning of the report Martela is briefly introduced There is no external assurance of the sustainability intoring data for a period of at least three years. as a company, and information on its values, strategy dicators. Economic responsibility metrics are based on Compared to the previous report published in May and governance is presented. After that, the stakeholder the Board of Director’s Report and the consolidated 2017, the biggest change is the end of environmental analysis prepared by the Sustainability Steering Group financial statements that have been audited by KPMG. metrics for operations in Sweden. The production in and the core risks and opportunities regarding corporate Sweden was transferred to Nummela Logistics Center responsibility are presented. The related management Publication of the report during 2016. Other deviations and limitations are principles and the nature of the commitments are sumThe annual sustainability report is published in PDF reported in connection with the indicators in question marised. The full texts of our principles can be found format in Finnish and English. No printed copies of the and in the GRI index. at www.martela.com. The governance and risk manreport have been made, but it is possible to print it out. agement principles are presented in the Martela Annual The 2018 report will be published in spring 2019. MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 4 Wellbeing by user centric planning Maija Kaski Anne-Maria Peitsalo Matti Rantaniemi MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 5 Martela aims to be a responsible partner for all its stakeholders and a corporate citizen that actively promotes sustainable development. CEO Matti Rantaniemi, Sustainability Steering Group chair Maija Kaski and Sustainability Steering Group secretary Anne-Maria Peitsalo discuss Martela’s goals and key themes as well as its achievements during 2017. Working is in a state of transition and Nordic Anne-Maria: User-centric spaces provide an Maija: The key positive impacts definitely arise What were your key achievements in 2017? countries are setting the pace in this area. organisation with a competitive edge and boost wellfrom the products and solutions that we supply to Matti: In the economic field, the aim was to raise What does this transition mean? being at work. When provided with more efficientour customers in which consideration is given to the profitability to eight per cent, excluding non-recurring Matti: Digitalisation and globalisation are rapidly changly designed spaces that are better suited for their workplace lifecycle. We have invested a great deal items, and increase the share of service business. In ing the way in which we work. Knowledge work now needs, customers can also expect lower rental costs to ensure the sustainability of our products and supperformance targets, because of the system reform, accounts for an increasing proportion of this, especially and electricity bills. This also helps our customers to ply chain but we are also constantly focusing on the we fell short of our goals, but I believe that the basis in industrialised societies. Many tasks can be performed reduce the environmental impacts arising from their sustainability of our own operations. We have set the for strong profitability has now been created. Service anywhere and at any time. International competition activities. Flexible solutions mean less need for un­ rules and principles for sustainability and supervise business now accounts for a larger share of our busialso means tougher efficiency requirements. necessary furniture and the maintenance service encompliance with these rules. ness and more customers are also interested in pursures that the spaces always meet the users’ needs. Anne-Maria: Changing attitudes and expectations is chasing workspaces as total packages. How is Martela responding to this change? the biggest challenge. Especially in the public sector, Maija: Our aim was also to improve wellbeing at Matti: We already know how to design and make What are the key corporate responsibility it may take a while to change from furniture-centred work in our customer companies and at Martela. We durable and high-quality office furniture. Nowadays, themes at Martela? purchasing to furnishing as a total concept. And to shift believe that we have been successful and our soluwe think about the workplace as an increasingly Matti: Sustainability is a key factor in Martela’s busithe focus from the purchase price and environmental tions have been favourably received. The challenges broader concept. Our aim is to provide our customers ness, both in the short and in the long term. Our foimpact assessment of pieces of furniture to the life­ involving the system reform mentioned by Matti also with user-friendly workplaces and learning environcus is on the goals that we can achieve by providing cycle impacts of the furnishing as a whole. affected personnel wellbeing. At times, the capacity ments and services supporting them. This means that our customers with better workplaces and the way of the employees was stretched to the limit as soluwe set up expert partnerships with the customers as in which they impact society at large. For this reason, How do you promote corporate responsibility tions were sought. Fortunately, the situation has now soon as they start planning their overall needs. sustainability is a consideration in all our operations. at practical level? eased. In our reporting, we talk separately about economic, Anne-Maria: We have set out the key themes for Anne-Maria: Sustainability of the supply chain is a What is meant by a user-centric approach? social and environmental responsibility but in our Martela on the basis of which the Sustainability Steerkey factor in Martela’s business. We do not accept Maija: Workplace planning starts with a survey of daily work the aim is to achieve all these goals. For ing Group picks the development priorities, sets the inappropriate practices, such as bribery and extorthe users’ needs. Knowledge-intensive work requires example, material efficiency and the wellbeing of our targets, drafts a plan to achieve them and monitors tion. Thanks to extensive and transparent interaction spaces for different situations. You often have to conpersonnel both impact positively on our performance. the implementation process. We communicate on with our suppliers, no such cases have emerged. We centrate on your own tasks, but there are also sitWe have not yet reached all the companies set out our success to our stakeholders in annual reports in a are also continuously working to maintain strict quality uations where you have to work with others or rest in the sustainability programme based on the Martransparent manner. By taking part in different types standards and reduce the environmental impacts of your brain. The needs of the organisation and the tela Lifecycle model, which means that the work is of training, all employees can also give feedback and materials and production, and progress in these areas individuals are key considerations in the plan. continuing. have a say in how the priorities are set each year. has been achieved. MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 6 ® Trends Martela Lifecycle Value for customer Change in content of work Work is increasingly knowledge-oriented Improved employee and work tasks and roles are diverse. 4. experience and WORKPLACE MAINTENANCE Team work is increasing and hierarchies Costs Usage % increased wellbeing AND DEVELOPMENT are lowering. Ensuring the achievement or objectives and continuous measurement of development. Increase in productivity and innovation Work is independent from time and place Work can be done almost anywhere and employees are easily reached. WORKPLACE Renewal of work and SUCCESSFUL WORKPLACE 1. management culture SUPPORTS DIFFERENT SPECIFICATION TASKS AND ACTIVITIES Ensures that work Growing demand environment change • Collaboration for productivity supports both • Communication Measuring and achieving results company goals and • Concentration is important. Encounters increase 3. WORKPLACE user needs. Decreased • Chill out total costs productivity. IMPLEMENTATION Implementation as a full service with single point of contact. Energy efficiency Energy is expensive and its production causes emissions. Energy efficiency saves both money and environment. 2. WORKPLACE PLANNING A successful User-oriented and environment leads Cost efficiency participatory planning to Office space is expensive especially meet the defined goals. to a more engaged in growing areas. A smaller office can provide better functionality. personnel. MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 7 Martela Lifecycle® – user centric workplaces and learning environments USER CENTRIC WORKPLACES and learning environforming the work environment. The targets for change the use of space in the work environment and clarify as development suggestions based on the measurements support a wide range of needs and situations, are always derived from corporate strategy to ensure the company’s visual image. In the user centric design ment results. Maintenance reduces need for major including spaces for a variety of activities, such as colthat the change supports the organisation towards phase, a company-specific space plan is created that changes, lowers costs and supports occupational laboration, communication, chill out and concentraits future vision. Carefully implemented specification can take into account existing furnishings, recycling wellbeing and work efficiency of employees, as the tion. The best workplaces and learning environments includes, for example, workplace utilisation measureof unneeded pieces and furniture rental opportunities. space supports work also during organisational are created based on the goals and values of each ments, workshops and working environment surveys As a result of the planning, the customer receives a change. organisation and by listening to the needs of end-­ while ensuring end-user engagement in the change. At custom made space plan that is used in implementing Organisations and work methods are constantly users. The more the environment supports work and the end of the specification phase, a workplace report the change. The workplace as a whole can also be changing. It is advisable to regularly check if the work learning, the more satisfied the users are. The way of and space usage plan are created. These are used in leased with Martela’s flexible financial services. At this environment supports the current ways of working. working and learning is improved! the workspace and interior design planning. stage, a plan for employee orientation for the utilisation The changes do not always have to be substantial. Martela Lifecycle® is a comprehensive service that of the new space is created. Additionally, a unit audit is Even small changes to the workspace can have a covers the entire lifecycle of workplaces and learncarried out for possible removal service and recycling. major effect on productivity and employee wellbeing. ing environments. With this model, maintenance of premises and furniture is continuous ensuring that the workplace evolves with changing needs. Implementation Value for customers Careful advance planning and efficient project manA successful work and learning environment guides A good working environment agement ensure a smooth implementation of the and challenges personnel to be more engaged in their Specification is a source of creativity and change and maintenance work. Martela takes care work. The environment has a direct link to efficiency, Future needs of the work environment are considered enables employees to reach of all changes beginning from removal service and incost savings, employee satisfaction, and cooperation. in the specification phase. If a company has the opstallation of the office to recycling and final clean-up Successful organizations often understand the portunity to move to new premises, the specification optimal productivity and as well as the introduction of the new working envipotential of the working environment as a managephase provides support for finding the right kind of wellbeing. ronment to the personnel. ment tool. A succesful environment supports its end-­ space. The company that has previously operated in users in taking initiative. It supports the organization a traditional office can find ample room in usually 20 to achieve its key objectives and ensures a smooth to 40% smaller premises. Planning Maintenance flow of information. A good working environment is a The specification starts with locating user-driven User centric workplace planning ensures a responsibly Based on a user experience survey and the actual source of creativity and enables employees to reach needs by going through the organization’s roles, tasks, created and maintained work environment for the orutilisation measurements, the maintenance phase optimal productivity and wellbeing. space and product needs as well as the goals for transganisation. Space and interior design help to optimise consists of an enquiry of the workplace needs as well MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 8 Values OUR CORPORATE VALUES ARE expressed by the terms: Family business, Passion for Innovations, User Driven Design and Finnish. Family business explains the long-term approach that we take. We look further than just the next quarter, and we maintain contacts over generations. We look to the future, and we value both the environment and our roots. Passion for Innovations is in our DNA. Innovation applies to our offering but is also evident in our endeavours to improve everything we do. User Driven Design can be seen and felt in our products and services in a very tangible sense. We can improve the everyday lives of our customers in many ways. Martela was founded in 1945 and it has developed along with the country itself over the decades since. We are very proud of our Finnish roots. A key aspect of being Finnish is keeping your word. At Martela this means keeping our customer promises: we finish the We are very proud work we have started, with pride. Therefore, our fourth value is represented by the word Finnish. of our Finnish roots MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 9 Sustainability in Martela MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 10 Materiality assessment Evaluation of stakeholders MARTELA’S PERFORMANCE IN CORPotential Improved PORATE RESPONSIBILITY is measProduct labelling to save energy employee ured using indicators compatible with Cost savings the GRI recommendation which were and user and greenhouse wellbeing from space efficiency chosen on the basis of the materiality information gas emissions improvements assessment made by the Sustainability Steering Group. The assessment is based on the expectations of Martela’s key stakeholders, and the significance EVALUATION OF STAKEHOLDERS to the business. Even if the assessment Customer was carried out by the company’s interPurchases satisfaction Recycling nal specialists it has also been updated from local of materials according the key customer interviews Sanctions from suppliers and responsibility discussions. The in the end of Economic non-compliance Steering Group chose five economic-, lifecycle value by with marketing, eleven social-, three productand ten competition and stakeholder environmental responsibility indicators other legislation groups for the 2017 reporting. Freedom = Economic responsibility of association Career and collective and equal Analyses bargaining Health = Social responsibility opportunity of corruption & safety risks at work = Environmental responsibility CURRENT/POTENTIAL IMPACT ON MARTELA MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 11 Value creation Resources and capabilities Martela’s activities Output and it’s distribution COMPONENT AND SUBASSEMBLIES MARTELA LIFECYCLE® CUSTOMERS • 11 million kg (wood based 45%, metal based 37%) • workplace specifications, layout planning, PRODUCTION FACILITIES implementation, maintenance, wellbeing, cost savings, • Laminate and melamine component production in Kitee, Finland new and re-manufactured furniture • Final assembly of new and re-manufacturing of used furniture in Nummela, Finland • Upholstered furniture component manufacturing in Piaseczno, Poland Costs Usage % SUPPLIERS OF GOODS AND SERVICES • Purchases total EUR 64 million incl. materials, PERSONNEL components, energy costs, fuels, waste management, • 524 permanent employees, including 153 factory workers, property rentals, rental of vehicles, services, IT licenses • 120 removal service employees and 251 knowledge workers • 194 work years of external resources • Investments in staff development EUR 131 000 per year PERSONNEL • EUR 21,948,000 salaries paid including PARTNER NETWORK share-paid contributions • 150 suppliers, 50 re-sellers, 6 freelancer designers • EUR 4,926,000 social security and pension contributions OWNERS • 4.289 owners, of which 95% households, 4% companies, SOCIETY 81% owns 500 shares of less, 2% over 5000 shares, • EUR 664.000 taxes INCOMPATIBLE CAPITAL • Martela brand, Martela Lifecycle -strategy, 6 utility models, 1 registered design FOR OWNERS AND FINANCIERS • Versatile expertise • EUR 1,520,000 dividends • EUR 537,000 interest expenses FINANCE • EUR 56 million equity and liabilities WASTE • 1.2 million kg, recovered 96%, INVESTMENTS AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT less than 1% of hazardous waste • EUR 2.1 million investments RECYCLING SERVICE FOR CUSTOMERS NATURAL RESOURCES • 3.7 million kg, of which 93% wood, metal • Electricity 5.303 MWh and energy fractions • District heating 4.814 MWh • Heating by gas 195 MWh • 92% renewable energy, 8% fossil energy MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 12 Stakeholders and their expectations Owners Other interest Customers Specifiers Employees Dealers Suppliers and Investors groups QUANTITY AND • Companies and public • People responsible for • 524 permanent • About 50 dealers, of • About 150 suppliers, • Major owners are Martela • Media, areas of DESCRIPTION purchasers. Private customers customer definitions, employees: 29% whom four operate under of which about 70% family and pension operations, industry only through the Martela Outlet architects, interior factory employees, Martela brand in Martela’s home insurance company organizations, schools channel. 87% of turnover from architects 23% removal service • Other dealers, about half market, ie Norway, Ilmarinen and funding and educational Finland, 12% from Sweden, workers and 48% of which in Europe, offer Sweden, Poland by the well-known institutions 4% from Norway and 6% knowledge workers Martela products as part and Finland Nordic banks from other countries • 194 work years of of their other offering external resources THEIR • High quality products and services • Information on • Continuity of • High quality products and • Stable • Stable development • Promotion of local EXPECTATIONS • Information on products, supply products, materials, employment services development • Successful risk social wellbeing chain and materials environmental trends relationship • Information on products, and trust management by, among others, • Compliance with laws, principles and brand value • Professional supply chain and materials • Clear • Profitable business and employment of corporate governance and • Possibility to realize development • Compliance with laws, communication ability to pay dividends • Open communication agreements both internally and in new ideas with opportunities agreements and sustainable of instructions the supply chain respect to Finnish • Training on new skills business principles and expectations • Availability of eco labelled design traditions and best practices in • Reliable business products, especially in Sweden, occupational safety relationship Denmark and Norway • Availability of eco labelled • Some expect especially Finnish products, especially in design Sweden, Denmark and Norway OUR ACTIONS • Ensuring availability of product • Material and brand • Employee • Exceeding the • Investments in • Close monitoring of • Co-operation with information studies satisfaction and performance of long-term cocompetitiveness and representatives of • Ensuring compliance with • Design events to enable wellbeing studies other suppliers operation performance and open other stakeholder Code of Conduct interaction • Training • Open discussion • Communication, communication • Open communication focusing • Designers’ ideas and • Appraisals on performance tracking and • Development of on materiality influence to offering • Open internal discussion of sustainability and its • Use of eco-labels communication sustainable reporting • The right to use the Key Flag procurement • constant development of Symbol and the Design From principles Sustainability indicators Finland mark MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 13 Management of MANAGING SUSTAINABILITY is normal everyday work at Martela. Sustainability is an integral part of Martela’s values, operating principles and strategy. In sustainability matters in the Group Management Team. Martela’s goal is to provide responsible solutions for its customers’ workplaces and learning environments Sustainability addition, the company has defined specific management principles for guiding corporate responsibility work. All management principles presented here were through the Martela Lifecycle® model. Requirements for room efficiency, wellbeing at work and work efficiency can be implemented with the model along with drawn up at the beginning of 2011 and have been the changes in the workplace required by the transforreviewed annually and, if necessary, revised. mation of work. Sustainability in the whole value chain The sustainability work is led by Martela Corporaof production plays an important role in corporate tion’s Board of Directors together with the CEO. The responsibility. Thus Martela has separate principles Sustainability Steering Group prepares and coordifor managing sustainability in the supply chain. nates practical development actions, the implemenAnnual training sessions on management principles tation of which is controlled through the company’s are organised to increase awareness and to engage the normal organisation. The sustainability programme is whole organisation. The goal is to ensure the correct implemented in the annual planning and monitored and sufficient level of knowledge of each employee at the management level of the operations. The Vice regarding the sustainability aspects of their duties and President, People & Sustainability is responsible for to involve them in the development of the company. MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 14 Management principles Corporate code of conduct dealt with in Martela’s Annual Report, in the Board of mental activities are managed in accordance Once a year, the Sustainability Steering Group Martela Corporation’s Board of Directors approved the Directors’ Report, in stock exchange releases and in with the ISO 14001 management system, which reviews the results of the sustainability work underMartela Corporate Code of Conduct for the first time the resolutions passed by the organisational meeting is presented in more detail in the environmental taken, the plans for further work and the reporting. at its meeting on 8 February 2011. It was updated in of Martela Corporation’s Board of Directors and by the section of this report. The Sustainability Steering Group approves the respring 2018 with details concerning relationships with Annual General Meeting, they are not treated sepaport before it is published. The Sustainability Steeremployees and conflicts of interest. The Code inrately in this report. Sustainability policy for the supply ing Group consists of the Sustainability Team with cludes guidance and requirements for the benefit of chain representatives chosen from the Martela Managethose who work at Martela and Martela’s partners. Risk management Martela’s Sustainability Policy for the Supply Chain, ment Team. Martela’s Sustainability Manager acts as The Code states Martela’s position on good financial Risk management is dealt with in more detail in the approved by the Group Management Team, presents secretary for the Sustainability Steering Group and management, responsibility in personnel issues, enviAnnual Report and the Board of Directors’ Report, so Martela’s core requirements for suppliers of goods prepares the necessary material. The chairman of ronmental responsibility, cooperation with suppliers of it has not been included in this report. and services. The principles deal with suppliers’ the Steering Group is the Vice President, People & goods and services, customer relations, communicacompliance with laws, regulations and the Martela Sustainability. tions and stakeholder relations, among other things. Human resources policy Corporate Code of Conduct, as well as delivery The Group Management Team follows the proMartela’s international commitments are also recorded Martela’s People Policy, approved by the Group Manreliability, environmental issues and other issues. gress of the sustainability programme and considers in the Code. agement Team, outlines the principles on which reIn addition to the general procurement principles, proposals put forward by the Sustainability Steering The Martela Management Team defined the set of sponsible HR management is founded. These prinsuppliers and their supply chain are subject to soGroup, the Management Team member in charge of CR policies (Human Resources Policy, Environmental ciples clarify and harmonise the HR management cial responsibility obligations. Product-specific and sustainability matters, the Vice President, People & Policy, Purchasing Principles and Social Requirements process and show how to maintain and develop a supplier-specific quality and technical requirements, Sustainability or other Management Team members. for Suppliers) that support the Code in 2011. The Margood corporate and employer image. Martela’s sucand environmental and social requirements, are dealt The Management Team will approve the principles tela Management Team confirmed the previously upcess is dependent on a skilled and motivated perwith in more detail in separate guidelines. The Susguiding sustainability, except those that require the dated Environmental Policy and People Policy at its sonnel who enjoy their work. Through responsible tainability Policy for the Supply Chain is directed approval of the Board of Directors. meeting in March 2018. Purchasing Principles and HR management, the company ensures that these at suppliers of products with the Martela label and Of the principles guiding sustainability, the Board Social Requirements for Suppliers, previously sepapersonnel qualities are maintained in both the short contract suppliers whose products are included in of Directors approves the Corporate Code of Conrate documents, were combined into the Sustainability and long run. Martela’s product programme. duct, the governance policy and risk management Policy for the Supply Chain. The Sustainability Policy policy. The Group Management Team will submit for the Supply Chain was approved in March 2018. Environmental policy Sustainability organisation other sustainability proposals to the Board as necThe complete text of the Corporate Code of ConMartela’s Environmental Policy, approved by the Sustainability is managed at Martela as part of the essary. The Board has not nominated any of its memduct, and the Human Resources Policy, the EnvironGroup Management Team, aims to decrease normal planning process and everyday work. A Susbers to specialise in CR issues. mental Policy and the Sustainability Policy for the the company’s environmental impacts and protainability Steering Group has been set up to preThe Martela units will implement the Corporate Supply Chain that support it, can be found on Marmote recycling. The policy gives guidance on pare development actions, coordinate these in the Code of Conduct in their own operations within the tela’s website at www.martela.com/responsibility. how to apply an environmental approach to business units and make all the necessary proposals normal planning process and management framedeveloping Martela’s offering with which the to the Group Management Team. The Sustainability work. The Sustainability Programme for 2018 – 2022 Corporate governance principles company also indirectly affect the environmenSteering Group is also the management review group aims to visibly incorporate sustainability development As corporate governance principles and issues are tal impact of its customers. Martela’s environfor quality and environmental management systems. in the future annual planning processes. MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 15 Key responsibility indicators 2014 2015 2016 2017 ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Revenue (EUR million) 135.9 132.8 129.1 109.5 Profit before taxes (EUR million) -0.6 3.4 5.6 0.0 Income Taxes (EUR million) 0.1 0.9 2.3 0.7 Return on investment, % 0.5 12.1 18.2 1.6 Equity to assets ratio, % 38.1 40.9 45.3 40.8 Dividends paid (EUR million) 0.0 0.4 1.0 1.5 Wages and salaries (EUR million) 29.2 25.7 23.8 21.9 Number of employees (average in man-years) 658.4 627.3 544.1 348.9 Purchases 2017, (EUR million) 96.1 92.8 87.8 77.7 Gross investments (EUR million) 1.7 0.7 2.9 2.1 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Average age of employees (years) 44.5 42 45 44 Number of employees with more than 10 years’ service, % 48.0 48,5 49.7 49.2 Employee turnover, % 17.6 19,7 26.2 17.8 Reasons for leaving (incidents) • terminated by employer 30 43 53 12 • terminated by employee 72 67 85 73 • retirement 17 8 12 8 Absences due to illness (% of work time) 3.4 3.0 3.0 2.5 Investment in training (EUR / person) 251 208 333 376 Development discussions (% of staff) 61 79 87 63 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Material use (1 000 kg) 12 255 11 655 10 423 10 928 Direct energy (GJ) • heating oil 5 204 0 0 0 Indirect energy (GJ) 44 207 45 224 46 204 37122 • district heating 18 026 20 188 23 231 17 331 • electricity 25 944 24 334 22 291 19 089 • gas 237 703 682 702 Carbon dioxide emissions (1 000 kg) 16 002 19 213 14 810 15835 • from direct energy 396 0 0 0 • from indirect energy 1 534 1 533 1 698 1 227 • from own transport equipment (Martela Group Finland operations) 1 173 1 219 1 058 1 035 • from company cars (Martela Group Finland operations) 165 131 114 114 • from business flights (Martela Group Finland and Sweden operation) 249 106 116 97 • from material use 12 485 16 323 11 826 13 362 Waste total (1 000 kg) 2 082 1 607 1 288 1 237 • hazardous waste 16 21 9 9 • recovery, % 98 96 96 96 MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 16 Sustainability Programme 2018 – 2022 At the beginning of 2018, the Sustainability Steering Group approved Martela’s new CR action plan for 2018 –2022. The plan includes overall goals including economic, social and environmental aspects of sustainability GOAL SCHEDULE EBIT level of 8 per cent excluding non-recurring items 2022 Increase the share of the service business Customer employee wellbeing, knowledge workers 2020 • 50% of new Martela Lifecycle® customers have started workplace change with specification phase User experience study result: • minimum 30% of employees say that wellbeing has increased • minimum 50% of employees say that working efficiency has increased Martela employee wellbeing: 2020 • People Power ® rating to reach AAA level in People Spirit survey • Annual survey, action plans and implementation Improvements in work and learning environments and reducing environmental impact with Martela Lifecycle® ensuring the best customer experience 2022 • In the specification phase, to identify the real need to develop efficient environment that support work, taking into account the opportunities offered by new working methods • In the design phase, promoting the space efficiency with sustainable and multifunctional solutions, utilizing existing and avoiding unnecessary • In the implementation phase, continuous improvement of value chain to ensure the best customer experience optimizing the use of materials and energy • In the maintenance phase, knowledge based optimization, continuous development and maintenance of working environment, taking into account the circular economy Verification of the social responsibility of the supply chain as well as actions against corruption and bribery 2019 • Written commitment on respect for human rights and the fight against corruption and bribery from the major suppliers • Clear discount terms and decision patterns in the sales process • Training and raising awareness throughout the value chain MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 17 Economic responsibility • Economic value by stakeholder group • Customer satisfaction • Cost savings through effective use of space • Procurement MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 18 In Poland, an applicable collective agreement does not as well as aesthetic and physical quality are the most work also makes it possible to gather data from multiple exist yet. In restructuring, Martela follows the notice important factors in products. These requirements systems and their transparent distribution through the Goals periods set by the legislation of each country of operaremain, even though the trends are changing and more whole supply chain from sales to installation. tion. In 2017, the lowest wages paid by Martela were in functionalities are being added. Trends are considered • EBIT 8% level excluding Improving wellbeing at work Finland 9%, in Poland 62% and in Sweden 28% higher by renewing the offering and sometimes by designing non-recurring items than the minimum wage in the industry. Martela did not wholly new products. Martela’s portfolio constitutes Martela designs and creates user-centric workplaces • Increase the share of the service receive any public support for its operations in 2017. a solid basis which can be modified according to and learning environments. A successful workplace business Martela does not support any politicians or political partrends with relatively minor modifications. In addition and learning environment encourages participatory • Provide the best customer experience ties in any of its countries of operation. to physical products, an important area for influencing management, which is directly related to efficiency, • Improving wellbeing at work Martela does not accept bribery in any form in its customer experience is the follow-up of users’ actions. cost savings, job satisfaction and cooperation. business in any of its market areas. The principles of Only development of workplaces and learning environBy utilising Martela’s service model, workspace anti-corruption and sustainable business are discussed ments based on actual user experience can lead to renewals are no longer massive and time-consumMARTELA IS GOVERNED in its decision-making and in the sustainability training held annually. The bookthe results the company is aiming at. New services are ing projects. When data-based models are utilised to management by Finnish legislation, especially the Limkeeping is transparent to the CFO of the Group. All continuously being developed for these. understand the needs of various organisations, even ited Liability Companies Act, by other regulations contransactions are recorded through the financial manMartela monitors customer satisfaction through minor updates are quickly implemented. The starting cerning public listed companies and by its Articles of Asagement/bookkeeping of each subsidiary. Martela’s various customer surveys. In spring 2017, a customer point for continuous optimisation of the workplace is sociation. In addition, Martela has a Code of Conduct, auditor KPMG annually inspects the bookkeeping and survey based on NPS was carried out in Finland. The to identify the factors which have the strongest impact which includes sound financial management policies. transactions of all its subsidiaries. An auditor’s report challenges with deliveries resulting from system renewal on wellbeing at work and productivity. Optimisation As a stock exchange listed company, Martela comis presented at each Annual General Meeting of the were visible in the feedback Martela received. The feeddoes not always mean new office furniture; rather, the plies with the NASDAQ OMX guidelines for insiders and Martela Group. back was categorised on the basis of its content, and greatest effect is sometimes created by their relocation. the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2015, pubthe customers were contacted by feedback type to lished by the Securities Market Association. Most indiCustomer experience tell them about the targets of the project, corrective Supply chain management cators of economic sustainability are derived from the Martela aims at offering workplaces and learning measures and their schedules. In 2017, the number of Martela believes in building long-term relationships to consolidated financial statements, the preparation and environments which help its customers succeed in complaints in relation to the number of products dedevelop and improve the efficiency of supply chains and disclosure of which are based on the IFRS standards. their work. The workplace has an important role in livered was substantially smaller than in the previous to ensure sustainability. The supply chain is to a marked With respect to legislation and collective bargaining the success of work. A good workplace encourages three years. extent based on partnerships with a history of several issues, Martela’s voice is heard through its memberinter­action, improves workplace wellbeing and brings As a result of the system transformation, the decades. The selection of a new significant partner is ships of the Association of Finnish Furniture and Joinery better added value. So customer experience emerges follow-up of customer satisfaction is evolving and bea long and multistage process where many factors Industries and the Service Sector Employers Palta. In from the experiences not only of customers but also of coming essentially more accurate. The former monthly regarding the potential supplier, such as capability to Sweden Martela is a member of Träoch Möbelföreall those who are using the facilities. summaries will be replaced with weekly reports. The deliver, financial background and quality standards, are tagen. All Martela employees in Finland and Sweden The customer’s need is the starting point in both reports also allow us more easily to access information evaluated. In addition, the company becomes familiar are subject to jointly negotiated collective agreements. product and service design. Usability and durability specific to a day or customer order. The reporting framewith the supplier’s operations by visiting their sites. MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 19 REVENUE AND OPERATING PROFIT, EUR MILLION KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS 2017 150 – Revenue, EUR million 109.5 120 – Operating profit, EUR million 0.3 Equity to assets ratio, % 40.8 90 – Gearing, % 29 60 – Investments, EUR million 2.2 30 – Dividends paid, EUR million 0.32 Market value in the end of 2017, EUR million 30.95 0 2015 2016 2017 Revenue Profit Analysis of sustainability issues is an important part dividual suppliers play in its operations can vary conof continuous dialogue with suppliers. The partners siderably. A small number of suppliers manufacture that are financially most important or involve the greatcustom-made components used in manufacturing est sustainability risk are always monitored more closeMartela’s own products, and co-operation with them ly than others and Martela’s dialogue with them is much starts at the design stage of the product. At the other closer. With supervision the company can ascertain end of the supplier spectrum are companies that supthat laws, operating principles and joint agreements ply their standard components, the development of are adhered to in all circumstances. Martela does not which Martela plays no particular role in. accept bribery in any form in its business in any of In 2017, Martela used approximately 150 suppliers its market areas. The giving or receipt of bribes is not of materials and components for standard products. The workplace has acceptable under any circumstances. Out of material purchases, approximately 60% came Martela makes supplier assessments in which it from Martela’s domestic market. Almost half of all maan important role in evaluates the engagement of its most important subterial costs were for the purchase of metaland woodthe success of work. contractors with its sustainability principles. Based on based materials and components. the suppliers’ self-assessments, the most significant Martela’s domestic market comprises Finland and environmental aspects of corporate responsibility are Poland where Martela has its own plants, and Sweden typically related to the sorting of waste, energy conand Norway where it has subsidiaries and direct sales. sumption, occupational safety and employment matPurchases from all these countries are considered purters. However, the country of manufacture of compochases from local suppliers. The share of the domestic nents, sub-assemblies and products is not always the market of the purchases of Martela’s products and sersame as the country the supplier is based in. Therefore, vices was nearly 70% and that of the rest of Europe assessments of the social risk of the main suppliers was approximately 30%. Out of the purchases, the must be supplier-specific. share of materials was approximately 60% and that Martela has a broad supplier base and the role inof others 40%. MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 20 ECONOMIC VALUE BY STAKEHOLDER GROUP SALARIES, EMPLOYEE COSTS AND TAXES BY COUNTRIES, EUR 1000 Case Juteini Centre 1.4% 0.6% 40.000 – 19.7% 30.000 – 20.000 – 10.000 – 71.6% 0 2015 2016 2017 Product and service providers Finland Sweden and Norway Employee wages including social security & pension Poland Others Dividends paid Taxes Specification leads to functional learning environments MATERIAL SPEND, % MATERIAL SPEND, EUR MILLION THE JUTEINI CENTRE was opened in Hattula in autumn 2016. Martela had been awarded its interior design work in a reverse tendering process. Minna Kallio, the principal responsible for operations at Juteini School, 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 outlined the importance of the specification phase: “The teachers chosen to implement the new operating model for the new school got together for the Wood 12.7 11.9 11.9 Wood 7.1 6.1 5.3 first time at a Martela workshop. It was vital that planning would be based on Plastics 2.7 2.2 2.7 Plastics 1.5 1.1 1.1 the school’s operations. At the workshop we first discussed all the things that would take place at the premises and then we considered various solutions.” Metal 32.6 28.5 30.4 Metal 18.4 14.7 13.6 In spring 2017 Minna Jussila wrote a pedagogical studies proseminar paper on the experiences of teachers at the Juteini Centre: “Everyone I interviewed Upholstery materials 3.1 4.0 4.0 Upholstery materials 1.7 2 1.8 said that adaptability and flexibility were definite benefits of the new learning Contract manufacturing 2.0 7.5 7.9 Contract manufacturing 1.1 3.8 3.5 environment. The versatile premises enable students to choose where they want to work and change that place if they want to.” Trading 26.6 20.6 19.4 Trading 15 10.6 8.7 Supplies 15.1 18.7 7.8 Supplies 8.5 9.6 3.5 Read more www.martela.com/reference/juteinikeskus Other 5.3 6.6 15.7 Other 2.9 3.4 7 Watch the video www.bit.ly/Juteinivideo_ENG MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 21 Social responsibility • Employee satisfaction • Occupational health & safety • Career and equal opportunity • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Product liability MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 22 Wellbeing, health and safety at work in the results of the People Spirit employee satisfacdo not have any specific product liability risks. The piecThe same work steps are repeated in Martela’s protion survey. The response rate rose to 88%. Based on es of furniture in Martela’s portfolio still lack harmonised duction and the furniture is moved in changing envithe answers received, Martela is considered a flexible standards, the compliance of which could be affirmed Goals ronments in the removal service. Occupational health working community with low bureaucracy and good by CE markings. The CE marking of electrically adjust• Improving wellbeing at work and safety are of extreme importance as development managerial work. The respondents are also confiable desks is based on the directives related to maat Martela: In the People Spirit items. New guidelines and courses of action have condent that the shortcomings identified will actively be chinery and equipment. Martela’s products are shipped, survey, the People Power® AAA tinuously been developed for their improvement with remedied. All Martela personnel have the opportunity installed and adjusted ready for use by professional inlevel will be reached by 2020 the aim of avoiding accidents. At the same time, the to be heard in person through the annual development stallation personnel. The operating time impact of the • Supporting the employees’ company has discussed the importance of precautiondiscussion model. products on health is based on adjusting the products professional expertise ary measures, since awareness of the risks and correct and using them in an ergonomically correct manner. • Harmonisation of occupational attitudes are the primary means of maintaining occupaCareer opportunities and equality Instructions for use, maintenance and ergonomics are health and safety and sharing tional safety. In 2017, Martela started to unify the occuMartela wishes to guarantee equal development and available for the adjustable pieces of furniture, such as best practices pational safety practices in its functions in Finland. The career opportunities for all of its employees. Some office chairs and electrically adjustable desks. • Increasing wellbeing at work activities of occupational health and safety committees country-specific modes of action and policies have Compliance with standards promotes the among users of working and cover 85% of Martela personnel, i.e. all the personnel in evolved over the years within the Group, but in reergonomic use, safety and durability of the products. learning environments Finland. Occupational health and safety risks are mainly cent years the company has made good progress in On the basis of the market area in focus, Martela related to accidents while moving furniture, physical unifying them. At the same time, Human Resources concentrates on complying with European product strain in repetitive work and knowledge-workers’ achas started to communicate more actively with line group-specific and use-specific standards. In concidents during their commutes. Not a single accident managers and to maintain open discussion. nection with the Nummela unit, Martela has its own causing death has occurred at work at Martela in its The change in Martela’s operation opens up many furniture test laboratory, where the durability, stability Martela as an employer entire history. Overall wellbeing at work has also been paths to its employees to develop their know-how and and compliance with measurement requirements are With its globally unique approach and offering based paid attention to by creating a new operating model skills. Martela aims at supporting continuous developtested as part of Martela’s R&D process. on its Martela Lifecycle® strategy, Martela is a pioneer which was introduced throughout the whole organisament according to the wishes of its employees. Martela Martela does not have the instruments necessary in its industry. The transformation from an office furnition in 2017. The model has already proven functional Talent, one of the tools for developing expertise, takes for studying the volatile substances in products, but reture manufacturer to a designer and implementer of through less absences due to sickness. In addition, the the employee’s strengths as the starting point. lies on manufacturers’ material-specific emission tests. work and learning environments supports the transfocus has been on coping at work by creating various In 2017 the Martela Group’s Board of Directors In 2017, M1 classification criteria were published for formation of working methods in schools and workflexibility models which serve the needs of both the comprised seven members (three women and four upholstered task chairs in an emission research proplaces. The transformation serves as an indication of employees and the employer. men). The Group Management Team had six members ject organised by the Building Information Foundation the innovativeness of Martela’s personnel and its ability Martela has employees in very different positions, (two women and four men). 65% of the personnel were (RTS) and financed by the Finnish Work Environment to rethink matters. Martela wishes to offer an encourfrom production to experts and the removal service. men and 35% women. The largest age group are the Fund, in which Martela was also involved. The Finnish aging and inspiring working environment, where the The identity of the working community in different 50 – 59-year-olds, with a 35% share, while the average M1 classification is a voluntary emission classification. expertise and ideas of all employees are utilised. This locations has been quite uniform and cooperation has age of the personnel was 44. The oldest employee Martela guarantees safe use of products by choosway the company can guarantee continuous developbeen smooth, even though at the Group level there was 65 years old. In 2017, 376 euros per person-year, ing to use safe raw materials. Since 2015, Martela has ment of its offering and own operations. have been some shortcomings in both areas. The i.e. more money than in previous years, was invested been using level E0.5 particle board, the formaldehyde People have a positive impression of Martela as an information system transformation launched in 2016 in training the employees. emissions of which remain less than half of the classiemployer, and the availability of new employees remains and the challenges connected with it naturally affected fication limit of the generally used E1 board. The UV-­ at a good level. Martela is highly appreciated, especially people’s moods. The system renewal affected the Product safety lacquer has been used for veneered level surfaces for a within the industry. The employees’ attrition rate is low work of almost all Martela employees. The challenges Martela products are mainly furniture items intended for long time and water-based surface treatment will, whenand lengths of employment are mainly long-lasting. were to some extent visible as early as in spring 2017 use in normal office and learning environments, and they ever possible, be used for form-pressed components. MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 23 NUMBER OF PERSONNEL AT YEAR END PERSONNEL GROUPS AT YEAR END GENDER DISTRIBUTION 2017 GENDER DISTRIBUTION IN THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM, % 600 – 600 – 80 – 35% 65% 70 – 500 – 500 – 60 – 400 – 400 – 50 – 300 – 300 – 40 – 30 – 200 – 200 – 20 – 100 – 100 – 10 – 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Board of directors Group 2017 2017 On duty Unpaid leave Office employees Factory employees Men Women Men Women EXTERNAL RESOURCES PERSONNEL BY COUNTRIES 2017 YEARS IN SERVICE 2017, % EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 2017, % 200 – 30 – 30 – 41 441 25 – 25 – 42 150 – 20 – 20 – 100 – 15 – 15 – 10 – 10 – 50 – 5 – 5 – 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Work years Finland Poland Sweden 0 – 5 6 – 10 11 –15 16–20 21–25 26 – 30 > 30 MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 24 SICKNESS ABSENCE, % TRAINING, EUR 3.5 – 200.000 – Case Solteq 3.0 – 150.000 – 2.5 – 100.000 – 2.0 – 1.5 – 15.000 – 1.0 – 50.000 – 0.5 – 0 0 Suomi Puola Ruotsi Konserni 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2017 PERSONNEL BY GROUPS Number of personnel at year end 524 Finland Poland Sweden Number of contractual employment 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 507 relationships at year end Personnel, men, % 69 68 69 56 51 55 50 46 39 Better wellbeing from workplace Number of employees on unpaid Personnel, women, % 31 32 31 44 49 45 50 54 61 leave at year end 17 Office employees, men % 57 57 49 49 33 45 47 46 39 improvement Office employees at year end 242 Office employees, women, % 43 43 51 51 67 55 53 54 61 SOLTEQ CHOSE A MARTELA Lifecycle® based workplace Factory employees at year end 265 Factory employees, men % 82 83 85 66 64 58 58 0 0 remodelling that covers specification, design, implementaFactory employees, women, % 18 17 15 34 36 42 42 0 0 tion and future maintenance. “Our eventual goal in changing Full time employees at year end 493 our workplace is to increase our employees’ satisfaction Personnel, 18 – 29 years, % 9 9 9 12 7 14 13 15 15 Part time employees at year end 14 and ensure that our offices convey our values. EmployPersonnel, 30 – 39years, % 22 23 24 41 34 29 20 26 32 ee satisfaction will also affect our customers. Of course, Permanent employees at year end 494 Personnel, 40 – 49years, % 27 26 24 33 37 33 22 28 32 growth is also a motivation for change,” says Perttu KulmaTemporary employees at year end 13 Personnel, 50 – 59years, % 35 35 37 12 17 22 24 18 17 la, Solteq Plc’s Operations Manager. Personnel, over 60 years, % 7 7 6 1 5 2 22 13 5 In May 2016, Solteq celebrated the housewarming of its Average personnel, work years 349 Personnel, average age 45 45 45 39 42 42 47 43 41 new activity-based office. In 2017, it conducted a workplace Temporary agency workers, work years 194 user experience survey that targeted users. In the survey, Personnel, eldest 66 67 65 62 60 64 67 63 61 No longer employed 93 72% of the users said that the new premises support the New employees 4 29 39 6 8 4 4 10 6 organisation’s brand and values. 84% of users felt that the Employee turnover, % 17.8 Injuries 27 35 36 0 0 0 0 0 0 work atmosphere was good. Resigned 73 Lost workday due injuries 544 195 510 0 0 0 0 0 0 Training costs per work year 229 81 270 65 132 120 346 1513 329 Read more www.martela.com/reference/solteq Given notice 12 Development discussion, Retired 8 80 93 63 100 53 64 63 89 70 % of work force MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 25 Environmental responsibility • Use of materials • Energy consumption • Greenhouse gas emissions • Emissions to the air • Environmental impacts • Life-cycle impacts of materials MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 26 of space, creating savings in lease and maintenance 14001 standards, guaranteeing that consistent operof total material usage. The statistics on the proportion expenses. Maintenance services enable the usefulating models are applied at all operating levels within of recycled materials used are indicative as the system Objectives ness of workspaces to be further extended so that the Group. The certification covers the Group functions allows one material to be selected for each compothey are always optimal. At the same time, a more managed at the headquarters, the logistics centre in nent and subassembly, and only the total weight of the • Reducing the environmental impacts optimal space increases the wellbeing and efficiency Nummela, the production in Piaseczno in Poland and component is entered. The proportion of recycled maof Martela’s offering: more efficient of employees. the plant of Kidex Oy in Kitee. terial in the other materials used is not calculated. Usuworkspace solutions and support ally no weight information is recorded in the systems services for the customers, more Operational and management systems Use of materials, transportation and for customer-specific products and traded products. environmentally friendly supply chain, emissions The Martela Group’s head office, Martela House, is In plastics, recycled material is used to a lesser degree sustainable and ecological products located in Pitäjänmäki in Helsinki. The Nummela The manufacture of products is based on a strong due to the lack of a well-functioning recycling system. • Reducing the environmental impacts logistics centre focuses on the final assembly of new chain of suppliers who deliver materials and compoThe requirements for the appearance and technical usof Martela’s business locations: products and the remanufacture of recycled products. nents with a guaranteed quality and certified origin. ability of components usually prevent the use of mixed workplaces can be reached The assembly of upholstery components takes place Martela procures the materials for its products, such recycled plastics. Martela, however, constantly examwith public transport, making at Martela’s own plant in Poland, and table top and as wood and wood-based board, metal components, ines opportunities for incorporating products utilising telecommuting and virtual meetings storage components are manufactured at Kidex Oy, plastic materials and fabrics, mostly from northern recycled materials into its product portfolio. available for knowledge workers, Martela’s production facility located in Kitee, Finland. Europe. Smart products are developed in co­operation Customers can always choose the upholstery maefficient use of spaces and utilisation Martela has several sales offices in Finland, Sweden with the suppliers. Most of the materials used are recyterials used in seats and space dividers from Martela’s of unnecessary furniture and Norway. Sales of Martela products are also hanclable, and wood materials, for example, are sourced comprehensive standard fabric selection or its exten• Development of recycling services dled through a strong network of dealers. from sustainably grown commercial forests. Nearly sive range of special-order fabrics. In 2017, two-thirds The Martela Group’s operations have continuousall production waste and packaging materials can be of the upholstery materials selected by customers had ly had a certificate from an external auditor for both used for generating energy or recycled. the EU Ecolabel and more than a third had the Öeko Environmental effects of the offering in their environmental and quality systems ever since In 2017, the amount of material used for producTex label. The labels are partially overlapping. customers’ business operations the 1990s. Over the years, the Group’s structure and tion rose slightly on the previous year, reaching around Martela’s own production mainly focuses on final The idea behind the Martela Lifecycle® strategy is to operating models have changed and the separate 10.9 million kilograms. Purchase item data reveals that assembly, which is why it does not generate significant produce efficient and user-centric workplaces and quality and environmental systems of the Group comnearly 45% of the components were wood-based airborne emissions. The treatment of level surfaces learning environments that are good to work in and panies have been combined into a single operating materials and around 37% were metal-based. As the has been almost completely outsourced, thanks to have reasonable operating expenses. User-centric model. Since 2017 Martela has had a third party enrecycled material content of metals is estimated to which emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) spaces that support a company’s operations are vironmental and quality control system with multi-site be at about 33% on average, the recycled materials caused by the edge treatment of desktops in the designed and implemented with a view to efficient use certifications in accordance with the ISO 9001 and ISO used by Martela can be calculated to be about 12% production in Kitee amounted to only about 70 kg in MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 27 The total amount of indirect energy used in 2017 was about 37,000 GJ, of which 92% was from renewable energy sources and 8% from fossil fuels. 2017. NOx (4,010 kg) and SOx (20 kg) emissions have These emissions are not yet tracked comprehensively, been calculated for fuel consumption by Martela’s own as the figure does not include transports carried out transportation fleet and business flights. with leased vehicles or by partners. CO2 emissions from the use of materials have been calculated using the coefficients for material use Energy consumption and other provided by the Footprinter software. The total greenenvironmental impacts house gas effect from material usage increased 42% The direct environmental impact of Martela’s offices from the previous year to about 13.4 tonnes during and production facilities is mainly from building ser2017. Material use causes approximately 84% of all vices such as heating, lighting and ventilation sysCO2 emissions, while indirect energy accounts for aptems. Martela’s indirect energy consists mainly of proximately 8% and deliveries with own fleet for about electricity and district heating. The premises in Heland their use is encouraged through the company’s condition is cleaned and refurbished and then made 7%. The increase in these figures is mostly due to a sinki, Nummela and Kitee mostly use district heating telecommuting policy. The average CO2 emissions available through Martela Outlet stores to customshift in demand towards products containing more generated using renewable sources of energy. The from the leased company cars in use at Martela in ers in Finland. Furniture requiring more demanding metal-based components. Metal-based materials production facilities in Poland are heated with gas. Finland decreased in 2017 and is now 120 g CO2/ refurbishment is delivered to the Nummela logistics contributed 87% of the climate effect of material proThe electricity at Martela House is purchased by the km. The total CO2 emissions from Martela’s company centre for remanufacturing. The Martela Outlet chain curements. A significant proportion (13%) of materials lessor. The Nummela and Kitee sites purchased their cars in 2016 came to about 114 tonnes. About 80% sells recycled and refurbished furniture to small busiwas classified under ‘other’ and was thus left out of electricity, which is generated solely from renewable of the business trips made by Martela’s personnel nesses and consumers. About 23,000 pieces of used the calculations. The greenhouse gas emissions from sources, from a single supplier. The unit in Poland are booked via a centralised reservation system. The furniture found a new home through the Martela OutMartela’s energy consumption have been calculated purchased its electricity from a local supplier. CO2 emissions of work-related flights booked through let chain. using coefficiency values from the main energy supThe total amount of indirect energy used in 2017 the reservation system in 2017 decreased by 15% to Some of the furniture received by Martela’s recyplier in Finland and average statistical energy coeffiwas about 37,000 GJ, of which 92% was from renew97 tonnes. cling service is unrepairable and is forwarded for macients elsewhere. able energy sources and 8% from fossil fuels. The use terial recycling through various partners. Martela also The environmental impacts of transportation are of electricity decreased by about 17% and the use of Recycling offers customer companies a recycling service for the monitored actively, and efforts are made to minimise district heating by about 34%. Heating energy proMartela’s products are of high quality and intended furnishings of a workspace. Recycling by customers them using fleet and distribution plans, as well as deduced by gas increased by 3%. Local environmental for long-lasting, heavy-duty use. Martela also aims to increased from the previous year to more than 3.7 signing packaging and planning loading phases careworking groups monitor the consumption of energy create product designs that will endure for decades. million kilograms during 2017. Around half of the recyfully. Martela owns a transportation fleet but also uses and plan and monitor the necessary energy-saving Martela’s furniture is usually easy to refurbish and cled material was wood-based and close to a quarter leased vehicles. The amount of greenhouse gases measures. restore, and the materials used in it can be recycled. consisted of metals. The amount of waste generated emitted by its own transportation vehicles in 2017 reMartela has systematically promoted opportuniWhen designing new space solutions, existing furby the company’s own production decreased to 1.2 mained almost the same as in the previous year. This ties for telecommuting. Nearly all employees have a niture can be either included in the new workspace million kilograms, while the utilisation rate remained indicator was calculated using Lipasto coefficients. laptop with which they can hold video conferences, or recycled through Martela. Used furniture in good at 96%. MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 28 PURCHASED MATERIALS, 1000 KG PURCHASED MATERIALS USE OF INDIRECT ENERGY, GJ CO2 EMISSION DIVISION 2017, 1000 KG 6000 – 8% 0% 1% 5% 84% 1% 5000 – 50 000 – 13% 7% 4000 – 40 000 – 3000 – 30 000 – 45% 2000 – 20 000 – 37% 1000 – 10 000 – 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Wood Metals Plastic Wood Metals Plastic Finland Sweden Poland Material use Purchased energy Glass Others Others Glass Company cars Business flights Own deliveries INDIRECT ENERGY 2017 CO2 EMISSIONS OF MATERIALS, 1000 KG CO2 EMISSIONS OF OWN FLEET, 1000 KG VOC EMISSIONS, 1000 KG 15 000 – 1 250 – 6,00 – 8% 5,00 – 12 000 – 1 000 – 4,00 – 9 000 – 750 – 3,00 – 92% 6 000 – 500 – 2,00 – 3 000 – 250 – 1,00 – 0 0 0,00 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Renewable Fossil Wood Metals Plastic Glass CO2 ekv VOC NOx SOx MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 29 WASTE, 1000 KG RECOVERED WASTE, FINLAND 2017 Labels 1 500 – 1% 1% 2% 0% 7% 1 000 – 9% 500 – 67% 13% 0 2015 2016 2017 Recovered, Finland Recovered, Poland Wood Cardboard Energy Landfill, Finland Landfill, Poland Metal Paper Bio Using labels in customer communications Hazardous, Finland Hazardous, Poland Muovi Glass MARTELA HAS CHOSEN LABELS FOR ITS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES to make it easier for customers to choose. Some of them indicate environmental RECOVERED WASTE, POLAND 2017 RECYCLING DISTRIBUTION, FINLAND 2017 impacts and some indicate how added value is allocated. Others combine several features of a product. The criteria for all labels are publicly available and based on measurable characteristics. 3% 7% Martela uses the Nordic Swan ecolabel in the Swedish, Danish and Norwegian markets for its most significant product lines. The Swan label is a 24% voluntary and commercial, product specific, environmental label. The criteria 13% for the Swan label are based on lifecycle principles which means that they take 51% into account raw materials, manufacturing, use and disposal. 73% Martela also has the right to use the Möbelfakta label for several of its products. Möbelfakta is an environmental label created by Swedish furniture manufacturers and its criteria include environmental factors, the social responsibility of the supply chain and the technical quality of the product. Also, Martela’s services and selected products have the right to use the 23% Finnish Key Flag symbol as an indicator of the proportion of Finnish labour that goes into their production. Martela has used the Design from Finland label to promote products and services that include Finnish design since the beginning of 2016. The right to use both labels is granted by the Association Energy and Paper and Plastics Wood Metal for Finnish Work. insulation cardboard Energy Others MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 30 GRI G4 Content Index OMISSIONS AND FURTHER CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION GLOBAL COMBACT INFORMATION General Standard Disclosures Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO’s statement Management interview G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Management interview Organizational profile G4-3 Name of the organizationi Martela in brief G4-4 Primary brands, products and services Martela in brief G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters Martela in brief G4-6 Countries where the organization operates Martela in brief G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Martela in brief G4-8 Markets served Martela in brief G4-9 Scale of reporting organization Martela in brief G4-10 Breakdown of workforce Social responsibility X G4-11 Employees covered by bargaining agreements Economic responsibility X Economic responsibility, Environmental G4-12 Organization’s supply chain responsiblity G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period Content and scope of report G4-15 External principles and other initiatives to which the organization subcribes or which it endorses Management of sustainability G4-16 Memberships in associations Economic responsibility Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements Martela Annual report G4-18 Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries Content and scope of report G4-19 Material aspects GRI report: Identified material aspects and boundries Economic, social and environmental responsibility G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization Economic, social and environmental responsibility G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization Economic, social and environmental responsibility G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restaments of information provided in earlier reports Economic, social and environmental responsibility G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Economic, social and environmental responsibility MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 31 OMISSIONS AND FURTHER CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION GLOBAL COMBACT INFORMATION General Standard Disclosures Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholders G4-25 Basis for indentification and selection of stakeholders Materiality assessment G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement Stakeholders Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Content and scope of report G4-29 Date of the most recent report Content and scope of report G4-30 Reporting cycle Content and scope of report G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact details G4-32 GRI content index GRI Index G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Content and scope of report Governance X G4-34 Governance structure of the report Martela Annual report X G4-36 Executive-level positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics Management of sustainability G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Martela Annual report G4-39 Position of the Chairman of the Board Martela Annual report G4-40 Processes for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the highest governance body Martela Annual report G4-41 Processes in place to avoid conflicts of interest Martela Annual report G4-42 Executive-level roles in setting purposes, values, and strategy Martela Annual report Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, G4-45 Martela Annual report environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness G4-46 Martela Annual report of the organization’s risk mangement processes Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental G4-47 Martela Annual report and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the sustainability report Management of sustainability G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body Management of sustainability G4-51 Executive-level compensations Martela Annual report G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Martela Annual report Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior Values G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour Management of sustainability G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about ethical and lawful behaviour Management of sustainability MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 32 OMISSIONS AND FURTHER CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION GLOBAL COMBACT INFORMATION Specific Standard disclosures Material aspects Management of sustainability Economic Impacts G4-EC1 Economic performance Economic responsibility G4-EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Martela Annual report G4-EC4 Government financial assistance Economic responsibility G4-EC5 Wages compared to local minimum wage Economic responsibility X G4-EC9 Spending on locally based suppliers Economic responsibility Environmental Impacts G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental responsibility X G4-EN2 Percentage of recycled materials Environmental responsibility X G4-EN3 Direct energy consumption Environmental responsibility X G4-EN15 Total direct greenhouse gas emissions Environmental responsibility X G4-EN16 Total indirect greenhouse gas emissions Environmental responsibility Only limited information of indirect use available X VOC emissions only from surfacetreatment in Kidex. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions Environmental responsibility NOx and SOx only from transportation with own fleet X and business travel G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environmental responsibility G4-EN27 Initiative to mitigate environmental impacts Sustainability Programme Social Impacts Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover Social responsibility Turnover not reported by age group G4-LA1 by age group, gender, and region X Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in G4-LA4 Taloudellinen vastuu Compliant to the legislation X collective agreements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety G4-LA5 Social responsibility committeess that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs X Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related G4-LA6 Social responsibility Reported only by region fatalities by region and by gender X Keskimääräiset koulutustunnit vuodessa henkilöä kohden jaoteltuna sukupuolen mukaan ja G4-LA9 Social responsibility Metrics only available in value henkilöstöryhmittäin Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support that support the continued G4-LA10 Social responsibility employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 33 OMISSIONS AND FURTHER CODE GRI CONTENT LOCATION GLOBAL COMBACT INFORMATION Specific Standard disclosures G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Social responsibility X Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according G4-LA12 Social responsibility Reported only by age group and by gender X to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-SO3 Percentage and total number of businsess units analysed for risk related to corruption Economic responsibility Reporter only by number X G4-SO4 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Management of sustainability Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related G4-SO6 Economic responsibility institutions by countries Product responsibility Lifecycles stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for G4-PR1 improvement, and percentage of significant products and service are assessed for improvement, Social responsibility Not reported in prosentage X and percentage of significant product and services categories subject to such procedures Type of product and service information required by producers, and procentage of significatn G4-PR3 Social responsibility Not reported in prosentage product and services subject to such information requirements Practices realted to customer satisfactions, including results of surveys measuring customer G4-PR5 Economic responsibility satisfaction There is no external assurance for the responsibility indicators in the report MARTELA 2017 I SUSTAINABILITY IN MARTELA I ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY I SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY I GRI 34 Contact Responsibility Steering Group chairman and Responsibility Steering Group’s Responsibility Steering Group secretary Responsibility Specialist VP, People & Communication, Maija Kaski Sustainability Manager, Anne-Maria Peitsalo details tel. +358 50 567 5928 maija.kaski@martela.com tel. +358 40 720 1491 anne-maria.peitsalo@martela.com Contact Finland Sweden Martela Oyj Martela AB Takkatie 1 Storgatan 49A PL 44 57132 Nässjö FI-00371 Helsinki tel. +46 380 37 19 00 tel. +358 (0)10 345 50 fax. +46 380 37 08 32 fax. +358 (0)10 345 5744 www.martela.se www.martela.com Norja Kidex Oy Savikontie 25 Martela AS FI-82500 Kitee Drammensveien 130 tel. +358 (0)10 345 7211 N-0277 Oslo fax. +358 (0)10 345 7244 tel. +47 23 28 38 50 fax. +47 23 28 38 51 Muuttopalvelu Grundell Oy www.martela.no (Martelan muuttopalvelu) Riihikuja 4 Puola FI-01720 Vantaa tel. +358 (0)10 480 4200 Martela Sp. z o.o. https://martela.com/removals ul Geodetów 156 05-500 Józefosław www.martela.com
