COP report 2017 United Nations Global Compact Contents Introduction Introduction..................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 The principles of UN Global Compact .............................................................................................................................. 2 Overview: Our Corporate Social Responsibility framework..................................................................................... 4 Human rights.................................................................................................................................................................................. 6 Supporting people in need................................................................................................................................................... 8 Employees......................................................................................................................................................................................10 Environment..................................................................................................................................................................................12 Reducing fluctuations in wind power by 90%...........................................................................................................14 KK Wind Solutions is a dedicated greentech Environment company in the renewable energy industry – and At the same time, we are continuously assessing as such, sustainability is the core of our company. and improving the environmental impacts of our Anti-corruption.............................................................................................................................................................................16 operations. We do this through a product lifetime This Progress Report gives you an overview of our efforts, including overall focus areas and approach to development, continuous waste concrete activities as well as our results for the reduction in our supply chain and innovative past year and goals for the coming period. logistics solutions that are both better for the environment and for our customers. Furthermore, Enabling a Wind Powered Future we are currently developing localised supply Developing and manufacturing solutions for the chain solutions to support our customers locally wind industry, the most positive impact we have in a sustainable manner. on sustainability is obtained through our own and our customers’ solutions. We remain committed to and focused on our corporate social responsibility – both when it Our core competencies and solutions contribute comes to human rights, employees, environment to sustainable energy production, and together and anti-corruption. with the rest of the wind industry we are continuously innovating to lower the cost of wind energy making it even more competitive compared to fossil fuels. Part of this work involve close cooperation with universities and industry partners. Furthermore, we aim to be an Industry 4.0 frontrunner introducing automation and intelligent manufacturing in our production. Kind regards, This report also serves as our annual communication on progress in sustainability, as required by the Chlinton A. Nielsen United Nations Global Compact. Chief Executive Officer 2 HUMAN RIGHTS The principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) The UNGC outlines ten principles that companies should engage in in order to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Human rights 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 UNGC Our Corporate Social Responsibility framework Our ambition is to continuously develop and enhance our sustainability actions. To ensure our corporate social responsibility efforts are captured and well explained, we have concentrated our communication on progress around the following four themes. Human rights Employees Environment Anti-corruption We are committed to the protection of It is our goal to maintain a culture that As part of the renewable energy industry, we We are committed never to engage in any form human rights and support the United Nations encourages and supports the development of aim at maximising our positive impact on the of bribery, corruption, extortion, embezzlement universal declaration of human rights and the our employees and creates stimulating jobs. environment, not only through the products we or any illegal method to influence public officials, International Labour Organization’s declaration Furthermore, we are dedicated to ensuring a develop, but also through our actions aimed at the judiciary or any other private parties. on fundamental principles and rights at work. safe and healthy working environment that managing the business in an ever more meets high ethical standards. responsible manner. Focus areas Focus areas We direct our attention to securing that all By regularly conducting risk assessments of Focus areas Focus areas employees fully understand the importance in our suppliers in compliance with our Code We aim to develop a highly skilled workforce We direct our attention to improving our following company ethical guidelines dispite of Conduct, we have ensured an effective whose contribution is meaningful and products and operations across the entire local culture and practices. In order to ensure integration with the CSR policies. appreciated. Our approach includes structured product lifecycle and the supply chain. This commitment from our employees we will have introduction schemes, extensive training and includes taking appropriate actions to reduce employees sign our Code of Conduct. Also, we have integrated appropriate consistent follow-up on performance. energy consumption, minimise waste, and sustainability measures and our Code of increase the share of waste that is recycled. New contracts with agents, intermediaries and Conduct in screening and assessing new Moreover, we are committed to build a unique consultants must include a section on antisuppliers and in finding accessible areas of global leadership paradigm, which will improve During 2017, we succeeded in recycling 75.5% corruption. The contract holder must comply improvement. the organisation’s ability to execute the growth of our waste and reducing our electricity with all applicable laws and regulations along strategy effectively and continuously challenge consumption by 3.51%. Unfortunately our with our Code of Conduct. As we experience and expect future growth and the strategy with the aim of unleashing the full heating consumption increased by 15%. globalization we persistently focus on safety potential of our company. Going forward we aim at keeping this high level Entering new markets we seek to adjust our and human rights, both in regards to our own of recycled waste along with maintaining a low organisational set-up to ensure dedication and and collaboration partners’ employees. In addition, we will continuously improve level of energy consumption. focus based on a local risk assesments. our health and safety procedures, including reporting of ‘near misses’ and the introduction of new initiatives to stimulate stronger preventative safety awareness in all employees. 4 CSR FRAMEWORK Revising and reinforcing our Code of Conduct We are committed to the protection of human rights and support the United Nations universal declaration of human rights and the International Labour Organization’s declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work. High risk Medium risk Low risk Very low risk Status Our Code of Conduct covers the following: We continuously work to ensure that we have the Out of current scope Signature of Signature of Signature of right measures and assessment in place when • Legal compliance KK Wind Solutions KK Wind Solutions KK Wind Solutions it comes to ensuring respect for human rights • Human and labour rights No action this year Code of Conduct Code of Conduct Code of Conduct in our operations. We realise that it requires • Health and safety continuous training and integration of our Further investigation Self-assessment • Business ethics processes to achieve this implementation. For that reason, we focus first of all on our employees • Environment Supplier visit and our suppliers. We expect our suppliers to respect their Figure illustrating four different supplier categories that require different actions and levels of attention. employees’ human rights and provide them with decent working conditions. Therefore, we require A significant part of our CSR footprint comes that our suppliers sign our Code of Conduct. from our supply chain, and we are committed to ensure that our suppliers uphold the same To ensure our standards will be met, we have standards as we put forward. Consequently, all During 2017 we have ensured that all suppliers in New objectives made a risk assessment of our suppliers in expectations towards suppliers within this area the medium or high risk categories sign our Code In 2018 we will increase focus on child labour, regards to compliance with the Code of Conduct are covered by our Code of Conduct, which are of Conduct or prove that they live up to the same health and safety at suppliers and their suband integrated CSR-measures. included in all contracts with new suppliers. high standards. suppliers. If we discover or suspect any noncompliances with our Code of Conduct or We will continue to secure commitment from Furthermore, we have assessed suppliers in the insufficient focus on health and safety, we will Progress suppliers to our Code of Conduct in which we high and medium risk category. New suppliers block the approval and use of that supplier. As part of the continued efforts we have recognise the importance of clear communication delivering components in the low to high risk evaluated and revised our Code of Conduct to of expectations and cooperation with suppliers. category have also signed our Code of Conduct In order to ensure the commitment from our further emphasise the importance of safe or proven similar standards during own programs, employees, we will initiate a new procedure working conditions and sound processes in our All existing suppliers are continuously being audits or self-assessments. for signing the Code of Conduct. In 2018 all operations. We also expect our suppliers and rated through a number of risk parameters. These employees in our Indian facility and Global their sub-suppliers to follow and ensure the parameters have helped to prioritize the efforts All medium to high risk suppliers will strategic sourcing will sign our Code of Conduct. standards. in screening our supplier base. The parameters automatically be assessed and prioritized on Later this procedure will be implemented in our are based on the 10 principles from UN Global ethical matters in the same way as quality is global HR process to include all employees. Compact. assessed and prioritized. 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Supporting people in need When establishing a new production facility in India in 2017, we decided to help the local community by providing financial support for the Sree Siddaganga Math. Sree Siddaganga Math, situated 65 kilometres The Math provides educational and humanitarian outside Bengaluru, is running 150 educational services for 10,000 students and free meals to institutions including a school for the blind, about 3,000 pilgrims on a daily basis, which is deaf and physically disabled, starting from truly remarkable. kindergarten to college. The Math provides free education and lodging without any discrimination of caste, religion, sex or geographical origin. We support various causes throughout the year. Among others, we support a Children’s home in Poland on a continuous basis. We have provided financial support for Danmarks Indsamlingen as well as for the establishment of a hospital in the local region of our headquarters. Chlinton A. Nielsen, CEO, KK Wind Solutions 8 HUMAN RIGHTS Continued focus on health and safety It is our goal to maintain a culture that encourages and supports the development of our employees. Furthermore, we are dedicated to ensuring a safe and healthy working environment that meets high ethical standards. Status New objectives In the past year, we have sustained the In the coming year, we will continue our effort to OHSAS18001 certification. This certification embed a strong safety awareness mindset, with ensures our commitment to continuous the aim of achieving zero accidents throughout implementation and improvement of the way we the whole company. manage our health and safety systems. Moreover, safety awareness has become deeply embedded As a concrete action, each manager must in our corporate culture and behaviours. conduct safety walks and immediate corrective actions for any near-miss must be performed within one day. Also, we are taking new Progress technologies in use to make it easier to stay safe Our target is to have maximum absence of 4.5% and to share knowledge with colleagues. for blue collars and 2.5% for white collars, and no working accidents requiring statutory reporting. Hence, we continue to focus on both health and In 2017, employee absence was reported at 5.1% safety issues across all departments. for blue collars and 2.71% for white collars, while unfortunately 4.9 working accidents per 1 million work hours were registered. We continuously use risk analysis to prevent further accidents. During 2017 we launched an internal safety campaign based on The Dirty Dozen concept Stay safe developed by the aviation industry. The campaign was targeted employees working in an around wind turbines to further increase when working in and safety awareness and behaviour, as a supplement around wind turbines to the mandatory safety training and courses. The campaign included, safety meetings, posters and a practical handbook for field technicians as illustrated to the right. 10 EMPLOYEES Lower energy consumption and increased recycling As part of the renewable energy industry, we aim at maximising our positive impact on the environment, not only through the products we develop but also through our actions aimed at managing the business in an ever more responsible manner. Status New objectives Our production facilities are certified according to KK Wind Solutions remains committed to the international environmental standard further reducing the environmental impact of ISO14001, which ensures a systematic the company’s operations. New products are organisation and documentation of internal expected to be added to the portfolio, however, environmental procedures. the target for recyclable waste remains at the current high level. For wind to be a viable alternative to traditional fossil fuels, it has to be competitive. At KK Wind Furthermore, we are currently developing Solutions, we contribute to advancing the wind localised supply chain solutions to support our industry by continuously improving our products customers locally in a more sustainable manner. and developing new innovative solutions that We believe that local pop-up factories closer contributes to the optimisation of wind energy. to our end customers, can reduce our total Furthermore, we are working in partnership to environmental impact and benefit our customers extend lifetime and reduce cost of wind turbines. and the local societies. Progress 93% In the past year, our focus has been on continuing to reduce the environmental impact by reducing electricity consumption by 3.51%, and by increasing the share of waste that is recycled to 75.5%. To achieve that, we have monitored and adjusted the energy consumption and reduced where possible. To further raise the awareness of environmental issues, more information about environmental practices and behaviours has been added to the We have recycled and partially introduction process for new employees. recycled 93,5% of our waste. 12 ENVIRONMENT Feature story: Reducing fluctuations in wind power by 90% KK Wind Solutions enters into new groundbreaking project which will ensure stable energy from wind turbines with an integrated energy storage solution. “As the wind blows ...” so goes a famous saying, The project is a collaboration between referring to the unpredictability of a situation. KK Wind Solutions, Vestas, PowerCon and Although the saying is typically used in a Aalborg University, which together will reach a transposed meaning, it is read very literally by new milestone in Danish wind turbine innovation. wind turbine producers and energy researchers. In addition, the project will contribute to the Sometimes the wind drives wind turbines faster achievement of climate policy goals by increasing than we can consume energy other times the the share and utilization of wind energy. wind does not blow at all. Therefore, a storage solution for wind turbines is in high demand. A promising solution consists in storing the energy locally in the individual wind turbine. Energy storage only needs to account for about 8% of the wind park capacity to eliminate almost 90% of fluctuations in energy production. The purpose of the project is to develop a new modular battery storage solution, which wind farm is integrated into the wind turbine itself. The multi storage converter solution will be based on a combination of state-of-the-art battery technology and software algorithms that enable monitoring and control of the batteries. This new storage solution will significantly lower CAPEX and OPEX, while remaining scalability and flexibility from a transformer power grid modularized design. The potential for a cost-effective energy storage solution in wind turbines is enormous. With such technology, we will be able to make wind turbines an active and constant energy source, which will accelerate the competitiveness of wind energy to new heights. Kristoffer Qvist Nielsen, Head of Global R&D, KK Wind Solutions. 14 ENVIRONMENT A strong stand against corruption We are committed never to engage in any form of bribery, corruption, extortion or embezzlement, or any illegal method to influence public officials, the judiciary or private parties. Status Progress Our Code of Conduct ensures our commitment to In the past year, our target was to have zero continuously focus on running our business in an corruption incidents. We have not registered ethical and responsible manner. any form of breach on our Code of Conduct in connection with corruption, extortion or bribery. However, we see a need for increasing our focus on keeping a very high ethical level as we To ensure that all employees fully understand the become an increasingly globalised company. importance of following our Code of Conduct this Excellent standards is an essential part of our has special attention when onboarding corporate culture and behaviour. new employees. New objectives KK Wind Solutions remains committed never to engage in any form of corruption, extortion or bribery. We will continue to investigate best possible ways of keeping a culture with very high ethical standards and zero tolerance towards corruption. 16 ANTI-CORRUPTION HQ KK Wind Solutions A/S Bøgildvej 3 DK-7430 Ikast Phone +45 96 92 43 00 E-mail main@kkwindsolutions.com Web www.kkwindsolutions.com About KK Wind Solutions Building on more than 35 years of experience in electrical systems for wind, KK Wind Solutions’ capabilities span development of state-of-the-art technologies, high quality lean manufacturing, cost-efficient supply chain solutions and flexible service of turbines. 02/2018-EN ©2018 KK WIND SOLUTIONS A/S. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. CONTENT MAY NOT BE REPRODUCED WITHOUT WRITTEN PERMISSION FROM KK WIND SOLUTIONS A/S.
