GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment Strategy & Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the Message from Michael Roth, Chairman and CEO most senior decision-maker of the of Interpublic organization about the relevance of sustainability to the Read Detailed Response organization and the organization's strategy for addressing sustainability Organizational Profile G4-3 Report the name of the Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. organization G4-4 Report the primary brands, IPG operates in all major world markets – our products and services companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations and specialized communications disciplines. Read Detailed Response G4-5 Report the location of the 909 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022 organization's headquarters G4-6 Report the number of countries IPG is a global company with offices in over 100 where the organization operates, countries. and names of countries where either the organization has Read Detailed Response significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Report the nature of ownership IPG is a publicly traded company. and legal form Read Detailed Response G4-8 Report the markets served We are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. Read Detailed Response G4-9 Report the scale of the IPG is a global company with employees and organization, including: total operations in more than 100 countries. number of employees, total number of operations, net sales Read Detailed Response or net revenues, total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity, quantity of products or services provided 1 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-10 a. Report the total number of Note this response is cross-referenced for G4-10, employees by employment G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA10, and G4-LA11. contract and gender. Read Detailed Response b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised STRONGER workers and by gender IPG Summit on Black Women in Advertising Draws d. Report the total workforce by Record Crowds, Trends Number 2 on Twitter region and gender. 03/28/2017 e. Report whether a substantial R/GA Launches Chatbot to Help Close The Gender portion of the organization’s work Pay Gap 04/04/2017 is performed by workers who are legally recognized as selfWLN NY Hosts 'Getting to 50/50: A Conversation on employed, or by individuals other What it Will Take' 05/15/2017 than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total The percentage of IPG employees covered by employees covered by collective collective bargaining is zero – 0 percent. bargaining agreements. Read Detailed Response G4-12 Describe the organization’s Understanding and Monitoring the Conduct and supply chain. Impact of our Supply Chain Read Detailed Response G4-13 a. Report any significant changes There have been no significant changes during during the reporting period the reporting period in IPG's size, structure, regarding the organization’s size, ownership, or supply chain. structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: Read Detailed Response • Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) • Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination 2 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-14 Report whether and how the The precautionary approach generally applies to precautionary approach or manufacturing, rather than service companies. principle is addressed by the Since IPG is a provider of marketing services, we organization. do not consider the precautionary approach. G4-15 List externally developed IPG is committed to good corporate citizenship. economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other Read Detailed Response initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 List memberships of associations IPG takes its role as a corporate citizen seriously. and national or international This includes membership and leadership roles in advocacy organizations to which trade associations as well as community the organization holds a position organizations that impact the lives of on the governance body, communities where our employees live and work. participates in projects or committees, provides substantive Read Detailed Response funding beyond routine membership dues, views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects & Boundaries G4-17 a. List all entities included in the Please see Part I Item 1, Business, organization’s consolidated page 2 of IPG 10K. financial statements or equivalent documents. Read Detailed Response b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. The organization can report on this Standard Disclosure by referencing the information in publicly available consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining Interpublic completed a comprehensive the report content and the Aspect materiality process. Boundaries. b. Explain how the organization Read Detailed Response has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the Material Aspects Click below for a list of material GRI G4 aspects identified in the process for that were identified in the process for defining defining report content report content which included a comprehensive stakeholder-driven materiality assessment detailed in this report. Read Detailed Response 3 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Unless otherwise noted, the boundary for the the Aspect Boundary within the disclosures in our report represent the entire organization as follows: report Interpublic entity as described in our 10K annual whether the Aspect is material report. within the organization; if the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization, select one of the following two approaches and report either (the list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material, or the list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material); report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-21 For each material Aspect, report Unless otherwise noted, the boundary for the the Aspect Boundary outside the disclosures in our report represent the entire organization, as follows: report Interpublic entity as described in our 10K annual whether the Aspect is material report. outside the organization; if the Aspect is material outside of the organization identify the entities, groups or entities or elements for which the aspect is material and describe the geographic area where the Aspect is material for the entities identified; report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. G4-22 a. Report the effect of any There are no restatements of information restatements of information provided in previous reports. provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 a. Report significant changes This year Interpublic has continued our journey of from previous reporting periods calculating GHG emissions by expanding our in the Scope and Aspect boundary to include three of our largest offices Boundaries. around Paris, France. Further, we expanded our boundary in North America by including all offices which are over 50,000 square feet (down from 100,000 square feet last year) and in the UK, this year, we included 40% of our portfolio and 100% of our owned facilities. The expanded boundary as of the end of 2016 included 37% of our worldwide headcount, and 45% of our worldwide square footage. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder Note this response will be cross-referenced for groups engaged by the G4-24, G4-25 and G4-26 organization. Read Detailed Response 4 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-25 Report the basis for identification Note this response will be cross-referenced for and selection of stakeholders G4-24, G4-25 and G4-26. with whom to engage. Read Detailed Response G4-26 Report the organization’s Note this response will be cross-referenced for approach to stakeholder G4-24, G4-25 and G4-26. engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Read Detailed Response stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns Sustainability is a key priority for IPG as it is for that have been raised through our stakeholders, including employees, clients stakeholder engagement, and and shareholders. how the organization has responded to those key topics Read Detailed Response and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal We are reporting on a calendar year cycle. or calendar year) for information provided. G4-29 Date of most recent previous IPG published its last sustainability report in report. March of 2017. We update our sustainability site, STRONGER, on a weekly basis. G4-30 Reporting cycle. IPG reports annually. G4-31 Provide the contact point for Jemma Gould, Senior Director, Corporate questions regarding the report or Responsibility and Communications its contents 212-704-1327, Jemma.Gould@Interpublic.com G4-32 Report the in accordance option The GRI G4 Guidelines served as a guide for our the organization has chosen. reporting and our report includes a GRI content Report the GRI Content Index for index, but we do not declare in accordance with the chosen option. Report the either core or comprehensive levels. reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be in accordance with the Guidelines. 5 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-33 Report the organization's policy This report has not been externally assured. and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization's sustainability report. Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure Our Proxy Statement provides detailed of the organization, including information on our governance structure. committees of the highest governance body. Identify any Read Detailed Response committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Ethics & Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization's Interpublic’s Code of Conduct forms the Principle 10: Antivalues, principles, standards and foundation of how we interact with one another, Corruption norms of behavior such as codes with our vendors and with our clients. It helps of conduct and codes of ethics ensure that we operate ethically and transparently as we perform our jobs. Read Detailed Response Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated Direct economic value generated and distributed and distributed Read Detailed Response G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization's Please see link below for more information on defined benefit plan obligations IPG's defined benefit plans. Read Detailed Response 6 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic Sustainability in all its forms -environmental impacts, including the extent of responsibility, good corporate citizenship, impacts ensuring socially-responsible business practices -is important and integral to the way we do business around the world Read Detailed Response STRONGER FCB New York Helps Dress for Success Celebrate 20th Anniversary with the #OpenDoorProject 04/03/2017 McCann Health & Afghan Ministry of Public Health Partner To Increase Childhood Vaccination Rates 10/19/2017 Labor Practices & Decent Work G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new Note this response is cross-referenced for G4-10, Principle 6: Labour employee hires and employee G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA10, and G4-LA11 turnover by age group, gender and region Read Detailed Response STRONGER IPG Receives Perfect Score on HRC Corporate Equality Index for LGBT Workplace Equality 12/05/2016 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time Please note this response is cross-referenced for employees that are not provided G4-10, G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA10, and G4-LA11. to temporary or part-time employees, by significant Read Detailed Response locations of operation G4-LA10 Programs for skills management Note this response is cross-referenced for G4-10, and lifelong learning that support G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA10, and G4-LA11 the continued employability of employees and assist them in Read Detailed Response managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees Note this response is cross-referenced for G4-10, Principle 6: receiving regular performance G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA10, and G4-LA11 Labour and career development reviews, by gender and by employee Read Detailed Response category 7 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-LA12 Composition of governance Diversity and Inclusion have been priorities for Principle 6: Labour bodies and breakdown of IPG for more than a decade. employees per employee category according to gender, Read Detailed Response age group, minority group membership, and other indicators STRONGER of diversity IPG Employees Talk About Race on Inclusion Forum Call 07/13/2017 Roth Joins Advertising Week Panel on Diversity and Inclusion 09/27/2017 Deutsch is Part of Program to Employ People with Intellectual Disabilities 09/28/2017 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that Please note this response is cross-referenced for were screened using labor G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-SO9 and G4-HR10. practices criteria Read Detailed Response G4-LA16 Number of grievances about We provide our employees with a number of labor practices filed, addressed, different approaches to express concerns about and resolved through formal their work environments. grievance mechanisms Read Detailed Response Environment G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 7: organization EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Principle 8: Environment Read Detailed Response G4-EN5 Energy intensity Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 8: EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Read Detailed Response G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 8: EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Principle 9: Environment Read Detailed Response G4-EN7 Reductions in energy To streamline our operations and reduce Principle 8: requirements of products and unnecessary usage of energy, water, and natural Environment services resources, IPG focuses on our people. Principle 9: Environment Read Detailed Response G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 7: emissions (Scope 1) EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Principle 8: Environment Read Detailed Response 8 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 7: (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Principle 8: Environment Read Detailed Response G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas Smart travel policies – traveling less where (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) possible, traveling lighter and traveling smarter – • Report gross other indirect is a shared goal that we have committed to. (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, Read Detailed Response excluding indirect emissions from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam consumed by the organization (these indirect emissions are reported in Indicator G4-EN16). Exclude any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. • Report gases included in the calculation, if available. • Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions. • Report other indirect (Scope 3) emissions categories and activities included in the calculation. • Report the chosen base year, the rationale for choosing the base year, emissions in the base year, and the context for any significant changes in emissions that triggered recalculations of base year emissions. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 8: intensity EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Read Detailed Response G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas Note this response is cross-referenced for G4Principle 8: (GHG) emissions EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN Environment 18 and G4-EN 19. Principle 9: Environment Read Detailed Response G4-EN30 Significant environmental IPG's primary asset is our people. As a client impacts of transporting products services company with clients around the world, and other goods and materials for our employees travel frequently for business. We the organization's operations, are working to mitgate the impact of this travel. and transporting members of the workforce Read Detailed Response G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that Please note this response is cross-referenced for Principle 8: were screened using G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-SO9 and G4-HR10. Environment environmental criteria Read Detailed Response 9 GRI Indicator Description Reference/Response UN Global Compact Principle Alignment Human Rights G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training IPG understands the importance of training, Principle 1: on human rights policies or particularly as it relates to ensuring a workplace Human Rights procedures concerning aspects of that operates ethically and transparently and is human rights that are relevant to also free from any type of harassment. operations, including the percentage of employees trained Read Detailed Response Society G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of Interpublic assesses 100% of our operations for Principle 10: Antioperations asessed for risks risks related to corruption. Corruption related to corruption and the significant risks identified Read Detailed Response G4-SO4 Communication and training on IPG regularly communicates its anti-corruption anti-corruption policies and policies and procedures by a variety of methods. procedures Read Detailed Response G4-SO6 Total value of political Although personal political activity is welcome, as contributions by country and employees we may not make political recipient/beneficiary contributions by or in the name of IPG or any of its subsidiaries. Read Detailed Response G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that Please note this response is cross-referenced for were screened using criteria for G4-EN32, G4-LA14, G4-SO9 and G4-HR10. impacts on society Read Detailed Response 10
