SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 – TABLE OF CONTENTS About this report 4 Our economic responsibility 42 Foreword  6 Our environmental responsibility  48 We are Biesterfeld 8 Our company profile Our social responsibility  56 A look at the details: our business units We at Biesterfeld Our product and service portfolio Training and further development Our stakeholders Biesterfeld social benefits Objectives and strategies Our social commitment Reporting method Our future perspective 66 Our sustainability concept 32 Sustainability progress GRI content index  70 What are we doing in...? Compliance Publication details  76 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 2 • Table of contents 3 • Table of contents ABOUT THIS REPORT The Biesterfeld Group’s fundamental concern is to face up to the economic, ecological and social challenges of our time while always acting responsibly and sustainably. We use our annual sustainability report to inform our internal We have documented the expansion of our sustainability and external stakeholders as well as the wider public about our management to other branches in this year’s report, which takes corporate governance and present all key sustainability figures into account developments in 2017. We integrate our locations transparently and comprehensively. in Brazil, Poland, Russia and Turkey as well as our corporate headquarters in Hamburg and further locations in Germany, Italy 6 BUSINESS MORE THAN Biesterfeld’s Sustainability Report applies to the entire group of and Great Britain. DIVISIONS 760 EMPLOYEES companies. It includes the Communication on Progress as specified by the United Nations Global Compact, which we Our other international subsidiaries are included in the report as joined in 2014 and whose principles we are committed to. We long as they use centrally controlled processes and products. 111-YEAR OVER 50 RENOWNED have chosen to use the “core option” of the latest framework of FAMILY TRADITION PARTNERSHIPS the internationally recognised Global Reporting Initiative, known We generally use the male form in this report when designating as the GRI Standards. This enables transparent presentation and groups of persons and occupations for ease of readability. It INTERNATIONAL AT ensures that data and evaluations can be compared with others. goes without saying that we always address all sexes equally. 46 LOCATIONS We use the emission factors from the GEMIS database (Global Emission Model for Integrated Systems), which was prepared by the German Environment Agency (UBA) in cooperation with the Öko-Institut (Institute for Applied Ecology). 102-7, 102-8 102-1, 102-3, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 4 • About this report 5 • About this report FOREWORD Dear reader, I am delighted to present the Biesterfeld Group’s fourth After implementing numerous measures in the past few years as As CEO, my task is not only to lead our Group to a successful sustainability report. part of our Group-wide sustainability management, we were future, but also to ensure that all employees are encouraged and also able to show further progress in 2017 too. For example, we supported in developing their individual skills, so that they can SUSTAINABILITY We are proud to reflect on 2017 as yet another very successful have adapted our sustainability report to the new GRI standards, contribute their new ideas and we can all continue our path to IS AT THE VERY financial year lies behind us. Once again, we have successfully continuing the successive extension of our sustainability standards success together. HEART OF OUR expanded our market position and our corporate results without to our foreign locations, such as Turkey. IDENTITY. losing sight of our social, societal and corporate values. We live our basic values and our corporate culture in our day-toOur employees are vital to our sustained success. Their extensive day interactions with our customers and suppliers. In the future Sustainability is not just a means to an end for us; it is at the very expertise and daily commitment to our group of companies are too, we strive, and will continue, to maintain and expand this heart of our identity. It is important to us as a family-owned crucial factors in our success in the global and rapidly changing high priority of being a family business that is proactive about business that our economic success should remain in harmony chemical distribution market. We rely on our highly qualified sustainability. with ecological and social issues. Trading in and distributing employees and their many years of experience. Their commitment, highly sensitive products calls for safe and trustworthy handling passion, expertise and skills are essential to secure long-term I hope you enjoy reading this Sustainability Report. of resources which, in our view, can only be successful using and sustainable corporate success. Group-wide specifications and standards. We see it as our duty as a chemicals and plastics distributor to establish a functioning and comprehensive sustainability management system. Thomas Arnold Thomas Arnold, chairman of the board 102-14, 102-16 102-14, 102-16 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 6 • Foreword 7 • Foreword COMPETENCE IN SOLUTIONS WE ARE BIESTERFELD BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 8 • We are Biesterfeld 9 • We are Biesterfeld OUR COMPANY PROFILE Founded 111 years ago, Biesterfeld is today one of the largest worldwide distributors with a clear focus on specialities. Our business activities encompass comprehensive services Our in-depth market knowledge, comprehensive services and a Sustainability has deep roots within our company: our management involving the distribution of plastics, rubber, specialty chemicals specialised skills profile in the individual segments set us apart and supervisory boards send out clear signals, not only in our and international trade in the sectors of industrial and agricultural from the rest. We can offer our customers short logistics and business strategy, but also in our Code of Conduct, showing how chemicals, pharmaceutical raw materials and salts. Our many communication routes with our local presence and warehouses, vital the interaction of our economic success is with keeping OUR EXPERTISE years of experience, our broad product portfolio as well as our quickly identifying individual needs and responding to them people and their environment in harmony. AND OUR comprehensive services make us one of the most successful promptly. Our technical experts work closely and in partnership EXPERIENCE distributors worldwide. with our customers and suppliers, thus managing to exploit MAKE US synergies and achieve added value for all stakeholders. We rely on the consistent and sustainable growth of our four EXPERTS operating business divisions Biesterfeld Plastic, Biesterfeld All this can only happen when we work together as a team at all Spezialchemie, Biesterfeld Performance Rubber and Biesterfeld times. Close interaction between colleagues and that feeling of International. These are supported by Biesterfeld ChemLogS and togetherness as “Biesterfelders” shape our everyday life and our our IT subsidiary BIT-SERV, all of which operate under the way of working. This is also reflected in our “One Biesterfeld” umbrella of Biesterfeld AG. This holding company assumes strategic approach, which we have been pursuing for years as a central control functions for standards, processes and overarching group of companies. tasks in finance, human resources, legal affairs, communications and controlling. More on this: a look at the details. 102-5, 102-16, 102-18 102-16, 102-18 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 10 • We are Biesterfeld 11 • We are Biesterfeld A REVIEW OF OUR HISTORY 1906 Wilhelm Ernst-Hinrich Biesterfeld moves into a small 1961 First European subsidiary founded in the 1988 Founding of Biesterfeld Plastic GmbH as well as new 2007 Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH founded office in Hamburg and starts his salt trading Netherlands subsidiaries in France, Italy, Poland and Spain business 2008 Acquisition of Milar Sp. z o.o. in Poland 1964 Company founder Wilhelm Biesterfeld dies at the 1994 Joint venture Biesterfeld Scheibler Linssen GmbH & 1918 F  lourishing trade in rock salt from northern age of 84 years; steady growth of the business Co. KG with HQ in Hamburg 2013 Founding of Biesterfeld Nordic AB, Sweden, Germany for the domestic and Scandinavian market ensured by Walter Biesterfeld, his nephew and Acquisition of Küttner GmbH, Germany adopted son 1998 Founding of Biesterfeld Spezialchemie GmbH 1930s Development of the three pillars of the company: 2015 Founding of Biesterfeld Simko Distribuição S.A. joint trading in salt, chemicals and fertilisers 1970 Following the death of Walter Biesterfeld, his son 2000 Founding of BIT-SERV GmbH, Biesterfeld venture, Brazil Dirk J. Biesterfeld inherits the company as a International GmbH and Interowa GmbH & Co. KG 1945 Takeover of the chemical plant Gunter, Schröder & personally liable partner 2016 Founding of Biesterfeld Performance Rubber GmbH, Co. in Hamburg-Harburg with its own warehousing 2004  ransformation of parent company Wilhelm E. H. T Acquisition of Schütz & Co. (GmbH & Co. KG) and transshipment facilities 1976 Founding of the subsidiaries Biesterfeld do Brasil Biesterfeld GmbH & Co. KG into Biesterfeld AG Ltda. in Brazil and Biesterfeld U.S., Inc. in the USA Today International distributor of plastics, rubber, base and From Own subsidiaries in the business divisions of 2005 Full takeover of Biesterfeld Siemsglüss special chemical products, with over 40 subsidiaries 1950 importing/exporting chemicals, salt and fertilisers as 1981 Core areas of the new company Wilhelm E. H. International GmbH in more than 120 countries well as chemical plants; Biesterfeld Packaging Biesterfeld Group: chemical plants, import, export, division founded packaging, salt, agrochemicals and international 2006 The name Siemsglüss International GmbH changed freight forwarding to Biesterfeld International GmbH, founding of joint 1956 Relocation to the centre of Hamburg, venture Biesterfeld Petroplas Ltd. Ferdinandstrasse 41, the present headquarters of the 1980s E  xpansion into Asia with subsidiaries in China, Hong company Kong and Indonesia BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 12 • We are Biesterfeld 13 • We are Biesterfeld A LOOK AT THE DETAILS: well as customs and export control. This division also produces OUR BUSINESS DIVISIONS professional safety data sheets, which are vital when using our products as they provide important safety information and recommendations for proper handling of our products. Finally, the team of experts ensures day-to-day compliance with national Biesterfeld Plastic Our extensive product portfolio focuses on the needs of selected and international standards, regulations and internal guidelines Biesterfeld Plastic is a leading distributor of plastics and additives industries including personal care, healthcare, cleaning, paints in order to guarantee smooth business transactions in all in Europe, North Africa, Latin America and the CIS region. and coatings, high-quality intermediates, polyurethanes, polymer Biesterfeld processes while adhering to international legal Founded in 1988, the division features a complete, homogeneous additives, construction, adhesives and lubricants, composites, standards. product portfolio and long-standing sales partnerships with food, electrical, electronics and energy. leading global manufacturers. More than 260 employees offer BIT-SERV international customers comprehensive services such as Biesterfeld Performance Rubber Biesterfeld International BIT-SERV is a full-service IT service provider specialising in development-­ related, technical consulting and tailor-made Biesterfeld Performance Rubber is the youngest division of the The Biesterfeld International business division, founded in 2005, the development, implementation and operation of business logistics solutions. This is made possible by a comprehensive, Biesterfeld Group and operates as a distributor for the rubber is active in the worldwide distribution of base and specialty applications in the chemical, plastics, pharmaceutical and decentralised infrastructure complete with personal contact points processing industry on an international scale. Business activities chemicals. Our product portfolio includes industrial chemicals, agricultural sectors. The employees here are specialists with on site. The product portfolio includes plastics and additives for have focused on application technology consulting and the plant protection and plant nutrition, salts, pharmaceutical raw many years of experience and comprehensive expertise in industries such as automotive, healthcare, industrial and consumer development of innovative local customer solutions ever since materials and active ingredients, as well as feed and food industry-­ specific applications. Their focus is on SAP® ERP goods, construction, toys, packaging, household appliances, it was founded in 2016. This business division with around additives. 105 employees at 14 locations offer professional and applications, CRM in-house developments, web developments electrics and electronics. 40 employees offers a comprehensive portfolio of products and customer-focused services in the fields of application consulting, and system technology. These employees, who are consultants, services based on close partnerships with market leaders in the product development, logistics and financing. Its local presence designers and project managers at the same time, set themselves Biesterfeld Spezialchemie rubber industry. As well as synthetic rubber, compounds of highnear customers and suppliers as well as existing long-term the goal of offering stable, solution-oriented and user-friendly IT With around 250 employees, Biesterfeld Spezialchemie offers quality silicone and fluorosilicone rubbers and carbon black, the partnerships are this division’s distinguishing features. services. Their range of services is tailored to the needs of solution-oriented application technology expertise in specialty product range also includes high-performance polymers and the medium-sized companies and is subject to strict security chemical and food ingredients throughout Europe. Our longcomplete portfolio of corresponding additives. Biesterfeld ChemLogS guidelines. standing cooperation with leading suppliers worldwide and our Biesterfeld ChemLogS has been supporting the entire Biesterfeld focus on active market development as well as innovative market Group with its expertise and skills as an independent service development make sure partnerships remain sustainable. company since 2007. The team has a high level of technical expertise in compliance, sustainability, QSHE in the international chemicals trade, monitoring of management systems, REACH as 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 14 • We are Biesterfeld 15 • We are Biesterfeld ALWAYS CLOSE TO CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS Biesterfeld AG Biesterfeld Plastic Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Biesterfeld Spezialchemie International Performance Rubber Hamburg (DE) Abingdon (GB) Athens (GR) Barcelona (ES) Bangkok (TH) Abingdon (GB) Barcelona (ES) Bratislava (SK) Beijing (CN) Bangkok (TH) Cologne (DE) Bucharest (RO) Chongqing (CN) Barcelona (ES) Culemborg (NL) Budapest (HU) Guatemala City (GT) Bucharest (RO) Florianópolis (BR) Culemborg (NL) Hamburg (DE) Budapest (HU) Hamburg (DE) Grodzisk Hong Kong (CN) Culemborg (NL) Istanbul (TR) Hamburg (DE) Istanbul (TR) Hamburg (DE) Kiev (UA) Istanbul (TR) Jakarta (ID) Istanbul (TR) Liestal (CH) Kiev (UA) Mexico (MX) Kiev (UA) Limhamn (SE) Liestal (CH) Miami (US) Limhamn (SE) Milan (IT) Mazowiecki (PL) Mumbai (IN) Milan (IT) Moscow (RU) Milan (IT) São Paulo (BR) Moscow (RU) Nuremberg (DE) Moscow (RU) Shanghai (CN) Prague (CZ) Oporto (PT) Prague (CZ) Warsaw (PL) Römerberg (DE) Römerberg (DE) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Rueil Malmaison (FR) Vienna (AT) Saint Ouen l`Aumone São Paulo (BR) Warsaw (PL) (FR) Vienna (AT) Zagreb (HR) Chrisy (FR) Warsaw (PL) São Paulo (BR) Vienna (AT) Warsaw (PL) BIESTERFELD LOCATIONS Zagreb (HR) COUNTRIES IN WHICH BIESTERFELD IS REPRESENTED  Biesterfeld locations included in this year’s Sustainability Report 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-45 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-45 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 16 • We are Biesterfeld 17 • We are Biesterfeld OUR PRODUCT AND SERVICE PORTFOLIO We support our customers in producing sustainable products, improving their ecological footprint and implementing sustainable business practices. OUR CLIENT INDUSTRIES Sustainable product solutions Biesterfeld Spezialchemie’s product portfolio includes sustainable Our portfolio offers our customers sustainable raw materials to solvents for the detergent industry; these are suitable for develop more environmentally friendly products. applications in the coating, personal care, household and industrial cleaning industries as well as for plastics and metal WE ARE Biesterfeld Plastic, for example, sells a version of plastic used for processing industries. These antimicrobial solutions meet the COMMITTED TO food contact applications that does not contain bisphenol A and high technical and regulatory industry specifications, enabling SUSTAINABLE Adhesives & Sealants Automotive & Transportation Coatings & Construction Composites & Tooling consists partly of renewable raw materials. This material is not innovative development in sustainable and high-performance PRODUCTS only environmentally friendly but also a offers remarkable level special cleaning agents. of chemical resistance. Biesterfeld Spezialchemie and Biesterfeld International also sell This business division also offers its clients throughout Europe nutraceuticals and plant extracts for use in the healthcare and compostable bio-polymers made from renewable raw materials, dietary supplement industries. The portfolio includes various as well as additives that support the recycling process of plastics. quality grades for the use of high-quality products in capsules, Electro, Electronic & Energy Food & Feed Household & Consumer Goods Industrial Markets & Synthesis These products, which can be processed on conventional plastics tablets, dragées and sticks. The products are subject to regular processing machines by injection moulding, extrusion and strict controls to meet high quality requirements – from plant thermoforming and degrade in the soil without producing harmful cultivation to product dispatch. substances, bear the OK compost label – the European standard for compostability in industrial composting plants. Packaging Personal Care & Cleaning Pharma & Healthcare Plant Protection & Plant Nutrition 102-2, 102-9, 102-10 102-2, 102-9, 102-10 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 18 • We are Biesterfeld 19 • We are Biesterfeld Our logistics system Our supply chain Our business model We not only sell products as a distributor but also offer our We are constantly expanding our product range to meet the Our application technology, extensive knowledge and technical customers comprehensive service with advice on our products, diverse and discerning needs of our customers, aligning ourselves expertise supports our customers in selecting and manufacturing formulation expertise as well as technical and applicationto new market requirements and searching specifically for a their products. We draw inspiration from current and future specific advice. It goes without saying that we handle all logistics more sustainable product range. In this context, we work closely market trends and incorporate our ideas into the process. We services efficiently, transparently and reliably. For example, with our producers and support them in developing and refining either deliver the raw materials from our renowned suppliers Biesterfeld Spezialchemie has developed a new logistics chain to sustainable products. And naturally, we ensure that all legal and directly to our customers at the agreed time or temporarily store secure this for the future and to react to dynamic business political requirements are complied with for all orders and them. developments of recent years. The new European central deliveries as a matter of course. warehouse in Solingen is state of the art, offering ample action zones with efficient use of the storage area and flexible goods handling. Electronic process integration along the value chain ensures a standardised and transparent flow of information and goods. This includes a seamless batch traceability system as well as fast, reliable services tailored to our partners’ requirements. Our efficient logistics system takes into account the daily challenges of the entire supply chain to ensure punctual delivery. REACH Biesterfeld complies with these legal requirements, guaranteeing The European Chemicals Regulation on the Registration, the safe handling of chemicals in every step of goods movement. Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) A testing system based on our extensive substance database came into force in June 2007. It aims to ensure a high level of containing registration information is a prerequisite for this. Our health and environmental protection while improving the chemical extensive product portfolio focuses on the needs of selected industry’s competitiveness and innovation within the EU. industries including personal care, healthcare, cleaning, paints and coatings, intermediates, polyurethanes, polymer additives, REACH regulations only allow (pre-)registered substances to be construction, adhesives and lubricants, composites, food, marketed in the EU. As an importer and distributor of chemicals, electrical, electronics and energy. 102-9, 102-10 102-9, 102-10 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 20 • We are Biesterfeld 21 • We are Biesterfeld The way we work and think is based on mutual trust and the desire OUR STAKEHOLDERS for honest cooperation. We attach great importance to interacting with our stakeholders Our partners are won over by our transparent work processes, Investors a high level of commitment and unconditional compliance with and take the view that honest and Banks legal requirements, meaning that we can build long-term open communication generates Holders partnerships with them. new perspectives and ideas. Our experienced employees advise around 20,000 customers, supporting them with our expertise in selecting and using our The requirements and changing needs of interest groups can be Associations products. This gives us a direct insight into our customers’ wishes analysed, communicated and taken into account by means of Employees BIESTERFELD and requirements and enables us to provide them precisely what regular exchange of views and a good level of contact. GROUP they need. We use various means of communication to provide our Our partners include well-known producers who are just as stakeholders with insights into our corporate structure and keep Competitors Suppliers conscious of their duty of care as we are. The mutual insight them informed on the latest developments, creating confidence and dialogue in questions of sustainable development and in our actions through this transparency. procurement in the chemical industry raises awareness of these important topics in a very special way. This common It is essential to know the expectations and estimations of our Authorities Customers understanding is also impressively reflected in the transparency stakeholders and to stay in regular contact with them to be able of our partners’ corporate governance: some 75% of our top to master all ecological, economic and social challenges. suppliers regularly publish a sustainability report, around 90% of which are in accordance with GRI standards. INDIRECT STAKEHOLDERS DIRECT STAKEHOLDERS 102-12, 102-13, 102-16, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 102-12, 102-13, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 22 • We are Biesterfeld 23 • We are Biesterfeld career development paths from these appraisals and promote Indirect stakeholders We actively participate in the German Chemical Distribution them accordingly. We take the concerns of our employees very Various interest groups gain an insight into our activities through Association’s (VCH) Responsible Care programme and promote seriously, whether professional or personal. We provide support our company presence at various national and international the exchange of experiences and knowledge with regard to in finding solutions and create a pleasant working atmosphere. trade fairs and conferences, such as the AMI “Polymer Sourcing & responsible action. Biesterfeld Plastic also participates in the The long-term loyalty of our employees to the company is Distribution” conference, in-cosmetics® global or the international German Association of the Chemical Industry’s (VCI) Responsible testament to the fact that we are on the right track. trade fair for plastics processing (Fakuma). Care programme. We regularly communicate performance indicators, which are then summarised and published for all Our regular press releases and news, which we make available Our participation in initiatives and associations promotes mutual member firms. External audits and our participation in workshops to the media and publish on our corporate website, serve as exchange of views and promotes sustainable development in confirm this commitment. Direct stakeholders further means of keeping in touch. Our communications chemical distribution. We receive valuable information from both sides as a link department prepares up-to-date topics and publishes regular between buyers and producers. Our knowledge comes from company news. The newsletters that we send out to our direct contacts as well as customer surveys and feedback, which customers also serve as a means of intensifying communication OUR we share with our producer partners. For example, this includes with our stakeholders. increasing demand for sustainable products, which we aim to COMMUNICATION develop and deliver through close cooperation with our producers. Our financiers (owners, banks and investors) are also kept Initiatives: IS OPEN AND In addition, we can further expand new product ranges by continuously informed about our financial status and the economic • AGA employers’ association TRANSPARENT evaluating the assessments from our service departments and, development of the Biesterfeld Group. Mutual trust is of utmost • FECC (European Association of Chemical Distributors) for example, educate our customers about the use of sustainable importance to us and is consistently cultivated. products to meet their needs. • ICTA (International Chemical Trade Association) These dialogue formats and measures mean we can exploit • United Nations Global Compact Our Biesterfeld employees are among our most important potential more effectively and are prepared for the challenges of • VCI Association of the Chemical Industry stakeholders. In order to develop them in the best possible way, the international chemicals market. • VCH Chemical Distribution Association to act in accordance with their needs and to understand what they expect from us as an employer, we encourage all managers • PlasticsEurope e.V. to conduct regular staff appraisals. We can identify individual 102-12, 102-13, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 102-12, 102-13, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 24 • We are Biesterfeld 25 • We are Biesterfeld OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES In accordance with our guiding principle of Competence in Solutions, our employees constantly strive to offer individual solutions and the best possible support for our products and services in order to be an expert and innovative partner for our suppliers and customers. Ethical and responsible conduct is at the core of our corporate Each individual plays a crucial role and contributes to the Risk management management. The Biesterfeld Group remains true to its values collective success through his or her individual qualities. We have established a Group-wide risk and crisis management as a family business and combines tradition and innovation. The importance of treating our employees with respect is system. This enables us to react quickly and precisely if it Forward-looking and reliable business operation is at the heart demonstrated not least by the fact that we look on our employment becomes necessary and our employees receive immediate help of our partnership with customers and suppliers. We continue to relationship with our employees as a long-term one. and support. Regular training and cascading of information in write our 111-year success story – even in the face new and these areas is absolutely essential. The “Biesterfeld Emergency ongoing challenges – and are constantly striving to develop our and Crisis Handbook” is available at each of our locations – as strategies further. well as on our Intranet: this serves as an aide memoire and, as well as detailing points of contact for crisis situations, also We face new challenges proactively, always seeing them as contains the necessary checklists and action plans to deal with opportunities to grow. In doing so, we rely above all on our great these situations. A crisis can occur at any time and in any place, employees, and as a family business we feel particularly close to so we guarantee unrestricted availability day and night at each them. They make Biesterfeld the company it is and embody our location in order to support and protect our employees at any common values. time. 102-11 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 26 • We are Biesterfeld 27 • We are Biesterfeld REPORTING METHOD LISTING OF THE 10 PRINCIPLES United Nations Global Compact principles Regular communication and a proactive information policy on sustainable development are essential for the Biesterfeld Group – as you would expect for PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and any company acting in a discerning responsible manner. PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We are convinced that commitment to sustainable development information handling with clearly defined data and constant Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective PRINCIPLE 3 and anchoring that commitment in day-to-day business is comparability against a worldwide standard. This report was bargaining; fundamental for a long-term and successful company. In line prepared in accordance with the GRI standards: using the “core with this outlook, we have voluntarily committed ourselves to option”. The option we selected contains all the key elements PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; reporting to the United Nations Global Compact standards and and information that a company needs to include and report annually on our economic, environmental and social efforts – in order to ensure sustainable corporate governance. This PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and with complete success! Starting with the publication of our first information outlines the economic, environmental, social and Sustainability Report in 2014, we have continued to make our management performance of a company. We take account of the corporate identity statement and now communicate continuously ten principles of the United Nations here in the areas of human PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. and transparently with our stakeholders in this way too. We rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight use this instrument to communicate essential aspects of our against corruption. Our last report covers the 2016 financial year. convictions, such as respect for and observance of human rights, PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, the responsible and respectful treatment of employees and the efficient use of technology for an effective reduction of our CO2 PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, footprint. The Biesterfeld Sustainability Report is based on the guidelines PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. of the world’s foremost sustainability reporting instrument, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI enables transparent PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 102-12, 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54 102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 28 • We are Biesterfeld 29 • We are Biesterfeld MATERIALITY ANALYSIS LIST OF SPECIFIC FIGURES ECONOMIC SOCIAL The materiality analysis clearly illustrates the information that Subcategory: Labour practices and decent work Aspect: Economic performance underwent individual assessment. This information is summarised Influence on stakeholder assessments in categories. The circles here reflect the quantity of information 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Aspect: Work in each category. Financial implications and other risks and Total number and rates of new employee hires and 201-2 opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to 401-1 employee turnover by age group, gender and region The x-axis shows the significance of the category in terms of its climate change 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees economic, environmental and social impact. The y-axis indicates ENVIRONMENTAL Return to work and retention rates after parental the extent to which the category influences the assessment made 401-3 leave, by gender and decisions by our stakeholders. The x and y values of the categories are Aspect: Energy determined from the average value of the information individually 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Aspect: Training and further development assessed by ourselves. 302-3 Energy intensity Programmes for skills management and lifelong 404-2 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption learning Hence, for example, we assess that the “Labour practices Aspect: Emissions Aspect: Supplier assessment for labour practices and decent work” category has significant influence on our stakeholders’ evaluation because it was relatively highly valued 305-3 Further indirect emissions Percentage of new suppliers that were screened 414-1 in spite of the modest amount of information. Furthermore, using labour practices criteria Importance of economic, environmental and Aspect: Compliance social impacts product stewardship has a high impact on our stakeholders, but Significant actual and potential negative impacts Monetary value, fines and total number of nonis also of great importance in terms of economic, ecological and 414-2 for labour practices in the supply chain and actions 307-1 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with social impacts. taken ECONOMIC environmental laws/regulations ENVIRONMENTAL Aspect: Supplier environmental assessment LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Percentage of new suppliers that were screened 308-1 HUMAN RIGHTS using environmental criteria SOCIETY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 102-46, 102-47, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 30 • We are Biesterfeld 31 • We are Biesterfeld COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABILITY OUR SUSTAINABILITY CONCEPT BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 32 • Our sustainability concept 33 • Our sustainability concept SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS The Ecovadis online platform awarded us the Gold Medal for our sustainability strategy. We scored 62 out of a possible 100 points, If you want to be successful, you have to have the future in mind, and if you placing us as a top performer among the top 5%, far above the industry average of 37.8 points. Our participation in the UN have the future in mind, you have to introduce sustainable action as standard. Global Compact and in particular our annual sustainability report, which is compiled according to the GRI specifications, received a very good rating from the EcoVadis team and gave us this clear, above-average rating. EcoVadis is the first collaborative Changing a company’s ongoing processes and structures in an Even small things can make a difference platform that enables companies to measure the sustainability environmentally conscious and sustainable way does not happen Once again, this year we decided to compensate for our business performance of over 30,000 suppliers in 150 areas and 110 overnight, but is a long-term development that carries both risks trip footprints and invest in forest and species protection in Santa countries. Many of our customers, competitors and suppliers and opportunities. Biesterfeld has decided to follow this path, Maria, Brazil. As we have limited opportunities to reduce our are also represented here. For example, EcoVadis gives our learn from the potential risks and seize the opportunities that business travel and therefore our CO2 consumption, we try to customers a way to keep track of our sustainable strategy and present themselves. The changes that result from our sustainable compensate for this consumption in an appropriate way. This lets them leave us feedback on it or ask for more details. This approach open up new markets for us and drive innovative ideas means that our business trips with national and international gives us an opportunity to continuously improve, strengthen our forward. Recognisable climate change, the associated effects flights are climate-neutral, and we can avoid the deforestation of sustainability performance and promote exchange with our and the question of how to deal with non-renewable raw materials around 64,000 trees. We are thus investing in areas of forest that stakeholders. The evaluation focuses on 21 questions divided all present us with challenges that we can face together through absorb the same amount of CO2 via photosynthesis and convert into four thematic areas: environment, labour practices and innovative solutions and responsible action. This is precisely it into biomass. The project area covers 71,713 hectares in the human rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement. why we are making our contribution and striving to make our south of Brazil. Inspections are carried out by independent These criteria are based on international Corporate Social supply chain more secure for the future. auditors to ensure the social and environmental criteria of the Responsibility (CSR) standards such as the Global Compact Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) are met. In addition, the Principles, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) conventions, We are constantly looking for new ideas and opportunities to project is certified according to the Verified Carbon Standard the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standard, the ISO 26000 improve our supply chain and to educate our partners and (VCS). Further information can be found on the homepage www. standard and the CERES principles. They are recorded and customers about the positive effects of conscious sustainable forestcarbongroup.de/en/projekte/florestal-santa-maria.html evaluated annually. The evaluation of the questions is carried out action. Cooperation between all of us is the key to overcoming by specialised employees in the field of sustainable development. many challenges. We will therefore concentrate even more intensively on our value chain in the coming years. 201-2, 414-2 102-12, 201-2, 308-1, 414-1, 414-2 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 34 • Our sustainability concept 35 • Our sustainability concept WHAT ARE WE DOING IN...? COMPLIANCE The Biesterfeld Group gives top priority to complying with applicable laws We have introduced further innovations at our company We also focus on renewable raw materials in the cleaning agent headquarters that have a positive impact on our environment. division, such as household cleaners or car care, at our site in and internal company guidelines and the resulting legal and ethical conduct. For example, old, energy-guzzling fans in the conference rooms Poland. The natural raw materials are organic, i.e. they come have been replaced by efficient and energy-saving technology from agricultural and forestry production and conserve resources. that cools the room faster. We have also moved into new offices, In addition, the cleaning and personal care divisions – which It therefore goes without saying that we have a compliance e-Learning where we have paid particular attention to ensuring that the include all our cosmetic products – support the development of management system that monitors our business activities and We ensure that all legally binding stipulations and voluntary furnishings and the rooms are compatible with our sustainability new formulations and the adaptation of existing formulations to extends our processes according to our Group-wide policies. undertakings are observed and implemented. We have therefore philosophy. include ecological raw materials. Our Compliance Office provides information on new legislation, introduced an e-learning tool. The Compliance Office can use internal and external guidelines and specifications and implements this system to offer training which can be completed flexibly We purchase the coffee beans we use from Fairtrade suppliers. In Italy, our sites have introduced a welfare program. Each new regulations within the Group – an essential component of over a specified period of time to a large target group. We attach The Fairtrade seal means fair prices and better working and employee receives a non-taxable payment to use on private our sustainable corporate management and the transparent great importance to offering regular refresher courses on specific living conditions for small farmers and employees in Africa, Asia services, such as kindergarten or school fees. In addition, accident design of our business processes. training topics, such as antitrust law or the Biesterfeld Code of and Latin America. This ensures they are paid fixed minimum insurance was introduced covering both work-and non-work Conduct. The Compliance Office’s web-based training courses prices and finances projects which benefit the local people in related incidents, which is not required under local law. are sorted by topic and sent to the employees concerned. This those countries. Fairtrade also forbids any forced labour and ensures that employees only receive the training they need, thus illegal child labour. The Fairtrade standards are regularly reviewed We set great store by the conservation of resources and support avoiding any information overload. These training courses are locally. the Brundtland Commission in its understanding of fair conduct mandatory and are completed by the management board and at towards other generations: “Sustainable development is management level as well as by all other employees of the We offer our customers in Great Britain recycled polypropylene. development that meets the needs of the present without Biesterfeld Group. Polypropylene is one of the most frequently used plastics. Its low compromising the needs of future generations.” density and good structural properties are used in a wide range In 2017, seven training courses, which were made available to 1 ( Taken from the Brundtland Commission’s “Our Common Future” report from 1987: of applications from packaging to the automotive industry. One “Sustainable development meets the needs of the present without compromising the our employees in German or English, were held for the first time. ability of future generations to meet their own needs.”) advantage of recycled polypropylene is that it consumes less The participation rate was 97%. We aim to reach and maintain total energy than producing new material. the 100% level in the coming years. 102-11, 302-4, 302-5, 414-2 102-16, 414-2 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 36 • Our sustainability concept 37 • Our sustainability concept Whistleblower system Immediate action will be taken when confirmed. Biesterfeld has Code of Conduct Biesterfeld has made a conscious decision to introduce a sourced its whistleblower system from Business Keeper AG, the Our Code of Conduct serves as the basis for our daily interaction whistleblower system in order to strengthen and further expand world’s only certified data protecting provider. Whistleblowers and as a focus for our activities. It regulates dealings with its compliance system and complaint management. This is can report any issues anonymously and securely using state-­ business partners and customers and contains Group-wide intended to protect against behaviour that could harm the of-the-art security and encryption techniques. The system’s standards and guidelines. The Code of Conduct is mandatory for company, helping to minimise possible risks. Anyone – whether technology protects anonymity, provided that no details which the entire Biesterfeld Group and is a prerequisite for any activity employees or external parties – can anonymously draw attention allow conclusions to be drawn about the person are entered. within the company. It is based on the core labour standards of to any grievances, punishable conduct or any special risks. The the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and international system, which is made available on the Group’s homepage, is guidelines such as the OECD and the United Nations. In addition, monitored by the Compliance Office. Every report is taken our Code of Conduct underpins our compliance with the law and seriously, immediately checked and tracked. prohibits any form of corruption, granting or gaining advantage. As our Code of Conduct sets out framework guidelines for our employees and they are required to adhere to these standards in their business dealings, violations of any of the principles are immediately appropriately sanctioned compliant with labour law. Information can be given on the following topics: Every employee receives regular training on the Code of Conduct • Corruption/competition offences and has direct access to the current version in German and • Incorrect accounting English via the Group-wide Intranet. Our Code of Conduct is also • Money laundering freely accessible on our Group homepage so that partners and • Fraud/Fidelity/Subversion customers can also read our business code. • Violation of data protection law • Risk/violation of environmental regulations • Violation of health and safety regulations (discrimination or harassment) • Potential damage/risks to the detriment of the company or a third party 102-16, 414-2 102-16, 414-2 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 38 • Our sustainability concept 39 • Our sustainability concept Integrated management system As quality is the top priority within our organisation, we therefore Our work and our performance are characterised by the high attach the highest value to our integrated management system. Integrated standards we set ourselves and which we achieve as a group. Our central quality officers work continuously on documenting Management System Our continuous ISO-9001 certification and the associated internal the processes in the company. We monitor our processes and and external audits bear witness to the multifarious and abovethe implementation of our management system in accordance board way we conduct ourselves. The entire activities of the with its standards through internal and external audits. Biesterfeld Group are therefore in a constant process of improvement and are consistently revised. Comprehensive The results of all audits, quality procedures and customer reviews Code of Conduct UN Global Compact Energy Compliance Management Management documentation and review of the work steps ensure compliance are summarised in the annual Management Report. Finally, the with all regulations, promote a more efficient process design and system is assessed to ensure its efficacy for the strategic direction Documentation Documentation act in accordance with requirements of customer and supplier. taken by the organisation. All management systems relevant to us, such as quality, Social Crisis and Disaster environmental, occupational, health, data protection, risk and Responsible Care Risk Management Responsibility Management crisis management, are integrated and consolidated within our company. When doing so, we refer to the international Documentation Documentation DIN EN ISO 9000 ff standard. Overall responsibility for our integrated management system remains with our management board. Supervisors in each business area are responsible for Environmental Occupational Good Distribution Protection Data Protection Health and Safety ensuring compliance. In this way, they ensure that all employees Prices Management Management understand and implement the system. Quality Management 102-16, 414-2 102-16 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 40 • Our sustainability concept 41 • Our sustainability concept GROWING SUCCESSFULLY! OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 42 • Our economic responsibility 43 • Our economic responsibility OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY One of the most important success factors of the Biesterfeld SALES SEGMENTATION OF THE Group is our customer focus. Our passion to fulfil and implement FOUR BUSINESS DIVISIONS, 2017 Thanks to our sustainable business model and our focus on specialised our customers’ wishes is reflected in their satisfaction and the loyalty they show to us. We focus on long-term partnerships and products and services, we were able to successfully continue our growth are always there for each of our partners. Your success is reflected in our success. path in 2017. 17% 5% We increased Group sales to EUR 1.2 billion in 2017 solely be considered in order to expand our business activities and SALES BY through organic growth and extended our operating result increase added value for our customers. This plan is based on REGION, 2017 significantly. the business development of previous years as well as the forecast development of the coming years. The managers of all 22% 56% We consistently and sustainably achieve our goals and the business units actively contribute to the preparation of the fiveassociated economic success. This is achieved through forward year plan and communicate the targets to their employees. planning, structured working methods, new perspectives and 23% above all through our reliable and committed employees. Our By keeping employees up to date with the latest business figures, risk management system prepares us for possible risks, such as they can compare results against targets and, if required, make those arising from climate change, which could cause bottlenecks the necessary provisions to best meet their future goals. Of 39% or failures in our supply chain. These risks can cause supply course, we also keep our investors comprehensively and regularly 3% bottlenecks in our supply chain or lead to discontinuation of informed on our economic development. In addition, we publish products. For example, we use the knowledge gained from risk the Group’s results of operations in the Bundesanzeiger (Federal WESTERN EUROPE  4% BIESTERFELD PLASTIC (EXCL. GERMANY) analysis to make our product portfolio future-proof. Gazette) in accordance with German commercial legislation. BIESTERFELD SPEZIALCHEMIE EASTERN EUROPE 7% BIESTERFELD INTERNATIONAL Every year we draw up a rolling five-year plan. This takes into AMERICA BIESTERFELD PERFORMANCE RUBBER account opportunities and challenges identified that need to ASIA 24% OTHER GERMANY 102-45, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 201-1, 201-2 102-45, 201-1, 201-2, BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 44 • Our economic responsibility 45 • Our economic responsibility Financial stability ECONOMIC INDICATORS FOR THE BIESTERFELD GROUP, 2015-2017* The Biesterfeld Group has a balanced financing structure. Our group of companies has a diversified portfolio both in terms of 2017 2016 2015 financing terms and financing partners, meaning, for example, that we can minimise interest rate and default risks. Sales 1,174,604 1,077,448 1,077,424 Our financing structure ensures a stable liquidity position, which sustainably supports the growth of the entire Group. It is oriented Operating costs 1,063,289 974,913 981,489 towards guaranteeing financial flexibility of the entire Group and minimising cost of capital at the same time. Various equity and Wages and other debt financing instruments are used for this purpose. The money 60,070 56,409 55,875 company benefits and capital markets are analysed on an ongoing basis to monitor and, if necessary, take advantage of market changes. Currency risks from exchange rate differences are covered by hedges. Payments to 23,067 17,118 19,276 financial backers Payments to 12,588 11,168 10,473 government (taxes) *  Figures in thousands of euros; there is no detailed profit and loss account; further economic data are presented in the Bundesanzeiger (Federal Gazette) 102-45, 201-1, 201-2 102-45, 201-1, 201-2 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 46 • Our economic responsibility 47 • Our economic responsibility HAND IN HAND FOR A FUTURE WORTH LIVING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 48 • Our environmental responsibility 49 • Our environmental responsibility Energy consumption at company headquarters in OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY All safety-related information is available on our corporate website as a further safe-use measure, ensuring that help is Hamburg, 2017* instantly available when needed. Energy consumption amounts to about 2,146 kWh per employee. For the conscious handling of non-renewable raw materials and the Compared to last year, this figure was reduced by about 16%. conscientious use of natural resources, it is of utmost importance to know, ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy sources FY kWh CO2 emisThe Biesterfeld headquarters in Hamburg has been using green sions in t observe and appropriately control corporate consumption. electricity for its energy supply since January 2017. We obtain Electricity 1,127 313,312 161 this climate-friendly energy from 100% environmentally friendly District heating 1,676 465,782 122 TRANSPARENCY sources from the Hamburg supplier LichtBlick SE. We have (for heating ENABLES US TO purposes) Both energy consumption within the organisation and direct and We are using state-of-the-art developments to use low-energy managed to avoid 133.15 tonnes of attributable CO2 emissions USE RESOURCES indirect emissions play a fundamental role. We deal transparently and advanced technologies that are in line with our values. We annually by switching from traditional electricity to green Total 2,803 779,049 283 CONSCIENTIOUSLY with our resource management and do our best to continuously help with the development of environmentally friendly products electricity. This reduces carbon dioxide consumption by more drive our group of companies on to more sustainable use of and inform our customers in this regard. than 12.1 tonnes compared with the national average for other * Figures have been rounded off resources. electricity producers. In particular, we ensure that when our products are used they are Energy consumption at the sites listed in the Biesterfeld faced up to its ecological responsibilities from the handled properly and safely. We offer the expertise of our trained Sustainability Report, 2017* first sustainability report and has been reporting on all energy and specialised employees at all times wherever our products Employee energy consumption at the specified sites is approx. and emission figures since then. We are committed to acting are used. We immediately inform our customers of any direct or 2,495 kWh. responsibly in the interests of conserving resources and to only indirect risks that may arise from our products. This is done at Energy sources FY kWh CO2 emisuse resources when essential. As a predominantly office-based the slightest suspicion of a possible hazard. Our close cooperation sions in t company, our direct influence is limited to conscientiously using with suppliers enables us to offer appropriate alternatives. In this energy, water and paper and the associated ambition to reduce context, our QSHE (Quality, Safety, Health and Environment) Electricity 4,931 1,369,863 703 these items. We were able to reduce paper consumption for pay department produces safety data sheets which are vital District heating 2,298 638,447 167 slips and holiday applications by digitising our human resources when using our products. These provide information and (for heating department processes. We plan to build on these successes by recommendations on handling any products purchased from us purposes) switching to electronic processes to replace and simplify the and are constantly updated by our trained specialists. Natural gas (for 627 174,172 35 hitherto manual travel expense claims processes. heating purposes) Total 7,856 2,182,482 905 * Figures have been rounded off. Heating costs for Great Britain are included in the costs of electricity as heating is via the air-conditioning system 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-4, 302-5 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 50 • Our environmental responsibility 51 • Our environmental responsibility GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Biesterfeld Group fleet comprises 85 company vehicles. Of In accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG2) and these, 14 are powered by diesel engines that meet the latest DIN EN ISO 14064, we have calculated our company-specific CO2 standards. emissions since 2014 and presented them in our annual report. Biesterfeld Group fleet, 2017* Greenhouse gas emissions are divided into the following categories: Fuel type Total consumption in Total consumption in CO2 emissions in t litres megajoules • Scope 1: all emissions arising directly in the company Diesel 164,747 6,092,344 541 Petrol 15,623 517,684 45 • Scope 2: all indirect emissions that companies incur by purchasing Total consumption 180,370 6,610,028 586 energy *Figures have been rounded off; all vehicles registered to the Hamburg headquarters • Scope 3: all indirect emissions resulting from business activities (transport of goods, business trips, employees’ journeys The emission consumption of employees on their journey to the to work) but not associated with the procurement of workplace amounts to approx. 0.8 tons of CO2 per working year. energy This is unchanged against the previous year. As a non-producing company, Scope 2 and 3 are particularly Means of transport by which employees travelled to work in Hamburg, 2017 relevant for us. Our CO2 emissions were determined using information from the GEMIS database. Means of transport Journey to/from work in km CO2 emissions in t per working per workday and employee* year** Bicycle 14 0 Long-distance train 102 7 Car 60 127 Local public transport 21 127 Total – 261 * Figures have been rounded off and specify the average distance per workday per employee ** The emission values are calculated by multiplying the number of kilometres travelled 2 Global standard for quantification, management and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions 305-3 305-3 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 52 • Our environmental responsibility 53 • Our environmental responsibility Business trips across the Biesterfeld Group, 2017* Environmental indicators, 2017 Aeroplane Distance in km CO2 emissions in t per year Compared to the previous year 2016 and the base year 2014 International flights 566,771 133 Domestic flights 3,298,076 503 Type of emissions CO2 in t 2017 CO2 in t 2016 CO2 in t 2014 Total 3,846,847 636 Scope 2 283 276 307 Energy consumption at the * Figures have been rounded off company headquarters Scope 3 586 398 436 Vehicle fleet Employees’ journeys to 261 254 287 Transport of goods across the Biesterfeld Group, 2017* work in Hamburg Business trips 636 719 614 Mode of transport Amount in t Average distance in CO2 emissions in t per km year Transport of goods 49,755 20,548 19,169 Road 348,671 290 5,083 Inland navigation 35,181 1,775 2,135 We have recorded increases in our consumption this year due to innovative solutions and reduce our energy consumption and vessels our company expansion and the associated increase in the emissions. We have been able to reduce the number of business Seagoing vessels 90,587 13,522 14,832 number of employees. We will continue our efforts to seek trips by using the latest technologies. Air freight 4,062 8,731 27,630 Rail 4,000 500 75 * Quantity and distances determined from the ERP system; the values are based on Germany-related deliveries (incoming and outgoing); the figures were rounded off 305-3 305-3 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 54 • Our environmental responsibility 55 • Our environmental responsibility WE ARE HONEST AND FAIR! OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 56 • Our social responsibility 57 • Our social responsibility WE AT BIESTERFELD New hires by age group, 2017* up to Our employees’ individuality makes us unique. 29 23 15 30-49 27 34 Biesterfeld employees worldwide are committed to customer Creating a fair and pleasant working environment is second 50 and 4 5 over and supplier satisfaction using their professional expertise and nature to us and we strive to achieve this every day. Respectful Female Male commitment. They embody and act according to the corporate interaction and mutual trust are immensely important here. This values and the Biesterfeld culture and carry these out into the enables us as a group to interact with our partners as a wellworld. rehearsed team and convince them of our capabilities. OUR EMPLOYEES All employees work together as an interface between producer As a traditional family business, Biesterfeld has always promoted New hires by region, 2017* Workforce by gender, 2017* ARE THE HEART and customer for mutual success, available to both sides as the compatibility of family and career right from the start. In skilled contact persons thanks to their experience and expertise. today’s world in particular, there are many ways to guarantee OF OUR employees a good balance between family and career. Based on COMPANY. 18 Our employees are always in the center of all Biesterfeld Group our various working models, every employee can have a secure forward planning. For us, sustainability means retaining our workplace with us, best suited to their needs. In this respect we employees and their knowledge, experience and skills in the make no distinction between the possibilities on offer for fullFull-time: 324 Full-time: 401 108 56 856 company in the long term. Each and every one of us contributes time and part-time staff or those with fixed-term and permanent Part-time: 101 Part-time: 30 to our mutual success. We therefore attach great importance to contracts. We are guided by the collective agreement for 34 our social responsibility and offer our employees a varied wholesale and foreign trade in Hamburg, but offer a lot more incentive system based on successful business results. than this standard. Germany Europe excl. Germany Asia Female Male * Headcount: Number of employees 102-8, 102-41, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 401-2, 404-2 102-8, 401-1, 404-2 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 58 • Our social responsibility 59 • Our social responsibility TRAINING AND FURTHER DEVELOPMENT Employee loyalty plays an important role with us. We train our employees and offer them a range of training consolidate their theoretical knowledge and gain the best opportunities so that they can expand their experience and possible overview of the activities and functions of an international consolidate their knowledge. This includes in-house training company. We promote this by having our trainees work in various courses, departmental training courses or workshops with fields of operation. This gives them the opportunity to identify external providers. Our newly introduced e-learning tool their strengths, work on their weaknesses and further develop encompasses all the channels relevant to us to expand the their interests. Every trainee has a work mentor at their side. We knowledge of our employees. stand out as a training company because we include every trainee as a fully-fledged employee from the outset. We take Biesterfeld attaches great importance to training and further their suggestions seriously and integrate them completely into education. We always strive to ensure that the common path we the work environment, giving them the freedom they need to be take with our employees is as long and consistent as possible. able to develop independently. Only in this way can we succeed in acquiring expert knowledge and pass on as much experience as possible from our longThe enthusiasm that young people show in starting their careers standing employees to young employees. with us is testament to our solid reputation for nurturing young professionals. Taken as an annual average, we had 26 apprentices In 2017, Biesterfeld started new university cooperations with the in the world of distribution, which is very beneficial for their We attach particular importance to the support and promotion in the company in 2017. Seven apprentices successfully HSBA in Hamburg and in particular with the Osnabrück University degree. We support young students and give them the opportunity of young talent right from the start to ensure sustainable completed their training and six of them started their career of Applied Sciences. We offer students on the “Bachelor in to fully devote themselves to their learning. This involves us in development of our company. We offer young professionals with us immediately afterwards. Plastics Technology” course the opportunity to receive a German training a new generation of plastics technicians right from the opportunities such as in-house training, dual courses of study scholarship subsidised by Biesterfeld from the third semester very start. or scholarships. Practical company tasks enable trainees to onwards. This gives the students valuable and practical experience 102-8, 404-2 404-2 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 60 • Our social responsibility 61 • Our social responsibility BIESTERFELD SOCIAL BENEFITS Our employees can benefit from a massage service for relaxation Our social benefits at a glance and to reduce stress. External masseurs offer their services at the We are always honest and fair as an employer. company headquarters every week. We are not only sporting in work hours: Ergonomic There are many activities outside the daily office routine to Accident insurance office furniture We offer a wide range of benefits to increase our employees’ Working flexibly and progressively: encourage social contact between Biesterfeld employees. Our satisfaction and more than just meet their expectations. We trust our employees and offer them the freedom they need to employees can prove their team spirit and face challenges go about their work. Flexible working hours and working from together at various sporting events, whether at running events After all, we are aware that a fair and competitive salary alone home options are part of our working models. Our office spaces such as the Hamburg MOPO Team Relay Race, the Hamburg is not enough to guarantee the long-term satisfaction of our are equipped with state-of-the-art technology which meet the Triathlon or the annual Hamburg EuroEyes CYCLASSICS. In Profit Training Subsidised Annual employees. It is also important to create an environment in which latest safety standards. We regularly inspect the workplace to addition to this, we have an arrangement with a fitness studio sharing opportunities canteen company party our employees feel comfortable and enjoy their work. maintain these standards. meaning our employees in Germany have the opportunity to balance out their daily work routine in a fitness studio at a With this in mind, we have various things to offer: Health first: reduced monthly fee. Flexible Health The health of our employees is very important to us. We therefore working schemes Taking care of peoples’ physical well-being: always take care to prevent possible risks that could arise from hours Employees at our company headquarters have a canteen with working activities. fresh, healthy and varied dishes for different tastes. A 50% Mobile Possibility subsidy allows employees to eat cheaply and return to work well We offer ergonomic office furniture, such as height-adjustable Travel subsidies Pension of working massage service nourished. We also have kitchen areas with fully automatic coffee tables and back-supporting chairs. We also pay the cost of screenschemes from home machines and water dispensers on every floor. working glasses if these are required after an eye test. We offer annual eye tests and flu vaccinations at our Hamburg headquarters. Every employee has the option to take advantage Kitchenettes Sports of these offers free of charge. with drinks competitions on all floors 102-8, 401-2, 404-2 102-8, 401-2, 404-2 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 62 • Our social responsibility 63 • Our social responsibility OUR SOCIAL COMMITMENT KEY EMPLOYEE FIGURES, 2017 It goes without saying for us that we go beyond the boundaries of our own By employment contract* Female Male Total Headcount in % business activities and act in accordance with our values. Temporary contract 9 18 27 5.2 Permanent contract 254 242 496 94.8 Along these lines, we support a number of carefully selected Parental leave* Female Male Total Headcount in % organisations and sponsor charitable projects. Entitled to parental leave 31 7 38 7.3 For example, this year’s donations made during our golf tournament have enabled us to support the “Start with a Friend” Actually took it 29 7 36 6.9 association, which is an initiative committed to integrating Returned to work with a period refugees into our society and is currently establishing a regional of employment of at least 13 3 16 3.1 base in Hamburg. Part of the donation was used for the 12 months association’s first Hamburg summer festival where 120 guests enjoyed a relaxed get-together on a fine day. Visitors, both big Return rate in reporting period 45% 43% 44% and – in particular – small enjoyed a tombola, an ice cream van, a photomobile and numerous games. The evening ended on a Trainees** Female Male Total relaxed note for everyone with dancing and live music. Apprentices offered positions 4 2 6 Our donation of 10,000 supported the “Thank you” campaign * Values apply to the locations considered in the report launched by the Hamburger Abendblatt evening newspaper. ** Figures only apply to Germany This initiative was an expression of thanks to the police force who travelled from all over Germany to protect the G-20 summit. As a family business, we want to make a positive contribution to The donations are intended to show visitors a cosmopolitan, social development together with our employees. liberal and endearing Hamburg and not just another aggressive city. 401-3 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 64 • Our social responsibility 65 • Our social responsibility WE ARE WELL PREPARED FOR THE FUTURE OUR FUTURE PERSPECTIVE BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 66 • Our future perspective 67 • Our future perspective OUR FUTURE PERSPECTIVE We face the challenges that the future holds and make the most of potential through innovative projects that can be carried out with our sustainable thinking. We will consistently pursue our defined goals in order to continue We will implement new legislation and directives through policies reducing our ecological footprint and strengthening our and internal guidelines. commitment to sustainable corporate management. We regularly review the requirements placed on us by our stakeholders and We are pursuing our “One Biesterfeld” strategic approach in all actively monitor their global impact on the market. our measures and goals and are working even more closely with all our divisions to realise synergies. We will always strive to find We will conduct more targeted surveys of our partners on a good balance between long-standing proven methods and compliance and sustainability issues in the coming years. We innovative approaches. will train our employees on these topics and keep our stakeholders informed. Together with our employees, partners and stakeholders, The future in our sights, family tradition in our hearts. we want to make the world a better place to live. Our next sustainability report will be published in 2019. Furthermore, we will become more involved in sustainable initiatives and do good for the environment with our commitment. 308-1, 414-1 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 68 • Our future perspective 69 • Our future perspective GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI standard Disclosures Page/URL Omission Comments Continued 102-10 P. 18-21 GRI content index in accordance with the “Core” option. The GRI 102: Significant changes in the organisation Sustainability Report was checked internally and not submitted General Disclosures 2016 and its supply chain for external review. 102-11 P. 26 Precautionary Principle or approach P. 36 P. 22-25 102-12 GRI standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission Comments P. 28 External initiatives P. 35 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 102-13 P. 22-25 GENERAL DISCLOSURES Membership of associations GRI 102: 102-1 P. 5 102-14 P. 6-7 General Disclosures 2016 Name of the organisation Statement from the senior decision-maker 102-2 P. 14-15 P. 6-7 102-16 Activities, brands, products and services P. 18-19 P. 10-11 Values, principles, standards and norms P. 22 102-3 P. 5 of behavior P. 37-41 Location of headquarters 102-18 P. 10-11 102-4 P. 16-17 Governance structure Location of operations 102-40 P. 23 102-5 P. 10 List of stakeholder groups Ownership and legal form P. 76 102-41 P. 58 102-6 P. 14-19 Collective bargaining agreements Markets served 102-42 P. 22-25 102-7 P. 4 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Scale of the organisation P. 14-17 102-43 P. 22-25 102-8 P. 4 P. 14-15 Approach to stakeholder engagement Information on employees and other workers P. 58-60 102-45 P. 16-17 P. 62-63 Entities included in the consolidated P. 44-47 102-9 P. 18-21 financial statements Supply chain 102-55, 102-56 102-55 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 70 • GRI content index 71 • GRI content index GRI standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission Comments GRI standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission Comments Continued 102-46 P. 28-31 KEY TOPICS GRI 102: Defining report content and topic Economic Standards General Disclosures 2016 Boundaries GRI 103: 103-1 P. 44 102-47 P. 30-31 Management Approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its List of material topics Boundary 102-48 P. 5 103-2 P. 44 Restatements of information P. 28-31 The management approach and its 102-49 P. 5 components Changes in reporting P. 28-31 103-3 P. 44 102-50 P. 5 Evaluation of the management approach Reporting period P. 28-31 GRI 201: 201-1 P. 44-47 102-51 P. 5 Economic Performance 2016 Direct economic value generated and Date of most recent report P. 28-31 distributed 102-52 P. 5 201-2 P. 34-35 Reporting cycle P. 28-31 Financial implications and other risks and P. 44-47 102-53 P. 76 opportunities due to climate change Contact point for questions regarding the Environmental Standards report 102-54 P. 28 GRI 103: 103-1 P. 50-51 Claims of reporting in accordance with Management Approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its the GRI Standards Boundary 102-55 P. 70-75 103-2 P. 50-51 GRI content index The management approach and its components 102-56 P. 70 External assurance 103-3 P. 50-51 Evaluation of the management approach 102-55 102-55 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 72 • GRI content index 73 • GRI content index GRI standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission Comments GRI standard Disclosure Page/URL Omission Comments GRI 302: 302-1 P. 51 Continued 401-2 P. 58 Energy 2016 Energy consumption within the GRI 401: Benefits provides to full-time employees P. 62-63 organisation Employment 2016 that are not provided to temporary or 302-3 P. 51 part-time employees Energy intensity 401-3 P. 65 302-4 P. 36 Parental leave Reduction of energy consumption P. 50-51 GRI 404: 404-2 P. 58-63 302-5 P. 36 Training and Education 2016 Programs for upgrading employee skills Reduction of energy requirements for P. 50-51 and transition assistance programs products and services GRI 414: 414-1 P. 35 GRI 305: 305-3 P. 52-54 Supplier Social Assessment New suppliers that were screened using P. 68 Emissions 2016 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 2016 social criteria GRI 308: 308-1 P. 35 414-2 P. 34-40 Supplier Environmental New suppliers that were screened using P. 68 Negative social impacts in the supply Assesment environmental criteria chain and actions taken Social Standards 103-1 P. 58 GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and its Management Approach 2016 Boundary 103-2 The management approach and its P. 58 components 103-3 P. 58 Evaluation of the management approach 401-1 GRI 401: New employee hires and employee P. 59 Employment 2016 turnover 102-55 102-55 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 BIESTERFELD GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT – 2017 74 • GRI content index 75 • GRI content index PUBLICATION DETAILS Published by Biesterfeld AG Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg, Germany Management board: Thomas Arnold (Chairman), Carsten Harms, Christian Wolfsohn Chairman of the supervisory board: Dirk J. Biesterfeld Headquarters: Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht) HRB 90396 VAT ID no. DE 813 983 617 Responsible Biesterfeld ChemLogS GmbH Ferdinandstrasse 41 20095 Hamburg, Germany CEOs: Jens-Uwe Pietrock, Christian Wolfsohn Headquarters: Hamburg Local Court (Amtsgericht) HRB 102258 VAT ID no. DE 2565 2165 9 General queries Corporate Communications Department E-mail: communications@biesterfeld.com Further information is available on our Tel.: +49 40 32008-374 website at www.biesterfeld.com. Sustainability relations © 2018 Biesterfeld AG Khojesta Rahbari Reprints, including excerpts, are only possible with the E-mail: k.rahbari@biesterfeld.com publisher’s written permission and must be furnished Tel.: +49 40 32008-780 with the image and text reference “Biesterfeld AG”. 102-5, 102-53
