2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Thai Union Group Public Company Limited CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD thaiunion.com OUR VISION To be the world’s most trusted seafood leader, caring for our resources to nurture generations to come. OUR MISSION To be the seafood industry’s leading agent of change, making a real positive difference to our consumers, our customers and the way the category is managed. TABLE OF CONTENTS 01 ABOUT THIS REPORT 6 02 LETTER FROM OUR CEO 12 03 THAI UNION AT A GLANCE 16 04 SUSTAINABILITY AT THAI UNION 34 05 SAFE AND LEGAL LABOR 58 06 RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 66 07 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS 82 08 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES 100 09 PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 120 10 GRI CONTENT INDEX AND UNGC COP 128 ABOUT THIS REPORT 01 This report details our 2017 performance against key performance indicators and targets outlined in our sustainability strategy, SeaChange®. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8 G4-18 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is the fifth sustainability report that Thai Union has made publicly available. This report details our annual performance from January through December 2017 against key performance indicators and targets outlined in our sustainability strategy, SeaChange®. Our previous report, Sustainability Report 2016, was issued in June 2017. To make our annual sustainability reports and data more accessible, we will continue publishing it in an increasing range of formats. In addition to a traditional print version and online version, we will continue to make the report available as an eBook and on Kindle. This report was prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines version G4 and its Food Processing Sector Supplement (FPSS). The report conforms to the GRI Guidelines at the “Core” option. In keeping with the intent of the GRI Guidelines, we have focused on four key elements of the G4 approach, as described below. PRINCIPLES FOR DEFINING REPORT CONTENT Determining the content of this report began by understanding the impacts of our value chain on different stakeholders, including suppliers, customers, governments, local communities and civil society. Next, we engaged external experts and our global leadership team for their insights. The report addresses items of significant interest to stakeholders important to Thai Union’s business strategy. In conducting the analysis of internal and external environments, we abided by the four GRI G4 principles: sustainability context, materiality, completeness and stakeholder inclusiveness. Thai Union conducts a formal materiality assessment on a regular basis to identify and prioritize our primary sustainability issues. These issues reflect Thai Union’s significant economic, environmental and social impacts, as well as our stakeholders’ interests. Our materiality assessment process is detailed in the Material Issues section of this report. 9 DEFINING REPORTING QUALITY The G4 Guidelines define reporting quality through a set of quality aspects: balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. We have taken numerous actions to meet these: • We continue to improve the quality of information in our sustainability reports and we publish them in a timely manner, so our stakeholders can effectively integrate the information in their decision making. • We value the opinion of our stakeholders, including employees, local communities and interest groups, non-governmental organizations, customers, suppliers and contractors. In preparing our report, we listen and respond to stakeholder feedback to help ensure the information we report is balanced and reliable. • We are moving toward more efficient and effective operations with minimum adverse social and environmental impacts along the entire value chain. As a participant in the United Nations (UN) Global Compact, this report also serves as our annual Communication on Progress (COP) to stakeholders. The COP reports our progress in implementing the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact within our sphere of influence as well as our progress in supporting the environmental and social responsibilities of the broader UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The report’s content has been reviewed and approved by the leadership of relevant business units at Thai Union and our Sustainability Committee. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 TRACE MY REPORT Traceability is the backbone of sustainability. With Because traceability is so important, Thai Union is full traceability in place, it will enable Thai Union to now introducing “Trace My Report” in the company’s identify, investigate and improve upon key issues in 2017 Sustainability Report. To learn more about how our supply chain from catch to consumption. the print version of this report was produced, visit www.seachangesustainability.org/trace-my-report. 100% SOURCING RECYCLED PAPER POST-CONSUMER CERTIFIED FSC® 100% WASTE PROCESSING TOTAL CHLORINE AND HEAVY METAL FREE PACKAGING SUPPORTING AND TRANSPORT SUSTAINABILITY ECO-RESPONSIBLE RECYCLED PAPER SAVES NATURAL RESOURCES 11 RECYCLED PAPER SUPPORTING SUSTAINABILITY Certified FSC® 100 percent recycled and made The lifecycle of recycled paper can be repeated entirely from post-consumer fiber. 4-5 times before the cellulose fibers which form a sheet of paper become too short for papermaking. SOURCING Recycled paper supports sustainability in a number The post-consumer waste was mainly collected of ways: from office recycling bins in and around Paris to produce recycled pulp before manufacturing. • Reduces wood consumption: using 1 ton of The sorted waste was collected by recycling recycled paper can save equivalent to 1,500 kg of specialists and organizations which sort various wood; types of paper according to whiteness and • Uses less energy: using 1 ton of recycled paper can composition. It was then sent in bales to save equivalent to 2,115 kWh of electricity; the Greenfield Plant, a sorted office waste paper recycling plant in Château-Thierry, to produce • Produces lower carbon emissions: using 1 ton of recycled pulp before being manufactured at recycled paper can save equivalent to 124 kg CO2; the Bessé-sur-Braye Mill located at Bessé-sur-Braye, • Uses less water: using 1 ton of recycled paper can southwest of Paris. save equivalent to 36,000 liters of water; • Reduces waste to landfill: using 1 ton of recycled PROCESSING paper can save equivalent to 923 kg of landfill; The report is total chlorine and heavy metal free. The recycled waste paper underwent cleaning loops • Recycling creates up to 10 times more jobs in designed to effectively de-ink the paper without comparison to sending waste to landfill. the use of chlorine. The process complies with new REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization The use of 100 percent recycled paper supports and Restriction of Chemical Substances) European Thai Union’s packaging commitment to ensure Community Regulation, created to enhance 100 percent of our branded packaging is reusable, protection of human health and environment from recyclable or compostable by 2025, by supporting the risks which can be posed from chemicals. No the development of markets for recycled product to substance classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic close the recycling loop. or reprotoxic is used as raw materials. One ton of post-consumer waste paper can be used as raw material to produce as much as 650 kg of recycled pulp. ECO-RESPONSIBLE PACKAGING AND TRANSPORT The majority of the packaging material used, such as ream wrapper, shrink film or plastic banding, is recyclable. The paper was transported in accordance to the paper manufacturer’s (Arjowiggins Graphic) eco-responsible policy, optimizing logistics and with consideration of environmental issues, i.e. minimizing distances between raw material, mills and customers, encouraging eco-driving to decrease fuel consumption, shifting volumes to rail and sea transport wherever possible. LETTER FROM OUR CEO 02 Today, more than ever, Thai Union has fully embraced our role as a leader for positive change. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14 LETTER FROM OUR CEO This year represented a very important milestone for Thai Union as we celebrated our 40th anniversary. From very humble beginnings, Thai Union was fortunate to experience extraordinary growth and success. Now we are a global seafood leader supplying household brands around the world. However, becoming a global business means increased global responsibilities—particularly “WE FIRMLY POSITION regarding sustainable development. It is clear sustainability issues facing the seafood and fishing industry SUSTAINABILITY AT have changed dramatically since our founding 40 THE HEART OF OUR years ago. BUSINESS STRATEGY Global fish consumption has risen significantly. It is a rich source of easily digested and high-quality WITH SEACHANGE®, protein, providing essential nutrients and vitamins for A STRATEGIC billions. Countless families around the world depend upon the oceans for their economic livelihoods. APPROACH DESIGNED Furthermore, modern consumers want to know where the food on their plates come from and desire TO TRANSFORM to have the confidence it meets the highest quality THE WAY THE INDUSTRY and sustainability standards. OPERATES WORLDWIDE.” Industry, governments, NGOs and other stakeholders must come together to meet the protein needs of the global population in a way that is sustainable and protects our oceans now and for future generations; 15 confirms workers are safe, legally employed and Thai Union made progress on our tuna commitment empowered; and ensures vessels are legal and to source 100 percent of our branded tuna from operate responsibly. fisheries that are Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certified or engaged in Fishery Improvement Today, more than ever, Thai Union has fully embraced Projects (FIPs). This entails a commitment to invest our role as a leader for positive change. We firmly USD $90 million in initiatives to increase the supply position sustainability at the heart of our business of sustainable tuna, including 11 new FIPs. strategy with SeaChange®, a strategic approach designed to transform the way the industry operates We committed to the World Economic Forum’s worldwide. Tuna 2020 Traceability Declaration, which supports the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We also signed a groundbreaking pledge as part of our membership in the Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship to improve operations, “I am incredibly proud of our challenging the rest of the seafood industry to follow, all with the goal of helping the world achieve sustainability efforts in 2017. the SDGs. And the world took notice, too.” Additionally, Thai Union launched an innovative digital traceability pilot program. We successfully installed marine terminals on fishing vessels in Thailand, while the crew members, captains and fleet owners were We consider SeaChange® a journey covering every trained on chat applications that enable them to aspect of the business: from how we look after connect with their families and peers around the oceans to how we manage our waste; from the world while at sea—an industry first for Thai fisheries. the responsibility we take for our workers to building brighter futures for our communities. These represent only a few highlights of our recent sustainability successes, all of which would not be Thai Union’s 2017 Sustainability Report outlines how possible without the hard work and dedication of we are fulfilling our mission to be the world’s most Thai Union’s employees around the world. As our trusted seafood leader, through four key programs company looks toward the next 40 years, I fully within SeaChange®: expect our people to remain at the forefront of the industry as leading agents of change. • Safe and Legal Labor • Responsible Sourcing On behalf of the entire Thai Union team, I invite you • Responsible Operations to read this report and learn how we are changing • People and Communities seafood for good. I am incredibly proud of our sustainability efforts in 2017. And the world took notice, too. Thai Union was named to the Dow Jones SustainSincerely, ability Index Emerging Markets for the fourth straight year with industry Best-in-Class 100th percentile rankings for Climate Strategy, Materiality, Human Capital Development, Health and Nutrition, Water Related Risks, and Policy Influence. Building upon SeaChange®, Thai Union entered into Thiraphong Chansiri a joint agreement with Greenpeace to commit to Chief Executive Officer more sustainable, socially responsible seafood— Thai Union acknowledging a shared vision for healthy seas now and for future generations. THAI UNION AT A GLANCE 03 Thai Union is a global seafood leader with ambitious growth goals and a dedication to sustainability and innovation. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18 SEAFOOD SOURCING LOCATIONS  61 31 34 77 71 41 47 51 57 81 81 ȹˏ  ˏˏ     18 67 27 61 61 34 71     57 ˏȹˏ *Reference: www.fao.org/fishery/area/search/en 19     ˏ  21 ȼˏ1( ˏ+ ˏ %*!ȑˏȐȐ ȼˏ1( ˏ+ ˏ0Ȑˏ 3.!*!ȑˏ* ˏ ȼˏ.%*!ˏ 3. ˏ /(* ȑˏ*  ˏȹˏ ˏ ȩˏ ˏ  ˏ  ȩˏ  ˏ ˏ 71 ȼˏ+2ˏ+0%ȑˏ*  ȼˏ!3 +1* (* ȑˏ*  ȼˏ1( ˏ+ ˏ0Ȑˏ 3.!*!ȑˏ*  ˏȹˏ ˏ THAI UNION’S FOOTPRINT Brands/Corporate Office/Sales/Key Joint Venture and Associated Companies ATLANTIC OCEAN PACIFIC OCEAN 3 1 4 3 2 1 15 LEGEND Brands Corporate Office/Sales 7 6 5 8 9 10 1 Chicken of the Sea, USA 1 EI Segundo, CA, USA 2 John West, UK 2 Lake Success, NY, USA 3 Parmentier, France 3 Portsmouth, NH, USA 4 Petit Navire, France 4 Shediac, Canada 5 MerAlliance, France 5 Milan, Italy 6 King Oscar, Norway 6 Paris, France 7 Rügen Fisch, Germany 7 Liverpool, UK 8 Mareblu, Italy 8 Svolvear, Norway 9 SEALECT, Thailand 9 Bangkok, Thailand 10 FISHO, Thailand 10 Shanghai, China PACIFIC OCEAN 11 Qfresh, Thailand 12 Monori, Thailand Key Joint Venture/ 13 Bellotta, Thailand Associated Companies 14 Marvo, Thailand 1 Dubai, UAE 15 US Pet, USA 2 Hyderabad, India 3 Orlando, FL, USA 4 Andhra Pradesh, India 6 7 1 4 2 2 3 9 10 11 INDIAN OCEAN 4 5 8 12 13 14 Brands Corporate Office/Sales Joint Venture THAI UNION’S FOOTPRINT Production Location/Innovation Center/ R&D Center 5 2 15 7 6 16 17 ATLANTIC OCEAN PACIFIC OCEAN 1 PACIFIC OCEAN 13 9 14 8 1 2 4 3 INDIAN OCEAN 12 11 10 LEGEND Production Location Innovation Center/R&D Center 1 Lyons, Georgia 1 Douarnenez, France 2 Quimper, France 2 Bangkok, Thailand 3 Peniche, Portugal 4 Tema, Ghana 5 Dingwall, UK 6 Svolvear, Norway 7 Gniewino, Poland 8 Bydgoszcz, Poland 9 Mahé, Seychelles 10 Long An, Vietnam 11 Samut Sakhon, Thailand 12 Songkhla, Thailand 13 New Brunswick, Canada 14 Lübeck-Schlutup, Germany 15 Sassnitz, Germany 16 Rostock, Germany 17 Kretinga, Lithuania Production Location Innovation Center/R&D Center THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24 2017 NET SALES Breakdown by Category Distribution by Market Ambient Seafood USA 6% 13% 41% 38% Thailand Frozen, Chilled Seafood and 32% Related Business Others 46% 10% Europe 14% PetCare, Value Added and Japan Other Business FISHERY SUPPLY CHAIN Wild Capture Production Sales Distribution Large Scale Retailers/Restaurants Mini Marts Consumers Buyers 25 AQUACULTURE SUPPLY CHAIN Other Ingredients ~~ 90% Wild Capture ~~ 10% Feed Mill Farm ~~ 10% Production Hatchery Sales Distribution LargeScale Retailers/Restaurants Mini Marts Consumers Buyers THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26 OUR BRAND PORTFOLIO With brands across North America, Europe, and Asia and the Pacific, Thai Union’s vast selection of shelf-stable, chilled and frozen foods and related products makes mealtimes delicious, dynamic, easy and healthy for millions of families worldwide. Our portfolio of consumer-favorite brands has a global reach, and is built on local insights and market preferences that inform product development. Through strategic mergers and acquisitions, our family of brands is expanding our market share across the world; and our commitment to innovation, sustainable growth, quality and consistency facilitates our brands’ competitive advantage. 27 NORTH AMERICA CHICKEN OF THE SEA GENOVA AND CHICKEN OF THE SEA FROZEN FOODS The rich, savory taste of Genova premium tuna is central to many Chicken of the Sea began as inspired dishes because of its a California-based fish canning distinct, delicious taste and company in 1914 and, over texture. Genova is so simple and the decades, the iconic mermaid incredible on its own, take just image and brand have become one bite and it will ignite a passion a household name. More than a for more. Exquisite premium tuna century later, Chicken of the Sea and extraordinary taste make is synonymous with health, Genova simply fulfilling. nutrition and convenience, offering a variety of products including shrimp, lobster, salmon, crab and, of course, tuna. In 2015, Chicken of the Sea was the largest U.S. seafood company by revenue, and the top importer of frozen shrimp and pasteurized crabmeat in the U.S. Ensuring a healthy supply of seafood for future generations is imperative to both Chicken of the Sea and its consumers. Over the past century, Chicken of the Sea has pioneered responsible sourcing initiatives including the Dolphin-Safe Policy, Shark Finning Ban, and a partnership with the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 EUROPE JOHN WEST PETIT NAVIRE PARMENTIER John West is the number one Since its launch in 1932, Petit Parmentier is the number one Everyday Fish brand in Navire has established itself as premium canned sardine brand the UK and Ireland. At John West, an everyday part of French in France. Since 1883, Parmentier we have been selling fish people’s lives, and has over 90 and its fabulous small yellow cans since 1857. It is our passion percent brand recognition in have established the brand as to develop category-leading France. Petit Navire is the leading the king of whole sardines. innovation that meets consumers’ brand of tuna, known for its Keeping true to its history and needs for taste, quality and high quality standards and legacy while continuously convenience. dedication to innovation. modernizing and innovating Petit Navire offers consumers products, Parmentier remains a large variety of tasty a French household favorite, products prepared with natural recognized as the expert in ingredients and flavorful sardines. simplicity, meeting the demands of today’s hectic lifestyles. 29 EUROPE (CONTINUED) KING OSCAR MAREBLU RÜGEN FISCH King Oscar is the number one Mareblu is a historical brand in Rügen Fisch has grown its premium sardine brand in the U.S., the Italian tuna market, founded in business since 1949 to become Norway and Australia, while its the early 1970s. the leading seafood company in premium mackerel line is number Germany, representing one in Poland. In 1902, King Thanks to the focus on quality a powerful house of ambient and Oscar II of Norway and Sweden and innovation, Mareblu is known chilled seafood brands. granted special royal permission as the only tuna brand in Italy These include brands for to use his name and portrait on produced directly where the tuna shelf-stable canned seafood a brand of Norwegian sardines. is caught. In Italian, the slogan products such as Rügen Fisch Over 110 years, King Oscar has reads: ‘Il tonno lavorato sul luogo and Hawesta – a historic brand offered its discerning consumers di pesca’. This fully integrated founded in 1909, along with the finest premium sardines and process results in a product of brands for chilled products such seafood sourced from the highest standards in taste, as Ostsee Fisch (smoked salmon the Norwegian sea and other quality and nutrition. products) and Lysell (canned corners of the world. premium seafood). Mareblu is the second player by volume and by value in the canned seafood market, offering a complete range of products: tuna (in oil, in brine, no drain, “light” and ventresca); mackerels (in oil, in brine, flavored); tuna and salmon salads; tuna, mackerel and salmon sliced and mixed with tasty ingredients; and sardines. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 ASIA-PACIFIC SEALECT FISHO KING OSCAR SEALECT in Thailand is present Fisho is a fish-based snacking King Oscar is a high-end in the tuna, sardine and mackerel brand. It is available in various Norwegian sardine, mackerel and categories. convenient formats like strips, cod liver brand. It was launched in sheets and sticks. It is very Thailand in 2016 and has become In tuna, the brand has grown since popular among teenagers and a brand of choice among food 1992 to become the number one young adults who enjoy the taste connoisseurs who use it as tuna brand in Thailand by virtue and love the idea of snacking an ingredient in their favorite of market share. SEALECT offers without guilt. As snacking is a dishes and also on its own. consumers canned tuna with very dynamic category, Fisho premium quality, taste, nutritional continues to launch exciting value and product varieties, new products and flavors from making it the most sought after time to time to stay relevant and tuna brand. The brand continues keep meeting evolving consumer to innovate to stay up-to-date needs. with changing consumer and market trends. In sardines and mackerel, SEALECT offers good quality fish in original sauces and is part of the main meal for many Thai households. 31 ASIA-PACIFIC (CONTINUED) QFRESH MONORI BELLOTTA AND MARVO Qfresh presents our strong desire Monori sea-snack products are Bellotta and Marvo offer a good to provide “FRESH QUALITY” packed with flavor and nutrients, balance of taste and nutrition to with a wide range of the finest made with the finest shrimp enhance the health and happiness essentials for your culinary cheeks, carefully cooked in of our beloved furry family delights. Our prime selected the purest rice bran oil, and baked members. products have journeyed from to crunchy perfection. The brand sustainable natural sources and focuses on providing high-quality In 2017, Bellotta and Marvo are freshly crafted, stored to sea-snack products for continued to build consumer capture freshness, nutrition and consumers everywhere. Made engagement through signature savory. Treat your health with fresh, great tasting well-received pet events in with a delicious gift from nature. sustainable seafood, and using Thailand such as the Pet Expo dedicated innovation, we offer and the Thailand Dog & Cat Show. Qfresh offers ready-to-cook flavorful, nutritious and tasty and ready-to-eat products, goodness. Brand roadshows were also rolled including Chinese-style dim sum. out to key pet shops to maintain Consumers can enjoy fresh the momentum at the point-ofquality seafood that is affordable, purchase level throughout convenient and nutritious. We Thailand. focus on production and storage innovation, as well as modern delivery methods, to ensure freshness, original flavor, and safety for our consumers. It certainly has been an incredible year for ¤ edie Sustainability ¤ Stock Exchange Thai Union, full of tremendous achievements in Leaders Awards of Thailand 2017 sustainability. We have embraced our role as Leader of the Year Outstanding a leader for positive change as one of the largest Winner Sustainability Award seafood companies in the world. This means putting sustainability at the heart of our business. We worked ¤ SEAL Business ¤ Stock Exchange everyday in 2017 to ensure the company values Sustainability Awards of Thailand 2017 we embrace are being translated into real and for Organizational Thailand Sustainability demonstrable change for good, and it is an honor to Impact 2017 Winner Investment Index be recognized as sustainable development leaders. ¤ Asia Corporate ¤ Named to Dow Jones And while it is great to be recognized, we also see Excellence & Sustainability Index that we are on a journey and there are always ways to Sustainability Awards further improve. Top CSR Advocates ¤ Winner Looking ahead, Thai Union will continue to make progress and maintain our focus on collaboration to address the sustainability challenges confronting the global seafood industry. This includes everything from digital traceability, providing worker connectivity at sea and addressing hunger through food donations, to educating children and providing nutritional information to our local communities. We are also working across industries because the challenges faced by the seafood industry, such as human rights and safe migration, are not unique to seafood. Named to FTSE4Good PublicAffairsAsia ¤ Asia Sustainability ¤ Asia Sustainability Emerging Index Gold Standard Awards Reporting Awards Reporting Awards Issues Management Best Supply Chain Best Environmental ¤ Ethical Corporation and Crisis CommuniReporting: Highly Reporting Finalist Responsible Business cations Finalist Commended Awards Sustainability (Addressing investiReport of the Year: gations and criticisms ¤ Asia Sustainability Highly Commended in sustainability of Reporting Awards seafood supply chains) Best Materiality Ethical Corporation Reporting Finalist Responsible Business ¤ Asia Sustainability Awards Sustainability Reporting Awards ¤ Asia Sustainability Leader of the Year: Best Online SustainReporting Awards Highly Commended ability Reporting: Best Stakeholder Highly Commended Reporting Finalist ¤ To view past recognitions and awards, visit: www.seachangesustainability.org/awards SUSTAINABILITY AT THAI UNION 04 Sustainable development is essential to the future of Thai Union’s business and our growth. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 Photo credit: Janyawath Sutamma/IUCN CHANGING SEAFOOD FOR GOOD Sustainable development is essential to the future The backbone of our sustainability strategy is of Thai Union’s business and our growth; it is the ability to fully trace our seafood—from catch to fundamental to being a responsible corporate citizen consumption. With full traceability in place, we will be and it is how we will achieve our vision of being able to identify, investigate and improve performance the world’s most trusted seafood leader. on key issues such as labor and responsible sourcing. As a global seafood leader, we have a responsibility to set the standard for social, environmental and economic performance across our operations and Traceability is the backbone into our supply chains. Recognizing this responsibility of sustainability. to show leadership, we heeded the calls of our stakeholders with SeaChange®, Thai Union’s sustainability strategy with measurable commitments to delivering real, lasting changes in the way we operate. While this work is designed to have a positive impact SeaChange® aims to drive a positive transformation on the seafood industry, the milestones we achieve throughout the global seafood industry. under our programs will also deliver against the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development We think of SeaChange® as a journey that covers Goals (SDGs) and is guided by our commitment to every aspect of the seafood business: from how we the UN Global Compact. look after the oceans to how we manage our waste; from the responsibility we take for our workers to building brighter futures for the communities around our key sites. 37 Sustainable seas, Workers are safe, Legal and licenced now and for future legally employed vessels, operating generations and empowered responsibly SAFE AND LEGAL LABOR RESPONSIBLE SOURCING Providing safe, legal and freely-chosen employment Traceability is the key to improving in our own facilities and in supply chains is critically the transparency and operational practices of important to Thai Union. the entire seafood supply chain. Fair Labor Goals and Roadmap Responsible Sourcing Goals and Roadmap RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES The way we operate must be environmentally At Thai Union we take responsibility for improving responsible and show a duty of care for the lives of those living and working in the regions in our workers. which we operate. Responsible Operations Goals and Roadmap People and Communities Goals and Roadmap SeaChange® is an integrated plan of initiatives, organized into four programs, to drive meaningful improvements across the entire global seafood industry. Good Partnerships Transparency Governance and Collaboration Robust leadership, policies and We will remain transparent in We have and will continue to processes ensure our business all communications with actively seek out NGOs, is focused on delivering our stakeholders, customers and governments and industry partners sustainability objectives and the industry, sharing our learnings to work with us on initiatives is ethical across all our operations. and providing regular updates on designed to deliver against our our progress. overarching objectives. We will continue to share our findings so the entire industry can benefit from our experience and findings. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38 UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Thai Union is a member of the UN Global Compact which governs not only how our own staff operate and has been working to implement the commitments but also how we would like our supply chain to in the Global Compact’s Ten Principles since 2013. operate. In this way, we are extending our influence All of the principles have been incorporated into and using business as a powerful force for change. our Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct, Human Rights Environment Thai Union will support and respect Thai Union will support a the protection of internationally precautionary approach to proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; 7 1 Make sure that they are not Undertake initiatives to promote complicit in human rights abuses. 2 greater environmental responsibility; and 8 Labor Standards Encourage the development Thai Union will uphold the freedom friendly technologies. 9 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 3 Anti-Corruption The elimination of all forms of Thai Union will work against forced and compulsory labor; 4 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 10 labor; and 5 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 6 39 UN GLOBAL COMPACT LOCAL NETWORK In 2017, Thai Union continued our support to In June, Thai Union shared our perspective on why establish the UN Global Compact Local Network in business should pay attention to human rights with Thailand. Starting in January, Thai Union shared our CSR Club and the Thai Listed Companies Association. perspective and work regarding the United Nations In November, we supported the ASEAN IntergovernGuiding Principles (UNGP) on Business and Human mental Commission on Human Rights Training on Rights with government agencies, private sectors Business and Human Rights at the Stock Exchange and NGOs to help support the National Action Plan of Thailand by presenting a case study on Thai Union on Business and Human Rights, organized by and our work under the UN Global Compact. the National Human Rights Commissioner. ¤ G4-23 KEY PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENT In 2017, we continued to roll out our Business Ethics globally. In 2018, we will focus on the rollout of our and Labor Code of Conduct to our contracted first Vessel Code of Conduct to our wild-caught fish tier suppliers, achieving 100 percent acceptance suppliers, focusing first on the tuna industry. SEACHANGE® AND THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In line with SeaChange®, Thai Union is focused on economy, but also how we can form partnerships three of the UN Sustainable Development Goals to the global contribution toward sustainable (SDGs), contributing to broader societal change in development. Our milestones against each of our four areas where we can have direct influence. However, programs under SeaChange® will demonstrate our our work contributes to all 17 SDGs in a number progress by 2020 and will contribute to the SDGs’ of ways. We have chosen to focus on how our work 2030 targets. contributes to the biosphere, society and the THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 40 THAI UNION SDGs ADVOCACY Sustainability can only be achieved through collaboration and shared goals, and we see the value that work around the SDGs can bring. Thai Union, which previously joined leaders from the largest seafood businesses around the world in the Keystone Dialogues to bring science and industry leaders closer together through the Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship initiative, presented our groundbreaking initiative at the UN Oceans Summit meeting in New York in June 2017 to support SDG 14 and SDG 17 to promote collaboration. The milestones we attain with SeaChange® will also help the world achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The initiative, based on research conducted by the Stockholm Resilience Centre, aims to demonstrate leadership on sustainable seafood production and supporting a healthy ocean and actively contributes to SDG 14 to conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources. Additionally, the ocean stewardship pledge commits signatories to improve operations as well as challenge the rest of the seafood industry to follow, all with the goal of helping the world achieve the SDGs. In January 2017, Thai Union was part of a campaign by NGOs, businesses and the UN Global Compact Network UK to encourage the UK Government to support the UN SDGs. The letter was delivered to the Prime Minister of the UK in advance of the World Economic Forum meetings in Davos. 41 THAI UNION JOINS BUSINESSES UNITING TO MAKE UK ECONOMY FIT FOR THE FUTURE BY BACKING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT In an open letter to the Prime Minister published in January 2017, Thai Union joined more than 80 leading companies that united in a call on the Government of the United Kingdom to demonstrate its commitment to delivering the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Ahead of the World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting on January 17-20 in Davos, businesses This letter to the Prime Minister said they were ready to work with is a clear signal that businesses the Government to help deliver stand ready to play their part,” the SDGs in the UK as well as said Tanya Steele, Chief Executive internationally, but that the Governfor WWF-UK. “It is time for ment must create a framework to the Government to heed this call help businesses play their part. and set out a strong plan that The letter was published on the ministers can translate into action. day the Business and SustainIf governments and businesses able Development Commission work together to achieve the SDGs, published its own flagship report they have the power to transform on the business case for achieving our world and deliver a future in sustainable and inclusive growth, which people and nature thrive.” and quantifying the value of private sector opportunities aligned with Thai Union fully understands the SDGs. the responsibility our company bears as a leading global company The letter was coordinated by in the seafood industry and we are UK Stakeholders in Sustainable fully committed to doing whatever Development (UKSSD), a nonwe can to help achieve these profit network of businesses, NGOs international goals. As part of our and academics working to advance sustainability strategy, SeaChange®, sustainable development and help and in line with our commitment to facilitate the delivery of the SDGs the UN Global Compact, Thai Union in the UK. The UKSSD steering identified key SDGs we are working group comprises Bioregional, toward. These will help us achieve Good Energy, ICAEW, Neighbourly, sustained economic growth, ocean Stakeholder Forum, UN Global stewardship, promotion of human Compact Network UK and rights and ethical labor practices, WWF-UK. as well as long-term positive value to society. “By developing more sustainably, the UK can play an important international leadership role—and UK businesses are natural leaders. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 42 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Sustainability Governance flows all the way from the top of the organization. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors is composed of an experienced team of managers, including several members of the Global Leadership Team. The Board of Directors meets eight times per year. MR. KRAISORN CHANSIRI MR. CHENG NIRUTTINANON MR. THIRAPHONG CHANSIRI Chairman Executive Chairman President and CEO MR. CHUAN TANGCHANSIRI MR. KIYOTAKA KIKUCHI MR. RITTIRONG BOONMECHOTE Executive Director Director President, Global Frozen and Related Unit MR. CHAN SHUE CHUNG MR. RAVINDER SINGH GREWAL SARBJIT S MR. SAKDI KIEWKARNKHA Group Director, Human Resources Director Independent Director DR. THAMNOON ANANTHOTHAI MR. KIRATI ASSAKUL MR. NART LIUCHAREON Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director 43 GLOBAL LEADERSHIP TEAM The Global Leadership Team is composed of our business leaders from across the organization, including the Group Director of Sustainable Development and Group Director of Innovation as advisors. The Global Leadership Team meets four times per year, and the Group Director of Sustainable Development reports to the Global Leadership Team quarterly on sustainability issues and progress. MR. CHENG NIRUTTINANON Executive Chairman RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Risk Management Committee is a subcommittee of the Board of Directors, and the Group Director of Sustainable Development sits on this committee and updates quarterly on key sustainability risks and tracking progress. MR. KIRATI ASSAKUL Independent Director/Chairman, Risk Management Committee GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE The Global Sustainability Committee, chaired by the Group Director of Sustainable Development, brings together team members across functions and locations throughout the world. The Global Sustainability Committee meets twice per year. The subcommittees lead their work streams throughout the year, reporting on progress at the biannual Global Sustainability Committee. There were four subcommittees for sustainability in 2017: DR. DARIAN McBAIN • Code of Conduct Implementation Group Director for Sustainable Development/Chairperson, Global • Data Collection and Reporting Sustainability Committee • Corporate Social Responsibility • Sustainable Packaging GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE A committee comprised of representatives from our plants around the world to address key environment, health and safety issues. MR. COMGRIT SORCHOM Group Director for Environmental, Health and Safety/Chairman, Global Environmental Health and Safety Committee THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 44 ¤ G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Thai Union regularly engages with our key stakeTransparency was one of the key themes we holders, allowing us to understand and prioritize our addressed with our stakeholders, both internal and sustainability risks and define appropriate responses external, in 2017. We take pride in the transparency to emerging corporate challenges. Given our global of our communications with stakeholders, customers scale of operations, our material issues and impacts and the industry. We brought to life our transparency are complex and transcontinental. Thai Union carried approach through updates to our primary communiout a materiality assessment, which analyzed our cations tools: Thai Union’s website and the SeaChange® worldwide operations, to identify and prioritize website. the most important issues to our stakeholders and the business as a whole—our material issues— We also ran an extensive program of face-to-face including those related to environmental, social and engagement with internal and external stakeholders. governance risks. Building on the stakeholder This included a series of meetings across the globe feedback from the December 2015 materiality with key customers, civil society representatives, and assessment, we developed our SeaChange® sustainregulators, along with speaking events and other ability strategy, which launched in 2016. opportunities to share our position on key issues publicly. Tailored Reporting Events Corporate Online Site Our Stakeholders Strategy (e.g. newsletter, Trainings (internal, Microsite Sustainability Consultation Visits Presentation emails) external) Campaign Thai Union Management Thai Union Staff Thai Union Legal Staff Consumers (1) Customers Industry Associations/Lobbyists International Organizations (UN, Interpol, etc.) NGOs/Foundations Policy Makers/Regulators (2) (3) Shareholders/Investors Suppliers Think Tanks (1) sales teams / (2) personalized emails & letters / (3) investor relations team 45 THAI UNION BRINGS SEACHANGE® TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT IN BRUSSELS Last year, Thai Union planned and later brought together Members of the European Parliament (MEPs), sustainability experts, NGOs and industry representatives to discuss how best to join forces to drive positive change across the seafood industry. A high-level stakeholder event, organized in the European Parliament, marked the launch of a week-long exhibition on SeaChange®, Thai Union’s sustainability strategy. During this period, visitors had highlight of discussions. Human livelihoods of millions of people the opportunity to learn about rights defender and migrant dependent upon the oceans. sustainability challenges in worker specialist Andy Hall the seafood and fishing industry stressed the critical importance “We know that there are still through a diverse range of of providing safe, legal and areas of improvement in panels, infographics and videos. freely-chosen employment the seafood sector, but The launch event welcomed across the seafood supply chain. the ambition is there,” more than 60 high-level emphasized Knowles. “Our representatives of the political, “Many workers have spent 15 years agreement with Thai Union, NGO and industry spheres with or more on boats as slaves and which complements the responsibilities in the field of come back to their families later SeaChange® initiative, is fisheries, sustainability, trade and with traumas, without getting any the start of a long progress line.” employment. support,” said Hall. “Thai Union is committed to changing this.” The event also provided The event was hosted by MEP the opportunity for Thai Union Ricardo Serrão Santos, an Speakers present at the event and Mars Petcare to launch active Member of the European also stressed the role of a short video documenting how Parliament’s Committee on partnerships in driving an innovative digital traceability Fisheries, who applauded meaningful improvements across pilot program in Thailand, Thai Union’s leadership. the seafood industry. which the two companies have implemented alongside “With clear targets set for “We believe engaging with a coalition of industry and the near future, the SeaChange® business is crucial to implement government groups, has helped strategy is designed to deliver change,” said Samantha to boost human rights in on all the sustainability Burgess, Head of European the seafood industry. challenges of the seafood Marine Policy at WWF. “That is sector: healthy stocks, high why we support industry with Thai Union will continue to build labor standards, and a reduced expertise to help them improve on this important momentum environmental impact,” said MEP sustainability.” to lead efforts toward more Santos. sustainable oceans. Oliver Knowles, Greenpeace Together with the importance of oceans campaigner, also took responsible sourcing, ensuring the floor to present the agreesafe and legal labor in the seament signed with Thai Union food industry proved to be a key to continue improving the THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 46 ¤ G4-27 FEEDBACK FROM THAI UNION’S STAKEHOLDERS OUR STAKEHOLDERS ISSUES THAI UNION RESPONSES • Improvement of business performance • Transparency and governance • Good governance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, • Transparency of information tax policy and reporting) • Investor Relations Communications team, quarterly face–to-face investor updates with a sustainability briefing INVESTORS • Social and environmental responsibilities • Climate change and environmental protection • Fair trade • Responsible sourcing (traceability, viability) • Consistency expectation • Code of Conduct • Increasing orders • Supplier audits and capacity building SUPPLIERS • Product quality (health and nutrition) • Innovation and product responsibility • Food safety (quality food safety) • Service quality • Increased customer communication • Competitive price and face-to-face meetings on sustainability held globally • Offering more sustainable alternatives to meet customer demands CUSTOMERS • Social and environmental responsibilities • Responsible sourcing • Eco-labelling (e.g. MSC, dolphin safe, • Climate change and environmental ASC, BAP, carbon footprint of products) protection • Eco-labelling • Innovation and product responsibility • Competitive price (quality, food safety) • Food safety • Product quality (health and nutrition) • Social and environmental responsibilities • Responsible sourcing END-CONSUMERS • Eco-labelling (e.g. MSC, dolphin safe, • Climate change and environmental ASC, BAP, carbon footprint of products) protection • Fair compensation and benefits • Human rights and fair labor practices • Fair labor practices • Human capital development • Safety and wellness • Management program • Career development and opportunity • Global program of harmonization • Career security of work standards • Work-life balance • Brand ambassador program EMPLOYEES and Thai Union Global rollout • Fair compensation and benefits • Human rights and fair labor practices • Fair labor practices • Human capital development • Safety and wellness DAILY/ MIGRANT WORKERS 47 ¤ G4-27 OUR STAKEHOLDERS ISSUES THAI UNION RESPONSES • Legal compliance • Transparency and governance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) • Social and environmental responsibilities • Climate change and environmental • Partnership in community development protection COMMUNITIES • Socioeconomic development • Communities • Legal compliance • Transparency and governance • Participation in government programs (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) GOVERNMENT • Social and environmental responsibilities • Climate change and environmental • Marine conservation protection • Participation in social and environmental • Communities programs • Transparency of information • Transparency and governance (anti-corruption, data disclosure, NGOs tax policy and reporting) • Regulatory compliance • Transparency and governance • Transparency of information (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) • Social and environmental responsibilities • Climate change and environmental INTERNATIONAL • Participation in social and environmental protection ORGANIZATIONS programs • Communities • Social and environmental responsibilities • Climate change and environmental • Marine conservation protection • Participation in social and environmental • Communities programs ACADEMIA • Transparency of information • Transparency and governance • Timeliness of information (anti-corruption, data disclosure, tax policy and reporting) MEDIA THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 48 GREENPEACE AND THAI UNION REACH AGREEMENT Dr. Darian McBain (left), Thai Union’s global director for sustainable development, accepts a “torch” for sustainability. Also pictured are Khun Anchalee Pipattanawattanakul (right), Oceans Campaigner for Greenpeace Southeast Asia, and Khun Tara Buakamsri (rear), Thailand Country Director for Greenpeace Southeast Asia. Greenpeace and Thai Union shipment at sea enables Importantly, to ensure published an agreement in July vessels to continue fishing for Greenpeace and Thai Union 2017 in line with our efforts to months or years at a time and remain on the same page, both drive positive change across has the potential to facilitate parties have agreed to meet the global seafood industry. illegal activity. every six months to assess The accord once again con• Ensure independent observers the agreement’s progress and firmed Thai Union’s commitment are present on all longline implementation. Also, after 2018, to pursue solutions to issues vessels transshipping at sea an independent third-party prevalent within the entire to inspect and report on will review progress to-date fishing industry—not just tuna— potential labor abuse and on the commitments made in as well as to improve the liveliensure 100 percent human or the agreement. And Thai Union hoods of millions of people electronic observer coverage started a round of consultations dependent upon the oceans. across all tuna longline with customers in key markets, vessels from which Thai Union including Europe, the United The comprehensive agreement sources. Kingdom and the United States, included commitments to: to engage them on the contents • Develop a comprehensive of the Greenpeace agreement. • Reduce the number of fish code of conduct for all vessels aggregating devices (FADs) in Thai Union’s supply chains, After the agreement was used in supply chains in key complementing the existing announced, Bunny McDiarmid, markets around the world and strengthened Business Greenpeace’s International by an average of 50 percent Ethics and Labor Code of Executive Director, stated, “This by 2020, while doubling Conduct, to help ensure marks huge progress for our the amount of verifiable FADworkers at sea are being oceans and marine life, and for free fish available in markets treated humanely and fairly. the rights of people working globally in the same period. • Shift significant portions in the seafood industry. If FADs are floating objects of longline caught tuna to Thai Union implements these that create mini ecosystems pole-and-line or troll-caught reforms, it will pressure other and may result in the catch of tuna by 2020 and implement industry players to show unintended marine species, strong requirements to help the same level of ambition and including sharks, turtles and reduce bycatch. drive much needed change. Now juvenile tuna. • Move to full digital traceability, is the time for other companies • Extend the current allowing people to track their to step up and show similar moratorium on at-sea tuna back to the vessel it was leadership.” transshipment across our caught on and identify the entire global supply chain fishing method used. unless new strict conditions are met by suppliers. Trans49 ¤ G4-19 MATERIAL ISSUES In 2017, we continued to address our most material anizations (NGOs) and civil society, as well as staff issues through our SeaChange® sustainability strategy. and research institutions, to constantly assess and We continued to conduct face-to-face meetings address our material issues and those of most concern with our key stakeholders, including governments, to our stakeholders. customers, consumers, non-governmental orgMATERIALITY IN RISK ASSESSMENT One way we assess our materiality is through our risk risk, Thai Union continuously monitors the materiality management procedure. Through reviewing activities of issues and the impact they have on our internal and partnerships, assessing forthcoming legislation risk profile. These risks are presented quarterly to and the implementation of regulations, customer the Group Risk Management Committee, and action is preference and feedback, as well as media profile and taken as required. Sustainability Risk Dashboard KRI IUU Card Loss of Sales from News on Thailand and IUU Unsustainable Fishing/IUU Number of news stories/month M USD/quarter Yelow card 10 15 250 500 0 42 Green card Red card Expected to remain yellow No cancellation The numbers of news stories in Q3 remained as low as Q2 Material issues assessed through monitoring a number of Key Risk Indicators THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 50 EMERGENT MATERIAL ISSUES In 2017, ocean plastic and marine litter became an source of plastic debris in the oceans and makes up emerging material issue for Thai Union. Although over half by weight of all the ocean macro-plastics Thai Union has been working on a packaging strategy (pieces over 5mm long). It crops up on beaches, to reduce carbon dioxide emissions for a number tangles on coral reefs, threatens navigation and is of years, in 2017 stakeholder concern regarding a significant cause of loss of other fishing gear in ocean plastic increased and became a significant use. It has obvious impacts on global food security material issue. Events such as the European Union’s and the seafood supply chain, as well as an impact Our Ocean 2017 conference in Malta, for example, on the livelihoods of coastal communities. In this highlighted that this is a significant issue for way, the issue of ocean plastic and marine litter organizations with marine responsibility, whether impacts all three of the SDGs we have chosen to the private sector, government or civil society, as focus on and is therefore a material issue not only evident in the number of commitments being made. to our stakeholders but also to Thai Union. In 2018, As a user of primarily recyclable packaging, in the Thai Union will work closely with the Global Ghost form of steel and aluminum cans and paper outer Gear Initiative (GGGI) to actively promote solutions cardboard, Thai Union assessed that our greatest for reducing this waste. impact is through supporting work to reduce marine litter and abandoned, lost and discarded fishing gear By weight of floating (ALDFG). microplastic debris in Every year around 8 million tons of plastic enter into the ocean, most of it urban waste, particularly 70% the open ocean is fishing-related plastic litter and microplastics. ALDFG accounts for Source: Eriksen et al, 2014 at least 10 percent of the total. It is the largest marine Materiality Matrix ¤ G4-23 Ocean Plastic Human Rights and Ethical Labor Practices IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Climate Change and Environmental Protection Responsible Sourcing Transparency and Governance Communities Long-Term Innovation and Product Commitments Responsibility (Quality, Food Safety) Human Capital Development IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS SUCCESS 51 OUR OPERATING PRINCIPLES Through SeaChange®, our sustainability strategy, Thai Union works on a series of operating principles that guide what we do and how we work. These operating principles are organized into three pillars. GOOD GOVERNANCE TRANSPARENCY PARTNERSHIPS AND SeaChange® has the support of We recognize how important COLLABORATION the entire Thai Union organization, openness is in building We are proud to be working with from top to bottom and across stakeholder trust. We are some of the leading organizations all our markets. We have put committed to being fully on the issues affecting together a strong team of experts transparent in our communithe industry today. We actively who provide robust leadership, cations with our stakeholders, seek out NGO, government and backed up by policies and customers and the entire industry. industry partners to contribute processes, to ensure SeaChange® We share our learnings and their expertise and insights to our fundamentally changes the way provide regular updates on our programs. the global seafood industry progress. operates. GOOD GOVERNANCE Thai Union recognizes the importance of good To minimize the risk of any unethical conduct within corporate governance to support sustainable the boundaries of our business and supply chain, business growth and gain acceptance in the wider Thai Union has taken several measures to strengthen domestic and international markets. our internal controls. These initiatives also help solidify our position as a global seafood leader. Any association with corruption, illegal conduct, fraud and economic crime would have an adverse UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT impact on our company’s reputation, staff morale Since joining the United Nations Global Compact and business relationships. Any evidence of these (UNGC) in 2013, we have aligned our strategies and unethical practices could result in exclusion from practices with universal principles on human rights, contracts financed by institutions that blacklist labor, environment and anti-corruption. We have also suppliers involved in bribery. And such behavior taken positive steps to advance the UN Sustainable could potentially impact Thai Union’s future earnings Development Goals (SDGs). and cause higher risk premiums for debt or equity. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICY regarding competition and competitor inThai Union has a strict Corporate Governance formation, financial records, reporting concerns Policy in adherence to our membership in the Stock and non-retaliation. Exchange of Thailand. Our Corporate Governance Policy is regularly reviewed and improved to ensure Our updated Business Ethics and Labor Code the duties of Thai Union’s Board of Directors are of Conduct is communicated to all Thai Union performed effectively and consistently. Any violations employees and is publicly available on our website. of this policy will result in disciplinary action in Furthermore, in 2017, we created Business Ethics accordance with Thai Union’s rules and regulations. and Labor Code of Conduct posters in multiple languages highlighting key information. The posters BUSINESS ETHICS AND LABOR can be found hanging in various Thai Union plants CODE OF CONDUCT and factories in Thailand and around the world. All In 2015, we launched our revised Business Ethics employees are trained on Thai Union’s anti-corruption and Labor Code of Conduct, outlining our values, policy and procedures, which aids the development principles and guidelines in a variety of areas, of a culture that is conducive to good corporate particularly how we conduct business activities. Our governance. anti-corruption efforts are described in this new code; specifically, Thai Union prohibits all forms of Further, since launching the Business Ethics and bribery, corruption, extortion, embezzlement, money Labor Code of Conduct, all contracted tier-1 suppliers laundering and insider trading. The Business Ethics are subject to signing an acknowledgement of it. and Labor Code of Conduct also details our policies G4-23 Percentage of employees and contracted tier-1 suppliers who signed acknowledgement of the Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct Critical tier-1 suppliers 100% 100% 100% Shrimp Fish Chicken Suppliers Suppliers Suppliers Non-critical tier-1 suppliers 100% 94% 88% Logistics Packaging Ingredient Providers Suppliers Suppliers 53 VESSEL CODE OF CONDUCT and defended according to applicable international In 2017, we introduced our Fishing Vessel Improveand national legal protections, as well as the policy ment Program and Vessel Code of Conduct, reflecting outlined in the Business Ethics and Labor Code of the unique set of working conditions on fishing Conduct. vessels that necessitate special consideration. The Vessel Code of Conduct is an extension of the Thai We have also established a two-way communication Union Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct. channel for stakeholders and other involved parties Thai Union’s existing and new suppliers are required to express their opinions and report complaints of to sign the Vessel Code of Conduct to do business unfair treatment by Thai Union. The Chairman of with us. This helps ensure the Vessel Code of Conduct the Audit Committee or General Manager Audit Unit is applied to all fishing vessels in our supply chain. are designated as the point of contact to receive complaints relating to corporate governance and WHISTLEBLOWING AND COMPLAINTS the Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct from Thai Union provides both electronic and postal all groups of stakeholders. The Audit Committee submission channels for cases of whistleblowing reviews the complaint reports every quarter and and other complaints not related to products. Any provides a summary report to the Board of Directors. whistleblowing employees or other individuals hired for work by Thai Union will have their rights protected TRANSPARENCY PROMOTING TRANSPARENCY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN We continued to promote positive change in the seafood industry by sharing our experiences and speaking at a number of leading human rights conferences and forums. For example, we represented the nation of Thailand at the Bali Process Government and Business Forum, which is a new initiative for CEOs and business leaders to advise governments on how to prevent and combat human trafficking and related abuses and share experiences on best practices. Additionally, Thai Union participated in many conferences ranging from The Economist World Ocean Summit in Bali, the UN Ocean Conference in New York, the Vigo Tuna Summit in Italy, to the Our Ocean Conference in Malta. Our sustainability program, SeaChange®, was presented at the Boston and Brussels Seafood Shows, as well as many other trade and industry events. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 54 PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATION Ivo Sieber (left), Ambassador of Switzerland to Thailand, and Khun Cheng Niruttinanon, Thai Union’s Executive Chairman, attend the launch of Thai Union’s and Nestlé’s demonstration boat in Samut Sakhon to promote human and labor rights. Along with transparency and good governance, Water. SeaBOS focuses on sustainable stewardship of partnerships and collaboration are fundamental to fisheries, labor conditions on vessels and ocean plastic, our SeaChange® sustainability strategy and form among other efforts, which are firmly grounded in the third pillar of our operating principles. In 2017, scientific evidence. In June, we signed the World we further developed numerous partnerships and Economic Forum Tuna 2020 Traceability Declaration, collaborations across the industry, with civil society and presented our work at the UN in New York. and through multi-stakeholder initiatives. Thai Union continued to participate in the Seafood INDUSTRY COLLABORATION Task Force, which grew significantly throughout 2017, Thai Union’s participation in the Bali Process expanding its scope to cover not only shrimp but Government and Business Forum represented an tuna and other seafood. important opportunity for the company to advise governments on how to prevent and combat human We continued to hold board positions in the trafficking and related abuses and share experiences International Seafood Sustainability Foundation, on best practices. Of the world’s population, the Bali as well as beginning membership of the Marine Process covers 4.5 billion people; as such, it is hoped Stewardship Council (MSC) Stakeholder Advisory the combined force of both business and government Council and the Global Sustainable Seafood Initiative in forum will serve as one of the most powerful weapBoard. ons human trafficking has faced. We also continued to work with some of our most In 2017, Thai Union deepened our involvement in valued customers to provide solutions to our most the Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship material issues, many of which challenge the entire (SeaBOS) by signing a groundbreaking pledge seafood sector in Thailand. In partnership with Nestlé, committing to improve operations as well as challenge Verité, Southeast Asian Fisheries Development the rest of the seafood industry to follow, all with Center (SEAFDEC) and the Thai Department the goal of helping the world achieve the UN SDGs. of Fisheries (DOF), we renovated a Thai fishing We initially joined SeaBOS in 2016, alongside seven vessel to demonstrate international standards for more of the world’s largest seafood companies. human rights, worker conditions and safety. SeaBOS represents one of the most important The demonstration vessel will be sailed to ports agreements between business and science as it around Thailand to train fishers, captains, boat addresses the most pressing needs to protect owners and other interested parties in 2018. the ocean and delivers against SDG 14, Life Below 55 Thai Union and Mars Petcare, along with a coalition Thai Union Europe (TUE) were all audited against this of other industry and government groups such as standard by MRAG US and achieved full compliance the U.S. Agency for International Development’s for 2016. We also supported ISSF in several other (USAID) Oceans and Fisheries Partnership, launched areas, such as advocacy to the regional fisheries a digital traceability pilot program. Satellite company management organizations (RFMOs) to bring about Inmarsat installed ‘Fleet One’ terminals on fishing wider change in the tuna industry. vessels in Thailand, while the crew members, captains and fleet owners were trained on ‘Fish Talk’ chat Thai Union, through Chicken of the Sea Frozen Foods applications developed by Xsense, which enable (COSFF), is an active and ongoing member of them to connect with families and peers around the the NFI Crab Council. As an association of U.S. world while at sea—an industry first for Thai fisheries. seafood companies, the NFI Crab Council focuses on crab management through market leadership and The pilot program also tested scalable platforms funding fishery improvement projects (FIPs). for electronic catch data and traceability (eCDT) Throughout six countries in Asia, the NFI Crab systems that utilize mobile applications and satellite Council sponsors sustainability projects to preserve connectivity, making it possible to demonstrate true crab as a popular, plentiful seafood item as well as electronic end-to-end traceability and supply chain an important economic resource for dependent management. livelihoods. The NFI Crab Council uses an innovative mix of funding through major funds and foundations, as well as through a self-imposed tax on imported THAI UNION AND MARS PETCARE’S crab. COSFF is one of the top contributors to the DIGITAL TRACEABILITY PILOT Council. We are continuing to support the control PROGRAM IS HELPING SUPPLIERS document initiative in Indonesia to ensure compliance with minimum size regulations. And a new NFI Red Improve efficiency of Crab Council is focusing on sustainability efforts in traceability records validated China and Vietnam for red crab. More information by fishery managers and about the NFI Crab Council can be found at manage risk in the supply http://www.committedtocrab.org. chain. Thai Union is working with FisheryProgress.org to report all FIPs in which the company is involved. Demonstrate true electronic The platform was developed to take FIP criteria from end-to-end traceability and the Conservation Alliance for Seafood Solutions supply chain management (CASS) and serve as a backstop for legitimate FIP with linkages to markets such reporting. The advisory committee for the project as the United States and includes WWF-US and the Sustainable Fisheries European Union to better Partnership (SFP), while the website is managed by address concerns with illegal, FishChoice on a day-to-day basis. unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing and labor issues CIVIL SOCIETY COLLABORATION in fisheries. Our partnerships with civil society continued to benefit both Thai Union and the communities we Thai Union is a founding and active member of work with throughout 2017. the International Seafood Sustainability Foundation (ISSF), an organization that uses science-based Thai Union, in collaboration with the Labour Rights initiatives for the long-term conservation and Promotion Network Foundation (LPN), developed sustainable use of tuna stocks, reducing bycatch and distributed an updated educational labor rights and promoting ecosystem health. More general booklet for migrant workers in Samut Sakhon, information about the work of the ISSF can be found Thailand. The booklet provides information on labor at: http://iss-foundation.org. In 2017, Thai Union rights, child labor, children’s rights and education, again participated in the annual external audit on human trafficking, and emergency numbers. This conservation measures and compliance with the ISSF community engagement initiative helps ensure resolutions. Thai Union, Chicken of the Sea, and migrant workers understand their rights under Thai THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 56 law, as well as educates them about the risks of a strategic partnership that builds upon a history human trafficking and how to protect themselves. of successful collaboration between the two Thai Union and LPN also engaged in discussion to organizations since 2014 to improve conditions potentially launch a Labor and Fishermen’s Center in for workers within Thai Union’s supply chain. The Samut Sakhon to assist fishing and seafood sector MOU establishes a framework of cooperation to workers who may be particularly vulnerable to incorporate Issara Institute’s innovative worker voice exploitation, as well as local workers from agriculture, systems throughout Thai Union’s supply chain, as horticulture and manufacturing industries. well as build collaborative partnerships with company supplier facilities, both in and out of Thailand. In Thai Union and Issara Institute signed a Memorandum November 2017 Thai Union participated in the first of Understanding (MOU) in February 2017, formalizing Issara Institute Global Forum, presenting on our work THAI UNION COMMITS TO AMBITIOUS SEABOS OCEAN STEWARDSHIP PLEDGE Thai Union signed a groundbreaking pledge in November 2016 as part of our membership The companies that make up in the Seafood Business for Ocean Stewardship (SeaBOS); SeaBOS operate on every continent and the pledge commits us to in all segments of seafood production. improving operations as well as By building trust and adopting science-based challenges the rest of the seafood industry to follow, all approaches, it creates positive change for with the goal of helping our companies, our industry and the world. the world achieve the SDGs. SeaBOS is a unique initiative that brings together some of the largest seafood companies companies, our industry and the regulations for fisheries, in the world to identify world. aquaculture and the ocean; science-based solutions to and more. issues the industry faces. The signatories specifically pledge to: The initiative is supported In 2016, eight of the world’s by numerous stakeholders, largest seafood companies, • Work diligently to eliminate including the Stockholm including Thai Union, joined IUU products and any form of Resilience Centre, the Beijer together to form this initiative. modern slavery in our supply Institute of Ecological chains; Economics, the Royal Swedish The companies that make up • Actively use and develop fish Academy of Sciences and others. SeaBOS operate on every health management systems continent and in all segments of and health prevention methseafood production, from wild hods before treatments; capture fisheries to aquaculture • Make efficient use of aqubusinesses. aculture feeds and use fish feed resources from By building trust and adopting sustainably harvested stocks; science-based approaches, it creates positive change for our • Together with governments, actively improve existing 57 on ethical recruitment. Thai Union and Issara Institute well as social insurance benefits. Thai Union and jointly presented at the Asia Region Anti-Trafficking MWRN jointly developed a bilingual Thai/Myanmar Conference, also in November, to showcase how labor rights and employee benefits handbook for businesses and NGOs can work together. participants. This handbook was distributed to Thai Union workers. In collaboration with the Migrant Workers Rights Network (MWRN), Thai Union conducted a training program in 2017 for our workers on labor rights and employee benefits under the Thai Labor Protection Act. The session provided information about wages, working hours and overtime and holiday pay, as THAI UNION CEO LACES UP SNEAKERS FOR GOOD As part of a personal “The work Thai Union is unhim,” said Tanya Steele, CEO commitment to improving dertaking with WWF is vital of WWF-UK. “Chansiri has the long-term sustainability of in securing the future health demonstrated his commitment the oceans, Thiraphong Chansiri, of the oceans and, over time, to the future of our planet both CEO of Thai Union, competed in will inform the way the entire on the roads of London and the Virgin London Marathon in industry operates,” Chansiri on Thai Union’s journey toward April 2017 and raised 322,000 said. “I am deeply committed sustainable seafood.” Thai Baht—approximately to our partnership with WWF. $10,000—for WWF-UK. The Running the London Marathon Additionally, in December 2017 amount represented more than has been one of my long-term Chansiri ran 106 kilometers and three times his fundraising goal. ambitions, and I hope my raised 14 million Thai Baht— efforts have helped increase approximately $429,000—for The race took place on a awareness of some of the key Thai rock star Artiwara Kongbeautiful spring day in London, environmental issues that face malai’s charity run, which with the challenging 26-mile our planet today.” supported the “Kaokonlakao for course winding by some of the 11 Hospitals Nationwide” project. world’s most iconic landmarks. “On behalf of all of us at WWF, Chansiri crossed the finish a huge thank you to Thiraphong line on the Mall in front of for taking on the challenge Buckingham Palace in four of the London Marathon and hours and 28 minutes. to everyone who sponsored SAFE AND LEGAL LABOR 05 Thai Union is determined to promote safe and legal labor practices in the global seafood industry. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 60 BUSINESS ETHICS AND LABOR CODE OF CONDUCT Thai Union continues to adhere to our revised Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct, which was released in 2015 to promote a higher level of accountability and transparency throughout our supply chain. The code is designed to guide the actions of our employees and suppliers to be consistent with our corporate values. It also serves as a frame of reference for our employees and suppliers to understand Thai Union’s expectations of integrity throughout our supply chain and those of our suppliers. Beginning in 2016, Thai Union employees worldwide signed an acknowledgement of Thai Union’s expectation for employees to uphold the Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct’s commitments. Thai Union is committed to providing safe, legal and freely-chosen employment in our facilities and supply chains. New employees are informed of the code on their first day of employment either during orientation by human resources or by their supervisor. Furthermore, a sub-committee of the Global Sustainability Committee was established to facilitate the implementation and dissemination of the Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct and to ensure the code’s successful rollout to Thai Union supply chains. All contracted and prospective suppliers that wish to conduct business transactions with Thai Union must sign an acknowledgement of the Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct, whereby they accept to strictly follow our mandatory principles and policies for human trafficking and forced labor. The code also applies to any sub-suppliers employed by primary suppliers in business with Thai Union. The Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct is available on Thai Union’s corporate website and available in 19 languages. 61 THAI UNION PARTICIPATES IN BALI PROCESS GOVERNMENT AND BUSINESS FORUM TO ADDRESS MODERN SLAVERY Since it began in 2002, the Bali Global Director for Sustainable Process on People Smuggling, Development, participated in two Trafficking in Persons and Related speaking panels addressing issues Transnational Crime (Bali Process) of modern slavery in supply chains. has raised regional awareness of She also had the opportunity these namesake human rights to deliver a floor statement issues. It is a forum for policy highlighting Thai Union’s efforts dialogue, information sharing and to eradicate these exploitative practical cooperation to help the issues, in line with the company’s region address these challenges. sustainability strategy, SeaChange®. McBain shared examples of our Held in Perth, Australia in August efforts to protect human rights, 2017, Thai Union participated in including our Business Ethics the Bali Process Government and and Labor Code of Conduct Business Forum, which allows and our Ethical Migrant Worker governments to better engage Recruitment Policy, which the private sector to combat stipulates zero-recruitment fees. human trafficking, forced labor and Along with Walmart, Thai Union related exploitation. is leading the Government and Business Forum’s working group Through this initiative, CEOs on responsible recruitment. and business leaders can advise government on how to prevent and combat human trafficking and related abuses and share experiences on best practices. Dr. Darian McBain, Thai Union’s VESSEL CODE OF CONDUCT In 2017, Thai Union published our first Vessel Code of Conduct (VCoC). This code will be applicable to vessels from which Thai Union sources around the world. Guidance for specific fleets will be developed in 2018. The program will be rolled out in 2018 and beyond, in accordance with the agreement reached between Thai Union and Greenpeace. Learn more about the Vessel Code of Conduct at: http://www.thaiunion.com/en/sustainability/sustainability-at-thai-union/code-of-conduct. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 62 THAI UNION AND NESTLÉ LAUNCH DEMONSTRATION BOAT TO PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS IN FISHING INDUSTRY Thai Union and Nestlé in 2017 Thailand’s updated fisheries example of the positive launched the successful first regulations. These regulations progress made by stakeholders departure of a demonstration have been implemented in Thailand committed to boat built to raise awareness progressively in the industry addressing human rights and among fishing boat owners, since 2015 to help secure illegal fishing issues. In the past, captains and crew of best the health, safety and welfare these concerns resulted in practices to ensure the fair, safe of seamen. the European Union issuing a and legal treatment of workers ‘yellow card’ against Thailand on vessels in the Thai fishing To meet these standards and and its fishing industry industry. regulations, boat owners for illegal, unreported and should provide proper unregulated (IUU) fishing, and The two companies, in safety equipment as well as the United States downgrading collaboration with Verité, adequate and clean food Thailand in its Trafficking renovated a standard Thai and drinking water for in Persons Report. Due to fishing boat, transforming it the crew. Also, as demonprogress, however, Thailand has into a modern model with strated on this vessel, subsequently been upgraded improved working conditions appropriate rest, dining and in the Trafficking in Persons and labor standards on board. leisure areas onboard is Report from Tier 3 to the Tier 2 The initiative was originally mandatory, along with Watch List. created in March 2016, a first-aid kit and toilet supported by the Thai Ministry facility with proper sanitation Thai Union and Nestlé helped of Foreign Affairs (MFA), standards. fund development of the Southeast Asian Fisheries refurbished boat, including Development Center (SEAFDEC) Regularly scheduled viewings providing required tools and and the Thai Department and training workshops in equipment, along with ongoing of Fisheries (DOF). 2018 will demonstrate to boat various expenses associated owners and crew how to imwith its demonstration and The vessel was renovated prove the working standards training sessions. to meet standards set by for fishers at sea. the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) C188 The education opportunities convention for human rights at and capacity building resulting sea, as well as to comply with from this project are the latest 63 HUMAN RIGHTS AND ETHICAL LABOR PRACTICES At Thai Union, we are determined to promote safe and legal labor practices in the global seafood industry. It is not only the right thing to do, but Basic statement consumers and civil society increasingly expect of human rights businesses to demonstrate respect for human rights across their supply chains. Social compliance Identification Therefore, being able to manage these issues audit, performance of potential improvement human rights issues effectively will help Thai Union be a leading and vulnerable and reporting Human Rights global seafood company and continue to gain our groups Due Diligence stakeholders’ trust and confidence. at Thai Union The seafood industry is generally labor intensive and has a complex supply chain with many stakeholder Stakeholder groups involved. The industry faces real challenges engagement, Human rights mitigation and risk assessment like human trafficking, human rights abuses and control measures labor exploitation. In most cases, these issues occur outside the direct operational control of a single company, and the complexities of the seafood industry prevent any single company or institution SUPPLIER APPROVAL PROCESS from solving them alone. Each raw material purchased by Thai Union from Two years ago, we conducted a Human Rights Due a supplier poses different risks and challenges. By Diligence Process to help identify, visualize and conducting a pre-assessment at the beginning of our manage any potential human rights risks early on in supplier procurement process, we can identify and our fisheries supply chain. In 2016, in addition to our mitigate many of these risks, including human rights fisheries supply chain, we also conducted the Human risks. In 2016, Thai Union engaged SGS to support Rights Due Diligence Process in our packaging, food the development of a social compliance Selfingredients and shrimp supply chains. Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) for Thailand. And in 2017, we published this information on The SAQ looks at Thai Union’s Business Ethics and our website to be more transparent about our Labor Code of Conduct and all applicable regulations, management approach to human rights. While the as well as our capacity building efforts with suppliers. risks and challenges associated with each step in It is now standard practice to pre-assess all potential our supply chain may vary regionally, this process Thai Union suppliers upon acknowledgement of will continue improving our global ability to promote our Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct. human rights within our supply chains. The pre-assessment is administered by SAQ either electronically or as a physical inspection, Since launching our Modern Slavery Act as applicable. Only suppliers that pass the Transparency Statement in 2016 and the new pre-assessment will qualify to do business with Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct in 2015, Thai Union. Those that fail the pre-assessment will we continued making progress in support of these have an opportunity to undergo a supplier policies throughout 2017. performance improvement program, which helps suppliers develop their practices to meet Thai Union’s We improved and expanded our due diligence social compliance requirements. processes to identify, prevent and mitigate any adverse human rights impacts we may have, using Additionally, in 2017 Thai Union developed a new the United Nations (UN) Guiding Principles on program, which launched in 2018, focusing on human Business and Human Rights and our corporate risk rights due diligence in the shrimp supply chain in management framework as critical resources along Thailand. This program consists of mapping and the way. traceability, auditing, engagement and capacity building. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 64 MIGRANT WORKER RECRUITMENT Thai Union, however, seeks to ensure migration occurs Thai Union supports migrant labor to enhance safely and legally. people’s lives and livelihoods as it often provides a good opportunity for workers and their families We have issued and implemented an Ethical Migrant to access a better income than available in their Worker Recruitment Policy and an identification home countries. Still, migrant workers are exposed process of high-risk areas where close monitoring and to a variety of vulnerabilities, including exploitation, mitigation measures must be in place to prevent human human rights abuses and human trafficking. rights violations. Our intent is that these initiatives SAFE AND LEGAL RECRUITMENT FOR MIGRANT WORKERS IN SOUTHEAST ASIA Economic migrants are in toward Thailand for economic in debt that often takes years search of better employment opportunities their own to repay. Thai Union is actively opportunities and higher homelands are currently unable to working to combat these standards of living worldwide. offer. exploitative practices. However, that journey is sometimes And, according to Finnwatch, We have a workforce in Thailand made at great personal risk to not only are Thailand’s migrant composed of workers primarily those workers. The International workers susceptible to from Thailand, Myanmar and Labour Organization (ILO) notes discrimination, but they can Cambodia, recruited through that around the globe migrant be coerced into paying high formal channels engaging workers are particularly vulnerable recruitment fees on the way from licensed recruitment agents in to forced labor. their home country to secure a Cambodia and Myanmar. We job. This means migrants seeking focus on reducing the potential Southeast Asia is no exception. legal employment might find for abuse and extortion by Increasingly, workers from themselves deeply indebted agents and brokers in the Cambodia and Myanmar look before the work begins—buried recruitment of these workers. Debt bondage resulting from recruitment has no place in Thai Union’s workplaces. So, we eliminated recruitment fees for all workers in our factories and processing plants, effective for all future recruitment of workers both from within Thailand and overseas. Additionally, from 2015, Thai Union rolled out our revised Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct. It covers the recruitment and treatment of workers, stipulating protocols on employee welfare, benefits, wages, age, the right to freedom of association, the right to 65 will help protect the human rights of migrant workers ETHICAL LABOR PRACTICES and avoid instances of bonded or forced labor or Since the launch of Thai Union’s Business Ethics and human trafficking. Specifically, the initiatives aim to Labor Code of Conduct and our commitment to ensure migrant workers receive full disclosure prior the UN Global Compact Principles, Thai Union has to hire, they are provided a safe and healthy work developed and implemented different initiatives to environment, and they have freedom of movement. ensure our 2020 milestones for safe and legal labor are met. collective bargaining, and By committing significant for agencies recruiting workers for non-negotiable frameworks for resources and time to dealing overseas jobs. health and safety. The code, directly and building stronger which all suppliers must sign and relationships with recruitment Though there is always more adhere to, sets a baseline for agents and NGOs in Myanmar that can be achieved, Thai Union expected behavior across and Cambodia, Thai Union will continue to do our part to Thai Union’s supply chain. has been able to map out stamp out problems, as well recruitment processes more as enforce our Business Ethics The elimination of recruitment effectively, with MWRN providing and Labor Code of Conduct, fees follows Thai Union’s oversight and supervision, ethical migrant worker program continued development of thereby reducing costs and and zero-recruitment fee policy. our Ethical Migrant Worker complexities. Suppliers that fail to work to Recruitment Policy, which meet these standards will be was welcomed by the Migrant These initiatives are the result unable to remain a supplier to Workers Rights Network of a shared commitment to Thai Union. (MWRN). The organization improving working conditions mapped all Thai Union factories for all Thai Union staff. We have But it is paramount other leaders, and processing plants in 2016, led the way in adopting stringent both from the seafood industry which highlighted challenges policies and rules within the Thai as well as other industries, along in recruitment and required an seafood industry to show with governments, NGOs and urgent response. Thai Union also everyone that change is possible. all stakeholders, collaborate to works with the Issara Institute But it is essential to have put an end to abuses of workers and provided a case study for partners who can help us see in pursuit of legal employment. their Slavery Free Recruitment our workplace through the eyes As long as unethical agents and Systems issue brief. of employees and continue to brokers find willing partners drive understanding around best in unscrupulous businesses, It is important for the industry ethical practices. workers will continue to and its stakeholders to work be exposed to abusive and closely together throughout Moving forward, one of the key exploitative practices in their the recruitment process, and platforms in developing a truly search for legal employment and impress upon agents and brokers sustainable future is the need for all better lives. that verifiable, ethical behavior employees to have access to safe is imperative and necessary to and freely-chosen employment. conducting business now and in The journey isn’t easy—we need to the future. help create a new business model RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 06 Traceability is the key to improving the transparency and operational practices of the entire seafood supply chain. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 68 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT The seafood industry is complex, whether looking we cannot begin to understand its risks. As such, we at wild-caught or aquaculture fisheries. Given refer to traceability as the backbone of SeaChange®. the complexities of the seafood industry, we Our Responsible Sourcing program focuses not recognize the importance of proactively addressing only on transparency, but also on engagement. both emerging and ongoing issues in our dynamic We view our suppliers as partners, and we support business environment. and encourage them to meet the high Thai Union standards our customers and other stakeholders Supply chain management—the heart of expect. the Responsible Sourcing program within our SeaChange® sustainability strategy—is vital to Like most sectors, the seafood industry has inherent the effective and successful management of our risks that Thai Union actively works to mitigate. These business. Without full traceability of our supply chain, risks include: GOING DIGITAL FOR SUSTAINABILITY Thai Union is taking major steps to bring full transparency and digital traceability into our supply chain—something the entire seafood industry must work toward for a sustainable future. Digital traceability—the ability to track a product from its place of origin all the way to the consumer electronically—in supply chains benefits producers and consumers as it introduces a faced and the type of fishing traceability pilot program in 2017. whole new level of transparency being conducted. This lack Inmarsat’s “Fleet One” terminals to the fishing and seafood of monitoring can lead to were successfully installed on industry. unacceptable labor and fishing fishing vessels in Thailand, while violations, resulting in human the crew members, captains and Consumers around the globe rights abuses along with illegal, fleet owners were trained on “Fish want to know where the food on unreported and unregulated (IUU) Talk” chat applications developed their plates comes from and that fishing. by Xsense, which enable workers it meets the highest quality and at sea to connect with families sustainability standards. To tackle the problem, Thai Union, and peers around the world— Mars Petcare and Inmarsat, along an industry first for Thai fisheries. But tracing seafood’s origins with a coalition of other industry The pilot program will test is challenging since activities and government groups such as scalable platforms for electronic that take place at sea can be the U.S. Agency for International Catch Data and Traceability difficult to monitor or supervise. Development’s Oceans and (eCDT) systems that utilize All too often, only those on Fisheries Partnership (USAID mobile applications and satellite boats understand the conditions Oceans), launched a digital connectivity, making it possible 69 • Illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing, a traceability system, Trax, provides us with digital legal compliance risk; data management tools to not only run our global • Labor and human rights violations, a social risk; and operations efficiently, but also to facilitate the functionality of can trackers, which are found on • Fish stock depletion, an environmental risk. our brands’ products around the world. In 2017, Trax was expanded to cover more of our facilities and Our supply chain management approach primarily supply chains. The Trax digital mapping system focuses on the sourcing of raw fishery and aquaprovides better visibility into our supply chain, which culture materials as these processes have helps Thai Union conduct an effective risk analysis. the highest potential to carry risk. But we also For our wild-caught species, we also started recognize the need to manage our supply chains for conducting thorough stock and market analysis a range of other categories—from packaging to on a monthly basis, enabling us to more accurately non-seafood ingredients to logistics. forecast fish availability. The analysis takes into consideration a number of conditions, including DIGITAL TRACEABILITY stock status, fishery regulations and closure periods, Digital traceability continues to be an important part climatic conditions, ocean currents and more. of our supply chain management. Our custom-built to demonstrate true electronic at least part of the supply chain. We’ve been able to talk by end-to-end traceability and supply But any paper-based system lacks phone at any time since it’s been chain management. efficiency and is susceptible to installed. We have continuous simple human error. communication.” “The success of this pilot project could really mean a significant Fortunately, the fishing industry As the fishing industry continues transformation in the seafood has evolved significantly, making to evolve, there is increased supply chain because for the first the unimaginable years ago, now hope that this pilot project has time there will be connectivity at possible. The real-time information the ability to not only improve sea, enabling not only real-time derived from digital traceability, traceability and transparency—the catch data, but also giving such as electronic catch data, backbone of SeaChange®, workers at sea an opportunity helps seafood companies, partThai Union’s sustainability to connect with their families on ners and governments work to strategy—throughout Thai land and possibly peers on other minimize IUU fishing and monitor waters, but it will also help improve boats,” said Isabelle Aelvoet, labor standards on vessels. This the greater fishing industry. Global Sustainability Director of better protects fisheries and Mars Petcare. “This ultimately the environment and helps uphold “Many of the issues we find in gives workers at sea a voice.” human rights, reducing supply Thailand replicate themselves chain risks for Thai Union and in other fishing communities Currently the fishing industry other seafood companies. around the world, so we hope is reliant upon paper-based the trials we’re doing here will systems, in part because it is “We can now use our phone have ramifications in fishing more difficult to provide when we’re out at sea and there’s industries globally,” said connectivity on a constantly no signal,” said Than Zin Ko, a Dr. Darian McBain, Thai Union’s moving fishing boat via satellite Burmese fisherman. Global Director for Sustainable at an affordable cost than it is at Development. a static farm or factory. Today, Hla Hla Myo, the partner of a even many of the most ethical and Burmese fisherman said: “This sustainable seafood companies software installation has provided use paper-based systems to track us with greater convenience. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 70 SPEND ANALYSIS OF GLOBAL NON-FISH In 2017, an in-depth study of our global tin, can and PROCUREMENT lid packaging supply chains was completed. This Since 2015, Thai Union has conducted a spend assessment formed the basis for a new group-wide analysis of non-fish procurement categories across supply chain management approach and will be Thai Union’s worldwide facilities, including packaging, expanded in 2018 to assess Thai Union’s plastic ingredients and logistics. Based on the analysis, packaging supply chain. Thai Union is developing and implementing a joint initiative across different facilities to work toward Information from these assessments helps form a more efficient and integrated procurement network. the baseline for our sustainable packaging commitment The initiative will also set effective measures for and ongoing improvements to the utility and sustainsupply chain risk management and efficiency gains. ability of our packaging. THAI UNION PACKAGING AND INGREDIENTS PURCHASING Spend Pool Category NON-FISH SPEND 8 CATEGORIES 14 CATEGORIES 9 CATEGORIES PRIMARY PRIMARY INGREDIENTS PACKAGING PACKAGING Can and Lid Glue Tape and Bundle Carton Oil Sticker/ Insert Paper/ Sheet and Pouch Wheat/ Starch Paperboard Divider Sheet Sleeve/ Inner Box Food Additives and Cup Skewer Chemical Tray and Cover1 Plastic/ Poly Bag1 Cardboard Sauce and Paste Plastic/ Poly Bag1 Shrink Film Foam Box Powder Flavouring and Glass Jar Tray and Cover1 Cylinders Seasoning Tub and Lid Loading Materials Other Packaging Dairy Product Other Containers Mineral Product and Lids General 71 TOP TWO CATEGORIES IN PRIMARY PACKAGING CONTRIBUTE 94 PERCENT, CAN AND LID CONTRIBUTE ~88 PERCENT OF SPEND Spend by category: Packaging – Primary ȏȊɈˏ+ ˏ .%).5ˏ'#%*# 1% 0% 0% 1% 1% 3% 6% 88% Can & Lid +1$ Cup Tray & (/0%ˏȖ Other Glass Jar Tub & Lid Total Cover +(5# Containers & Lids SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT PROCESS the procurement cycle—including prospective and Since launching our updated Business Ethics and existing suppliers. Labor Code of Conduct in 2015, we have started formalizing a supplier approval process. This All prospective and contracted suppliers must helps ensure we procure from qualified suppliers acknowledge and sign our Business Ethics and Labor that meet Thai Union’s procurement criteria, Code of Conduct. In Thailand, prospective suppliers including environmental, social, legal compliance will then be pre-assessed to determine whether and governance aspects. We evaluate suppliers they meet Thai Union’s requirements by completing against our procurement criteria at all stages of a one-time Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ). THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 72 Those that pass the SAQ are confirmed as approved follow our Business Ethics and Labor Code of suppliers, and procurement can begin. Conduct, to help avoid non-compliance. In Thailand in 2017, SGS trained our auditors on social compliance A local purchasing committee will evaluate suppliers with our standards and Thai labor laws, and SGS and determine their ratings on a rolling basis. Any provided announced social audits for 10 percent of suppliers identified as high-risk—especially those our non-fish procurement supply base. associated with environmental, social and governance issues—will receive a third-party audit to verify their SHRIMP SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT ability to meet Thai Union’s Business Ethics and IN THAILAND Labor Code of Conduct. High-risk suppliers that do In 2017 we embarked on a large-scale program to not pass the audit have an opportunity to undergo audit, improve and enhance social compliance within a supplier performance improvement program to the shrimp supply chain in Thailand. The project meet our compliance requirements. If at the end will complement the increase in certified farms by of the program the gaps are closed, procurement raising the social standards of non-certified farms can resume; if the gaps remain, procurement is to Best Aquaculture Practice (BAP) equivalence, discontinued. with an emphasis on compliance with both local and importing-country regulatory requirements. All Thai Union contracted suppliers globally are The program will be rolled out digitally in 2018, subject to internal or third-party audits at any point improving not only Thai Union’s supply chain but also during the procurement cycle—not just the ones with the lives of farmers and fishers working in the Thai a high-risk profile. We randomly select a percentage shrimp supply chain. of our suppliers to verify their capacity to strictly 1 2 1 Technical auditor training for in-house shrimp audit team. 2 Practical auditor training for in-house shrimp audit team. 3 Shrimp broker training for compliance with our Business Ethics and Labor Code of Conduct and shrimp social compliance program. 3 73 THAI UNION COMMITS TO WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM TUNA TRACEABILITY COMMITMENT At a 2017 World Economic “At Thai Union, we recognize will increase the supply of Forum (WEF) meeting in that tuna is not just a sustainable tuna. This includes New York City, Thai Union product, it’s a vital source of establishing 11 new fishery committed to the WEF’s Tuna nourishment or employment improvement projects (FIPs) 2020 Traceability Declaration. for at least 1 billion people around the world. A FIP is The Declaration supports across the globe,” said a program to transform a the United Nations (UN) Dr. Darian McBain, Thai Union’s fishery, ensuring sustainable Sustainable Development global director for sustainable fish stocks, minimized Goals (SDGs), which were development, during a panel environmental impacts, and adopted by all 193 Heads of of seafood industry leaders improved management of the State via a UN Resolution in hosted by the WEF. “As fishery. September 2015. an industry leader, it is our responsibility to work with McBain continued, “TraceThe Tuna 2020 Traceability other stakeholders to ensure ability is the backbone of Declaration has been that tuna is sustainably our sustainability program, endorsed by leaders of caught, processed and bringing human rights, enthe world’s biggest retailers, brought to market.” vironmental performance tuna processors, marketers, and regulatory compliance traders and harvesters, with In line with our sustainability together.” the support of influential civil strategy, SeaChange®, in 2016 society organizations and Thai Union announced an Thai Union will report on our governments. The entities ambitious $90 million strategy progress toward our global endorsing the Tuna 2020 to ensure 100 percent of our tuna commitment regularly. Traceability Declaration have branded tuna is sustainably To learn more about it, visit committed to concrete actions sourced with a commitment http://seachangesustainability.org. and partnerships to implement of achieving a minimum of the Declaration and its Action 75 percent by 2020. As part Agenda. of the new tuna strategy, we are investing in initiatives that THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 74 FISHERY RAW MATERIAL SOURCING AND FISHERY IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS In 2017, Thai Union took another important step in a sardine FIP in Morocco; the FIP has been running toward improving the sustainability of global tuna for over three years, which means the fishery will fisheries. In conjunction with other major regional receive a MSC certification assessment, potentially in actors, such as fleets, processors, governments and 2018. non-governmental organizations, we successfully launched five large-scale tuna fishery improvement Sourcing from FIP and MSC fisheries requires projects (FIPs): one in the Pacific Ocean, one in Thai Union to adapt to new supply circumstances, the Indian Ocean, and three in the Atlantic Ocean. including an increase in the cost of fish raw material. These FIPs were launched to support Thai Union’s Tuna Commitment, which aims to source 100 Despite the immediate short-term financial downside percent of our branded tuna from fisheries that are this may present, Thai Union’s commitment and either Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) certified active contribution toward more sustainable fisheries or engaged in FIPs to move them toward MSC is stronger than ever. Our investment in FIPs is part certification. Thai Union has fully embraced the MSC of our commitment to the United Nations Sustainable certification, which is now globally recognized as Development Goal (SDG) 14, Life Below Water, and the most robust sustainability standard for SDG 2, Zero Hunger. sustainable fisheries. We use MSC principles as a standardized tool to measure the sustainability We aim to bring as many others with us on this performance of the various fisheries we source from. journey toward fish stock sustainability to help ensure Thai Union will achieve our Tuna Commitment by the oceans continue to thrive and communities initiating 11 tuna FIPs across a wide range of continue to benefit from healthy and sustainably geographies over the next two years. Once caught seafood. Thai Union will keep engaging with launched, each of our FIPs will be listed on conservation groups and governments, as doing so www.fisheryprogress.org, which will serve as an has proven a powerful tool to help improve seafood independent validation of progress and will provide sustainability and the overall health of our oceans. our stakeholders with information. And, collaborations between the private sector, public sector and civil society have significantly helped In addition to Thai Union’s tuna FIPs, we have also address challenges facing fisheries by incentivizing engaged in FIPs targeting species such as mackerel positive change. and sardine. Presently, Thai Union is an active partner Tuna sourced from ISSF PVR vessels .+,+.0%+*ˏ+ ˏ01*ˏ,1.$/! ˏ .+)ˏˏ(%/0! ˏ2!//!(/ˏ +.ˏ((ˏ˛/$%*#ˏ#!.ˏ05,!/ 93% 95% 92%* 2015 2016 2017 *Decrease from 2016 to 2017 is due to larger purchase volume in 2017. This included more vessels not PVR listed, including pole-and-line. One-hundred percent of our purchase from large scale purse seiners are PVR listed. 75 Thai Union brands implemented consumer-facing can tracker tracing products to fishing vessels .!ȥȇȅȆȌ ȇȅȆȌ 2017 Fishery responsible sourcing performance 2017 12% 45.25% 8% Share of tuna sourced Share of non-tuna Share of pole-and-line tuna from MSC fishery or FIP sourced from MSC fishery or FIP Note: Entire TU purchases in the year 2017. Non-tuna species include crab, wild salmon, sardines, mackerel, lobster, Pollock, sole, herring and cod. THAI UNION DONATES TO FISHERY IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS IN INDONESIA Thai Union donated $50,000 to stakeholders in Indonesia— sustainability and responsible fishery improvement projects including industry, fishermen, sourcing programs across (FIPs) in East Indonesia in 2017. government, non-governmental the tuna supply chains. The donation supports organizations and academia—to pole-and-line fisheries as well as work collaboratively toward overall sustainability for skipjack sustainability and influence and yellowfin tuna stocks. It change in the ocean through will help bring together leading the implementation of various THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 76 INDIAN OCEAN TUNA PURSE SEINE FISHERY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT In 2017, Thai Union launched certification from the Marine by best fishing and fishery a tuna fishery improvement Stewardship Council (MSC). management practices. The FIP project (FIP) in the Indian FIPs: will be completed when all Ocean with a series of other • Ignite partnerships between the agreed upon initiatives stakeholders, including seafood producers, buyers, researchers have been successfully implecompanies. This project adand governments; mented and the corresponding dresses the majority of European goals achieved. The fisheries Union-, Seychellesand • Are based on a MSC prewill then be assessed Mauritius-flagged purse seine assessment; against MSC standards to attain vessels fishing for tropical tuna • Involve partnership agreeMSC certification. in the Indian Ocean. ments with a secretariat, a coordinator and technical By supporting a number of The Indian Ocean tuna purse facilitators; FIPs globally to help them reach seine FIP is important as it • Have an action plan with MSC standards, Thai Union facilitates the development, measurable indicators and an clearly demonstrates our discussion, implementation associated budget; and commitment to improving the and monitoring of measures sustainability of fisheries around to improve management of • Undergo regular evaluations to the world. As a market leader, the three most important track progress. we will continue investing commercial tropical tuna species Following a previously failed in strong partnerships and in the Indian Ocean. This FIP attempt for certification of frameworks to move fisheries works toward Thai Union’s Tuna purse-seine caught yellowfin, toward MSC-certified levels of Commitment as well as seafood bigeye and skipjack tuna sustainability. FIPs help us ensure sustainability commitments as fisheries, the stakeholders a high level of transparency in part of our partnership with involved in the Indian Ocean our operations, which is essential World Wildlife Fund (WWF). tuna purse seine FIP identified to the continued growth of our the fisheries’ weaknesses and business. A FIP is a well-respected process have since completed a series of to improve fisheries’ sustainMSC pre-assessments. As part of ability over a set timeframe, the process, the FIP stakeholders with a final goal of receiving made commitments to abide 77 THAI UNION EDUCATIONAL ASSETS RAISE AWARENESS OF FISHERIES AND FISHERY IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS When people discuss how produced and released two generations and are part of to best approach long-term informational videos to the solution to secure life in sustainable development raise public awareness and oceans. in the fishing and seafood understanding on fisheries industry, ‘fisheries’ and ‘fishery and FIPs in 2017. Additionally, The production of these improvement projects (FIPs)’ we developed an infographic educational multimedia are frequently used terminology. to highlight our FIP 2020 resources is in line with Because these terms are Roadmap. Thai Union’s sustainability used so often, it is incredibly strategy, SeaChange®, and its important to Thai Union to raise These resources help improve aim to influence change for awareness and help ensure understanding on the basics the whole of the global seafood understanding about these of what fisheries are and why industry. The videos and subjects more widely, so the FIPs are the best path toward infographics are available on entire industry can achieve its sustainable fish. FIPs are an Thai Union’s website, YouTube sustainability goals. important platform designed channel, as well as on to secure the sustainability of the SeaChange® website. With that in mind, Thai Union marine resources for future Thai Union’s Fishery Improvement Project 2020 Roadmap Thai Union has launched its Global Tuna Strategy and 2020 commitment. The strategy is built around traceability and is designed to address stock sustainability, labor issues and Illegal, Unregulated and Unreported fishing (IUU) in the fishing industry. Thai Union’s commitment is for all of our tuna to be sustainably sourced, with an aim to achieve a minimum of 75% of our own brands of tuna coming from fisheries that are Marine Stewardship Council certified or in a Fishery Improvement Project (FIP) by the end of 2020. Thai Union will invest US$90 million in initiatives, including establishing new FIPs, that bring together stakeholders to identify environmental challenges in a fishery, develop a plan to address them, and work together to implement the plan. Priority FIPs Post-2018 FIPs Thailand, Tonggol, Purse Seine W. Pacific WCPO, Tropical Tuna, 2018 Purse Seine Vietnam, Skipjack, Purse Seine Indonesia, Skipjack and Yellowfin, Pole & Line Ocean Western Pacific Ocean, Albacore, Longline Indonesia, Fairtrade Yellowfin, Handline Indian Ocean, Tropical Tuna, Indian Ocean, Albacore, Long Line Indian 2017 Purse Seine Ocean 2017 Atlantic Brazil, Pole & Line Atlantic Ocean, Tropical Tuna, Purse Seine Ocean 2018 Senegal, Pole & Line thaiunion.com Vietnam, Skipjack, Purse Seine Purse Seine THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 78 AQUACULTURE RAW MATERIAL SOURCING Aquaculture has grown at an impressive rate in recent years, with communities and companies of The majority of the aquaculture species processed at all sizes involved in the industry. In many countries Thai Union’s facilities are shrimp and salmon. Our with sufficient supplies of natural resources, labor supply chain consists of qualified third-party and suitable weather conditions, aquaculture exports suppliers and a company-owned, vertically integrated continue to rise in volume and value. Filling the gap supply chain that strictly follow our standards. between fishery product supply and demand, Our vertically integrated supply chain holds Best aquaculture yields a consistent source of nutritious Aquaculture Practices (BAP) certifications for food, provides employment opportunities, and our processing plants, farms, hatchery and feed contributes to local economies—particularly in rural mills based in Thailand. Our aquaculture supplier areas. procurement practices operate to a uniform global standard, and our aquaculture suppliers stringently Aquaculture typically involves a complex supply chain follow Thai Union’s Business Ethics and Labor Code with many stakeholders, including feed producers of Conduct and our Aquaculture Responsible that source from fishing vessels or factory byproduct Sourcing Guidelines, which collectively address key processing plants; hatcheries; farms; and processing social, legal, environmental and food safety issues plants. To responsibly meet global demands for food, associated with farmed seafood. companies must effectively manage their aquaculture supply chains by refraining from depleting natural With a growing global demand for seafood, Thai resources through excessive and irresponsible Union established a dedicated network of personnel harvests, and by demonstrating transparency. With who, working closely with our suppliers, support Thai Union’s sustainability program, SeaChange®, them in meeting internationally credible aquaculture we are helping lead the aquaculture industry toward certification standards such as BAP, Aquaculture more sustainable practices throughout its supply Stewardship Council (ASC), GLOBALG.A.P., and the chains. This includes sourcing products from locally Southeast Asian Shrimp Aquaculture Improvement or internationally certified facilities, auditing and Protocol (SEASAIP). improving labor conditions in the shrimp feed supply chain, providing full traceability from feed to farm to processing, and sourcing from vessels with meaningful sustainability efforts. 79 Share of shrimp raw materials sourced from internationally certified farms Internationally Certified Others Thai Union Thai Union Okeanos Chicken of the Sea Factory Seafood Food .+6!*ˏ++ / 80% 55% ȌȋȐȌɈ 20% of total shrimp 45% of total shrimp 34.4% of total shrimp procurement procurement procurement volume volume volume Share of internationally certified farmed Traceability is the backbone of our sustainability salmon sales revenue strategy; it will not only improve transparency for our consumers, but it also helps us effectively Thai Union Europe Chilled address the risks within our supply chain. In 2018, we will complete the final stages of development and implementation of Thai Union’s in-house digital traceability system for aquaculture products sourced from Thailand. To address the need for sustainably sourced Other aquaculture feeds, Thai Union is working with 55.9% the Seafood Task Force, an industry alliance, to maintain an upstream traceability system of our feed ingredients through feedlot number recording (FIF) and Marine Catch Purchasing Document (MCPD). We are also exploring potential alternatives to replace the fishmeal used in aquafeeds with sources of protein that are considered more sustainable and readily traceable. 1.8% ȊȐȍɈ ȈȍȐȌɈ With these efforts, we intend to help minimize any negative aquaculture supply chain impacts on wild capture fisheries; help eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing; and more effectively manage social compliance. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 80 AQUACULTURE IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS Growing concern for the adverse impacts of aqua(AIPs), Thai Union has provided financial and training culture has led to an increased demand for seafood support to our partner farms and facilities. By doing products sourced from internationally certified facilities so, we are helping these aquaculture partners achieve that address food safety, the environment, and safe and third-party accreditation from BAP, ASC or other legal labor. Through aquaculture improvement projects credible, customer-driven standards. THAI UNION CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM Thai Union has provided a Collaborative (ASIC), SEASAIP’s compliance, labor management, capacity building program lead organization; SEASAIP; biosecurity, disease control and to our partner farms to help and ASC. We also assisted our water management. them improve their farm partner farms in addressing management practices to key technical improvements meet the standards of BAP; and conditions set by these Asian Seafood Improvement standards, such as legal NUMBER OF FARMS NUMBER OF FARMS THAT CERTIFIED ACCORDING UNDERGO AIP OR NAME OF THE STANDARD TO THE INTERNATIONAL PRE-ASSESSMENT AGAINST AQUACULTURE STANDARDS STANDARD REQUIREMENTS IN 2017 BAP Farms 19 59 SEASAIP Farms 2 1 ASC Farms 2 0 Whole Foods Farms 2 8 Tesco Welfare Farms 3 5 81 RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS 07 Thai Union has many initiatives in place to help ensure we operate responsibly. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 84 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION SCOPE 1 & 2 GREENHOUSE GAS Framework Convention on Climate Change. We are EMISSIONS TARGET also targeting a reduction in GHG emissions by at least 30 percent of our 2016 base year levels, by Thai Union has established emissions mitigation 2020. With these efforts, Thai Union is moving toward programs in various countries as we recognize becoming a low-carbon organization and reducing the serious impact of greenhouse gases (GHG) on the impact of GHG on the environment and society. climate change and global warming, especially to Thai Union is creating a mitigation plan based on our climate change risk assessment, which we have conducted since 2015. This plan will help meet the International Energy Agency’s goal of minimizing global temperature rise to no more than 2 degrees Celsius within the energy sector. Our GHG emissions reduction strategy involves four main initiatives: improving operational efficiency in our production lines; investing in more efficient equipment and processes; developing and deploying innovations or marine and coastal biological diversity. Thai Union new technologies; and promoting renewable energy. supports the Paris Agreement’s global goal to reduce To develop relevant action plans for our business GHG emissions, which was established at the 21st operations, Thai Union established six modules, for Conference of the Parties of the United Nations which the progress is shown below. Vision and Mission Statement .+#.)/ˏ(.! 5ˏ .+#.)/ˏ.!ˏ+*ˏ,.+!// .+#.)/ˏ3%((ˏ!ˏ implemented in 2017 implemented in 2018 GHG GHG Risk Opportunities Engage and Ensure Accounting Reduction Mitigation Disclose Accountability Environmental Set up TU All sites set up Promoting low Climate change Establish & GHG corporate their mitigation carbon product strategy EHS committee reporting goal for 30% plans to reduce & packaging disclosure in training reduction in GHG emission innovation SD and DJSI 2020 against Organize EHS 2016 champions to ISO 14064 GHG Conduct GHG Encourage Engage with suggest and Management All sites set up mitigation audits and support to authorities from evaluate in new Training their targets & plans for TUM, do CFO/CFP government technologies/ to align with TUF and IOT and private practices TU group sectors such as Develop EHS TGO, UN, reporting Establish solid USAID and Champions program TU GHG so on incentive for (Enablon) mitigations success plans to achieve 30% reduction EHS data target verification by third party 85 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL GHG PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE Y2016 VS Y2017 Y2016 VS Y2017 BY ZONE ȼˏȆȌˏˏˏˏ ȼ ȼ Y17 YOY Target ȼ ˏȆȌˏˏˏˏ ȼY17 Reduced 34.94 % Reduced 55.99 11.17 % Reduced 53.19 11.43 % Reduced 0.89 19.53 % Reduced 1.54 % 0.83 Reduced ȈȌȐȊȇ 0.79 1.40 % ȅȐȌȏ 0.73 Reduced ȅȐȋȌ 11.43 % ȅȐȊȋ ȅȐȊȊ ȆȋȐȅȌ ȆȊȐȎȋ ȆȊȐȈȅ 0.83 0.73 ȅȐȍȌ GHG ˏ   WASTE TO LANDFILL ASIA EU & AFRICA USA TOTAL (tco 2e/tonFG) (m 3/tonFG) (kg/tonFG) In 2017, we reduced our GHG emissions beyond 11.43 percent, or about 55,489,695 kg CO2 equivalent, our target through our continuous efforts in compared to 2016. Our energy and GHG reduction implementing and promoting environmental and programs reduced our costs by more than $16 million. GHG mitigation initiatives, accounting and audits. In 2017, we reduced our GHG emissions intensity by IN 2017, THAI UNION REDUCED GHG EMISSION INTENSITY BY 11.43 PERCENT COMPARED TO THE 2016 BASE YEAR, WITH A TOTAL COST SAVINGS OF MORE THAN $16 MILLION IN 2017, WE IMPLEMENTED Beginning in 2017, we implemented more than 53 energy and GHG emissions reduction projects. The majority of these initiatives focused on improving 53 boiler efficiency and using biomass boilers for our Energy steam production process, improving efficiency for projects CO2 consumption in our cryogenic freezing process, improving machine efficiency, LED replacement, methane recovery from our wastewater treatment Environmental projects plant, and promoting renewable energy. 75,013 GJ Most of our GHG emissions reduction projects in 2017 involved improving the boiler efficiency in our steam production process, which reduced fuel consumption Saving more than by around 329,660,604 MJ. 53,350,606 million Thai Baht THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 86 TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS FOR SCOPE 1 THAI UNION GHG EMISSIONS BY SOURCE AND 2 IN EACH ZONE GHG Scope 1 GHG Content by Source Asia EU & Africa 38% 13% USA 84% Total 2% 14% 322,931 3% 2% tCO2e 2% Total 513,326 tCO2e 22% GHG Scope 2 Asia 1% EU & Africa 8% 10% 1% USA 81% Total ȼ Fuel Oil (bunker oil) ȼ ++ ˏ!((!0ˏ 190,395 16% ȼ  ȼ Bio-Gas ȼ .!!6%*#ˏ.+!//ˏ ȼ (!0.%%05ˏ1.$/! ˏ tCO2e ȼ Refrigerant ȼ Diesel 3% ȼˏOthers ȼ Gasoline ȼ Natural Gas ȼ ()ˏ !.*!(ˏ$!((ˏ ȼ Coal ȼ Wastewater ˏ ˏ.!0)!*0ˏ(*0 GHG MITIGATION STRATEGIES released around 50 percent of Thai Union’s total GHG To identify potential energy and GHG efficiency emissions. The audits evaluated the cost benefit of opportunities and develop a detailed roadmap our existing energy reduction efforts and compared to achieve our 30 percent GHG reduction target them to the Quick Environmental Saving Technique by 2020, we conducted GHG mitigation audits. (QUEST) and the marginal abatement cost curve The audits were facilitated by external experts at (MACC) tool, which help visualize and prioritize GHG three factories: Thai Union Factory; Thai Union reduction projects by scale of reduction and project Manufacturing; and Indian Ocean Tuna, which rate of return. 87 5 STEP PROCESS TO DEVELOP GHG MITIGATION STRATEGY Data Gathering, Site Level QUEST Development Development Delivery .!(%)%*.5 Opportunities of Opportunity of the MACC Workshop Review & Analysis Assessments Database Review On-site Calculations Import Discussion of available opportunity of potential opportunities opportunities data and assessments with energy into the MACC identified across complete certified energy and carbon tool Thai Union's gaps analysis efficiency experts savings from operations opportunities Testing of and how these Prioritized Preliminary assumptions will translate sites for opportunities Enter and sensitivities into investment opportunity list opportunities needs cash assessments into the QUEST Preparation of flow, energy, have been Opportunities a preliminary carbon and identified Database Excel implementation cost reductions tool roadmap ENERGY AND GHG MITIGATION AUDITS treatment biogas recovery, and biomass co-firing in The energy and GHG mitigation audits help prioritize the steam boilers. We also conducted a workshop which Thai Union projects will best help us achieve to discuss data, sensitivities, economics and how to our goal of a 30 percent reduction in GHG emissions. engage Thai Union operations and affiliates at each of Some of the initiatives that were identified as having three pilot sites to evaluate and identify appropriate the highest GHG reduction potential include replacing cost-saving projects and timelines. CO2 with an ammonia freezing system, wastewater 2017 GHG Mitigation Workshop Overview 1 Input opportunity database 2 .%+.%0%60%+*ˏ+ ˏ,.+&!0ˏ+,,+.01*%05 3 Marginal abatement cost curve 4 .+&!0ˏ/1)).%!/ To show Thai Union’s commitment to reducing Thai Union initiated several additional GHG emissions our GHG emissions, we signed a memorandum of reduction projects in 2017, which collectively have understanding with the Thailand Greenhouse Gas improved our energy efficiency and reduced the Management Organization (TGO) to participate in adverse effects of GHG on the environment and the Thailand Voluntary Emission Trading Scheme. society. This program will help us develop GHG emissions monitoring and reporting guidelines in the food sector to abide by the ISO 14064 standards for monitoring, reporting and verifying GHG. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 88 THAILAND VERIFICATION EMISSION REDUCTION TGO encourages private companies to develop methods to reduce GHG emissions as part of the Thailand – Voluntary Emission Reduction (T-VER) program. Participating companies receive carbon credits from T-VER, which can be used to offset GHG emissions, known as carbon offsetting. Companies will also be able to sell the credits on T-VER’s carbon market, which TGO is developing. In 2017, Songkla Canning enrolled a biomass boiler project in the T-VER program. We replaced a 12-ton bunker oil C boiler, which has high global warming potential (GWP), with a biomass boiler, which has lower GWP. After conducting a monitoring and verification process at Songkla Canning, the T-VER committee issued certified carbon credits for the biomass boiler project’s operations from August 1, 2016 to May 31, 2017, in the amount of 8,978 tons CO2 equivalent. LOW EMISSION SUPPORT SCHEME To promote our GHG emissions reduction projects, Biomass boiler Thai Union submitted our energy consumption reduction projects to TGO’s Low Emission Support Scheme (LESS). In 2017, the LESS committee issued IN 2017, THAI UNION REDUCED certified letters of recognition to four of our factories OUR ENERGY INTENSITY BY for their ability to reduce GHG emissions by 370 8.85 PERCENT COMPARED TO tons CO2 equivalent. The four certified factories THE BASE YEAR, 2016. are Pakfood Chaopraya, Pakfood Office, Pakfood Pakpanang and Songkla Canning. 89 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND approximately 1,342 tons, bunker oil by 370,851.22 EFFICIENCY liters, and costs by 10,363,462.77 Thai Baht. The main metric that we use to measure our energy • At Thai Union Manufacturing, we utilized methane efficiency is energy intensity, the amount of energy from a biogas wastewater treatment plant to consumed for every unit of production. In 2017, generate electricity, reducing the electrical cost by the overall energy intensity was 5.81 GJ per ton, more than 9 million Thai Baht per year. which is an 8.85 percent improvement compared to • At Songkla Canning, we were able to reduce 2016. All our factories have energy management electrical consumption in the refrigerant system plans in place to make the best use of those facilities, by installing small compressors (132 kW) instead including the use of improved line management of big compressors (300 kW) in the anteroom, techniques. air lock room and ice making machines. This will save around 2.2 million Thai Baht per year, with One of the ways we can manage our energy conan internal return rate of 1.35 years. sumption and GHG emissions is to work on improving and managing the energy efficiency of • At Pakfood Company (Okeanos Food) and the facilities we operate, as detailed below. Thai Union Factory, we reduced our CO2 consumption per ton of production in the flash • At Thai Union Factory and Thai Union Seafood, freezing process by 12,680.21 tons or 54 percent we reduced coal consumption by reducing and compared to 2016. This also saved Thai Union optimizing the pressure of steam production. 19.4 million Thai Baht in 2017. This can reduce annual coal consumption by ENERGY INTENSITY BY OPERATIONAL REGION IN GJ PER TON OF PRODUCTION Energy Performance 2017 ȼ Total Direct Energy ȼ Electricity ȼ Energy Intensity 2017 GJ GJ/tonFG 3,00,000 2,790,897 ȌȐȆȅ ȌȐȅȈ ȌȐȅȋ 2,50,000 ȌȐȅȅ 2,080,038 5.95 2,00,000 5.90 5.81 5.85 1,50,000 ȋȐȍȌ ȆȑȇȎȋȑȆȋȌ 5.80 ȆȑȅȇȌȑȊȇȏ 1,00,000 5.75 598,797 5.70 500,000 5.59 ȋȐȌȋ 210,920 ȆȆȇȑȅȌȈ ȊȍȑȎȅȎ ȋȐȌȅ 5.55 ASIA EU & AFRICA USA TOTAL THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 90 ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE FOR 2017 Energy Consumption Content 22% 31% 5% Total ȼ Fuel Oil (bunker oil) ȼ Natural Gas 5% ȼ Diesel ȼ  4,071,157 4% ȼ Coal ȼ Gasoline ȼ Bio-Gas ȼ ++ ˏ!((!0ˏ GJ ȼ ()ˏ !.*!(ˏ$!(( ȼ Total Indirect Energy (Electricity) 3% 30% per ton of production. This is a 1.4 percent reduction in untreated water from natural resources compared to our performance in 2016—a result of strong water management systems and controlled water usage and reduction projects such as continuous follow up and monthly performance monitoring. We also reused and recycled 662,302 m3 of water into production processes and facilities, representing 6 percent of our total water consumption in 2017. WATER CONSUMPTION AND CRISIS MITIGATION PLANNING Water is not only important for humans, but it also 2017 WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE balances the entire ecosystem. Industries like steel, chemicals, fertilizers, textiles, cement, electricity, Water Consumption Source petrochemicals, paper, mining and food use water in large quantities for processes such as cooling, power generation, cleaning, fire protection and air conditioning. As such, overuse of water can occur, as 9% can water pollution and conflicts over land use rights. Total Since 2015, Thai Union has utilized the World 11% Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas 11,084,353 m3 to create a global water risk map. This mapping 1% exercise considers our water-related risks, including 3% current and future water shortages, flood risk, water 3% quality risk, water costs, and current regulatory 73% and reputational risks. The Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas also provides us with a better understanding of our current water usage and potential scarcity ȼ ˏ1(%ˏ0!.ˏȬ 1*%%,(ˏ0!.ȭˏˏ ȼ Surface Water impacts to our business and the surrounding ȼ Ground Water ȼ Rainwater Collectedˏˏ5ˏ.#*%60%+*ˏˏˏ communities, better enabling us to integrate our ȼ Water Recycled ȼ Water Reused water management planning with the communities’ strategies. IN 2017, THAI UNION REDUCED OUR In 2017, our total water consumption was WATER INTENSITY BY 1.4 PERCENT 10,422,501 m3 and our water intensity was 14.85 m3 COMPARED TO THE BASE YEAR, 2016. 91 WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE IN 2014 TO 2017, IN M3 ȼ Surface Water ȼ Groundwater ȼˏ%*30!.ˏ+((!0! ˏ5ˏ.#*%60%+*ˏ ȼ Municipal Water ȼ Reused & Recycled Water 1,105,193 ȌȌȇȑȈȅȇ ȌȍȇȑȇȊȇ 531,018 ȋȑȋȌȌȑȎȊȈ ȋȑȌȎȈȑȋȍȋ 8,213,209 ȎȑȆȈȎȑȆȍȊ ȌȍȑȅȈȏ ȌȋȑȋȅȎ ȌȆȑȊȏȋ ȈȏȑȆȈȊ 780,835 ȎȌȎȑȍȅȊ 1,011,892 ȆȑȇȊȈȑȊȆȋ Ȍȅȇȑȇȋȍ ȏȏȋȑȎȏȊ ȆȑȅȌȎȑȌȊȎ ȏȍȊȑȏȋȊ ȇȅȆȊ 2015 ȇȅȆȌ 2017 (THAILAND) (ASIA) (GLOBAL) (GLOBAL) boosts our corporate bottom line; and our recycling and recovery initiatives have potential to create significant new revenue streams, such as the resale of recycled goods. Through our waste elimination strategy, Thai Union is reducing our carbon footprint and enhancing our position as a responsible corporate citizen. ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL WASTE REDUCTION PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS Our waste elimination strategy is to maximize the use of our materials and resources, reduce the amount of • Thai Union puts effort into segregating, reusing waste generated, and keep materials out of landand recycling our waste to reduce the volume that fills. As a first step, we identify where our waste is goes to the landfill. We continuously look to identify generated and which processes or management suppliers that can utilize or transform our waste and systems can be employed to minimize unavoidable byproducts into energy for use in their processes. waste generation. We then look at how residual waste For example, we send our stickers, which normally can be reused or recycled into new products. For exgo to the landfill, to one of our suppliers for energy ample, we: production. • At Songkla Canning, we reduced the amount of • Send fish scraps to our feed mill; sludge going to the landfill from our wastewater • Process residual waste to generate energy for treatment plant by about 28 percent in 2017; this the anaerobic digestion of food waste; was done by returning an optimized volume of sludge to a digester tank. • Produce refuse-derived fuel from dewatered sludge for use as fuel in our boilers; and • Incinerate waste to create greener energy. IN 2017, THAI UNION REDUCED OUR WASTE TO LANDFILL INTENSITY BY 34.49 PERCENT COMPARED TO THE Our waste reduction efforts help Thai Union save BASE YEAR, 2016. money, for example in waste disposal costs, which THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 92 SUN SEEKER PROJECT: SOLAR ENERGY GENERATION Thai Union knew that putting day-to-day operations and In 25 years, the total renewable solar panels on the unused the roof is newer, compared to energy produced from this rooftops of our production other locations. As part of solar rooftop project will be plants would create benefits the project, we installed 2,970 approximately 33,123,000 kWh, for the countries where our solar panels with a total power and the total GHG emissions plants are located by increasing capacity of 935.55 kWh— reduction will be about 19,000 the national proportion approximately 1,300,000 kWh tons. of alternative energy and per year—which can reduce GHG reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 720 tons of CO2 The success of this pilot (GHG) emissions. With this in equivalent per year. project serves as a model for mind, we surveyed our plants’ The project also reduced other organizations and has rooftops in several countries accumulated heat in generated significant interest such as Thailand, Vietnam and the plant’s buildings, and for site visits from domestic and Seychelles, and we identified thus air conditioning power international government and many appropriate sites for consumption. private sector representatives. implementation. In 2017, the first location we selected for a pilot Power Purchased Agreement (PPA) project was Thai Union Factory’s 10,000 square meter cold storage rooftop in Samut Sakhon Province. We chose this facility for its high level of energy production at 3,300 kWh per day, and because the electrical load is steady enough for SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING • Reduce the amount of packaging going to landfills Packaging is an important component of any by utilizing packaging materials with readily available product and contributes significantly to a company’s recycling streams or other end-of-life options; overall environmental impact. By developing and • Utilize recycled materials, where available, and implementing sustainable packaging initiatives, close the recycling loop; Thai Union’s environmental footprint is reduced. • Source from and leverage the expertise of At Thai Union, sustainable packaging starts with packaging suppliers that demonstrate excellence in the selection criteria of packaging materials. Our sustainable packaging and operations; policy aims to: • Research innovation in product packaging and utilization by consumers; and • Reduce or minimize the overall package-to-product • Communicate and encourage appropriate ratio; end-of-life packaging handling to our consumers, • Reduce the carbon footprint of packaging through particularly to reduce plastic waste that ends up in new innovations to the weight and composition of our oceans. packaging materials, packaging sizes and logistics; 93 THAI UNION AND CLINTON CLIMATE INITIATIVE PARTNER TO GENERATE CLEAN ENERGY Thai Union, in partnership with • This new wastewater and to develop a sustainable the Clinton Climate Initiative biogas project will help IOT ocean-based economy. (CCI), officially broke ground on increase its alternative energy a wastewater and biogas project sources and decrease its CCI and Thai Union’s partnership at our Indian Ocean Tuna (IOT) dependence on oil. on the IOT Seychelles facility Seychelles facility in 2017. This • Working with Thai Union’s comprises a portfolio of project will cut carbon emissions management and engineering sustainability focused projects. and reduce energy costs while team in IOT, CCI helped to In 2015, CCI and its partner generating clean electricity identify a technical solution the Rocky Mountain Institute’s and cleaner wastewater. CCI, to upgrade the wastewater Carbon War Room conducted a an initiative of the Clinton and fish sludge treatment factory-wide energy efficiency Foundation, has been working plants, improving the quality audit at IOT with a series of with Thai Union to provide of the wastewater and energy-and water-reducing technical and advisory support generating significant biogas recommendations that IOT on the project since 2013. byproduct. The biogas from is already implementing, the treated fish sludge and which will lead to significant This project will address a water will be used to generate savings. CCI also completed number of clean energy needs: clean electricity to run faca Business Case Analysis for tory processes, reducing use of rooftop solar power at • As one of the largest tuna consumption of diesel-based IOT’s factory, examining one processing factories in electricity from the grid. way to reduce consumption of the world, IOT is Seychelles’ diesel-generated electricity from largest electricity user; This wastewater and biogas the grid. • Most of Seychelles’ energy project is in line with Thai is generated from imported Union’s sustainability strategy, diesel fuel, which is unSeaChange®, and its impact will sustainable, both environalso contribute to Seychelles’ mentally and financially; Blue Economy concept aiming THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 94 OUR KEY INITIATIVES • Exploring technologies to reduce the thickness Sustainable packaging is an important element of of the pouches we currently use for many of our our innovation work. As part of our Global Innovation seafood products, while maintaining the same Incubator’s science and research pillar, we investigate appearance and quality our customers enjoy; and develop technological advancements to improve • Conducting ongoing research to identify more the sustainability and convenience of product environmentally friendly plastics, through packaging. By exploring sustainable packaging in implementing and utilizing bio-based material or our innovation research, we ensure a continuous putting recycled content into polymers, as we aim pipeline of improvements, which will help achieve to decrease global plastic pollution and improve Thai Union’s goals for carbon footprint reduction and the carbon footprint of our product packaging; environmentally friendly packaging. • Investigating ways to utilize shrimp shells in As part of our five-year packaging roadmap, we are: our plastic packaging. This would yield many benefits, including the reuse of factory waste, • Committing to an industry leading packaging the development of bio-based packaging and commitment to ensure 100 percent of our improved shelf life for products; and branded packaging is reusable, recyclable or • Optimizing for transportation through more compostable by 2025. Although we do not have space-efficient packaging, for instance in the form the solutions in place to meet this commitment of square packaging. now, we will collaborate across industries to help change packaging and in particular address issues surrounding the impact of single use plastics; • Working to develop a paper lid solution to replace our existing plastic lids used in product packaging. Sustainable packaging starts We intend to have a commercially viable paper lid with the selection criteria of option by 2019; packaging materials. • Researching ways to reduce the thickness and weight of cans to decrease the quantity of material used. Our goal is to deliver a product of the same quality, but lighter, next year; 95 A SCIENCE-BASED APPROACH TO PACKAGING AT JOHN WEST The growth of John West within the U.K. ambient fish market over the last five years has largely come from consumer-led packaging innovation. Packaging for much of the fish category has remained mostly the same for decades. Our mission at John West is to get people to enjoy fish every day by making the brand more relevant to consumers’ lives. However, when we engage consumers on more modern packaging, plastic formats often top the list. Because of the increasing In conjunction with RDC detailed review of the full LCA profile of environmental issues, Environment, several current findings is now underway such as food waste, climate packaging suppliers were to better explore additional change and ocean plastic, engaged, as well as some environmental impacts of the we continually challenge ourpotential new suppliers, to different packaging substrates. selves to consider any future evaluate different global However, the impact of plastics packaging development from packaging options for tuna. on the environment and marine as many different perspectives With these suppliers, RDC life, and their persistence in as possible, not just consumers. Environment and Thai Union the environment, must also be That is why Thai Union decided worked collaboratively taken into account. to work with a third-party to launch a full LCA. The industry expert to better unobjective was to understand Thai Union has to demonstrate derstand the full lifecycle which packaging option responsibility in developing of packaging materials by performed best on a number of consumer-led packaging comparing metal to plastic. environmental measurements. solutions that drive greater In selecting the correct The assessment starts at the relevance while considering partner for this study, specific very beginning of a material’s environmental impacts in the decision criteria were used. life with the extraction of raw process. Partnering with an It was important to choose material, and it ends at the very independent LCA expert like a well-known and credible end of the material’s life—and it RDC Environment has already agency with technical expertise includes every step in between, significantly informed our in sustainability. The partner from production, packing, understanding of sustainable also needed to have a high level scanning and transportation packaging, and this new of skill, specifically on life-cycle to end-user consumption and approach will be used to assessments (LCA), using a disposal. shape future thinking on global strong scientific approach. packaging development. Equally important was having An initial finding of interest a wide portfolio of clients involves the positive impact encompassing both packaging to material consumption and food companies. Based on from the roughly 2.5 times these criteria, we appointed lighter profile of plastic, when RDC Environment. compared to cans. A more THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 96 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH ȼ LTIFR Hours Worked (x 100,000,000) AND SAFETY ȆȐȌȅ ȆȐȊȅ 1.39 ȆȐȊȅ In recent years, we have prioritized the development 1.20 Decrease 17% of Thai Union’s Environmental, Occupational Health 1.00 0.89 and Safety (EHS) Management System. By imple0.80 ȅȐȍȊ menting our EHS protocols across all Thai Union ȅȐȌȅ 0.50 workplaces, we ensure that each facility operates ȅȐȊȅ to the same minimum EHS requirements. We 0.20 systematically integrate EHS&En considerations into 0.00 our business processes to build a safe workplace and ȇȅȆȌ 2017 2018 2019 2020 mitigate injury and fatality risks. In 2017, we were able to maintain the Occupational Illness Frequency Rate for employees at zero. We also Lost Time Injury Severity Rate (LTISR) continued to reduce the Lost Time Injury Severity Rate per 200,000 worked hours by 22 percent and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate by 17 percent, 8.00 ȍȐȊȎ compared to 2016. The following components outline 7.00 our priorities for 2017. ȌȐȅȅ 5.82 22% Lower 5.00 ȊȐȅȅ 3.00 2.00 1.00 0.00 ȇȅȆȌ 2017 SAFETY DESIGN We assessed our workplace to identify any potential improvements to our employees’ safety. We believe a safe workplace begins with the right safety design. Several engineering projects were executed in 2017 to improve our workplace safety, including fire protection, machine safety, ergonomics and a safe refrigeration system. To help implement our workplace safety design, we issued Thai Union guidelines demonstrating the principles of “Doing-Rightat-First,” which covers the required steps of the project’s execution and ensures integration of safety considerations. 97 BUILDING SKILLS AND COMPETENCY We realize that employees’ skills and competencies to better facilitate the comprehension of our diverse are significant factors in building a culture of safety employees. at Thai Union. In 2018, we plan to expand our EHS capacity building As such, we established the Center of Excellence services to the public by making them available to in Thailand: Environment, Health and Safety in other Thai and migrant workers in the region. We February 2017 to serve as the EHS learning hub hope this will improve the EHS awareness, skills and for all Thai Union employees. More than 3,000 competencies of people outside Thai Union, too, employees participated in the center’s courses in especially among migrant workers. 2017, which are offered in Thai, English and Burmese PARTNERSHIP AND ENGAGEMENT Engagement from all our employees is the key to employees and others we engage with truly feel achieving and maintaining a strong safety culture. free to share their thoughts on every step of the In 2017, we worked to build interaction on EHS issues EHS program, including its policy and framework between all levels of employees within each entity development, risk assessments, identification of risk and between entities. In line with our core value mitigations and incident investigations. of ‘respect,’ we promote an environment where THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 98 2017 KEY INITIATIVES Fire protection improvement Corporate EHS protocol Corporate EHS announcement (minimum compliance audit requirement of EHS Management System within Thai Union) N DE JAN O C B V FE OCT Development of MAR Workshop to align APR safety communication, SEP M focus and plan ensuring engagement G A U Y within group JUN A JUL and awareness Ergonomic pilot Strengthen the safety program, preventing practices for high risk work-related tasks musculoskeletal disorders Machine safety survey EHS skill and competency improvement (establishment of Center of Excellence) Remark: 2014 data includes Thai Union Group PCL., Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Songkla Canning PCL., Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd., Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd., Pakfood PCL., Yueh Chyang Canned Food Co., Ltd., Thai Union Europe SAS, Tri-Union Seafood LLC. 2015 data includes Thai Union Group PCL., Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Songkla Canning PCL., Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd., Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd., Pakfood PCL, Asian-Pacific Can Co., Ltd., Thai Union Graphic Co., Ltd., Yueh Chyang Canned Food Co., Ltd., Thai Union Europe SAS, MerAlliance SAS, King Oscar As, Tri-Union Seafood LLC., Tri-Union Frozen Products Inc. 2016 and 2017 data include Thai Union Group PCL., Thai Union Manufacturing Co., Ltd., Songkla Canning PCL., Thai Union Seafood Co., Ltd., Thai Union Feedmill Co., Ltd., Pakfood PCL., Asian-Pacific Can Co., Ltd., Thai Union Graphic Co., Ltd., Yueh Chyang Canned Food Co., Ltd., TMAC Co., Ltd., Thai Union Europe SAS, MerAlliance SAS, King Oscar As, Tri-Union Seafood LLC, Tri-Union Frozen Products Inc., U.S. Pet Nutrition LLC. 99 GHANA: PIONEER FOOD CANNERY INCIDENT In June 2017, an explosion followed by a fire occurred • Engaging a team of specialists to clean up, in the boiler room at the Pioneer Food Cannery reconstruct and restart the PFC plant; (PFC) factory in Accra, Ghana. Public fire brigades • Coordinating with local authorities, insurance and the PFC team were able to contain the fire experts, suppliers, customers and other staketo a limited area of the factory. As a devastating holders to limit the business disruption; result of the accident, five fatalities occurred, including one employee from the PFC plant and • Activating production backups to ensure business four from a subcontracting company. Sadly, two continuity in market places; and additional people were seriously injured, including • Sharing our understanding of what happened one employee from the PFC plant and one from a to communicate appropriately, take action and subcontracting company. reinforce our safety procedures. A crisis team was immediately established with After a temporary closure of 12 weeks, the PFC plant the following top priorities: restarted on September 4, 2017. We deeply regret the loss of these five lives and the injuries to our • Caring for the injured people, as well as supporting employees and subcontractors. We are committed to the families of the deceased and injured people; improving our workplace and minimizing the risk of • Seeking advice from both external and internal injuries and fatalities. specialists to identify the root cause of the incident and to implement appropriate response and prevention measures; PROCESS INNOVATION In 2016, Thai Union’s Global Innovation Incubator (Gii) The improved processes also have a positive impact introduced process innovations to enhance product on the sensory and nutritional quality of our tuna quality and improve sustainability through increased products. And, the efficient processes benefit the utilization of raw material, decreased processing time, environment, with shorter processing times and and reduced steam utilization via alternative heating lower steam, water and energy consumption, and steam recovery processes. contributing to a lower carbon footprint. The main achievement in 2017 was the implementFurther, once the modernized tuna manufacturing ation of multiple modernized tuna manufacturing process is at full capacity, it is expected to increase processing lines at three manufacturing sites. gains in efficiency, as it significantly reduces proThrough a high degree of automation and sopcessing time from thawing until canning. The histicated engineering, the automated manupre-cooking process has been changed from batch facturing process is revolutionary for the tuna cooking to continuous cooking, and could be canning industry. It reduces the labor required to reduced to significantly decrease steam, water and produce tuna products and enables a higher yield energy consumption. Ongoing steam recovery reof raw material and recovery of high-value human search initiatives are underway to further reduce food ingredients from Thai Union’s tuna byproducts— energy use and the carbon footprint of Thai Union’s all significant economic benefits. tuna products. PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES 08 Thai Union takes responsibility for improving the lives of those living and working in the regions where we operate. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 102 HUMAN CAPITAL INVESTMENT 2017 was a year of significant progress to the development of our workforce and operational excellence, including important advances such as the strengthening of our core talent development processes. Another key achievement this year was the launch of a three-year Human Capital Development Roadmap that will align our workforce development strategies with our business ambitions and strengthen Thai Union’s employment branding position. We believe that learning and development is an important, ongoing initiative to enhance our employees’ skills and capabilities. At Thai Union, we are committed to continuously developing our workforce based on individuals’ needs, readiness and vocational requirements. We do this by providing high quality capacity building programs that support employees’ career aspirations and help them become effective contributors and leaders. Thai Union’s leadership development programs are guided by our Capability Framework and Leadership Expectations are defined internally and emphasize the links between our core values, goals and business context. The framework and leadership model help ensure we continue and enhance our track record as a high performing organization that achieves business results, engages and retains our employees, and serves as an industry role model. THAI UNION’S CAPABILITY FRAMEWORK CAPABILITIES LEADERSHIP CAPABILITIES General .+&!0ˏ *#!)!*0 Leadership Expectations Change Management Functional Supply Chain Management Manager Capability Sales and Marketing Digital Capability Compliance Training: Code(s) of Conduct/Safety/Quality/Legal Six Core Values //%+*0! Humble Respectful Responsible Collaborative Innovative 103 Thai Union offers practical, yet high impact learning and development opportunities to every employee. Action-based, adult learning approaches such as special project assignments, job rotations and stretch roles are critical parts of our development programs. In addition, opportunities to learn from others via feedback loops, mentoring programs, traditional classrooms and e-learning are available for our associates. And we continue to embed our six core values throughout our leadership development programs. We leverage leadership concepts and resources from well-respected training and coaching programs such as FranklinCovey and the 7 Habits of Highly Effective People® in our day-to-day operations across Thai Union. These training and coaching programs were provided to employees at all levels this year and we will continue deploying them to additional employees in 2018. Employee engagement data in 2017, tracked from operations in Asia (Songkla Canning and Yueh Chyang Canned Food), Europe (King Oscar) and the United States (Chicken of the Sea Frozen Foods), measured 66.3 percent—surpassing the target of 62.5 percent. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND COMMUNITY INVESMENT Thai Union is committed to improving the lives of those living and working in the regions in which we operate. Thai Union has worked together with private sector peers, local government, international organizations and civil society bodies to address social and environmental problems. From cleaning beaches and protecting endangered species to educating children of migrant workers and providing nutritional information to local communities—Thai Union is committed to being a good corporate citizen. Some of this work is undertaken at a group level. For example, Thai Union is a major donor to famine and disaster relief programs every year as part of our commitment to support the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) to end hunger. However, much of the work is delivered at a domestic level through our brands; some of these initiatives are significant and others are much more modest, but big or small, when combined, they tell a very compelling story about our business and the things that matter to our company. Photo credit: Janyawath Sutamma/IUCN THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 104 2017 CORPORATE PHILANTHROPY Covered in this report: Philanthropic giving on behalf of Thai Union companies in Thailand, Vietnam, USA and Norway; and Thai Union Europe (including Germany Group) SUMMARY (in Thai Baht) 1. Charitable Donations 69,142,246.60 2. Community Investments 19,031,054.21 3. Commercial Initiatives 46,985,850.17 Total 135,159,150.98 Thai Baht Source: Thai Union Group Corporate Account IN KIND DONATIONS (Exchange rate: 1 USD = 31 Thai Baht) 1. Thai Union Food donation and school materials 369,613.42 Thai Baht 2. King Oscar Food donation $850 USD or 26,350.00 Thai Baht 3. Yueh Chyang Canned Food School materials and others $5,811 USD or 180,141.00 Thai Baht 4. Tri Union Seafoods Food donation $200,000 USD or 6,200,000.00 Thai Baht (Chicken of the Sea) Total In Kind 6,776,104.42 Thai Baht CASH AND IN KIND DONATION PERCENTAGE OF NET PROFIT ȼ In Kind ȼ In Cash 5% ȌȑȍȍȌȑȆȅȊȐȊȇˏ Thai Baht ȇȐȇȊɈ 95% Of net profit: ȌȑȅȇȆȑȅȅȅȑȅȅȅȐȅȅˏˏ ȆȇȎȑȈȎȈȑȅȊȌȐȋȌ Thai Baht Thai Baht Total Donation: 135,159,150.98 Thai Union 105 THAILAND STUDENTS GET A KICK OUT OF FOOTBALL Student athletes in Thailand The two-hour clinics emBuapetch, Samut Sakhon F.C.’s had the opportunity to learn a phasized the importance assistant coach. “I could see few tricks from the pros on the of physical fitness, good how determined the kids were football pitch. And, just maybe, sportsmanship and teamwork. to learn new techniques out the Samut Sakhon Football Club there today dribbling around (F.C.) coaching staff and players “Football is great exercise, the field and juggling the ball. caught a glimpse of a future helping to make me strong The difference in age and star or two as the team, along and healthy,” said Nichada gender was not a barrier for with Thai Union, co-organized Hanchengchai, a sixth-grade them. They really enjoyed four teaching clinics for student at Wat Yaichomprasat themselves out there.” schoolchildren in the Samut School. “I started to play Sakhon community. football at 10 and continue now In addition to being a corporate that I am 12 years old. I really sponsor for Samut Sakhon F.C., Samut Sakhon F.C. coaches enjoy the game and intend to Thai Union funds preschools and players held skill drills and continue practicing. I also hope for children of local migrant demonstrated proper football to become a role model for workers at three participating techniques at the local Mahachai younger players.” schools, including providing Futsal Stadium to approximately educational supplies and other 400 students in 2017 from Wat “It is great that Thai Union school materials. Yaichomprasat School, Wat took the time to set up these Srisudtharam School and Wat amazing activities for students Sirimongkol School. from different schools in Samut Sakhon,” said Songwut THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 106 RIGHTS AWARENESS The fishing industry continues to face accusations and English to SCC Thailand staff. In the future, SCC of challenges in achieving equal and fair treatment Thailand plans to extend the program by opening of migrant workers, stemming from informal and it to the general public. The program has resulted illegal labor practices such as human trafficking, in an increased number of SCC staff interpreters, forced labor, child labor and debt bondage. approximately half of whom are able to communicate Thai Union has many initiatives underway to help with migrant workers at Thai Union plants. protect the rights of migrant workers in Thailand and beyond, including collaborations with FRIEND TO FRIEND CLUB non-governmental organization (NGO) partners to The Friend to Friend Club was formed by migrant facilitate social dialog and capacity building through workers with the help of Thai Union operating training, workshops and practical demonstrations. company Quality Management. Members voluntarily contribute 1 Thai Baht ($.032) a day to the club’s We aim to prevent instances of child labor and savings account, with funds raised used to help trafficking by ensuring our migrant workers in Thai Union workers in need, such as flood victims, Thailand understand their rights. For instance, those needing medication, support for families having migrant workers with children in Thailand often lack a baby, or funeral costs. The club also provides social access to education due to insufficient knowledge services, such as cleaning services and the donation about the Thai school system. So, in collaboration of a printer valued at 6,690 Thai Baht (roughly $213) with the Labour Rights Promotion Network (LPN), to the Child Care Centre at Tha-Chalorm. The club Thai Union built on past efforts and continued to has gained recognition and now has 120 members. organize workshops in 2017 for migrant workers to learn about education rights and Thai school enrollment procedures so their children have access to formal education. Also, Thai Union and LPN expanded our children’s education rights program to cover additional issues—including labor rights—for migrant worker communities in Samut Sakhon. Together, we developed and distributed updated booklets with useful information on children’s education rights, child labor, online endangerment, human trafficking and an emergency number to report violations. The program aims to ensure migrant workers understand their rights under Thai law, the risks of human trafficking and how to protect themselves. LPN distributed 20,000 booklets to migrant workers in 2017. ASEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY LANGUAGE LEARNING CENTER A lack of local workers in Thailand often leads to a higher demand for migrant workers, many of whom face communication barriers due to language differences. To help resolve this challenge, SCC Thailand introduced the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC) Language Learning Center, which aims to place interpreters in Thai Union plants to communicate with migrant workers. This year, workers volunteered to teach Burmese, Lao, Khmer 107 CHILDHOOD EDUCATION Thai Union recognizes education is an important foundation for a better life. We officially opened our third preschool at Wat Yaichomprasat School for children of our migrant and local workers in Samut Sakhon, Thailand in 2017. These schools help the children enter the Thai education system, so they can progress to primary school. They also ensure the children are safe during the day, providing their working parents with real peace of mind. Thai Union previously established preschools at Wat Srisudtharam School in 2013 and Wat Sirimongkol School in 2014. We aim to open two additional preschools in Samut Sakhon, the fourth in 2018 and a fifth in 2019. Thai Union also organized key education initiatives for children at our preschools throughout the year, including a photography workshop, a science camp, and a series of football clinics to promote physical education. Another example of the company’s involvement in the community is with the Pracharat Project—a project coordinated by the Thai Government. In 2017, Thai Union was actively involved in two programs with the project which aim to improve the lives of the local community, as well as boost the education standards of children from 30 schools in across the Samut Sakhon, Samut Songkhram, Phetchaburi and Prachuap Khiri Khan provinces where the company operates in Thailand. The first program—the Basic Education and Human Capital Development Group (CONNEXT ED)—is a public-private sector project. CONNEXT ED aims to minimize inequality in society, develop people’s potential, and increase competitiveness to students in public schools under the Office of the Basic Education Commission. The program develops a network of next-generation leaders from private companies who will learn and develop leadership skills through what is called the Action Learning Project, which includes knowledge sharing and strategic planning in academic development with school principals, teachers, local community leaders and students. This helps develop Thai students to be “good and smart students,” according to the program’s objective Separately, Thai Union has been (continued on page 110). THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 108 THAI UNION SCIENCE CAMP PROMOTES LEARNING FOR STUDENTS An insatiable curiosity and a passion for science bonded more than 100 students from Samut Sakhon community in Thailand with some of the top minds in research, technology and innovation during the Thai Union Global Innovation Incubator’s (Gii) Second Annual Science Camp held at Wat Srisudtharam School in September 2017. The camp experience was designed by 70 scientists from Thai Union to teach students basic science, including how to better develop logical thinking satisfying our natural curiosity Thai Union’s scientists at the and observational skills. to discover why and how camp included simple electrothings happen, while arriving magnetic theory; pressure, “It’s incredible how passionate at those discoveries in a logical density and the center of and eager these children are to and rational manner. Children gravity using an egg; creating learn about science,” said who acquire even this most a chemical reaction with lemon Dr. Tunyawat Kasemsuwan, basic skillset of a scientist will juice; and using a Thai herb to Thai Union’s director for Gii. be able to apply those lessons test for borax in food. “We have a responsibility to to their benefit throughout cultivate and nurture that numerous situations in their “We tried to introduce science in passion for science education, lives.” a simple manner, such as using especially among the people paper and turmeric powder for and communities where Thai Some of the lessons and borax testing in food,” said Ms. Union operates. Science is experiments conducted by Nutcha Nakwiang, a process really about stimulating and 109 and technology scientist at Thai “One of the most fun activities science even more enthusiasUnion’s Gii. “This is something taught me how to make a slime tically in the future.” students can apply in daily life.” safely, which was super fun,” Lekdee said. “Now more than Students who participated in “I’ve always liked science and ever, I feel I want to be a science the science camp attend love it even more now after teacher when I grow up.” preschools in Samut Sakhon participating in this camp with where Thai Union has established Thai Union,” said Kaew, a Kasemsuwan said one of the keys and continues to support the fourth-grade student at Wat to making the camp a success children of migrant workers Sirimongkul School who is orwas demonstrating to students studying to enter Thailand’s iginally from Myanmar. “For me, that learning science is not only formal education system. Those the most interesting experiment important, but also exciting. schools include Wat Srisudtharam, was learning about borax in food Wat Yaichomprasat and Wat and how to test for it.” “Sometimes students mistakenly Sirimongkul. think science is too difficult Kanitta Lekdee, a sixth-grade or not interesting, which can student at Wat Srisudtharam frighten them away altogether,” School, said she found the said Kasemsuwan. “I think today experiments useful and enjoyable, we helped dispel that myth with and hopes to pursue a career in these students, and hopefully teaching science. some will be inspired to pursue THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 110 actively involved in other Pracharat Project initiatives GREAT PROMISE PARTNERSHIP in Samut Sakhon, specifically one called the Pracharat Chicken of the Sea (Georgia Canning) provided six Raksamakkee Samut Sakhon, which supports local high school students with better opportunities— businesses and helps put them on better commercial education and work—through on-the-job training. footing. These projects help drive the Thai economy at The senior-level students, who were at risk of not a grassroots level, allowing small business operators to graduating, successfully completed their courses and generate more income for the local community. Thai graduated, while working afternoons for the company. Union’s involvement has been in three areas: SCHOOL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM 1. Agriculture: Support for overcoming the pest More than 70 percent of workers at Okeanos Food problem associated with aromatic coconuts. in Samut Sakhon are from Myanmar and live in To add value to agriculture products, Thai Union Mahachai Nives, where their children are among 94 will expand support to other areas, including students at the Wat Khok Child Care Center. After registration of Geographical Identity (GI) and consultation with the community, Okeanos decided Good Agricultural Practices (GAP). Additionally, to support the center—and 45 employees helped to the company has been working on a food safety install a roof at the canteen and extend a surrounding program in hospitals by supporting organic fence to prevent crime. They also painted a wall with vegetable farms, which supply those products to information to provide knowledge about marine life hospitals in Samut Sakhon. and waste identification. 2. Agriproduct processing: Thai Union proudly SUPPORTING BAAN NAM KRAJAI supports the development of handcrafted SCHOOL Benjarong porcelain in Samut Sakhon so these SCC Thailand signed a memorandum of underpremium products can achieve higher value. standing with Baan Nam Krajai School to offer There are also additional products in the pipeline, support by providing education materials and including spa salt, aloe vera juice and leather transferring knowledge from the plant to the school. products. SCC Thailand employees have provided information on the Five Habits, GMP and energy conservation to 3. Community tourism: Supporting local communities the students, who can use that knowledge on a daily that can be developed into tourism destinations basis. SCC Thailand plans to develop a fire evacuation in Samut Sakhon such as the Khok Kham-Pantai plan and organize training for the school in 2018. Norashing shrine, sea salt farm and foot spa, and a homestay at Don Kai Dee, where Benjarong is crafted. 111 ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES GARBAGE BANK PROGRAM systems and communities, the importance of To promote environmental awareness, Thai Union mangrove restoration and how they too can help established our Garbage Bank program in 2014. protect Thailand’s mangrove forests. This allows us to encourage staff involvement in an environmental initiative and raise funds to support COMMUNITY CLEANING IN SEYCHELLES local communities. The program is designed to: Over 200 employees from IOT Seychelles volunteered and were deployed to various locations across the • Improve the awareness and ability of Thai Union’s local community to engage in activities making staff to identify waste, both at the workplace and a positive difference to the community’s environment at home; and people. IOT Seychelles employees planted more than 2,000 trees to help restore degraded land in • Reduce plastic waste in the community; the national forest, removing debris, litter, dead wildlife and invasive plants. • Use income from the program to support social projects; and LAND APPLICATION SYSTEM Chicken of the Sea (Georgia Canning) installed waste • Promote collaboration among supervisors, officers water treatment to guarantee that its wastewater is and staff in the facility. treated in accordance to the necessary requirements. The output of the treated wastewater, both effluent In 2017, the Garbage Bank generated 36,536 Thai and sludge, is utilized in a beneficial way to the Baht (approximately $1,200) by selling collected community. Effluent is used to water the grass field plastic waste. The revenue supported educational behind the factory, which turns into hay for animal materials for the children of Thai Union workers. feed, and Chicken of the Sea gives sludge to farmers for agricultural purposes. SAMUT SAKHON MANGROVE FIELD TRIPS SHELLFISH REHABILITATION PROJECT Thai Union organized three field trips to the Mangrove As part of Chicken of the Sea Frozen Foods’ emForest Natural Education Center in Samut Sakhon ployee engagement program at Bellport Bay, for students of our preschools to plant mangroves. volunteers collected and released oysters, which help More than 300 students put down their pencils and filter the water. The team successfully took turns rolled up their sleeves to jump in the mud, all in the gathering, counting and measuring random samples, name of education and sustainability. They learned as well as identifying mortality levels. Each cage had lessons on how mangroves impact coastal ecobetween 470-630 oysters with a mortality rate of approximately 0-2 percent. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 112 THAI UNION AND IUCN PARTNERSHIP PROJECT Together with International communities through market the Royal Thai Government in Union for Conservation of support and community2016. Fishery regulations and Nature (IUCN) and Thailand’s based tourism. marine and coastal resource Department of Marine and conservation policies have been Coastal Resources and Three main components applied to control potentially Department of Fisheries, destructive activities to the Thai Union supported various • Encourage sustainable fishery environment and communities community-based initiatives management and traceability that rely on these natural in Koh Yao Yai, Phang Nga, of fishery products; resources. Local community Thailand throughout 2017. members actively play a crucial The Thai Union-IUCN Part• Enhance integrated tourrole in sustainably utilizing and nership Project works with the ism management and protecting marine and coastal predominantly Muslim Thai conservation activities; and resources; each Koh Yao Yai community of Koh Yao Yai to community already had informal manage marine and coastal • Enhance livelihood and infishery regulations and some resources, develop sustainable come generation of local conservation measures in tourism and enhance livelihood communities. place at the time of the Thai resilience. Union-IUCN Partnership Phang Nga Bay is one of the Project’s start. Project objectives most important marine protected areas and a biodiverPhang Nga Bay communities • Enhance and scale up marsity hotspot in southern Thailand. depend on fisheries and tourism ine and coastal resource Mangroves, coral reefs and as their primary sources of conservation schemes in seagrass provide significant socioeconomic activity. Therefore, target areas; and ecosystem services and are to help ensure environmental, key fishery spawning grounds. social and economic sustain• Strengthen alternative liveliThe Koh Yao Yai district was ability, the Thai Union-IUCN hoods for coastal fishery designated a protected area by Partnership Project encourages Photo credit: Janyawath Sutamma/IUCN 113 Left: A member of the Muslim Thai community of Koh Yao Yai slingshots seeds. Right: The Muslim Thai community of Koh Yao Yai breeds and tends to goat herds to use their milk to create soap. Photo credit: Janyawath Sutamma/IUCN Koh Yao Yai coastal communities Yao Yai community-based essential business connections to integrally manage tourism tourism opportunities to 30 between the local community and conservation activities representatives of tour agencies, and potential customers. and scale up sustainable hotels, magazines, webmasters, fishery management at both and the TAT Phang Nga Bay “We are so thankful to the the community and ecobranch. Thai Union represenThai Union-IUCN Partnership logical-corridor levels. The tatives also attended the threeProject for bringing together project simultaneously proday tour to participate in local the four communities in Koh Yao motes alternative livelihood experiences and receive a Yai sub-district,” said Mr. Prasert development opportunities to comprehensive overview of the Boonsob, a representative of a grow community members’ community’s efforts to achieve Koh Yao Yai community-based day-to-day incomes. their goal of community-based tourism group. “It was our first natural resource management. time collectively working on With the rapid growth of The tour highlighted natural our natural resources and ecotourism in Phang Nga Bay, resource conservation activities, systems. Community-based community-based tourism sustainable agriculture and tourism creates job opporis an important part of Koh fisheries, and the local culture tunities and additional income Yao Yai’s conservation efforts. and lifestyle through watershed for community members.” In December 2017, a tour was forest trekking, spending a day arranged by the Thai Unionwith local fishermen and kayaIUCN Partnership Project, the king in mangrove forests. The Tourism Authority of Thailand tour aimed to inspire ecotourism (TAT), and the Koh Yao Yai among Thailand tourism repremunicipality to showcase Koh sentatives, and it created THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 114 LIFE BELOW WATER: BOLSA CHICA CONSERVANCY HUMANITARIAN RELIEF Chicken of the Sea Frozen Foods and Chicken of the Sea International’s Bolsa Chica Conservancy Since 2011, Thai Union has donated food to victims focuses on ecological reserves along the Southern of natural disasters, working closely with partner California coast, removing invasive species from organizations to ensure our donations reach those the wetlands. This helps increase the habitat value for in need. In 2017, Thai Union donated 25,000 cans of the native animals that live or use the wetlands for mackerel to support flood victims in Sakon Nakhon breeding, feeding and shelter. A team of 20 volprovince. unteers worked with staff from the Bolsa Chica Conservancy to remove more than a dozen bags Additionally Chicken of the Sea, in conjunction with totaling 200 pounds of invasive species. the Royal Thai Embassy and with help from the Red Cross, has provided 200,000 meals to support SEA AND BEACH CLEANING IN VIETNAM the victims of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico. As a member of the Crab Council of the Vietnam Chicken of the Sea also partnered with Convoy of Association of Seafood Exporters and Producers Hope to provide over 65,000 meals of shelf-stable (VASEP), volunteers from Yueh Chyang Canned seafood to people displaced by Hurricane Harvey. Food Co., Ltd. (YCC Vietnam) supported a fishery improvement project at Ha Tien by helping release berried female crab. The program is expected to generate 4 million larval crabs in the sea. The team calculated that at least six percent of the crabs would survive and thrive, producing 24 tons of raw material during the next six months, bringing approximately $200,000 worth of benefits to local fishermen. The YCC Vietnam team also helped with a beach cleanup. 115 INAUGURAL GLOBAL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AWARDS Thai Union proudly announced our first ever Global contributions their colleagues make to the local Sustainable Development Awards, which were given communities. out by our CEO, Thiraphong Chansiri, and Dr. Darian McBain, Global Director for Sustainable Development, The awards were open to all Thai Union business during the 40th Anniversary Celebration in Bangkok units and brands. They included a popular vote, called in 2017. the People’s Choice Award, and Winner and RunnerUp awards as judged by a Thai Union leadership panel. Throughout the year, our employees participated in a vast number of sustainability projects in the All submissions related to one or more of markets where we operate. These programs have the following issues: Thai Union’s SeaChange® an incredible impact. With the Global Sustainable sustainability strategy; United Nations SDGs (Zero Development Awards, Thai Union not only has the Hunger, Life Below Water, and Decent Work and chance to recognize those efforts, but we also Economic Growth); and anti-corruption. increase awareness among our employees of the WINNERS AND HONORABLE MENTIONS JUDGES’ JUDGES’ PEOPLE’S JUDGES’ JUDGES’ WINNER RUNNER-UP CHOICE HONORABLE HONORABLE Thai Union Mareblu WINNER MENTION MENTION OPCO HR Daily Marketing Team Thai Union Thai Union Thai Union, Thai Recruitment Team Dalla Parte Del Blu OPCO Quality OPCO Quality Union OPCO Migrant Worker Project Management Management Production Fish Recruitment and Human and Human Garbage Bank Process Resources Shared Resources Shared Program Development Services Services Project Friend to Friend Friend to Friend Club Project Club Project THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 116 THAI UNION HOSTS PHOTOGRAPHY WORKSHOP FOR STUDENTS In November 2017, Thai Union Attendees were introduced to how to approach people and hosted a photography workshop basic photography skills and capture their natural appearance in Samut Songkram where techniques, along with the and expressions.” students learned a picture can aesthetics of the art, and be worth a thousand words. learned how to use photoActivities such as this photoBut the story most worth telling graphy for storytelling. The graphy workshop are that afternoon was about workshop paired children with important to the people in the the surprising, natural talent their parents to photograph community and in line with behind the camera lens. Ampawa Floating Market, similar Thai Union’s sustainability to an art photographer or strategy, SeaChange®, which “I’ll be honest, many of these photojournalist on assignment. aims to improve the lives of children picked up photography those living and working in the better than some beginner-level “I really enjoyed learning about regions in which we operate. adults,” said Phonpanu photography,” said Nopparuj Geerattayaporn, the workshop’s Mafueang, a sixth-grade student “Someone once said if we could photography instructor. “They at Wat Srisudtharam School. experience life through the eyes were naturals. These children “What I learned from this activity of a child everything would be were incredibly attentive, eager is how to take good photos magical and extraordinary— to learn about the history of with good composition. I also looking at many of these images photography and the medium’s had a chance to take many nice taken by the children from our terminology, and it translated pictures with my mother, which is community certainly invokes that into success once they started a good memory for me because sentiment,” said Dr. Darian McBain, snapping photos—it was it is the first time I’ve ever had Thai Union’s Global Director for impressive.” the chance to take pictures with Sustainable Development. “It was her.” great to see these kids practice Thai Union organized the onephotography, something they day photography workshop June, a ninth-grader originally might not ordinarily be able for grade school students of from Myanmar, said one of to do. And who knows, some Wat Srisudtharam School, the most important lessons might become professional where we sponsor classes for she learned was that a person’s photographers one day.” the children of migrant workers creative inspiration can come in the Samut Sakhon area from instinct as well as exto prepare students to enter perience. “Photography can Thailand’s formal education teach me a lot about myself and system. Parents of the children I appreciate that,” she said. “I also also joined and participated in learned how photos can tell the workshop. a story, through the lens, and 117 THAI UNION AND UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME LAUNCH SCHOOL MEALS IMPACT STUDY The United Nations (UN) World Food Programme grown school meals program in Kenya is in line (WFP), with support from Thai Union, launched with our work to deliver against the UN Susa study in 2017 to model the impact of a planned tainable Development Goals (SDGs) through our national school meals program on the economy sustainability strategy, SeaChange®, including in Kenya. SDG 2, Zero Hunger, and SDG 8, Decent Work and Economic Growth. In 2009, the Kenyan Government started a homegrown school meals program that provides school “Collaboration with actors in the private sector lunches to 1 million children. Another 600,000 committed to social responsibility is critical to children are fed by WFP’s school meals program. achieving zero hunger,” said Ms. Annalisa Conte, WFP is gradually transitioning pupils from its WFP Kenya’s Country Director and Representative. direct support to the Government’s home-grown “WFP Kenya greatly appreciates Thai Union’s school meals program, scheduled for completion support to this project, which will shed light by the end of 2018. on how a national school meals program that actively engages local farmers and businesses Through the home-grown school meals initiative, can contribute to improved livelihoods for schools buy food from local markets, resulting the people of Kenya. We look forward to working in a direct economic benefit to farmers and together and sharing our findings as we move traders, as well as to service providers such as forward.” transporters and suppliers of farm inputs. The study, being conducted by UC Davis, started Schools and institutions buying from local in July 2017 and will finish by December 2019. farmers increase cash flow and create more The results will provide valuable insights to the opportunities for local area employment. Kenyan Government about its plan for a universal The Local Economy-Wide Impact Evaluation lunch program that feeds all schoolchildren in (LEWIE) method developed by the University of Kenya. California, Davis (UC Davis) Agricultural and Resource Economics Department will gather evidence and quantify the economic impact of the home-grown school meals program. The study, which will be done in collaboration with UC Davis, will demonstrate the potential local and national economic impact of a national program providing daily lunch to all 8.9 million schoolchildren in Kenya. Using data from schools, traders, businesses, farmers and households, it will be possible to estimate the returns generated by every dollar invested in a national school meals program, based on the procurement of local food products. The lessons learned from this project could show an ability to dramatically improve the nutrition of schoolchildren while concurrently boosting local Photo credit: WFP/Rein Skullerud economies with one single policy. Additionally, demonstrable success could pave the way for similar initiatives on a global level in both developed and developing nations. Thai Union’s support of WFP and the homeTHAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 118 HEALTH AND WELLNESS As the world population growth nears an expected and practices, growth and development. Through 9 billion people by 2030, demographic shifts and cutting-edge science, Thai Union’s innovations inevitable growth in aging populations will likely support smarter utilization of fishery resources, result in changing lifestyle and food consumption optimization of processes and technology, value patterns. The rising double burden of malnutrition, creation of byproducts, and healthier societies. the co-existence of undernutrition together with obesity and non-communicable diseases in a rapidly Guided by our corporate strategies, we conduct reschanging global nutrition landscape emphasizes earch and development, and we collaborate with the importance of good food choices to address multidisciplinary, well respected and credible current and future health concerns. For instance, scientists and institutions. For example, we investigate health and wellness is becoming increasingly underutilized byproducts to identify potential health important to consumers. and nutrition benefits. Ultimately, we will add to Thai Union’s portfolio a new health and wellness category, To meet an evolving consumer demand for suswhich not only provides high economic value but also tainable and nutritious foods for health, Thai Union is contributes to the sustainable development agenda. developing innovative food products through the Thai Union’s vision to be the world’s most trusted fundamental scientific understanding of raw materials seafood leader helps ensure that we care for our from traceable sources. Thai Union’s ground-breaking resources to nurture generations to come. A healthy research incorporates health and wellness considediet and balanced nutrition is important throughout ration in product development to benefit Thai Union’s life. Therefore, we commit to developing superior consumers worldwide. quality and innovative products based on credible science with the best nutrition for consumers’ health Innovation is vitally important to our socially and wellness—regardless of age, gender, income or responsible and sustainable corporate policies culture. 119 THAI UNION’S COMMITMENTS TO PRODUCT INNOVATION IN 2017 ACHIEVING OUR CORPORATE VISION Thai Union has developed a patent pending process FOR HEALTH AND WELLNESS for delivering a new tuna product to consumers in a convenient format that suits busy lifestyles. By 1. New discoveries and key findings from all research redefining the tuna format, we are opening new projects across platforms will be distilled and channels, outlets and customers for Thai Union. integrated to form relevant knowledge. This Thai Union is also developing an innovative tuna knowledge will build the capability of product sausage that provides consumers with a nutritious, creation, process development work streams, and low fat, tasty alternative in a consumer market pipelines to meet consumer and market demands. dominated by unhealthy options. It is a great choice for the growing health conscious consumer market 2. Research outcomes will transform the next genlooking for convenient products to fit active lifestyles. eration of products to better suit specific age It will be initially launched in Thailand, reaching target groups, health conditions and socioeconomic levels. consumers through convenience stores. 3. To maximize the value of fishery resources, unNUTRITION LABELLING derutilized byproducts will be investigated for Our social innovation has two foci: meeting the potential health and nutrition benefits. global trend for healthy nutrition and conforming to nutrition labelling schemes for a healthier society. The 4. To address health and safety issues throughout nutrition facts for all new Thai Union products are as the launch of innovative products, our operations transparent as possible. In 2016, 100 percent of our will be managed using a credible scientific datanew products had nutrition fact labels; an increase base as well as supply chain safety and quality from 65 percent in 2015. In 2016, 40 percent of our control mechanisms. new products had nutrition claim labels; an increase from the previous year’s 20 percent. At Thai Union, 5. We will empower consumers to make healthy we will continuously improve our products to be choices by providing honest, accurate and reliable healthier for the wellbeing of consumers worldwide. nutrition information. We will also provide labelling that is consistent with scientific evidence and complies with regulatory requirements. PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 121 09 Thai Union discloses its sustainability performance on an annual basis, including our yearly disclosure of global data, reporting against our commitments and materiality. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 122 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT 2015 2016 2017 Economic Performance Total revenue Million Baht 125,182.81 134,375.11 136,535,16 Total cost Operating cost Million Baht 118,366.04 118,366.04 131,823.68 Employee wages and benefits Million Baht 12,802.27 10,795.08 12,540.22 Cash paid for interest expenses Million Baht 1,234.16 1,009.31 2,182.09 Dividend paid Million Baht 2,719.99 2,982.06 3,006.20 Cash paid for corporate income tax Million Baht 1,070.65 1,706.59 877.29 Asia Million Baht 321.72 117.47 205.31 EU & Africa Million Baht 573.50 1,103.80 433.91 North America Million Baht 175.44 485.32 238.07 Corporate responsibility & community investment Million Baht 137.15 117.72 135.16 Innovation and Product Responsibility Percentage of marketed new products % 65* 100 97 with nutritional labels R&D spending as percentage of sales % 0.19 0.22 0.22 *An error in the 2015 Sustainability Report originally listed this figure as 95. It has been corrected here to 65. Data from 2015-2016 refers to product using tuna as an ingredient. Data from 2017 covers all seafood, including tuna, mackerel, salmon, sardine and shrimp. G4-22 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT 2016 2017 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) Cases per 0.89 0.74 – employees 200,000 hours worked Cases per 7.5 5.8 Lost time injury severity rate (LTISR) 200,000 hours employees worked Cases per 0.37 0.14 Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) 200,000 hours – contractors worked 123 PEOPLE PERFORMANCE HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT UNIT 2015 2016 2017 Total workforce People 39,864.00 49,177.00 51,143.00 Full time employee (FTE) People 11,623.00 13,381.00 12,803.00 Daily staff People 28,241.00 35,796.00 38,340.00 Average hours of training & developHour/employee 26.28 17.81 14.96 ment per year Average amount spent on training & Thai Baht 4,004.65 4,278.85 7,543.79 development per FTE Human capital return on investment Thai Baht 9.79 12.26 10.81 ATTRACT AND RETAIN TALENT Employee satisfaction survey % of employee satisfaction 72.67 66.04 82.92 Total employee turn-over per FTE % 14.85 14.43 14.98 Asia % 13.32 14.33 13.50 US Region % 21.00 10.50 30.74 EU Region % 15.00 6.93 16.16 DIVERSITY Gender distribution by level Total management People 765.00 1,148.00 967.00 Total management female ratio % 42.00 37.80 43.12 Total management male People 447.00 714.00 550.00 Total management female People 318.00 434.00 417.00 Management male Total People 447.00 714.00 550.00 Top management People 17.00 17.00 19.00 Middle management People 100.00 161.00 119.00 Junior management People 330.00 536.00 412.00 Management female Total People 318.00 434.00 417.00 Top management People 4.00 3.00 3.00 Middle management People 35.00 47.00 43.00 Junior management People 279.00 384.00 371.00 Total non-management People 7,671.00 11,892.00 10,516.00 Total non-management female ratio % 61.00 55.61 59.48 Total non-management male People 3,025.00 5,279.00 4,261.00 Total non-management female People 4,646.00 6,613.00 6,255.00 Proportion of local hiring of senior % 55.55 80.00 59.82 management (for HQ only) Freedom of association number of People 294.00 626.00 877.00 employees represented by trade union % 24.52 7.91 10.16 Number of consultants/negotiations Number of sessions 12.00 26.00 9.00 with trade union THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 124 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE FACTORY PERFORMANCE DATA UNIT 2015 2016 2017 Production Ton 666,117 688,082 701,982 GHG EMISSION Total GHG Intensity tCO2/tonFG 0.82 0.83 0.73 Total Emission tCO2 545,690 568,109 513,326 GHG Scope 1 tCO2 384,966 384,588 322,931 GHG Scope 2 tCO2 160,724 183,521 190,395 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Total Energy Intensity GJ/tonFG 6.10 6.37 5.81 Total Enegy Consumption GJ 4,065,203 4,383,326 4,076,053 Total Direct Energy GJ 2,950,612 3,120,558 2,790,897 Fuel Oil (Bunker Oil) GJ 854,797 901,381 885,578 Natural Gas GJ 153,060 193,298 182,801 Diesel GJ 506,540 583,013 207,647 LPG GJ 143,956 178,074 164,726 Coal GJ 1,201,318 1,115,070 1,218,311 Gasoline GJ 2,075 1,028 978 Bio-gas GJ 27,003 20,220 15,785 Wood Pellet GJ 58,812 128,474 115,071 Palm Kernel Shell GJ 3,051 Total Indirect Energy (Electricity) GJ 1,114,591 1,262,769 1,285,156 WATER Water Withdrawal Intensity m /tonFG 3 13.94 15.06 14.85 Water Withdrawal m3 9,291,126 10,360,787 10,422,051 Public Water (Municipal Water) m3 7,365,044 8,213,209 8,138,174 Other m3 1,926,082 Surface Water m3 1,068,648 974,954 Ground Water m 3 1,011,892 1,243,415 Rainwater Collected by Organization m3 67,039 65,508 Recycled & Reused Water m3 1,105,193 662,302 WASTE Waste to Landfill ton 38,524 25,570 Waste to Landfill Intensity kg/tonFG 55.99 36.42 125 FARM & HATCHERY OFFICE 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 903 199 GHG EMISSION 4,294 2,903 559 559 487 342 86 20 3,807 2,561 518 539 ENERGY MANAGEMENT 33,097 21,942 4,882 3,880 6,585 4,532 1,233 291 6,474 4,445 16 10 111 189 1,217 281 26,512 17,834 3,650 3,589 WATER 1,555,953 1,479,029 15,927 15,950 14,576 13,791 15,927 15,950 1,448,571 1,437,854 92,806 41,175 WASTE 83.17 99.67 6.30 6.67 GRI CONTENT INDEX AND UNGC COP 10 Thai Union’s 2017 Sustainability Report is in alignment with GRI Guidelines and the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress. THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 128 G4-32 GRI CONTENT INDEX AND UNGC PRINCIPLES COP GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Page Number External Standard Description (or Link) Assurance Disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from CEO 14-15 ORGANIZATIONAL PEOPLE G4-3 Name of the organization 134 (Back Cover) G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 26-31 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters 134 (Back Cover) G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 20 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Refer to Annual Report 2017 Page 1 G4-8 Markets served 24 G4-9 Scale of the organization 21-23, 123 G4-10 Total workforce 123 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective 123 bargaining agreements G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 18-19, 24-25 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period in size, Refer to Annual Report 2017 structure, ownership, supply chain Page 148-149 G4-14 Precautionary principle 36-38 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental 38-40 and social charters, principles or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 Memberships of association 38-39, 54-56 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Subsidiaries company(1) Refer to Annual Report 2017 Page 66-75 G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect 8 boundaries (1) In 2017, Thai Union’s reporting coverage covers all subsidiary companies. The subsidiary companies are defined by the percentage of the company ownership over 50%. Please refer to the Annual Report 2017 page 66-75. 129 G4-32 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED) General Page Number External Standard Description (or Link) Assurance Disclosures IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES (continued) G4-19 Material aspects 49 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 44 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 44 G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided 122 in previous reports G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting 39, 52 periods in the scope and aspect boundaries STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 44 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 44 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 44 G4-27 Topics and concerns that have been raised through 46-47 stakeholder engagement REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 8-9 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report(1) 8-9 G4-30 Reporting cycle 8 G4-32 GRI Content Index 128-133 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 42-43 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization values, principles, standards and norms 51 THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 130 G4-32 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material DMA and Page Number Omissions External Description Aspects Indicators (or Link) /Notes Assurance ECONOMIC Economic G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 51-52 performance approach G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and 122 distributed ENVIRONMENTAL Energy G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 89 approach G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 89-90, 124-125 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 89, 124-125 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 89 Water G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 90 approach G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 91, 124-125 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by 90, 124-125 withdrawal of water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water 90 recycled and reused Emissions G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 84 approach G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) 85-86, emissions (Scope 1) 124-125 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) 86, 124-125 emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 85 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) 85, 89 emissions Effluents G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management a 91 and waste pproach G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 124-125 method SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 60 approach 131 G4-32 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED) Material DMA and Page Number Omissions External Description Aspects Indicators (or Link) /Notes Assurance SOCIAL (continued) LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK (continued) Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee 123 hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Occupational G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 96, 98 health and approach safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupa96, 122 tional diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender Training and G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 102 education approach G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per 123 employee by gender, and by employee category Supplier G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 63-65 assessment for approach labor practices G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were 52, 63, 74-75 screened using labor practices criteria HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 63-65 approach G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant 39, 52 investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human 39, 52 rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Freedom of G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 63, 64-65 association approach and collective G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in 123 bargaining which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Forced or G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 63, 64-65 compulsory approach labor THAI UNION GROUP PUBLIC COMPANY LIMITED 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 132 G4-32 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES (CONTINUED) Material DMA and Page Number Omissions External Description Aspects Indicators (or Link) /Notes Assurance SOCIAL (continued) HUMAN RIGHTS (continued) Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as 61, 63, 68-69 compulsory having significant risk for incidents of labor forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Supplier G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 68-69 human rights approach assessment G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were 52, 67, 71-73 screened using human rights criteria SOCIETY Local G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 103 communities approach G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented 84, 104, 106local community engagement, impact 111, 112-113 assessments, and development programs AntiG4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 51-53 corruption approach G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations 52-53 asessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on 52, 63 anti-corruption policies and procedures Supplier G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 68-69, 71-72 assessment approach for impacts G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were 71, 74-75, 79 on society screened using criteria for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative 74-75 impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Product G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management 118-119 and service approach labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information 74-80, 122 required by the organization's procedures for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements 133 G4-32 FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR DISCLOSURES Material DMA and Page Number Omissions External Description Aspects Indicators (or Link) /Notes Assurance Procurement/ G4-DMA Disclosures on management approach 68-69, 74, 78 sourcing FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from 52, 74-75, practices suppliers compliant with company’s 79-80 sourcing policy FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which 74-75, 79-80 is verified as being in accordance with credible, internationally recognized responsible production standards, broken down by standard UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) Boundary Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection 37-39, of internationally proclaimed human rights 63 Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit 37-39, 63-65 in human rights abuses Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 37-39, 64-65, and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 123 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 37-39, 51, 64 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor 37-39, 51, 53, 64, 68-69 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 37-39, 52-53, occupation 123 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 38-39, 40, environmental challenges 84-91 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 10-11, 92-95 responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 92-95, 99 environmentally friendly technologies Anticorruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 38-39, 51-53 including extortion and bribery
