COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 United Nations Global Compact 10 JULY 2017 – 10 JULY 2018 GENERAL INTERNATIONAL AGENCY LIMITED HONG KONG Chief Financial Officer’s Statement 10 July 2018 Dear stakeholders, Following our initial registration and membership of the United Nations Global Compact in July 2017, I am pleased to confirm that General International Agency Limited reaffirms its continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Teresa Yuen May So Chief Financial Officer General International Agency Limited 1 I. Human Rights Principles General International Agency Limited (“GIA”) respects and subscribes to fundamental human rights as internationally agreed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and GIA expects the same from our associates and customers. Principle/ 1. Business should support and respect the protection of Measurements internationally proclaimed human right. 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Policies GIA sets up policies to include its commitment to ethical and sustainable business practices. Clear set of GIA provides a clear set of standards for its business conduct standards which Ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities Protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats Daily operations GIA takes into account of the interests of our associates, customers and a broad group of stakeholders; we respect and protect Human Rights in our daily operations and encourage our associates to do the same. Activities supported and sponsored by our Company include Insurance policy donation Charity run Scholarship for students in rural China Caring Company (for 13 years) launched by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service (“HKCSS”) 2 II. Labour Principles GIA strives to ensure that the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are upheld. In addition, GIA does not engage in forced and compulsory labour or child labour. Furthermore, GIA works to ensure diversity and nondiscrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We are an equal opportunity employer. Principle/ 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Measurements the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. The effective abolition of child labour. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policies GIA sets up policies to include attracting, retaining and captivating the right people, offering them extensive scope for training and development, and facilitating a healthy work-life balance. Clear set of GIA provides a clear set of standards for our business which standards Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced labour Comply with minimum wage standards Ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Daily operations GIA takes into account of the interests of our associates. We provide our associates with the right skills via mentorship and training sessions. GIA also communicates our values by carrying them out in actions. Activities supported and sponsored by our Company include Provide training to staff to upgrade their standards and competitiveness Provide leisure activities to staff and family members Provide medical vaccination to staff and family members 3 III. Environmental Principles GIA aspires to be a good steward of nature and the environment by preventing waste and limiting negative impacts. And that our associates and customers recognize that they themselves can also contribute to mitigate the effects of climate change. Principle/ 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Measurements environmental challenges. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policies GIA sets up policies to put special focus to undertake the initiatives and responsibility to promote the environmental and social well-being. Clear set of GIA provides a clear set of standards for our business which standards Avoid any unnecessary printing Recycle unused papers Recommend use of emails or digital presentation materials instead of printing paper in the workplace Switch off lights when meeting rooms/training rooms are not in use Daily operations Protecting the environment is a day-to-day business and the responsibility of every associate. GIA ensures that our associates and customers are more aware of the consequences of climate change through our daily interactions. 4 IV. Anti-Corruption Principles GIA is committed to counteracting all forms of corruption. All GIA associates are expected to abide by the prevailing laws, regulations and ethical standards. Principle/ 10.Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Measurements including extortion and bribery. Policies GIA sets up policies to commit to the concept of Compliance, Professionalism, Integrity, and Justice, and requires all associates to strictly abide with the discipline of financial professionals and hold reverence toward discipline. Clear set of GIA provides a clear set of standards for our business which standards All associates cannot accept incentives, gifts or remuneration outside of the agreed policy The Independent Commission Against Corruption (“ICAC”) of Hong Kong sets clear standards which our Company will observe and adhere closely. There are Continuing Professional Development (“CPD”) classes conducted for our associates on these topics Daily operations GIA continues to strengthen the anti-corruption and compliance education of our associates, and ensure that internal procedures support our anti-corruption commitment. 5
