SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AT A GLANCE SHAFTESBURY IS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A REAL ESTATE • Sexisting ustainably extend buildings’ useful lives through re-using INVESTMENT TRUST, building structures, fabric, space and materials. WHICH INVESTS  • Create operational efficiencies/reduce running costs. • Focus on local community social issues and challenges EXCLUSIVELY IN THE through contributions, pro-bono advice and employee time. HEART OF LONDON’S • Partner with a range of charities in our community. WEST END. • Inclusive culture to encourage diversity, professional development of employees and transparency though  our supply chain. Environment WORKING WITH INCREASING STAKEHOLDERS TO BIODIVERSITY IN IMPROVE AIR QUALITY CENTRAL LONDON IN CENTRAL LONDON • Biodiversity strategy to improve green infrastructure and health and well-being for residents, workers and visitors to the West End. • Implementing an air quality strategy for the business. • Member of Wild West End (www.wildwestend.london). A collaboration • Collaboration with Anglo Office Group to promote to of landowners in the West End working together to create a green occupiers the benefits of delivery consolidation and corridor through a combination of green roofs, green walls, planters, the use of a zero emission vehicle. trees, flower boxes and pop-up spaces in the West End of London. • Working with both First Mile and Veolia (Westminster City • Installed an additional 156 m of sedum pods and an additional 60 2 Council) to pioneer consolidated waste collections window boxes – overall increase of 16% to 879 m of habitat features. 2 across Carnaby. • Our pollinator strategy was endorsed in a visit by Lord Gardiner of Kimble from Defra during 2017 Bees Needs Week. WASTE MANAGEMENT OTHER HIGHLIGHTS • Minimise impact on local environment. • Considerate constructors average score of 34 out of 50. • Achieved a 57% recycling rate and awarded a Green Apple • BREEAM: Six domestic and non-domestic refurbishment award for our management of waste at Carnaby. schemes are on course to achieve a minimum of BREEAM • Recycling in Chinatown has improved to a third of total waste Very Good. managed. • Energy: 100% of landlord purchased electricity is renewable green tariff energy. • Ethical Property Foundation: Awarded Fairplace Award. FURTHER INFORMATION MEDIA CONTACTS MHP Communications 020 3128 8100 Andrew Leach Shaftesbury@mhpc.com Brian Bickell Chief Executive brian.bickell@shaftesbury.co.uk www.shaftesbury.co.uk www.chinatown.co.uk Penny Thomas Company Secretary penny.thomas@shaftesbury.co.uk www.carnaby.co.uk www.thisissoho.co.uk Fiona Daly Community Engagement fiona.daly@shaftesbury.co.uk www.sevendials.co.uk www.stmartinscourtyard.co.uk 22 Ganton Street, Carnaby, London W1F 7FD. T: 020 7333 8118 WINTER 2017 Community Our fourth community Shaftesbury has a strong record of support and close breakfast involvement with local charities and not-for-profit organisations which assist with initiatives in their We work with many not-for-profit organisations in the local area. To enable them to meet each communities. Not only are they our neighbours, other and network, we host an annual but their work ensures that the West End remains community breakfast. a vibrant and diverse destination which supports More than 70 people attended the breakfast from residential communities, businesses and cultural 35 organisations spanning the arts, education, health, food, organisations and which welcomes growing numbers organisations for the homeless and elderly, environment, Business of domestic and international visitors. Improvement Districts and local councils. £562,000 £513,000 Brian Bickell, Chief Executive, welcomed guests and introduced Councillor Nickie Aiken, Leader of Westminster City Council, who spoke about local issues. Councillor Aiken then answered questions from the attendees about a range of issues, including health, pollution and homelessness. LONDON BENCHMARKING S.106 CONTRIBUTIONS GROUP OUR KEY COMMUNITY PARTNERS INCLUDE: LandAid Phoenix Gardens ENO Community Choir Brings the property industry together to A community garden and registered charity, Provides an opportunity for people from help protect young people on the streets, managed by volunteers, created to provide all walks of life to come together for the provide accommodation and training and a green retreat from the stresses of joy of singing. tackle the root cause of homelessness. London’s West End and a vital habitat for Supported the choir for over 7 years. Supported for 3 years. urban wildlife. Supported for 2 years. House of St Barnabas Young Westminster Westminster Tea Dance Supports homeless people in London back in Foundation (through Sir Simon Milton Foundation) to work through a City & Guilds accredited 12 The dance hosts 1000 Westminster residents week employability programme. We have Working to shape the best services and over the age of 65. Part of the Silver Sunday sponsored one person per employability acting as the voice of children and young national campaign to tackle the blight of programme since 2015 – 9 people so far. people in Westminster. loneliness that affects so many older people. Founding partner 2017. We have been a headline sponsor since 2014. The Connection at Trekstock ZSL St Martin’s-in-the-Field A youth cancer charity that aims to support Founded in 1826, the Zoological Society young adults through and beyond treatment of London is an international scientific, The Connection helps thousands of homeless for cancer. conservation and educational charity whose people in Westminster every year move away from and stay off the streets of London. Supported since 2012. mission is to promote and achieve the worldwide conservation of animals and their habitats. We have sponsored an outreach worker since 2012. Supported since 2013. Soho Food Feast Chinese Community Pride Soho Food Feast has been supporting the Centre Provides a platform for London’s LGBT+ Soho Parish primary school for the last community to raise awareness of LGBT+ The Centre’s mission is to preserve and 7 years raising necessary funding to build a issues and campaign for the freedoms promote Chinese culture, arts and identity, much-needed playground and supporting that will allow them to live their lives whilst helping the community to better their healthy eating initiatives. on a genuinely equal footing. integrate into mainstream UK community. We have supported since 2010. Supported since 2016. Supported since 2013. Stage One Pathways to Properties We also support Supports new UK theatre producers and This is a programme run by the charity Seven Dials Trust, St Anne’s Church, Westminster productions and is committed to securing Reading Real Estate Foundation. The Kingsway College, London Chinatown Chinese the future of commercial theatre through programme is an initiative to improve diversity Association, China Exchange Book Fair, The educational and investment schemes. in the property sector and is aimed to attract Samaritans (Central London), London College Supported since 2011. talented students from less advantaged and of Fashion, Sir Simon Milton Foundation, non-traditional backgrounds. Soho Parish School, Sustainable Restaurant Supported for 2 years. Association Food Made Good Awards, Dragon Hall and many others.
