SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 BEIJER ALMA Beijer Alma is an international industrial group with approximately 2,300 employees working in more than 60 markets. Its companies specialize in component manufacturing (Lesjöfors and Habia Cable) and industrial trading (Beijer Tech). Lesjöfors, Habia and Beijer Tech hold market-leading positions in several customer segments. Beijer Alma also commands strong international positions in industrial and chassis springs as well as mobile telecom and nuclear power cables. Beijer Alma’s ultimate objective is to create added value for its customers, shareholders, business partners and employees. We must create these added values without compromising our aspirations concerning quality and sustainable development. Accordingly, environmental responsibility, social responsibility and sound business ethics are natural elements of our daily operations and of the Group’s long-term strategy. INVOICING PROFIT AFTER NET FINANCIAL ITEMS OPERATING MARGIN MSEK MSEK % 4,000 600 20 3,000 450 15 2,000 300 10 1,000 150 5 0 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 2017 STRONGEST YEAR TO DATE. Beijer Alma continues to perform 12 EARNINGS PER SHARE. SEK 12.89. . 89 Earnings per share totaled ISO well. 2017 was the Group’s strongest year to date in terms of both invoicing and earnings. In terms of sustainable development, the focus was on energy, climate, waste, work environment, ISO 14001, environmentally adapted product development and social commitment. 14001 3,971 INVOICING. Invoicing rose 13 percent to MSEK 3,971 (3,528). CERTIFICATION. The goal is for certified environmental management systems to be in place wherever relevant. 76 percent of the units are certified and four units are planning to become certified within the next year. ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PRODUCTS. Beijer Alma’s products provide customers with environmental benefits. These products include everything from ergonomic fire hoses and cables for electric motorbikes to spring components for wind turbines and solar panels. Teach For Sweden SOCIAL COMMITMENT. Beijer Alma provides Teach for Sweden with monetary support. The organization applies a new approach to recruiting teachers – primarily in natural science subjects – to work at schools in socially disadvantaged areas. LED 222 ENERGY. Increased use of LED lighting and investments in more energy-efficient production equipment and infrastructure are positive for both the climate and the economy. SUPPLIERS. In 2017, 222 suppliers were assessed in terms of sustainable development. Sustainability work that creates CEO’S STATEMENT added value Sustainable development has become an increasingly important area for Beijer Alma and our various stakeholders. This requires that we engage in responsible business and report on our objectives and progress in a transparent manner. It is also clear that sustainable products and services have attracted considerable attention in recent years – not least when it comes to limiting our carbon footprint. Our strategic and day-to-day operations are based on In 2018, our sustainability work will continue to Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct, which in turn builds on create value for the Group’s stakeholders. We are the basic principles of the UN Global Compact. By linking convinced that focusing on more sustainable our objectives for sustainable development with the UN social development will create a better environment Global Goals and Agenda 2030, we add a global perspecand improved living conditions for a growing number tive to our targets. of people. We are also confident that Beijer Alma can Our companies across the globe are continuously make a difference and that our forward-looking efforts making improvements – both small and large. Here a few are creating business value in various ways. You will find interesting examples from 2017: several good examples of this throughout the Sustain■■ We systematically work to ensure that our energy use ability Report. becomes more efficient. Measures include installing more energy-efficient lighting and production equipment, and improved production planning. These measures contribute to better finances and help to reduce the Group’s carbon footprint. ■■ Our companies give their employees the scope to Jan Blomén, Acting President and CEO of Beijer Alma develop and are taking steps to create safer workfrom November 2017 through February 2018. places, from training in the Six Sigma improvement model, ergonomic measures and noise reduction to health examinations and much more. During the year, our plant in Poland also won first prize in the regional “Employer – organizer of safe work 2017” contest. ■■ Social commitment is also important to us, which Henrik Perbeck, President and CEO of Beijer Alma from is why we support non-profit organizations such as March 2018. the City Mission and Teach For Sweden. The Group companies also participate in various local projects, such as on-the-job training for the long-term unemployed, partnerships with schools and universities, and support for sports activities, healthcare and cultural events. This Sustainability Report is intended to give our shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders a transparent look at the results of our efforts in the area of sustainable development. This includes our successes as well as our setbacks, and it is clear to us that additional efforts are required if we are to achieve several of our long-term Group objectives. The report also shows how Beijer Alma complies with the new legislation concerning mandatory sustainability reporting for large companies and the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. 4 5 More efficient use of resources RESULTS OF THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK Natural resources, such as energy, water and raw materials, chemical substances and input materials are used extensively within Beijer Alma. More efficient use of resources reduces our environmental impact and our costs. Key aspects of this work include measures to promote increased use of renewable resources and recycled materials. Energy Sustainable development objective Beijer Alma has established a Group-wide energy objective. The objective is for our energy consumption to be reduced by 10 percent by 2018, compared with our energy consumption in 2012/2013. The performance Beijer Alma’s objectives are linked to the UN measure used is GWh/MSEK in net revenues. The Group’s units are responGlobal Goals. sible for introducing their own objectives and action plans that contribute to the Group objective. Outcome and potential to achieve objective From a five-year perspective, the Group has grown in terms of number of units and production volume. While total energy consumption has increased approximately 25 percent, the performance measure has Unchanged situation. remained largely unchanged. Energy audits and technical measures have contributed to increased energy efficiency, but it is not likely that the objective can be achieved within the stated time frame. ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy consumption 2017 GWh GWh/MSEK Increased production resulted in higher energy consumption. Total energy 100 0.020 consumption amounted to 62.9 GWh (57.5). The facilities in Sweden, China 80 0.016 and Germany recorded the highest energy consumption. Approximately 75 percent (78) of the energy consumed comprised indirect energy, primarily 60 0.012 electricity. Direct energy in the form of fossil fuels (oil, natural gas, propane) 40 0.008 is used for heating, furnaces and fork lifts. Biofuel and electricity from renewable sources accounted for 16 percent (10) of energy consumption. 20 0.004 0 0.000 Continuous improvements 13 14 15 16 17 The energy-saving measures taken by the Group included energy audits and the installation more energy-efficient production equipment, infrastructure and other technical equipment. Other measures included more energySHARE OF TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION efficient lighting (LED bulbs, motion detectors), ventilation and heating. Lesjöfors 71% Focus in 2018 Habia Cable 23% Energy-efficiency enhancements seldom lead to dramatic changes, except Beijer Tech 6% when new equipment or new technology is introduced. New buildings, ventilation systems and infrastructure can also help to reduce energy consumption. In 2018, we will continue our efforts to improve our energy efficiency. Addition energy audits in accordance with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive will be carried out. We expect these audits to result in constructive actions. 8 RESULTS OF THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK MORE ENERGY OBJECTIVE ENERGY AUDITS EFFICIENT ENERGY CONSUMPTION WATER CONSUMPTION Water m3 50,000 m3/MSEK 15 40,000 12 Beijer Alma’s water consumption totaled 42,900 m3 (36,700) and primarily comprised municipal water. Water is used for cooling, production pro30,000 9 cesses, cleaning and sanitary purposes. Systems for reusing process water 20,000 6 and cooling water are in place at several units. A leaking pipe resulted in a significant increase in water consumption in China. The leak was fixed, 10,000 3 after which water consumption returned to normal. 0 0 Emissions of pollutants into wastewater were very limited and primar13 14 15 16 17 ily comprised sanitary wastewater. Essentially all units are connected to municipal wastewater treatment plants. A small number use septic tanks for treating sanitary wastewater. SHARE OF TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION Raw materials and chemicals Lesjöfors 52% Habia Cable 43% Beijer Tech 6% In 2017, approximately 29,200 tons (26,900) of metal, 1,460 tons (1,270) of plastic and 223 tons (175) of chemicals were used, primarily solvents (naphtha) used in Habia Cable’s production processes in China and Germany. The Group continued its efforts to replace hazardous chemical substances and five substances were phased out. The Group still uses certain chemicals that it intends to phase out. So far, finding suitable replacement chemicals has proved difficult. Conflict materials (refer to the glossary) continued to attract considerable attention. Customers want a guarantee that these substances are not used in the Group’s products. Seven units within Beijer Alma use metals that are classified as conflict minerals. Procedures are in place to ensure that such metals do not originate from countries with ongoing armed conflicts. 9 Waste and systematic environmental RESULTS OF THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK work Waste issues are important, and improved sorting at source, reduced scrapping and increased recycling are on the agenda within most Group companies. Given the Group’s extensive use of metals, recycling is an area where the companies in Lesjöfors have made considerable progress. The systematic approach of ISO 14001 permeates the Group’s environmental work, not least when it comes to minimizing waste. Waste Sustainable development objective Beijer Alma has established a Group-wide waste objective. The objective is for the amount of waste to be reduced by 10 percent by 2018, compared with the amount of waste in 2012/2013. The performance measure used Beijer Alma’s objectives are linked to the UN is tons of waste/MSEK in net revenues. The Group’s units are responsible Global Goals. for introducing their own objectives and action plans that contribute to the Group objective. Outcome and potential to achieve objective From a five-year perspective, the total amount of waste increased about 30 percent due to increased production volume and additional facilities. Most of this waste comprised metals recovered in optimized systems with Unchanged situation. relatively low improvement potential. For other types of waste, measures are continuously implemented to reduce scrapping, improve sorting at source and increase recycling. This is reflected in the fact that the performance measure is largely unchanged compared with the base year, WASTE despite an increase in the amount of waste. It is not likely that the waste Tons Tons/MSEK reduction objective can be achieved within the stated time frame. 5,000 1.0 4,000 0.8 Waste management 2017 The total amount of waste during the year amounted to 3,470 tons (3,100). 3,000 0.6 Approximately 90 percent (90) of waste was recycled as materials or 2,000 0.4 energy. About 2,160 (1,800) tons of metal were recycled. About 5 percent (5) comprised hazardous waste, which was handled by approved waste 1,000 0.2 management companies. 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 Continuous improvements The most important improvement initiatives focused on reducing scrapping, improving sorting at source and increasing the reuse of packagSHARE OF TOTAL WASTE ing materials. Initiatives such as Six Sigma, Lean Manufacturing and 5S contributed to better resource use, more efficient production and reduced waste at several facilities. Habia Cable in Söderfors has made considerable progLesjöfors 77% ress in recent years. Attaching a value to the waste in relation to production Habia Cable 20% costs creates greater interest in preventive measures. The company’s quality Beijer Tech 3% engineers also play an important role in preventing scrapping and waste. Focus in 2018 Our activities to reduce scrapping and waste will continue. Many units have their own objectives and indicators and monitor their waste closely. 10 RESULTS OF THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK REDUCED BETTER REDUCED SCRAPPING SORTING AT SOURCE WASTE Systematic environmental work The ISO 14001 standard for environmental management systems was introduced in 1996 and the most recent update was published in 2015. The implementation of certified environmental management systems is a component of Beijer Alma’s sustainable development strategy. ISO 14001 Beijer Alma’s objectives are linked to the UN provides a systematic approach to environmental work and is intended Global Goals. to enable continuous improvements. The goal is for all of the Group’s production units to be certified. This also applies for other operations where environmental certification is relevant, such as the large units in Beijer Tech. A total of 22 (23) units are currently certified. Four additional companies are preparing to implement the environmental management system. To meet the new requirements in ISO 14001:2015, we are currently Positive trend, good potential to achieve updating our systems. 12 companies have already completed the update objective. and the rest will do so in 2018. Internal and external environmental audits are part of the Group’s continuous efforts to monitor and improve the environmental management system. Beijer Alma employs more than 75 (50) internal environmental ISO 14001-CERTIFIED UNITS auditors, who conducted 37 (31) environmental audits during the year. Number The Group’s facilities were audited by external certification auditors on 25 20 (22) occasions. One company in China had its certification temporarily 20 suspended, but will apply the procedures stipulated in ISO 14001 moving forward. The suspension was linked to changes in the Chinese environ15 mental legislation. 10 5 0 13 14 15 16 17 11 Reduced environmental impact RESULTS OF THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK Reducing the impact on the climate and the effects of climate change represents a major challenge for society. Beijer Alma’s climate gas emissions are primarily caused by the use of fossil fuels for processes and heating. Emissions also arise due to transportation, production of raw materials, use of the Group’s products and waste management. CO2 emissions Sustainable development objective Beijer Alma has established a Group-wide climate impact reduction objective. The objective is for our CO2 emissions to be reduced by 10 percent by 2018, compared with our emissions from energy consumption Beijer Alma’s objectives are linked to the UN in 2012/2013. The performance measure used is tons of CO2/MSEK in Global Goals. net revenues. The Group’s units are responsible for introducing their own objectives and action plans that contribute to the Group objective. Outcome and potential to achieve objective From a five-year perspective, total CO2 emissions have increased 25 percent due to expanded production and a subsequent increase in Unchanged situation. energy consumption. The purchase of green electricity, use of biofuels and energy-efficiency enhancements limited the growth of our carbon footprint. However, these positive measures were counteracted by increased energy consumption, mainly in countries with coal-based electricity proCO2 EMISSIONS duction. The performance measure has remained essentially unchanged and it is not likely that the objective can be achieved within the stated Tons Tons/MSEK 20 000 5 time frame. 16 000 4 Emissions 2017 12 000 3 The Group’s CO2 emissions amounted to 16,100 tons (16,700), of which 77 percent (82) comprised indirect emissions from purchased electricity. 8 000 2 Direct emissions were mainly attributable to the use of propane in 4 000 1 furnaces for processing metals for springs. About 75 percent (68) of indirect CO2 emissions were linked to the purchase of electricity in 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 Germany and China. Continuous improvements SHARE OF TOTAL WASTE Increased purchases of green electricity and targeted energy-efficiency enhancement measures are helping to reduce the Group’s CO2 emissions from fossil fuels. Lesjöfors 60% Habia Cable 39.5% Focus in 2018 Beijer Tech 0.5% Energy-efficiency enhancement and a transition to fossil-free energy are important tools for reducing the Group’s carbon footprint. There is also significant potential in Europe to purchase more green electricity and we have reason to evaluate our climate impact from a life cycle perspective, including, for example, a review of our transportation emissions. 12 RESULTS OF THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK ENERGY-EFFICIENCY REDUCED USE OF REDUCED ENHANCEMENT FOSSIL ENERGY CO2 EMISSIONS VOC EMISSIONS Emissions from transportation Tons Tons/MSEK 100 0.05 The Group continued its efforts to reduce its environmental impact from the transportation of raw materials, products and people, partly by 80 0.04 purchasing vehicles with lower fuel consumption, coordinating trans0.03 60 portation, changing routes, using video conferences and using more rail transport. A number of companies in Beijer Tech reported a total reduction 40 0.02 in CO2 emissions of approximately 10 tons. 20 0.01 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 Other emissions to the atmosphere Emissions of solvents (VOC) amounted to 14.5 tons (12.0). From a fiveSHARE OF TOTAL VOC EMISSIONS year perspective, VOC emissions have decreased significantly. The most important measure was the installation of efficient treatment equipment Lesjöfors 27% at Habia Cable’s plant in China. Emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide Habia Cable 73% and dust were very low and amounted to less than 1 ton. The installed Beijer Tech 0% quantity of coolants (CFC/HCFC) was approximately 0.1 ton. No major emissions of coolants were released to the atmosphere. 13 Safe and stimulating work RESULTS OF THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK environment. To help us attract and retain employees, we aim to show that the environment, work environment, corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sound business ethics are part of Beijer Alma’s fundamental values. Simply put, we aim to be a good company to work for and partner with.The same rules and values apply for all of the Group’s units across the world. We expect all employees to demonstrate respect for human rights and help to create a safe and stimulating work environment. Health and safety Sustainable development objective Our Group-wide objective was established in 2014 and states that Beijer Alma is to have a vision of zero tolerance when it comes to workplace accidents and that the accident frequency rate is to be reduced. Each unit Beijer Alma’s objectives are linked to the UN is to introduce its own health and safety objectives as well as a system for Global Goals. registering incidents (near misses) occurring in the work environment. Outcome and potential to achieve objective Despite training initiatives, other preventive measures and systems for registering near misses, we have not seen a decline in the number of workplace accidents. From a five-year perspective, the accident frequency rate Negative trend. has varied between 12 and 19 accidents per million hours worked, which is relatively high from an industrial perspective. Continued systematic work environment measures are required to achieve this goal. Work environment initiatives 2017 WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS RESULTING IN ABSENCE In 2017, the rate of short and long-term sickness absence remained low at 2.2 percent (2.3) and 1.4 percent (2.0), respectively. There were 63 (55) workNumber of lost Number of lost work cases* work days* place accidents resulting in more than one day of absence (lost work cases, 125 20 LWC). These injuries were caused by machinery, equipment, ergonomic 100 16 factors (heavy lifting and repetitive work), falls and other factors. During the year, we saw a sharp increase in accidents related to ergonomic factors. The 75 12 number of lost work days (LWD) due to accidents amounted to 502 (254). 50 8 Compared with other subsidiaries, the number of accidents in Lesjöfors was high. While Habia had few accidents, they resulted in a relatively long 25 4 absence. Beijer Tech reported essentially no work environment accidents. 0 0 Approximately 169 (350) near misses were reported during the year. The 13 14 15 16 17 purpose of registering near misses is to identify risks at an early stage and * per million hours worked take preventive action. The most common near misses pertain to the same types of environmental factors arising in the Group’s accident statistics. CAUSES OF WORKPLACE ACCIDENTS Continuous improvements Injuries caused by machinery Preventive measures include systematic risk analysis, work environment and equipment 25% Falls 17% assessments, training, safety inspections and investments in technical Heavy lifting and measures. Safety committees have been established at 23 units. At the repetitive work 51% smallest units, environmental work takes a different form. Workplace Energy 3% health and safety inspections were performed at just over 80 percent of the Other, 4% companies in 2017, including noise and dust measurements, general health checks, risk analyses and reviews of chemical use. 14 RESULTS OF THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK RISK ANALYSIS AND REPORTING AND MONIFEWER PREVENTIVE MEASURES TORING OF ACCIDENTS NEAR MISSES Focus in 2018 The area of workplace health and safety still requires considerable attention, particularly when it comes to training, cultural issues and technical solutions. Systems for reporting near misses need to be more clearly established in a number of the Group companies. Employees in 18 countries Beijer Alma employs 2,544 (2,340) people in 18 (17) countries with varying GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES cultural, geographic and political backgrounds. Approximately 36 percent (36) of these people work in low-cost countries and 19 percent (19) are employed Sweden 29% Denmark 3% in China, Singapore and Thailand. The majority of employees are located in Germany 19% Poland 3% Sweden, Germany and China. The proportion of female employees in the Singapore 2% Slovakia 7% Group is 31 percent (21). The proportion of women on the Board of DirecLatvia 5% UK 9% tors is 29 percent (38). While there are no women among the Group’s senior China 16% executives, the proportion of women among the management groups of the Other 7% individual units is approximately 27 percent (25). A total of 43 (38) women are members of a management group that reports directly the CEO of the company in question. In accordance with the Global Compact, we encourage diversity and are opposed to all forms of discrimination. No irregularities, incidents or whistleblower incidents pertaining to human rights were identified in the preparation of this year’s report. Responsibility for equality issues is decentralized and lies with the individual units. Salary rates adhere to legislative requirements, exceed minimum wages and are entirely in line with market rates. As a result of cultural and legislative differences, the degree to which employees are covered by collective agreements varies by country. At half of the Group’s units, most employees are covered by collective agreements. An important tool for achieving this goal is the surveys carried out regularly to assess how the employees perceive their workplace. In 2017, surveys were conducted at 15 (9) units. While the majority of employees were satisfied with their jobs, questions were raised regarding internal communication, project prioritization and work environment. More than 1,100 (900) employees participated in development talks or other performance evaluations. Individual reward systems have been established at a handful of the Group’s companies, with environment and work environment considerations being used as key criteria. Approximately 37,500 (18,400) hours of training were completed in 2017, corresponding to about 15 (8) hours per employee. The number of hours devoted to environmental, health and safety training amounted to 4.4 (2.0) per employee. 15 Upstanding member of society RESULTS OF THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact help us to direct focus to areas that are important to us and our stakeholders – reducing our environmental impact, safe workplaces, respect for human rights and sound business principles. We are involved in the communities in which we operate and participate in networks and projects with various stakeholders. Increased social commitment Sustainable development objective From 2015 to 2018, we will increase our social commitment. This may include, for example, additional contacts and partnerships with schools and universities. Increased social commitment can also involve providing Beijer Alma’s objectives are linked to the UN financial support and other contributions that support various areas of Global Goals. sustainable development, such as the environment, health, culture, ethics, sports and social activities. Outcome and potential to achieve objective From a five-year perspective, Beijer Alma has increased its involvement in non-profit activities, including supporting vulnerable people and training Positive trend, good potential to achieve teachers in natural science subjects. At a local level, the companies objective. cooperate with schools and universities, while also contributing to sports clubs, healthcare and culture. The trend is positive and it is possible to achieve the target. Social commitment 2017 During the year, we partnered with a number of schools, colleges and universities. Hundreds of students visited our operations, an initiative designed to give the students a better understanding of what it is like working in the business world. We partnered with technical colleges in various areas, including environmental technology. A handful of students worked as trainees at the Group’s companies. Our involvement in the City Mission, Teach For Sweden and other non-profit organizations was developed further. Read more on pages 38–41. Continuous improvements Several of Beijer Alma’s units became more active in their contacts with schools and universities during the year. These activities will benefit educational system, students and the Group in both the short and long term. Focus in 2018 Beijer Alma has a long history of social commitment, which will continue to be developed – both within the Parent Company and at the local level. A key driving force is the need to secure expertise and recruit future employees. 16 RESULTS OF THE GROUP’S SUSTAINABILITY WORK SUPPORT FOR COOPERATION PUBLIC WELFARE NON-PROFIT WITH EDUCATIONAL AND ATTRACTIVE OPERATIONS INSTITUTIONS EMPLOYER Sound business ethics Code of Conduct and monitoring The Group’s anti-corruption initiatives are based on ongoing training in the Code of Conduct, a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery, sanction systems for violations, and guidelines on gift amounts and business entertainment. We use management systems, information, discussions and financial monitoring to prevent corruption. Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct is widely used to communicate the Group’s values to suppliers and customers. As part of its sustainability reporting, Beijer Alma conducts an annual review of the Group companies’ work to combat corruption and promote good business ethics. This is done through a self-assessment in which the management group of each company describes the activities carried out during the year by replying to approximately 25 questions. The questions are based on guidelines from the Global Compact. This year’s review showed a good level of commitment among the companies and revealed no violations of the Code of Conduct. The Group’s anti-corruption initiatives are based on ongoing training in the Code of Conduct (with a particular focus on new employees), a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery, sanction systems for violations, and internal guidelines on gift amounts and business entertainment. 17 Sustainable development and SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCES finances ECONOMIC VALUE CREATION. Sustainability initiatives are part of Beijer Alma’s efforts to create value and also contribute to a more sustainable society. The Sustainability Report is an integrated report that provides information about the relationship between financial and non-financial results and shows how the Group’s strategy, governance and earnings can create value for stakeholders. Environment and energy-related costs ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY-RELATED COSTS Environment-related costs totaled MSEK 4.9 (6.0). The cost for energy during the year amounted to MSEK 47.9 (41.6), the cost for water to MSEK 0.9 (0.9) and the cost for waste management to MSEK 1.3 (2.2). 8.0 Investments in the environment and work environment Energy-efficiency enhancements 3% Air purification 10% INVESTMENTS in environmental and work Wastewater treatment 6% environment measures totaled MSEK 8.0 (9.8) Improved work environment 75% and mainly pertained to measures to improve Other investments 4% the work environment. 528 13.3 OPERATING PROFIT. Operating profit increased to MSEK 528 (455). OPERATING MARGIN. The operating margin was 13.3 percent. 18 Economic value SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCES ECONOMIC VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS. Beijer Alma’s operations create economic value that is allocated to its various stakeholders, including the company’s suppliers, employees, shareholders, lenders and society. Beijer Alma is a responsible company that pays taxes and fees in accordance with the legislation prevailing the countries where the Group operates. STAKEHOLDER GROUP ALLOCATED VALUE (MSEK) COMMENTS 2017 2016 2015 Suppliers 1,702 1,475 1,477 Compensation for materials and services (raw materials and consumables) Employees 1,071 952 966 Salaries and benefits Lenders 12 9 11 Interest expenses Society 129 119 113 Reported effective tax for the Group Products that contribute to generating environmental benefits ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PRODUCTS. Customer requirements related to sustainable development have increased in recent years, including demands for environmental management systems, codes of conduct, the phase-out of hazardous substances and environmentally friendly products. All of the Group’s facilities are impacted by such requirements in one way or another. Beijer Alma’s product range includes a number of products that contribute to generating environmental benefits. Among other requirements, customers are demanding low-weight components, which reduces fuel consumption in vehicles. Customer requirements also include products that do not contain hazardous materials and products with a long service life that are able to withstand challenging environmental conditions. We also manufacture components used in environmental technology, such as wind power and solar panels. This Sustainability Report proves a number of examples of products that contribute to a better environment and work environment (refer to pages 38–41). Costs related to the environment and work environment Waste management 27% Administration 37% Fees to authorities 4% Operation of purification plants 8% ISO 14001 21% External services 3% 19 Sustainability – part of the OUR APPROACH Group strategy For Beijer Alma, it is self-evident that there is connection between healthy business operations and corporate social responsibility. Sustainable development is thus a natural part of our Group strategy. A key component of this strategy is the initiatives carried out to create value for the Group’s stakeholders – customers, suppliers, employees and society. Group Strategy ensures profitable growth Diversified customer and supplier base. The Group Beijer Alma aims to grow profitably. The strategy pyracompanies aim to have a broad customer and supplier mid shows how this is to be accomplished in practical base. This reduces their risk exposure and dependency terms. The pyramid is based on long-term ownership, on individual markets, industries or companies. responsibility and efficient governance as well as four Organic growth. We grow organically through investgrowth criteria – combined with corporate acquisitions ments in product and market development. This results and organic development. in higher quality and lower risk. Corporate acquisitions. We conduct supplementary Long-term ownership. We create successful and acquisitions and purchase entirely new operations. This industrially sound corporate groups that generate high strengthens our position in selected markets and specific growth and profitability over time. product areas or provides Beijer Alma with a broader Corporate social responsibility. We limit our impact on foundation. the environment, assume social responsibility, and offer Profitable growth. At Beijer Alma, growth must be linked a secure and stimulating work environment. to sustainable profitability. We achieve this by focusing Operational control. We work closely with the Group on the growth criteria in the strategy pyramid. companies when it comes to setting goals and exercising control, mainly with respect to strategic development, acquisitions and investments. High customer value. Products and services are adapted to meet specific needs or are based on unique product concepts. This creates higher value, which customers are prepared to pay for, and thereby contributes to our profitability. PROFITABLE International market coverage. We work with niche GROWTH products with a limited total market. To create growth, the companies must therefore engage in broad international sales. Strong market position. We establish strong market ORGANIC CORPORATE positions by focusing on quality, a broad product range, GROWTH ACQUISITIONS customization and service. DIVERSIFIED HIGH INTERNATIONAL STRONG CUSTOMER CUSTOMER MARKET MARKET AND SUPPLIER VALUE COVERAGE POSITION BASE LONG-TERM CORPORATE OPERATIONAL OWNERSHIP SOCIAL CONTROL RESPONSIBILITY 22 Sustainable development strategy OUR APPROACH – conditions for profitable growth Our sustainable development strategy is based on the Code of Conduct, clear objectives and a sustainable value chain. By combining these various aspects, we assume corporate social responsibility, thereby meeting the demands of Beijer Alma’s various stakeholders and helping us to achieve long-term, profitable growth. Sustainability is an integral part of Beijer Alma’s business strategy. This is evident in the fact that CSR is part of the foundation of our strategy pyramid. Our sustainability work contributes to a better world, creates new business opportunities, cuts costs, reduces risks and allows us to meet the demands and expectations of various stakePROFITABLE GROWTH holders. Beijer Alma’s sustainable development strategy is based on the following components: Code of Conduct. The Code provides employees and stakeholders with guidance on how the company ORGANIC CORPORATE GROWTH ACQUISITIONS manages issues pertaining to people, society, the environment and ethics. It applies to everyone working at Beijer Alma, regardless of where they are in the world. The Code is based on international conventions, the Global DIVERSIFIED Compact and the ISO 26000 standard for social responsiHIGH INTERNATIONAL STRONG CUSTOMER CUSTOMER VALUE MARKET COVERAGE MARKET POSITION AND SUPPLIER BASE bility. Key issues. Focus on sustainability issues that are importLONG-TERM CORPORATE OPERATIONAL OWNERSHIP SOCIAL CONTROL ant to the Group’s business strategy and significant to RESPONSIBILITY stakeholders. Sustainable value chain. A life cycle perspective on Beijer Alma’s activities, products and services. Risks and opportunities. Risks are identified, managed CODE OF CONDUCT and minimized. Sustainable development opportunities are leveraged and help to create business advantages. Sustainable development objectives. Long-term Groupwide objectives in key areas. These are supplemented TY ENVIRON with detailed objectives and action plans in the various OCIE ME DS NT AN Group units. E BLE VALUE OP A INA CH HICS PE L ST A ET Responsibility. Delegated responsibility, which entails SU IN that operational sustainability work is structured and SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT executed by the subsidiaries’ units. OBJECTIVES ISO 14001. Systematic approach to making continuous IS improvements, particularly within the framework of the TIE R K SA S N D OPP OR TUNI ISO 14001 environmental management system. Follow-up and communication. Follow-up and communication. Regular follow-up of sustainability work and transparent communication with the Group’s stakeholders. 23 We assume responsibility CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental responsibility, social responsibility and sound business ethics are natural elements of Beijer Alma’s long-term strategy and help us to achieve our ultimate objective – to create added value for our customers, shareholders, business partners and employees. Our sustainability work is based in part on the UN Global Compact, an initiative to promote CSR. Based on the Global Compact Code of Conduct – guiding principles Regardless of where in the world we operate, considerations Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct serves as a guide for the pertaining to environmental impact, social conditions and Group’s employees and partners. By applying the Code, we business ethics are important. It is vital that we operate in ensure that: areas where we can contribute to sustainable development ■■ We comply with legislation, the UN Global Compact, and meet the demands and expectations of various stakethe UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and other holders. Our sustainability work is based on the Ten Princiinternational agreements and guidelines. ples of the UN Global Compact, an initiative to promote CSR. ■■ We take the financial expectations of our stakeholders We devote particular focus to the following areas: into consideration, and create customer and shareholder ■■ Applying sound business principles and high ethical value. standards. Preventing corruption is an important part of ■■ CSR is integrated into the Group and practiced in relation this work. to employees, customers, suppliers, owners and other ■■ Creating a safe, positive and stimulating work environstakeholders. ment. ■■ We contribute to sustainable development, including ■■ Using natural resources as efficiently as possible and health and social welfare. minimizing environmental impact. Energy and climate issues create challenges for Beijer Alma and for society The Code of Conduct states that we expect our employees as a whole. to behave in an honest and honorable manner. We demand ■■ Approaching our operations from a life cycle perspective the same from the Group’s business partners. Bribes are – raw materials, suppliers, products, services and customprohibited. Gifts and other benefits may not exceed the ers. Customers and other stakeholders are showing a amounts prescribed by local practices or legislation. We growing interest in environmental and social responsibilcomply with competition legislation and apply sound marity. Linking environmental benefits to business advanketing principles. tages contributes to the development of the Group. ■■ Involvement in the communities in which Beijer Whistleblower system Alma operates. We work at both the Group level on largeThe whistleblower system allows employees to report any scale projects and at the local level by supporting schools, suspected improprieties without a risk of harassment or associations and healthcare. reprisal. All reports are handled by an external recipient, ACTION PLAN – SUSTAINABILITY WORK 2014 2015 2016 ■■ Detailed Group-wide energy, climate, ■■ Participation in UN Global Compact ■■ Sustainability issues incorporated into waste, work environment and social and report on how the Group applies strategic planning. commitment objectives set. the Ten Principles. Assessment of how ■■ Updated Code of Conduct. ■■ Expanded sustainability reporting on Group sustainability objectives relate to ■■ Continued focus on energy issues and website. Continued CDP new UN Global Goals. the EU Energy Efficiency Directive. reporting. ■■ Continued work on Group energy, ■■ Sustainability, CDP and COP climate, waste, work environment and reporting expanded. Clearer connec■■ Continued implementation of social commitment objectives. tion to UN Global Sustainable DevelopISO 14001 at manufacturing facilities. ■■ Expanded sustainability reporting and ment Goals. ■■ Proposal for incorporating sustainability continued CDP reporting. ■■ Continued implementation of ISO issues into strategic planning. 14001. Adaptation to ISO 14001:2015 begins. 24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY who ensures that the reports are investigated and that cial report and training. The overall focus of the Group’s appropriate action is taken. sustainability work is stated in the Code of Conduct. Issues pertaining to the long-term strategy, overall objectives, conIntegration with Group strategies tacts with the media and investors, and financial reporting The Group has expanded its strategic sustainability are handled at Group level. The Group’s Board of Directors work. Lesjöfors, Habia Cable and Beijer Tech have idenreceives regular status updates on the sustainability work. tified a number of areas where the Code of Conduct has Environmental (ISO 14001) and quality (ISO 9001) a direct impact on their strategic decision-making. This management systems are important tools in this work. strategic approach facilitates the companies’ work on Other initiatives that support sustainable development energy and climate issues, creates the conditions to apply include 5S, Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing (refer to sound business ethics and paves the way for investments the glossary). Operational responsibility is delegated to the in environmentally friendly products and technology. presidents of the individual Group companies. Follow-up of local objectives and plans is part of the managers’ responLong-term objectives sibilities. This work is followed up through dialogues with Beijer Alma’s strategies are made more tangible through management groups of the various companies and through long-term objectives established at Group level. At the local internal and external audits. In conjunction with the level, the companies work toward detailed objectives and preparation of the annual sustainability report, an in-depth action plans, mainly within the framework of ISO 14001. analysis is conducted of the companies’ compliance with The UN Global Sustainable Development Goals are used as legislation, fulfillment of the Group-wide objectives and a compass for this work, and clearer connections between development in terms of performance measures. the Group’s objectives and the Global Goals were estabThe results of the Group’s work pertaining to lished in 2017. sustainable development are presented in the Annual Report and the separate Sustainability Report. The Group’s Governance, follow-up and communication climate performance is presented in a detailed report Sustainability issues impact Beijer Alma in many ways – in accordance with the guidelines of CDP (formerly the for example, in connection with the introduction of new Carbon Disclosure Project). An annual report summarizing technology, internal and external communications, the Group’s work related to the Global Compact is submitcorporate acquisitions, crisis and risk management, finanted to the UN (refer to page 43). 2017 2018 2019 ■■ Update to ISO 14001:2015 continues. ■■ First report in accordance with the new ■■ Focus on energy, climate, waste, ■■ Energy audits in accordance with the EU sustainability legislation. CDP and UN work environment, ethics and Energy Efficiency Directive. Reporting to reporting. social commitment. the Swedish Energy Agency. ■■ Further environmental certification ■■ Energy audits and energy ■■ Numerous activities relating to energy, and completion of the update to ISO efficiency enhancements continue. climate, waste, work environment and 14001:2015. ■■ Sustainability, CDP and social commitment. ■■ Energy audits in accordance with the UN reporting. ■■ Preparations for new legislation on comEU Energy Efficiency Directive. pulsory sustainability reporting. CDP and ■■ Group targets evaluated and COP reporting. updated. Review of Group strategy for sustainable development. 25 We create value for stakeholders STAKEHOLDERS The Group’s sustainability work is influenced by internal and external stakeholders, who impose demands and have expectations of Beijer Alma. Meeting and exceeding these expectations – and planning for anticipated future demands – is a natural part of our sustainable development strategy. The basic concept is to create value for our stakeholders. Stakeholder analysis Environmental aspects We have identified customers, employees, suppliers, The manufacturing of springs within Lesjöfors and investors and authorities as key stakeholder groups. cables within Habia Cable is associated with a number of Given our social commitment, society is also regarded as key environmental aspects. Examples include the use of an important stakeholder. We engage in various forms of materials (metals, plastics), chemicals (solvents), energy dialogue with these stakeholders, including development and water. Other key environmental issues include emistalks with employees, regular contact with customers, sions of climate-impacting gases and solvents (VOC) as meetings with investors and collaboration with suppliers. well as the creation of waste. Within Beijer Tech, STAKEHOLDER KEY ISSUES, DEMANDS AND VALUE CREATION GROUP EXPECTATIONS CUSTOMERS Customer demands pertain to such areas Customers have become increasingly concerned with sustainable development as certified management systems, prohibin recent years and essentially all Group companies are now expected to comply ited chemical substances, environmental with various requirements in the area. Customer requirements are followed up product declarations, product labeling, through questionnaires and audits. During 2017, follow-ups were conducted codes of conduct and specific legislation at 14 (17) of the Group’s companies. The results of the follow-ups were mainly that must be fulfilled. positive and the results of the assessments were used to further advance the Group’s sustainability work and create customer confidence. EMPLOYEES Health, safety, salaries, benefits, social We conduct employee performance reviews and offer training, professional conditions, job satisfaction and developdevelopment and preventive care opportunities. Preventive work environment ment opportunities. measures are considered a high priority. During 2017, Beijer Alma paid MSEK 1,071 (952) in salary to its employees. SUPPLIERS Suppliers expect Beijer Alma to impose The Group companies provide their suppliers with information about Beijer clear, consistent demands with respect to Alma’s Code of Conduct and expect their suppliers to share this approach. sustainable development and to follow up The Group also assesses the sustainability work of its suppliers. In 2017, these demands. 161 (314) surveys and 61 (25) audits were performed. These suppliers all demonstrated an acceptable level of compliance with the Group’s requirements. During 2017, Beijer Alma paid MSEK 1,702 (1,475) to its suppliers. INVESTORS Minimizing risks, creating business The integration of sustainable development into strategies and day-to-day operopportunities and engaging in ations reduces risks and creates business opportunities. Beijer Alma regularly credible, forward-thinking sustainability communicates with its owners and investors through its sustainability reporting, work. CDP reporting, meetings and evaluations. Beijer Alma’s share price rose 12 percent in 2017. AUTHORITIES Beijer Alma is subject to extensive Its compliance with legislation is monitored through reports to various authorienvironmental and work environment ties and by way of internal and external inspections and audits. No significant legislation. The introduction of new or violations of environmental or work environment legislation occurred in 2017. amended legislation impacts the Group’s operations. SOCIETY Expectations that Beijer Alma should be Social commitment creates a sense of trust and interest in Beijer Alma. Support involved in society at both the local and for non-profit organizations and contacts with schools and universities help to national level. attract future employees. 26 STAKEHOLDERS significant environmental aspects mainly pertain to all of Beijer Alma’s units within the EU, requiring them to products, packaging and transportation. The ISO 14001 carry out energy audits and submit reports to authorities. environmental management system is a valuable tool This work is performed within the framework of specific used by the Group to systematically reduce its environrules in effect in each country. In Sweden, the company’s mental impact. status in relation to the directive was reported to the Swedish Energy Agency during the year. Environmental legislation Beijer Alma is subject to extensive environmental Key issues and work environment legislation as well as new and An important part of the sustainable development amended requirements that impact the Group’s operastrategy involves focusing on issues that are important tions. Just over 60 percent of the units hold specific envito the Group’s business strategy and to its stakeholders. ronmental permits for their operations. Seven of these Analyzing and reporting on issues deemed to be of key units are located in Sweden. Seven units plan to renew significance is part of the Group’s strategic work. This is their environmental permits in the coming years. Comdone both at the Group level and within Lesjöfors, Habia pliance with legislation is monitored through reports to Cable and Beijer Tech. These materiality analyses are various authorities and by way of inspections and envibased on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative ronmental audits. During 2017, ten units were inspected (GRI) and cover a number of sustainability issues that by supervisory authorities. In most cases, these inspecare relevant to the Group’s products and services. tions resulted in no negative remarks or only minor The analysis for 2017 showed that Beijer Alma corrective measures. No violations of environmental or should primarily focus on energy efficiency, reduction work environment legislation were reported in 2017. of climate impact, increased resource efficiency (waste), In addition to environmental permits, many of the creating a safe and stimulating workplace, social Group’s companies are subject to other environmental commitment and sound business ethics. Other key areas legislation, including legislation pertaining to hazinclude environmentally adapted product development ardous substances (REACH, RoHS, safety data sheets, and risk management. The same applies to the potential etc.), product liability for packaging and rules for waste impact on Beijer Alma of future environmental legislamanagement. The EU Energy Efficiency Directive affects tion. 27 Management of risks and RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES opportunities Through active and well-planned management, Beijer Alma continuously minimizes its operational risks. At the same time, we also aim to leverage the business opportunities associated with controlled risk assumption. The primary components of the Group’s risk management are identification, assessment, management, reporting, monitoring and control. Material risks result in expenses. In many cases, the results of these Procedures have been established for accepting, reducaudits create opportunities for more efficient energy use ing or eliminating various types of material risks. The and reduced costs. Annual Report presents information on operational and financial risks. When it comes to sustainability, Contaminated land and hazardous substances in we have identified a number of risks that may be of buildings significance for the Group’s financial position. Stricter The land at one facility in Sweden is contaminated by environmental legislation, taxes, charges and other metals and oil. Beijer Alma is not financially responsible environmental requirements could give rise to substanfor any investigations or environmental remediation tial costs for the Group’s industrial operations. Certain performed at this facility. The matter is being adminisrisks involving environmental and social responsibility tered and financed by the County Administrative Board. from a business perspective have been identified in Another Swedish unit is included in the official governrecent years, particularly related to manufacturing in ment register of contaminated land, known as the MIFO developing countries. Beijer Alma regularly performs Register, in the lowest risk category. There were no known risk assessments in the countries where it operates. The instances of materials containing asbestos used in buildobjective is to identify new risks and/or costs associated ings. PCB inventories were taken in Sweden and small with environmental, ethical and social responsibility as amounts of PCB were decontaminated at a facility. There early as possible. are no other known instances of PCB. Attitudes toward sustainable development have changed in recent years. Expectations that business and Energy costs industry should contribute in a positive manner have There is a risk that energy costs will rise and have a increased, creating opportunities for Beijer Alma in sevsignificantly negative impact on earnings. At Beijer Alma, eral areas. More efficient utilization of resources, reduced this applies in particular to purchases of electricity. Prices environmental impact, development of environmentally will most likely rise in the long term. Higher taxes and friendly products and a distinct social responsibility charges for fossil-based fuel can also be expected. As are examples of areas in which the Group can create part of its risk management, Beijer Alma has established competitive advantages and contribute to sustainable a Group-wide energy efficiency objective and tangible development. measures are being carried out at its plants. Environmental legislation. Climate-related risks Beijer Alma’s production units hold the necessary Climate issues are important. Page 12 presents an permits for their operations. No major applications overview of the Group’s efforts to reduce its carbon for permit renewals are planned for 2018. Wherever footprint. It is also important that we are adequately applicable, the Group’s units meet the requirements of prepared for the potential financial impact that climate the REACH chemical legislation, the RoHS product legchange could have on our operations. This may involve islation, product liability for packaging waste and other damage to plants and infrastructure as well as access to relevant environmental and work environment legislaraw materials, conditions among suppliers and changes tion. We do not anticipate any increased risks due to new in customer behavior. Taxes, charges and mandatory or amended legislation in the near future. emission limitations could also affect Beijer Alma. Two In accordance with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive, of the Group’s plants are located in areas where extreme energy audits must be carried out at a number of producweather conditions may occur (China, Thailand). It is not tion facilities. This work has commenced and will initially known whether climate change will affect the situation. 28 RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES We are monitoring the risk and vulnerability that contribute to a lower environmental impact. analyses conducted by the authorities. Business ethics Environmentally friendly products A lack of business ethics could harm Beijer Alma’s Interest in environmentally friendly products is reputation and business operations. As shown in growing. One business risk may be that the company’s the information on pages 24–25, we are working product range contains products that – for health or systematically to prevent corruption and other environmental reasons – are not accepted by customimproprieties. ers. As a supplier, Beijer Alma has various opportunities to address this risk. Since most of the Group’s prodHuman rights ucts are manufactured at the request of customers, Human rights violations in our companies or among development work must be carried out in cooperation. our suppliers could harm the Group’s reputation We continuously monitor the development process and business operations. Beijer Alma’s Code of in order to initiate the replacement of hazardous Conduct is applied in the same manner worldwide. substances, introduce more environmentally friendly We promote the protection of human rights through components and develop new products. The Sustaininformation, training programs, internal regulations ability Report provides several examples of products and monitoring. 29 Lesjöfors SUSTAINABILITY WORK WITHIN THE SUBSIDIARIES Energy consumption, emissions, waste and a safe work environment are key sustainability issues for Lesjöfors. The company is a global supplier of springs, wire and flat strip components. Lesjöfors holds a leading position in the Nordic region and is one of the largest spring companies in Europe. Basis for sustainability work Spring expertise and a high service level ■■ Ensure that environmental issues are integrated into Lesjöfors’s main competitive advantages within everyday operations and contribute to energyIndustry are its spring expertise and problem-solving efficiency enhancements. ability. Within the Chassis Springs business area, ■■ Increase energy efficiency and conduct energy Lesjöfors competes on the strength of its broad product audits. range, high service level and efficient logistics. Other ■■ Minimize VOC emissions. competitive advantages include: ■■ Reduce the amount of waste disposed of in landfills. ■■ High level of expertise in technology/materials. ■■ Ongoing adaptation to new version of ISO 14001. ■■ Cost-effective manufacturing. ■■ Meet customer requirements concerning sustainable ■■ Efficient customer service. development. ■■ High product quality. ■■ Safe and stimulating work environment. Lesjöfors has 26 plants in 12 countries. Two of these Lesjöfors has a comprehensive offering of springs, wire plants specialize in chassis spring manufacturing. Lesand flat strip components. Its products are used in most jöfors also conducts low-cost manufacturing in Latvia, industrial sectors in everything from household products Slovakia, Mexico and several countries in Asia. to high-tech applications. The company’s extensive spring expertise includes design, structure, material Lesjöfors worldwide selection and manufacturing. ■■ Sales in about 60 markets. Lesjöfors’s operations are organized in two business ■■ More than 80 percent of sales are conducted outside areas: Industry and Chassis Springs. Within Industry, speSweden. cially adapted components are developed to meet vari■■ The largest markets are Germany, Sweden, the UK ous customer requirements. Chassis Springs specializes and China. in vehicle springs for the spare parts market The range is ■■ Delivery precision rate of approximately 99 percent standardized and is based on proprietary, in-stock prodwithin Chassis Springs for many years. ucts. Lesjöfors is the market leader in Europe in this area. ■■ Some 2,000 new items are developed within Industrial Springs each year. INVOICING OPERATING PROFIT OPERATING MARGIN MSEK MSEK % 2,500 500 30 2,000 25 400 20 1,500 300 15 1,000 200 10 500 100 5 0 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 32 Habia Cable SUSTAINABILITY WORK WITHIN THE SUBSIDIARIES Habia Cable’s work concerning sustainable development focuses on lower electricity consumption, treatment of solvents, efficient waste management and engaging employees in work environment issues. The company is one of Europe’s largest manufacturers of customized cables and cable harnesses. Many of its products are used in high-tech applications in harsh environments. Basis for sustainability work Comprehensive cable expertise ■■ More efficient energy consumption. Habia offers comprehensive cable expertise, covering ■■ Reduced VOC emissions. everything from design, product development and manu■■ Reduced waste – increased recycling of plastics and facturing to sales, distribution and customer support. metals. Other competitive advantages include: ■■ Further development of systems for registering ■■ Global production and delivery capacity. near misses in the work environment. ■■ High product quality. ■■ Social commitment and partnerships with schools. ■■ Cutting-edge expertise in high-performance materials. ■■ Flexible production and logistics. Habia Cable develops, manufactures and sells cus■■ Ability to deliver complete cable harnesses. tom-designed cables and cable harnesses. The company ■■ A high degree of customization. is a leader in Europe. Its products are used in demanding, high-tech applications in harsh environments. Habia Cable’s products are manufactured in China, Most of its cables are customer-specific, feature unique Sweden, Germany and Poland. The facility in China properties and must be able to withstand, for example, specializes in telecom cables. In Sweden, the company extremely high or low temperatures, radioactivity, presmanufactures customized industrial cables. The German sure, fire, bending or vibrations. plant produces equipment wire and cables, while the Habia has two business areas: Telecom and Other facility in Poland focuses on cable harnesses. Industry. Within Telecom, the company’s cables are mainly used in base-station antennas for mobile teleHabia worldwide com, an area where Habia is the global leader. Within ■■ Sales in approximately 50 countries. More than 90 Other Industry, cables are delivered to various industries, percent of sales are conducted outside Sweden. including the nuclear power, defense, transport and ■■ Key markets include Scandinavia, Germany, the UK, offshore industries. France, China, India and South Korea. ■■ The single largest market is Germany. ■■ Specially adapted cables account for about 80 percent of the manufacturing volume. INVOICING OPERATING PROFIT OPERATING MARGIN MSEK MSEK % 1,000 100 15 75 12 750 9 500 50 6 250 25 3 0 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 34 Beijer Tech SUSTAINABILITY WORK WITHIN THE SUBSIDIARIES Reduced energy consumption, more efficient transportation and investments in products that reduce the customer’s environmental impact are major sustainability issues for Beijer Tech. The company specializes in industrial trading and helps Nordic companies boost their productivity and competitiveness. Basis for sustainability work The range includes fluid technology (hoses, cou■■ Increased energy efficiency, for example, through plings), industrial rubber (gaskets, rubber products) and energy audits. surface treatment (blasting, grinding). Beijer Tech also ■■ Optimize the transportation of goods and business offers industry-specific solutions for foundries, steeltravel to reduce the climate impact. works and the offshore sector. ■■ Work environment improvements – reduce noise, improve lighting and ergonomics. Product expertise that makes a difference ■■ Offer products that reduce the customer’s environmenThe company’s knowledge about how products are tal impact. used in customer production and maintenance processes represents a strong competitive advantage. Other comBeijer Tech’s quality products and expertise create petitive advantages include: unique solutions that reduce the customer’s total cost ■■ Wide product range. – for example, by improving the outcome of production ■■ High delivery precision. processes, increasing product quality or improving the ■■ Broad supplier base. work environment. ■■ Purchasing partnerships with world-leading manufacIts operations are organized in two business areas: turers. Fluid Technology and Industrial Products. Customers ■■ Customization and refinement of products and serinclude companies in the engineering industry, foundvices. ries, steelworks, maintenance companies in the offshore sector and retailers. Fluid Technology is operated under Beijer Tech in the Nordic region the Lundgrens concept, with its main market in Sweden. ■■ The main market is the Nordic region, where Beijer Other concepts include Beijers, Karlebo, Tebeco, PMU, Tech operates in 15 locations. Norspray and Preben Z, which conduct operations in ■■ Sweden is the largest market and accounts for approxiSweden, Norway, Finland and Denmark. mately two-thirds of sales. ■■ Sales are made directly to the end customer or through retailers. ■■ Leading market positions in industrial hoses in Sweden and surface treatment in the Nordic region. INVOICING OPERATING PROFIT OPERATING MARGIN MSEK MSEK % 1,000 50 10 800 40 8 600 30 6 400 20 4 200 10 2 0 0 0 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 36 GOOD EXAMPLES LESJÖFORS IN SWEDEN L E SJÖFOR S I N T H E U K Lesjöfors in Herrljunga has placed As part of the “We Educate” project, greater focus on health issues. In Lesjöfors Springs LV is cooperating 2016/2017, all employees with local compulsory schools. The underwent a health examination aim is for theoretical study to be supthat included psychosocial health. plemented by practical skills from The wellness contribution was raised working life. Lesjöfors offers study by 50 percent to encourage more visits, for example, that enhance stuH A B I A C A B L E I N S W E DE N employees to engage in physical dents’ understanding of the business At Söderfors, Habia has trained activity in their free time. In conworld and working life. several employees at the Green Belt junction with a joint exercise activity level in Six Sigma, a program for during the year, a collection was also L E SJÖFOR S I N S W E DE N quality development. Employees taken for the Swedish Cancer Fund. Four employees at Stece Fjädrar had have been given the chance to gain the opportunity to combine work new skills by periodically working in with studies during the year. They other departments. This has made participated in the “More Efficient Habia more flexible and means that Production” training course orgamore knowledge can be leveraged, nized by the University of Borås. for example, in the event of absences Stece was also involved in an or capacity peaks. educational project in cooperation with an upper-secondary school. In L E SJÖFOR S I N S W E DE N Herrljunga, Lesjöfors extended its Lesjöfors Stockholms Fjäder cooperation with an upper-secondsupports such organizations as L E SJÖFOR S I N T H E U K ary school by offering internships for the Swedish Sports Organization The UK company European Springs adult students. Lesjöfors Stockholm for the Disabled, the Swedish is investing in health and safety. By Fjäder sponsored the Royal Institute Police Sports Association, Save the installing new, modern fan systems, of Technology in Stockholm and the Children and Night Walk Teams as air quality has been improved in sevUniversity of Halmstad by supplying well as local ventures such as Unga i eral of the plant’s departments. Liftsprings for various school projects. Västerort (Youth in West Stockholm). ing devices were installed to reduce Among other initiatives, Unga i the need for heavy, manual lifting. A Västerort offers homework assisdefibrillator was also installed in the tance, soccer and dancing in socially premises and could save a life if an challenged areas. employee or visitor were to suddenly go into cardiac arrest Several emHABIA CABLE IN SWEDEN ployees have been specially trained The Tata Steel company uses carts to in how to use the defibrillator. transport small amounts of iron at its foundries. In this demanding environment, the cables that drive the carts are exposed to extreme pressure and, as a result, frequently need to be replaced. Habia has helped to design a cable that is better able to handle these extreme conditions. As a result, production disruptions and cable replacements have declined at Tata Steel. L E SJÖFOR S I N T H E U S Lesjöfors America cooperates with schools and universities, including offering internships to students from technical education programs. 38 H A B I A C A B L E I N S W E DE N L E SJÖFOR S I N SL O VA K I A Habia is continuing to invest in LED The Lesjöfors company Centrum B lighting at the plant in Söderfors. reduced its environmental impact All of the fittings at the plant will be by investing in new, more efficient replaced by early 2018. In addition equipment. Improved filter technolto being more energy-efficient, LED ogy helped to cut emissions in parts bulbs have a longer lifetime. As a of the manufacturing process. By result, Habia is reducing its mainteinstalling a heat pump for cooling nance costs. and heating, these processes have become more energy-efficient at L E SJÖFOR S I N L AT V I A B E I J E R T E C H I N S W E DE N the same time as emissions have Lesjöfors Gas Springs has become The fire hose is a firefighter’s lifedeclined. Office spaces have been more energy-efficient. The plant line and can play a crucial role in fitted with LED lighting, making the building has been given extra insudangerous situations. Svebab has operation more energy-efficient lation and automatic control has developed a fire hose that can help been introduced for the gas used to customers achieve work environheat the premises. This saves energy ment improvements. It is called and reduces emissions. At the same Formtex and is a woven hose that time, LED lighting has been installed weighs only a third of a traditional in parts of the premises, thereby plastic or rubber hose. Svebab’s reducing energy consumption. The hoses generate ergonomic benefits company has also enhanced the since they are pliable and extremely efficiency of its transports and thus flexible, have a low level of friction further cut its emissions. against surfaces and are generally easier to manage. H A B I A C A B L E I N P OL A N D Habia’s Polish plant has reduced its L E SJÖFOR S I N T H E U K energy consumption by about Lesjöfors Springs LV and Lesjöfors 30 MWh per year. This corresponds Gas Springs have jointly invested to 13 percent of the total energy EUR 700,000 in a new surface consumption at the facility. The treatment facility. The facility has reduction was achieved by transiincreased the efficiency of the operationing to LED lighting. Sorting at tions, while also improving the work source has also been extended and environment thanks to the decrease L E SJÖFOR S I N SL O VA K I A now comprises four types of waste: in emissions. Both companies have Slovakian Centrum B collaborates paper, glass, plastic and organic also expanded their recycling, and with local upper-secondary technical waste. The plant in Poland also won waste volumes have declined as a schools and offers students internfirst prize in the regional “Employer – result. ships. The company also cooperorganizer of safe work 2017” contest. ates with the technical university HABIA CABLE IN GERMANY in Bratislava. The Latvian company Several health and safety measures Lesjöfors Gas Springs also receives have been undertaken at Habia’s study visits from schools every year German plant in Norderstedt. Ergoand offers internships to young nomics were improved through the people. installation of adjustable desks and the use of new lifting and transportaHABIA CABLE IN CHINA tion aids. Material flows and storage At its cable manufacturing plant HABIA CABLE IN GERMANY spaces were remodeled in a manner in Changzhou, China, Habia cut its The plant in Norderstedt reduced its that saves time, resulting in more energy consumption per manuenergy consumption by changing to efficient product management. The factured unit by nearly 25 percent. LED lighting and through improved noise level was also reduced through This was achieved through the production planning for the salt bath the installation of noise insulation optimization of technical equipment, process used in cable manufacturaround compressors and other including the treatment equipment ing. The time that the salt bath is equipment. for solvents and the heating facility heated was reduced by 48 hours per at the plant. week, thus saving a large amount of energy. 39 GOOD EXAMPLES B E I J E R T E C H I N NOR WAY HABIA CABLE IN SWEDEN Norspray offers customers in Habia sponsors various local sports Norway containers of consumclubs, the local branch of the PRO ables located at the customer Swedish pensioners’ association site. This solution also generates and the Local History Society. The environmental gains since company also supports other local the number of transports is events, such as the Allsång music reduced. Norspray fills the cusevent in Tierp, which attracted 4,000 tomer’s containers as required people in 2017. HABIA CABLE IN THE instead of making small deliveries N E T H E R L A N DS after each use. Habia’s Hi-Flex cable was used in an international electric motorbike project. A group of students from the Netherlands designed and built an electric motorbike, on which they have since traveled around the world. The aim was to show that the future of transportation lies in electricity. The students drove 23,000 kilometers without generating any local emissions. L E SJÖFOR S I N S W E DE N LESJÖFORS IN SWEDEN Through cooperation with the Customers also receive help to L E SJÖFOR S I N GE R M A N Y municipality, Lesjöfors AS Bröndby reduce their environmental impact. The German Lesjöfors company is offering work training for the Lesjöfors Stockholms Fjäder advised Velleuer is installing LED lighting in long-term unemployed. This period SAAB to eliminate a type of surface its premises. This provides energy of internship makes it easier for treatment that did not improve the savings and reduces the company’s participants to return to the ordinary properties of its product. The comenvironmental impact, since LED labor market. pany ABAT was recommended to bulbs contain no mercury or other change to a food grade oil in its gas heavy metals. To improve the work L E SJÖFOR S I N T H E U S springs. These springs are installed environment, the company has Increasing amounts of waste at in waterworks from which many invested in noise damping for the Lesjöfors America are being sorted people receive their drinking water. premises, adjustable desks, new and recycled, including cardboard, ventilation that improves the indoor plastic and paper as well as scrap climate and new lifting devices to metal, stainless steel and wood. reduce the amount of manual lifting. B E I J E R T E C H I N S W E DE N Compared with manual grinding, L E SJÖFOR S I N C H I N A Beijer Tech’s subsidiary Svebab the components can also be handled At Lesjöfors China LTD, work is specializes in firefighting equipment. more ergonomically. This coununder way to adapt to the autoThe company sells, for example, teracts wear and tear and other motive industry’s TS16949 quality indoor fire hydrants that allow water work-related injury. The first facility standard and will be completed in to be used for effective and environwas delivered in autumn 2017. 2018. The company has installed mentally friendly extinguishing. The LED lighting in all of its premises. alternative is handheld extinguishL E SJÖFOR S I N S W E DE N This reduces energy consumption ers. These use chemicals as extinInvestments in new tools resulted by about 80 percent compared with guishing agents and thus have a in environmental improvements at traditional lighting. Automatic fire greater environmental impact. MainLesjöfors Stockholms Fjäder. The alarms have been installed in the taining and installing new hydrants new shears not only provide energy premises, which has enhanced that use a natural extinguishing savings, but also reduce the number safety. agent, water, is thus an environmenof errors, resulting in less spillage tally compatible measure. and waste. B E I J E R T E C H I N S W E DE N Karlebo has invested in Sweden’s largest 3D printer for sand molds. Using this technology, prototypes and castings in short series can be developed more rapidly. Another advantage is customization. Using the 3D printer, Karlebo supplies L E SJÖFOR S I N SI NG A P OR E more complex components that can John While Springs Singapore has a enhance performance and improve L E SJÖFOR S I N T H E U S A N D recycling program for wooden the precision of the customers’ M E X ICO pallets and corrugated board mateproducts, for example, by contributLesjöfors America has taken control rial. The company has also started ing to energy savings in engines and of transports between the US and transitioning to LED lighting to pumps. Mexico. Through measures including reduce its energy use. the optimization of production planL E SJÖFOR S I N S W E DE N ning transports have become more L E SJÖFOR S I N S W E DE N A review of workplace ergonomics efficient, thus reducing freight costs Lesjöfors’s operations in Värnamo, resulted in a list of 15 improveand emissions. New fan systems Lesjöfors, Nordmarkshyttan and ments at Lesjöfors Stockholms have been installed in the US and Herrljunga were adapted to meet Fjäder. Several of the workplaces Mexican plants. This has provided a the new ISO 14001:2015 environhave since been adjusted with the more optimal indoor climate. mental standard and the new ISO aim of achieving better and more 9001:2015 quality standard. During comfortable work positions. Energy L E SJÖFOR S I N SI NG A P OR E 2017, several companies were also savings were also achieved by fitting To ensure a safe work environment, adapted to IATF 16949:2016, the new the office windows with a solar film. the staff at John While Springs quality standard for the automotive As part of its wellness program, the Singapore undergo health and safety industry. company expanded its exercise training with a focus on risks in the groups so that all employees can find everyday environment. All employB E I J E R T E C H I N S W E DE N an activity that suits them. ees also undergo regular health Tebeco has a new range of grindchecks. ing and deburring machines that L E SJÖFOR S I N M E X ICO expands the machinery program At Lesjöfors America’s plant in and contributes to health and safety Mexico, employees have the opportuimprovements. The new machines nity once a week to meet a physician give customers the opportunity to to renew prescriptions or undergo enhance their production efficiency. simple medical procedures. 41 Transparent presentation of OUR REPORTING sustainability work Sustainability issues connected to business activities vakia, Germany, the UK, the US, Thailand, Singapore and Beijer Alma’s Sustainability Report addresses aspects China. A small number of Beijer Tech’s sales offices are pertaining to the environment, work environment, social not included in the report. These offices employ a total of issues and business ethics. The aim of the report is to approximately 25 employees. One operation in Mexico provide Beijer Alma’s employees and external stakebelonging to Lesjöfors Springs America is not included in holders with clear information on the company’s CSR the report. The premises for the operation are rented and activities and how they are connected to the company’s most of the employees belong to another company. business operations. Data quality assurance Sustainability Report Each unit has contributed quantitative and qualitative Beijer Alma has chosen to report on the requirements of information in accordance with Beijer Alma’s Chapter 6, Section 1 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act sustainability reporting form. The head of each comin the Administration Report contained in the Annual pany/unit is responsible for assuring the quality of the Report in accordance with recommendation BFN U 98:2 information submitted. The Group’s performance during Environmental Information. In accordance with Chapter the year has been compared and verified against the 6, Section 11 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act, the information from the preceding year. Additional quality company has chosen to prepare its statutory Sustaincontrol is carried out through interviews and on-site ability Report separately from the Annual Report. The visits. Sustainability Report was submitted to the auditor at the Emissions of carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and nitrosame time as the Annual Report. gen oxide from direct energy consumption have been measured using conversion factors based on the energy Reporting principles content and quality of the fuel used. CO2 emissions from One of the intentions of this report is to meet the legal indirect energy consumption – mainly electricity – are requirement stipulating that large companies in the EU measured based on emission factors from the UK Departare to present a sustainability report. The report is also ment for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) intended to explain the Group’s work related to the Ten (Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015) for Principles of the UN Global Compact in accordance with the countries in which Beijer Alma conducts operations. the requirements of the Communication on Progress Updated conversion factors were applied during the (COP). This information is also used to report the Group’s year, with the previous factors from 2010 replaced with climate impact in accordance with CDP. The guidelines of new factors from 2015. In most cases, this resulted in a the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) provide a basis for reduction in the size of the emissions. In cases where the Group’s reporting and choice of indicators. energy suppliers present specific information regarding Most units that were part of Beijer Alma in 2017 are the energy mix, the supplier’s measurement models are included in the report. Data was provided by a total of 29 used. Information about VOC emissions is primarily units in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Latvia, Poland, Slobased on mass balance calculations. 42 Global Compact In 2015, Beijer Alma joined the UN Global Compact, an initiative to promote GLOBAL COMPACT and implement corporate social responsibility. As a participant in the initiative, we agree to adhere to Ten Principles in the areas of human rights, labor conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. Over the course of the financial year, we established a clearer connection between the UN Global Sustainable Development Goals and the Group-wide objectives. Communication on Progress Organizations that are affiliated with the Global Compact are required to submit an annual report known as a Communication on Progress (COP), which outlines their work in relation to the Ten Principles. Beijer Alma uses this information as a basis for its Annual Report and Sustainability Report in order to give an accurate picture of how we comply with the Global Compact. GLOBAL COMPACT STATUS 2017 PAGE HUMAN 1. Businesses should support and Information and training regarding Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct were 15, 24–25 RIGHTS respect the protection of internaprovided at several units. No human rights violations were reported. tionally proclaimed human rights. Continuous work to assess suppliers’ sustainability work is ongoing. The 2. Businesses should make sure number of on-site audits increased compared with earlier years. 24, 26 that they are not complicit in No human rights violations were reported. human rights abuses. LABOR 3. Businesses should uphold The Code of Conduct lists freedom of association and the right to 15, 24 CONDITIONS the freedom of association and the collective bargaining as a fundamental principle. Trade unions have been effective recognition of the right to established in all relevant countries and countries where this is customcollective bargaining. ary. In countries without trade unions, the company and its employees engage in other types of negotiations. 24 4. Businesses should uphold the All forms of forced and compulsory labor are forbidden at Beijer Alma elimination of all forms of and among the Group’s suppliers. There are no signs that any violations forced and compulsory labor. occurred during the year. 24 5. Businesses should uphold the Child labor is forbidden at Beijer Alma and among the Group’s suppliers. effective abolition of child labor. There are no signs that any violations occurred during the year. 6. Businesses should uphold the The Code of Conduct clearly states the Group’s stance on discrimina15 elimination of discrimination tion and equality. No instances of discrimination were reported. Formal in respect of employment and equality plans have been established at 11 of the Group’s units. occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses should support a The ISO 14001 environmental management system is an systematic tool 8–13 precautionary approach to environin the Group’s efforts to identify and prevent risks. 76 percent of the mental challenges. Group’s are currently certified and additional certifications are planned. We are also taking a preventive approach, for example, by installing treatment equipment, phasing out hazardous chemicals and conducting risk analyses. 25 8. Businesses should undertake Overall environmental responsibility rests with Group management and initiatives to promote greater responsibility for the daily operations is delegated to the management environmental responsibility. teams of the Group companies. Performance is reported to Beijer Alma’s Board of Directors on a regular bases and communicated externally through the Sustainability Report and CDP reporting. 38–41 9. Businesses should encourage the The Group offers several good examples of component/product developdevelopment and diffusion of enviment that helps to reduce environmental impact. ronmentally friendly technologies. ANTI10. Businesses should work Beijer Alma’s Code of Conduct provides clear guidance regarding the 17 CORRUPTION against corruption in all its forms, prevention of corruption. All Group companies perform an annual including extortion and bribery. self-assessment about their work to combat corruption. The assessment is based on guiding documents from the Global Compact. No violations were reported or detected during the year. 43 Glossary GLOSSARY Carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide (CO2) is produced Energy consumption. Beijer Alma reports both its direct during all processes involving the combustion of carbon energy use (use of fuel in its own energy facilities) and its materials – for example, during fossil fuel combustion. It indirect use (purchased electricity and district heating). is widely believed that carbon dioxide is a contributing factor to global warming (greenhouse effect). Beijer Alma Environmental aspects. The areas of an organization’s reports its CO2 emissions from direct and indirect energy activities, products or services that impact the environconsumption. ment (ISO 14001). CDP. CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) is Environment-related costs. Costs attributable to meaa voluntary system for reporting the climate impact sures implemented in order to prevent, reduce or restore of companies. The initiative is primarily targeted at the environmental impact caused by an organization’s international investors, who can use the information operations. A corresponding term is used for costs provided about climate risks when investing in various related to work environment issues. Environment-related companies. Beijer Alma has performed CDP reporting costs may include administrative costs, in-sourcing of since 2013. external services, government fees, maintenance of environmental management systems, waste-related costs CFC/HCFC. Coolants such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) and costs for external inspections and audits. and hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFC) have a negative effect on the environment as a result of their ozone-deEnvironment-related investments. Investments aimed pleting properties and climate impact. at preventing and reducing the environmental impact of the Group’s operations. A corresponding term is used for Code of Conduct. Guidelines for employees in the areas investments in work environment improvements. of business ethics, the environment, working conditions and social responsibility. The most recent update to 5S. A Japanese method for creating order in the workBeijer Alma’s Code of Conduct took place in 2015–2016. place. The 5S phases can be translated from Japanese as: sort, straighten, shine, standardize and sustain. 5S is a Conflict minerals. Tungsten, tantalum, tin, and gold key component of lean manufacturing. originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo or nearby countries are referred to as conflict minerals. The Global Compact. A UN initiative in the area of CSR. term refers to the ongoing armed conflicts in the region, Participating organizations agree to adhere to Ten Prinin which mining operations are often involved and which ciples in the areas of human rights, labor conditions, the have resulted in human rights violations. environment and anti-corruption. COP. A Communication on Progress is an annual report Global Goals. At the UN Summit on September 25, submitted to the UN that outlines Beijer Alma’s work 2015, heads of state and governments from around the related to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. world adopted 17 Global Goals and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Global Goals and the CSR/CR.Corporate social responsibility and corporate 2030 Agenda aim to end poverty and hunger, realize the responsibility are terms used to describe a company’s human rights of all, achieve gender equality and the approach to issues concerning the environment, social empowerment of all women and girls, and ensure the responsibility, financial responsibility and business lasting protection of the planet and its natural resources. ethics. These terms are often used interchangeably with The Global Goals are integrated and indivisible, and balthe term “sustainable development,” which is applied in ance the three dimensions of sustainable development: this report. economic, social and environmental sustainability. 46 GLOSSARY ISO 14001. International standard for environmental Six Sigma. A program and philosophy for making quality management systems introduced in 1996. Some 345,000 improvements in companies and organizations, first introorganizations worldwide currently hold ISO 14001 duced at Motorola in 1987. Six Sigma is largely inspired by certification. An updated version of the standard was the holistic approach to quality issues commonly adopted published in 2015 (ISO 14001:2015). Certification in in Japanese industrial companies since World War II. accordance with ISO 14001 is a requirement for all Beijer Alma production units. Sulfur dioxide. Sulfur dioxide (SO2) is produced during the combustion of petroleum products and contributes ISO 26000. International standard providing guidance to the acidification of water and land. In high concentraon how organizations can manage issues pertaining to tions, sulfur dioxide can be harmful to people’s health. social responsibility. The standard was introduced in 2010 and has provided guidance in the formulation of Sustainable development. This term refers to “develBeijer Alma’s Code of Conduct. opment that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet Lean manufacturing. Systematic method for managing their own needs.” Sustainable development encompasses resources in an efficient manner. The purpose of lean ecological, social and economic sustainability. manufacturing is to identify all factors in a production process that do not create customer value. Sustainability report. In accordance with an EU directive, the Swedish government has decided that as of 2017, it will Naphtha. Naphthalene is an aromatic hydrocarbon combe mandatory for large companies to present sustainability pound used as a solvent in Habia Cable. reports. Sustainability reports are to contain the non-financial disclosures required to understand the company’s Nitrogen oxides. Gaseous oxides (NOx) produced from performance, position and earnings as well as the consethe reaction of nitrogen and oxygen gases in the air quences of its operations, including disclosures concerning during combustion. These substances are hazardous to the environment, employees and social conditions, respect the environment and people’s health and are known to for human rights and anti-corruption measures. cause acidification and eutrophication. VOC. Volatile organic compounds, which have a high PCB. Polychlorinated biphenyls are a group of industrial vapor pressure at ordinary room temperature. The preschemicals that are hazardous to the environment and ence of volatile hydrocarbons in the air has a negative health. Although the use of PCB was banned in Sweden impact on health and the environment and contributes, for in 1972, the substances are still present in the environexample, to the production of ground-level ozone (smog). ment due to their long decomposition time. Work-related illness. Work-related illnesses may be REACH. The European Regulation on Registration, caused by prolonged exposure to a particular work Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals environment factor, such as noise, dust or solvents. (REACH) is an EU regulation adopted to promote safer handling of chemical substances. Chemical substances Work-related injury. The term work-related injury refers are to be registered for a particular use. Substances of to a sudden incident (accident) occurring at the workvery high concern may be subject to restrictions. place that causes a wound or injury. Typical workplace injuries at Beijer Alma include injuries caused by ROHS. The Restriction of Hazardous Substances Direcmachinery and equipment, falls and injuries caused by tive (RoHS) is an EU regulation that limits the use of heavy lifting or repetitive work. Beijer Alma defines the certain substances that have negative impact on health term work-related injury as an accident causing more and the environment. than one day of absence (lost work case, LWC) per million hours worked. 47 Auditor’s report on the statutory sustainability report To the general meeting of shareholders in Beijer Alma AB, corporate registration number 556229-7480 Engagement and responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for the sustainability report for 2017 and for ensuring that it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. Audit scope Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevU 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory sustainability report is substantially different and less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. Opinion A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. Uppsala, Sweden February 26, 2018 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Leonard Daun Authorized Public Accountant 48 Addresses Contents BEIJER ALMA AB 1 2017 in brief 2 CEO’s statement Dragarbrunnsgatan 45 Box 1747 SE-751 47 UPPSALASweden 8 Results of the Group’s sustainability work Telephone +46 18 15 71 60 8 More efficient use of resources Fax +46 18 15 89 87 E-mail info@beijeralma.se 10 Waste and systematic environmental work firstname.lastname@beijeralma.se 12 Reduced climate impact beijeralma.se 14 Safe and stimulating work environment Strandvägen 5A, 5th floor 16 Upstanding member of society Box 7823 18 Sustainable development and finances SE-103 97 STOCKHOLMSweden Telephone +46 8 506 427 50 22 Our approach 22 Sustainability – part of the Group strategy LESJÖFORS AB 24 We assume responsibility 26 We create value for stakeholders Head office Köpmannagatan 2 28 Management of risks and opportunities SE-652 26 KARLSTADSweden Telephone +46 54 13 77 50 32 Sustainability work within the subsidiaries E-mail info@lesjoforsab.com lesjoforsab.com 32 Lesjöfors 34 Habia Cable 36 Beijer Tech HABIA CABLE AB 38 Good examples Head office Kanalvägen 18, 6th floor 42 Our reporting Box 5076 SE-194 05 UPPLANDS VÄSBYSweden 42 Transparent presentation of sustainability work Telephone +46 8 630 74 40 E-mail info@habia.com 43 Global Compact habia.com 46 Glossary BEIJER TECH AB 48 Auditor’s report on the statutory Head office Radiovägen 27E sustainability report Box 2120 SE-135 02 TYRESÖSweden E-mail info@beijertech.se beijertech.se
