LIETUVOS ENERGIJOS GAMYBA, AB 2017 THE REPORT ON SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Energy Company Group www.le.lt CONTENT The report on social responsibility 2017 About the Report 3 CEO Foreword 4 About the Company 5 Overview of the Company’s operations in 2017 9 Company’s Progress in the field of Corporate Social Responsibility 12 Social Responsibility Principles 12 Human Rights 12 Employees 13 Society Relationships 16 Environmental Protection 16 Market Activities 17 Energy Company Group 2 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 ABOUT THE REPORT Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba is the national electricity producer. This report has been drawn so as to show how the approach of a socially responsible business and the principles of corporate management are reflected in our daily operations and future plans in the environment where the energy sector is continuously facing new challenges. This report has been drawn up in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba is a member of the Global Compact. This report presents the operations of Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba in 2017. Reports of this kind have been also drafted before. They were announced via the exchange and on the website of the Company. The report is available in Lithuanian and English. The report has not been audited or reviewed by any third parties. This report should be read along with the Annual Report of Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba for 2017. Energy Company Group 3 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 CEO FOREWORD Dear shareholders, clients, partners and members of staff, As we look back at the year 2017, during which we dedicated Kaunas Algirdas Brazauskas Hydroelectric Power Plant a substantial part of our efforts to the implementation of compared to 2016. The previous year was a year of record Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba strategy, first of all I’d like to for this plant in terms of water and electricity production draw your attention to our achievements that we are all volumes. happy about. I’m especially happy about the level of our staff engagement. The Company managed to achieve sustainable profitability In 2017, we achieved excellent results in the field of indicators, and all the efforts put by the Company‘s operational excellence – we implemented over 500 employees in order to ensure an effective management of performance improvement proposals, improved day-to-day operating expenses have significant effect. operations management, and accomplished territory cleaning works at many facilities. As a result of changes in the market conditions during 2017, Elektrėnai Complex reduced its production volumes and at We successfully pursued our development and territory the same time it managed to ensure high accessibility to and cleaning work projects. An overview of these works is reliable operation of all power plants, as well as to meet the provided further in this report. Also, there is a description of needs of the transmission system operator and those of the the first successful steps in launching services to our new market. One of our most important goals is to contribute customers. reliably to a stable operation of the energy system and ensure its security. Being sociably responsible we follow all ten principles of Global Compact, consider general aspects of human and As we took advantage of the opportunities available in the employee’s rights, environmental protection and clarity and market, there was a slight increase in the production definitely pronounce that within this report. I invite you to volumes at Kruonis Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Plant get acquainted! and a significant increase in the production volumes at Eglė Čiužaitė Chairperson of the Board and CEO of Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba Energy Company Group 4 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 ABOUT THE COMPANY Object and Purpose of Operations In 2017, Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba, AB (hereinafter Trade in electricity produced by the Company is conducted referred to as “Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba” or the on the wholesale electricity market (i.e. within the “Company”) engaged in production of electrical power and communication environment between the producers and thermal energy. suppliers of electricity). The main purpose of the activity of Lietuvos Energijos The Company provides balancing services, as well as Gamyba is to operate in an efficient manner and to system services to the Lithuanian transmission system contribute to ensuring the country’s energy security. operator LITGRID AB (the TSO) The Company is in charge of state-controlled electricity The Elektrėnai Complex produces thermal energy for production capabilities, namely, the back-up power plant Elektrėnai consumers, Kietaviškės greenhouse complex, and the combined cycle unit in Elektrėnai Complex, the and the Company’s own needs. Kruonis Pumped Storage Hydroelectric Plant (hereinafter referred to as the “Kruonis PSHP”) and the Kaunas Algirdas Brazauskas Hydroelectric Power Plant (hereinafter referred to as the “Kaunas A. Brazauskas HPP”). Mission and Vision In carrying out its activity, the Company refers to its mission The mission – we are a reliable and advanced power and vision as follows: generation company providing the services that are required for the energy system security. The vision – our aim is to be become a competitive international centre of power generation and services. Values The implementation of the mission and the pursuit of the Fostering these values we seek to help everyone vision of Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba as well as its all understand that corporate responsibility starts with each of operations are based on three values which are common to us. Working and creating together we strive for the best all companies of Lietuvos Energija Group. These values result possible and promote the development of the form the basis of the Company’s long-ranging strategy, economy and society of the country by increasing the value namely, cooperation, responsibility, and results. in energy field. Energy Company Group 5 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 Strategy The Company plans to achieve the above-mentioned In 2017 The company acted in accordance with the objectives by focusing on four main strategic directions: Company's business strategy for 2016-2020. The Strategy, 1. provision of quality services to clients, approved by the Company’s Board, defines the long-term 2. improvement of operational efficiency, business strategy of the Company: the strategic directions 3. diversification and development of activities, and objectives and the indicators for measuring the 4. engagement and empowerment of employees. implementation of the Strategy. For each of these lines, strategic objectives have been The Company Strategy is based on developments and formulated and indicators for measuring their achievement future perspectives in the energy sector: growing have been set according to the balanced scorecard competition in the electricity market, new opportunities methodology. The Company's strategic objectives arising in relation to the development of renewable contributed to the creation of added value, increase in the resources, and emerging threats. return on assets, appropriate representation of the shareholders' interests, increasing the Company's By the year 2020, the Company expects to dedicate at competitiveness, and sustainable development least 15% of its work time to earning income from new activities, and to cut its costs of operating activities by at The business strategy for 2016-2020 is published on the least 15%. Company's website. Management The management structure of Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba According to the Articles of Association of Lietuvos is based on the corporate governance model for the energy Energijos Gamyba, the management body of the Company company group which has been implemented following the is the general meeting of shareholders, the collegial governance guidelines approved by the Ministry of Finance supervising body is the Supervisory Board, the collegial of the Republic of Lithuania on 7 June 2013. The guidelines management body is the (Management) Board, and the were updated on 1 June, 2017. The governance guidelines, one-man managing body is the CEO of the Company. the corporate governance principles of the Group, and the management and control system are available on www.le.lt. Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board, the role of which is to provide activities, as well as decisions to the general meeting of oversight of the Company’s operations, is composed of shareholders, the Board, and the CEO. three members who are natural persons. Independent members account for at least one third of the Supervisory The term of office of the Supervisory Board of the Company Board. It is elected for the term of office of four years by the the members of which were Mindaugas Keizeris (the Chair), general meeting of shareholders. The chairperson of the Dominykas Tučkus (a member) and Pranas Vilkas (an Supervisory Board is elected from among its members. The independent member) ended on 5 August 2017. M. Keizeris Supervisory Board and its members commence and finish and D. Tučkus were elected for the new term of office in the their service in accordance with the procedure and terms Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 10 established in legislation. August 2017. An independent member had not been elected in 2017. The scope of competence of the Supervisory Board as specified in the Articles of Association of the Company The expected end of term of office of the current includes the supervision over the activities of the Board and Supervisory Board of the Company at the date of issue of the CEO, and the provision of feedback on and proposals this report is 10 August 2021. with regard to the Company’s strategy, finances and Composition of the Supervisory Board as of 31 December 2017 Mindaugas Keizeris Chairman Education: Master of International Business, Vilnius University; Bachelor of Business Administration and Management, Vilnius University. Workplace: Lietuvos Energija, UAB, the Chair (untill 1 February 2018), Director for Strategy and Development, interim CEO (until February 11, 2018). Dominykas Tučkus Member Education: Master of Finance, Bachelor of Business Management and Administration, L. Bocconi University (Milan, Italy). Workplace: Lietuvos Energija, UAB, member of the Board, Production and Service Director. Energy Company Group 6 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 Management Board The Board for the term of office of four years is elected and 9 June 2017 was received on 12 May 2017. The meeting of dismissed by the Supervisory Board in accordance with the the Supervisory Board of the Company held on 9 June 2017 Articles of Association of the Company. The Board is made a decision to elect Nerijus Rasburskis to the accountable to the Supervisory Board and the general Company’s Board from this day till the end of term of office of meeting of shareholders. The Board elects the chairperson the effective Board. from among its members. The term of office of the previous Board of Lietuvos EnerThe scope of competence of the Board, the procedures of gijos Gamyba, AB, the members of which were Eglė Čiužaitė decision-making, election and dismissal of members are (the Chair), Darius Kucinas (a member), Mindaugas Kvekšas regulated by laws, other regulations, Articles of Association (a member) and Nerijus Rasburskis (a member) at the end of of the Company and the Rules of Procedure of the Board. its term, ended on 17 September 2017. On 23 December 2016 Adomas Birulis submitted his The new Board of the Company was elected in the meeting resignation from the position of the member of the Board of the Supervisory Board of the Company held on 22 Sepwith effect from 6 January 2017. At the meeting of the tember 2017. The Chair of the Board and CEO of the Supervisory Board held on 6 January 2017, the decision Company was appointed on 25 September 2017. was made to elect Mindaugas Gražys to the position of the Company’s Board as from this date until the end of term of The expected end of term of office of the current Board of the current Board. A letter of resignation of M. Gražys from the Company is 22 September 2021. the position of a member of the Board of the Company from Composition of the Board as of 31 December 2017 Eglė Čiužaitė Chairwoman Education: Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, Bellevue University (USA); Master of Science in Finance and Business Administration, Aarhus University, School of Business and Social Sciences (Denmark). Workplace: Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba, AB, CEO. Darius Kucinas Member Education: Electrical engineer, Kaunas University of Technology. Workplace: Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba, AB, Director of Production. Mindaugas Kvekšas Member Education: Bachelor of Economy and Business Administration, Stockholm School of Economics (Latvia). Workplace: Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba, AB, Director of Finance and Administration Nerijus Rasburskis Member Education: Kaunas University of Technology, PhD in Energy and Thermoengineering, Master of Thermal Engineering and Bachelor of Management. Workplace: Lietuvos Energija, UAB, Head of Cogeneration Power Plants Division. Organisational Structure The chart represents the Company’s organisational structure which was in force on 31 December 2017. Energy Company Group 7 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 Shares in Other Companies 0n 31 December 2017 the Company has had shares of the UAB. The Company owns the following amounts of shares associate companies Geoterma, UAB, Technologijų ir of the aforementioned companies: 23.44 %, 20.01 % and Inovacijų Centras, UAB, and Verslo Aptarnavimo Centras, 15 %, accordingly. Information About Shareholders of the Company On 1 September 2011, shares of the Company were admitted for listing on the Baltic Main List of NASDAQ OMX Vilnius. The shares of the Company are traded on NASDAQ Vilnius Stock Exchange. Ordinary registered shares totals 100% of Company's authorized capital. ISIN code LT0000128571. Ticker – LNR1L. Total number of shareholders as of 30 December 2016: 5,931. Total number of shareholders as of 31 December 2017: 5,904. List of shareholders whose shares account for more than 5% of the Company’s authorised capital (as of 31 December 2017) Number of % of authorised Name Class of shares % of voting shares shares capital Lietuvos Energija, UAB Ordinary registered Business ID – 301844044 614,453,755 96.75 96.75 shares Žvejų g. 14, 09310 Vilnius Ordinary registered Other shareholders 20,629,860 3.25 3.25 shares Ordinary registered TOTAL 635,083,615 100.00 100.00 shares Information on trading in the Company's Shares is available on Company's website, also on interim and annual consolidated reports of the Company. Membership in Organizations The Company was among the founders of National The Company is a member of the Personnel Management Energy Association of Lithuania (NEAL) that unites Professionals Association. This is a Lithuanian public companies operating in the country's energy sector. NEAL organization established in 2006 with the aim of improving determines the common position of the national energy the efficiency of personnel management in the country. The sector and represents it at state authorities, public Association seeks to increase the recognition of the value organizations and international bodies. One of the of personnel management in Lithuania. objectives of NEAL is to promote an active dialogue with the public as part of the development of the sector's social The Company has joined the UN Global Compact, a initiatives. voluntary corporate sustainability initiative. Energy Company Group 8 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 OVERVIEW OF THE COMPANY’S OPERATIONS IN 2017 Generation Capacities Elektrėnai Complex Kruonis Pumped Storage Kaunas Algirdas Brazauskas Hydroelectric Hydroelectric Reserve power plant and combinedPlant Power Plant cycle unit Capacity – 1055 MW Capacity – 900 MW Capacity – 100,8 MW The main power plant in the Kruonis PSHP is designed for the Kaunas A. Brazauskas HPP is the Lithuanian power system, having the balancing of electricity generation and largest power plant in Lithuania that greatest production capacities in the consumption as well as for the power uses renewable energy sources. country and maintaining strategic and system's emergency prevention and the tertiary reserve for ensuring the response. Kruonis PSHP is Kaunas A. Brazauskas HPP security of energy supply and responsible for the securing the larger contributes to the balancing of reserves. part of the emergency reserve electricity generation and consumption required for the Lithuanian power and levels out the power system. It is Heat energy is produced in the biofuel system. one of the power plants in the boiler house at Elektrėnai Complex. Lithuanian power system that can start Kruonis PSHP is unique power plant an autonomous operation in case of in the Baltics. the total power system failure. Energy is sold under the brand of Green Lithuanian Energy. Interested parties In 2017 the Company was engaged in electricity and heat The Company’s activity is regulated by the Law of the generation activities and provision of such services as Republic of Lithuania on Energy, the Law of the Republic of assurance of strategic power reserve and tertiary active Lithuania on Electricity, and other legal acts. power reserve at Elektrėnai Complex and assurance of secondary emergency reserve at Kruonis PSHP, and other To manage risks arising from external factors and to system services. present a reasoned position of the Company, representation of the Company at decision-making The main customers of the Company are the TSO institutions has been initiated. The Company actively (receiving all system services), the NCC (representing the provides comments and proposals concerning draft legal interests of consumers as the Company provides regulated acts and participates in open agreement procedures as services), Nord Pool (NP) exchange participants (receiving well as discussions. electricity generation services), Elektrėnų Ko-munalinis Ūkis UAB and Kietaviškių Gausa UAB (receiving heat energy services). Regulation Acting in accordance with the Republic of Lithuania Law on market power. Every year, by decision of NCECP, price Electricity, the National Commission for Energy Control and ceilings are set for the power reserving services provided Prices (NCECP) regulates the selling prices for electricity by the power plants controlled by Lietuvos Energijos and reserve power being sold by power generating Gamyba. companies and independent suppliers that have significant Activities on the electricity market As from 1 January 2016, trade in electricity produced by used to conduct trading on the wholesale electricity market the Company is conducted under the agreement by on its own. Energijos Tiekimas UAB. Before that date, the Company Energy Company Group 9 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 Key Indicators of the Activity The Company has permits for indefinite term to engage in In 2017 the difference between day and night rates of electricity generation activities. In total 1.147 TWh of electricity on power exchange was on average lower electricity produced at the power plants controlled by the compared to 2016, however, a more active trade on power Company was sold during 2017, i.e. 16.4% less compared exchange in the day course allowed to increase slightly the to 1.371 TWh in 2016. Such decline was driven by production volumes at Kruonis PSHP in 2017. In 2017 sales significantly lower volumes of electricity produced at of electricity produced at Kruonis PSHP increased by 6.2% Elektrėnai Complex in 2017 compared to 2016. Whereas the compared to 2016 and totalled 0.549 TWh (2016: 0.517 volumes of electricity produced and sold at Kruonis PSHP TWh). and Kaunas A. Brazauskas HPP increased, by even more than ¼ at the latter (see Figure below). The units at Elektrėnai Complex, where 0.139TWh of electricity was produced in 2017 compared to 0.491 TWh in The year 2017 was noted as the one with heavy rainfall, and 2016 (or 71,8% less compared to 2016), were still operating therefore, the water level in the Nemunas river was much due to the decline in wholesale electricity prices on power higher compared to the previous year. This contributed to exchange: in 2015, the average electricity price on Nord more favourable production conditions at Kaunas A. Pool power exchange as per Lithuania price area was 41.9 Brazauskas HPP. As a result, in 2017 electricity production EUR/MWh compared to 36.51 EUR/MWh in 2016 and 35.15 volumes at Kaunas A. Brazauskas HPP increased by 26.4% EUR/MWh in 2017. Given the possibility to import electricity compared to 2016 and totalled 0.459 TWh (2016: 0.363 at a lower price, gas installations at Elektrėnai Complex are TWh). exposed to less opportunities to produce competitive electricity. Electricity produced at power plants controlled by the Company and sold (TWh) 2012 1.42 0.47 0.31 2013 1.08 0.47 0.41 2014 0.86 0.66 0.32 2015 1.07 0.67 0.27 2016 0.49 0.52 0.36 2017 0.14 0.55 0.46 0 0,5 1 1,5 2 2,5 Elektrėnai Complex Kruonis PSHP Kaunas A. Brazauskas HPP Key Financial Indicators Change 2017 2016 +/% KEY OPERATING INDICATORS Electricity generation volume TWh 1.15 1.37 -0.22 -16.06 KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS Revenues EUR`000 149,815 172,922 -23,107 -13.36 Costs of purchase of electricity, fuel and EUR`000 58,505 76,395 -17,890 -23.42 related services Operating expenses1 EUR`000 19,973 23,093 -3,120 -13.51 EBITDA2 EUR`000 70,538 58,054 12,484 21.50 EBITDA margin3 % 47.1 33.6 13.5 p. p. Adjusted EBITDA4 EUR`000 53,733 63,652 -9,919 -15.58 Adjusted EBITDA margin5 % 35.9 36.8 -0.9 p. p. Net profit (loss) EUR`000 20,521 39,975 -19,454 -48.67 Energy Company Group 10 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 At 31 At 31 Change December 2017 December 2016 +/% Total assets EUR`000 636,288 819,430 -183,142 -22.35 Equity EUR`000 353,874 355,566 -1,692 -0.48 Financial debts EUR`000 55,557 132,907 -77,350 -58.20 Net financial debts6 EUR`000 -5,143 33,862 -39,005 -115.19 Return on equity (ROE) 7 % 5.8 11.2 -5.4 p. p. Equity level8 % 55.6 43.4 12.2 p. p. Net financial debts / 12-month EBITDA % -7.3 58.3 -65.6 p. p. Net financial debts / Equity % -1.5 9.5 -11 p. p. 1 Operating expenses less costs of purchase of electricity and related services, costs of fuel used for production, depreciation and amortisation costs, impairment losses, revenues/expenses of revaluation of emission allowances and costs of write-offs of property, plant and equipment. 2 Profit (loss) before tax + financial activities costs – financial activities income – dividends received + depreciation and amortisation costs + impairment losses + revenues/expenses of revaluation of emission allowances + write-offs of property, plant and equipment. 3 EBITDA / Revenues. 4 EBITDA result is reported after the adjustments made by management by eliminating the impact of one-off factors. These adjustments are made aiming to disclose the results of the Company’s operating activities after the elimination of the impact of non-typical, one-off factors or factors that are not directly related to the current reporting period. All adjustments made by management are disclosed in the Company’s interim and annual reports. 5 Adjusted EBITDA / Revenues. 6 Financial debts – Cash and cash equivalents – Short-term investments and term deposits – Share of non-current other financial assets consisting of investments in debt securities. 7 Net profit (loss), restated annual value / ⁄ Equity at the end of the period. 8 Equity at the end of the period / Total assets at the end of the period. Most-significant changes in 2017 Units 5 and 6 have been decommissioned In January 2017, the project for decommissioning of 5 and 6 and that their abandonment will help reduce the final tariffs units was initiated. In January 2016, units 5 and 6 were deof electricity for end users, the decision was made to commissioned. Given the fact that the price of electricity prodismantle these obsolete and ineffective 300 MW capacity duced at these units is no longer competitive on the market units of the reserve power plant. Units 1 and 2 have been decommissioned In the end of March 2017 the Company completed dereserve power plant (which have been used so far for heat comissioning project of the units 1 and 2. As the Company production to satisfy the needs of population of Elektrėnai completed the project for expansion of heat generation town during the cold season) appeared to be longer facilities in Elektrėnai in 2015, the units 1 and 2 of the necessary. The exploitation of unit 7 have been terminated On 11 December 2017, the Board of the Company, having environment and prospects, taking into account the opinion assessed the scope of services provided by Lithuanian of Supervisory Board, decided to terminate the exploitation Power Plant’s units in 2018, the market situation of electricity of unit 7 of Lithuanian Power Plant from 1 January 2018 and production and system services, changes in the regulatory to put it into preservation mode. Business services provided In March 2017, the Company’s employees performed the warehousing areas and territories, offers chemical products first technical maintenance tasks for external customers. and other services. Presently the Company offers maintenance services for In 2017, the Company’s employees provided services to 22 automation, electrical and mechanical facilities, also hydroexternal customers which required almost 4,500 working technical structures and facilities, services of use of various hours. Also, in 2017, about 16,000 square meters of different energy objects, leases out buildings not used in its activities, territories and premises, which are not used by the Company in its main activities, were leased out. Energy Company Group 11 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 COMPANY’S PROGRESS IN THE FIELD OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social Responsibility Principles Activities of Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba in the area of The Company brings social responsibility to action through social responsibility are based on the corporate values and a targeted and consistent as well as coherent operation in reflect the Company's attitude towards its operations and the following areas: the inclusion of social, environmental protection and  relationship with employees and the public, transparency aspects in both internal processes of the  in environment protection and Company and relations with stakeholders.  operations in the market. In conducting responsible activity Lietuvos Energijos The Company follows the Ten Principles of the UN Global Gamyba follows the provisions of the Corporate Social Compact, focusing on human rights, employee welfare, Responsibility Policy approved by the Group. The environmental protection and transparent operations and aforementioned document defines the general directions aim at reducing the impact of business operations on the and principles of responsible operation which are referred environment, the community, other businesses, and to to when creating the culture and practice of a socially participate in resolving economic, social and environmental responsible business developed in a sustainable manner. protection problems by common effort. These universally adopted guidelines of responsible behaviour represent a clear and sound reference for the Company in the development of its activities in a socially responsible manner. About the UN Global Compact The United Nations initiative Global Compact is the biggest The Global Compact is based on human rights, labour voluntary initiative to encourage businesses to adopt power and environmental protection principles established sustainable and socially responsible policies which are in the following international documents: supported not only by business companies but also other  The Universal Declaration of Human Rights; organisations, trade unions, public and civil society  the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration organisations all over the world. on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work;  the Rio Declaration on Environment and The aim of this international agreement is to help Development; organisations adopt the principles laid down in the  the United Nations Convention Against Corruption. agreement in organisations’ operational strategies, to promote cooperation and partnership among different sectors within a country and beyond its borders so as to achieve the universal global development goals. The key principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights Environment Businesses should support and respect Businesses should support a Principle 1: the protection of internationally Principle 7: precautionary approach to environmental proclaimed human rights; and challenges, make sure that they are not complicit in undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 2: Principle 8: human rights abuses. environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and Labour Principle 9: diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Anti-Corruption Principle 3: recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Businesses should work against the elimination of all forms of forced and Principle 10: corruption in all its forms, including Principle 4: extortion and bribery. compulsory labour, Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in Principle 6: respect of employment and occupation. Human Rights In the process of development of its activities and provision supports the international human rights protection within of its services in various communities, the Company the sphere of its operations, does not commit any violations respects the principles of the human rights' protection, of the human rights and comes out against such violations. Energy Company Group 12 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 Employees The Company respects the rights of its employees and comes The main purpose of the Company's human resources policy out against child's work and against any discrimination both in is to attract and retain highly-qualified employees and to the employee hiring process and among current employees. ensure, based on a long-term partnership and mutual-value Trade unions are active and there is a valid collective creation, a common successful future of the Company. agreement in the Company. Continuing the process of formation of its organizational Objective self-assessment by the employee and an culture, the Company has adopted the principles of the assessment of the employee's competences by his/her Human Resources Management Policy of the Lietuvos supervisor is the only way in which employees are assessed in Energija Group. The policy is pursued in managing human the Company. The Company is concerned about the resources management and achieving strategic corporate improvement of its employees' competences. There are goals. The Company has also drawn much attention to transparent wage setting and payment procedures in place. making the HR management even more effective. The Company is also concerned about the employees' health, therefore, it organised informal events on its own initiative and invites all employees to them. The Company also tries to ensure that the organisational culture is favourable to its employees. The number of the employees of the Company There were 392 employees working in the Company as at 31 The Company’s headcount changed slightly because a December 2017 (including employees on parental leave). In number of employees retired or left the Company for other the beginning of 2017, the Company had 399 employees. reasons. Composition of the Company’s staff by areas of operation Number of employees Employees by areas of operation Operation 31/12/2015 31/12/2016 31/12/2017 10% CEO 1 1 1 35% Management Senior management 4 3 4 Specialists Middle management 33 31 34 55% Workers Experts, specialists, workers 391 364 353 Total 429 399 392 Equal opportunities At the end of 2017, men accounted for Employees by age Employees by education 85 percent of the Company’s 7% employees and women for 15 percent. There are more men working 17% 23-34 years in the Company because of specifics 33% Higher of its activities women choose 38% 35-54 years 55% Vocational technologic works and related 50% >55 years Secondary specialties less frequently. There are no women in the Supervisory Board of the Company. However, one of the four members of Employees by work experience Employees by activities the Board of the Company (top 13% management category) operated in the <10 years 7% end of 2017 is female, who is also Production 23% 33% holding the post of CEO. 10-19 years Clearing-uo The Company has created 27% 20-29 years 80% 17% Support opportunities for people of different >30 years age and having different experience to successfully find employment and work. Graphs on the right illustrate the composition of the Company’s staff by During 2017, no discrimination cases or other incidents of age, educational background, work violation of human rights were recorded experience and areas of operation in in Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba. the Company. Energy Company Group 13 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 Organisational culture The Company conducts annual employee engagement reward the performance of the best employees, as well as surveys, which help identify the areas that are important for their contribution to the Company’s final performance further improvement of engagement of employees. The result. The best employees may be distinguished not only result of all measures taken by the Company – stable by their professional contribution, but also by their engagement index. exemplary behaviour which is in line with the values. In 2017, a group of the Company’s ambassadors from Company’s staff uses the code of conduct which was various divisions of the Company continued their active created by ambassadors to reflect the values of the participation. Their main goal is to contribute to the Company and specific behaviours. improvement of engagement of employees by organising various events and meetings. The Company’s The Company prioritised proactive communication with ambassadors made a significant contribution to coemployees. In 2017, four traditional meetings of the ordination of election of the best employees. The directors and board members of the Company with the Company’s ambassadors updated the whole process of employees of all subdivisions took place. During the election of the best employees, by involving all employees meetings, results of the Company’s activity, the news of of the Company as well as the representatives of the trade current and future projects, and other issues important to unions. This process enabled the Company to notice and the employees were discussed. The collective agreement, the staff trade unions There are four trade unions in the Company. The Company staff of the Company in comparison with the requirements supports its employees' uniting into trade unions and of the Labour Code of the Republic of Lithuania. In maintains close accordance with the cooperation ties with them. The amount of pay-outs under the collective collective agreement, the Meetings are organized on employees receive agreement and additional benefits was more than a periodic basis for the support in case of discussion of relevant EUR 216,000 in Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba in 2017. accidents, illness, death of issues and common family members; they are projects are carried out. The Company allots funding for provided with additional payments after the birth of a child cultural and sports activities organized by the trade unions. or if a family has many children; additional paid vacation days are granted after the birth of a child, after marriage, A collective agreement is valid in the Company, which after the death of a family member and in other cases. ensures a more favourable social benefits package for the Employee Performance Management and Evaluation The goal of the system for managing the employees’ employees’ activity stipulates that an annual performance activity is to coordinate the goals of the employees with the evaluation conversation between a manager and an goals of the Company and to direct the employees’ activity employee takes place in the company every year. During to achieving target results. the annual conversation, the manager and the employee evaluate the achievement of goals during the last year and The performance evaluation process starts with a 360° set new goals; in addition, on the basis of competence investigation, which evaluates general and leadership evaluations, they agree on competences that need competences of directors and specialists. Competences improvement as well as on specific employee education are evaluated by the employees themselves, their means for the next year. managers and colleagues. The procedure of managing the Development of Competences On the basis of activity goals, competence evaluations and the need to improve it, the Company educates the Training by type employees in a purposeful manner and takes care of their training. During professional training, employees update Managerial and common their technical knowledge that is crucial for their work and 14% competencies (including internal obtain necessary certificates. During seminars and trainings) conferences, employees familiarise themselves with 47% Compulsory innovations in their activity fields, as well as with innovations and best practices in the energy sphere. 39% In 2017, in total 305 unique employees (78% of employees) Technical participated in training. 104 different training took place, EUR 78,000 was allocated to organize it. Energy Company Group 14 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 Pay The remuneration system of the Company stipulates that the Additional monetary remuneration encompasses social salary of all employees of the Company, including the support, material support, additional paid vacation, one-time Company’s management, consists of a constant part, a bonuses granted to employees for additional work load, variable part, and additional remuneration. notable work results, proposals and implementation of innovative ideas. Additional non-monetary remuneration The constant part of the remuneration is set up for employees includes training paid for by the Company, events organised on the basis of the level of post and a particular employee’s by the Company for the employees and their children, services expertise. The variable part of the remuneration is paid for of the medical aid station, and vaccinating the employees measurable work results – for reaching goals or indicators set against seasonal diseases. for each particular post. Directors and specialists of supporting activity subdivisions have annual goals; the variable remuneration part of production specialists and workers depends on monthly performance results. Average work pay (in 2017) Breakdown of headcount by category of Average work pay, EUR employees CEO 1 5,576 Top level management 4 4,455 Middle-level management 34 2,124 Experts, specialists 216 1,376 Workers 137 898 Total 392 1,309 Career and Internships Turnover of employees s quite low at the Company – less than opportunities for employees and encouragement of their 3,5%. When there occurs a vacancy, the potential candidates mobility between the Lietuvos Energija group entities, 2 are firstly selected by internal recruitment procedures. When employees moved to other group entities, 7 employees came no potential candidates are available at the Company or the to the Company. group for the vacant position, the recruitment process is continued outside the Company. 30% of vacancy announceTo ensure a more successful integration of new joiners into ments in 2017 were won by candidates selected through the activities and teams of the Company or the Group, internal recruitment procedures, i.e. the Company’s adaptation plans are developed for new joiners, the employees. Search for employees on the basis of internal purpose of which is to help them familiarise with the work rotation principle during 2017 resulted in promotion of 21 environment and organisational culture, and to involve employees (vertical career) and movement of 14 employees them into the activities as soon as possible. to similar job positions in the same or other divisions (horizontal career). As a result of improvement of career Occupational Health and Safety at Work Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba adheres to the general Prevention of accidents is in the focus of attention of the provisions and principles of occupational health and safety Company: an OHSAS 18001:2007 certificate is at work as well as to the provisions of the Group’s maintained in order to ensure health and safety at Occupational Health and Safety Policy which sets for the works, workplaces and the quality of organised work are main guidelines for the implementation of such principles. regularly inspected, the employees are regularly briefed and provided with personal protective equipment. Open flame sources, flammable and explosive substances, steam and hot water are used in the production process; The Company is concerned about its employees' health. A together with the temporary nature of specific workplaces free medical check for all employees of the Company for and complicated conditions for the performance of the whom such checks are mandatory was organised, free works this creates health and safety at work risks for the vaccination against flu and tick-borne encephalitis, as well employees of both the Company and its contractors. as training on hygiene and first aid at work were conducted. Occupational safety and health indicators (2017) 24 minor injuries (eye contamination, cardiovascular disorders, muscle Employee injuries (minor health strains, bruises, nicks and thumps), 2 of them minor accidents. Death 0. disorders and fatalities) The main reason for minor injuries is careless employees behavior at work place. All injuries were investigated. Energy Company Group 15 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 36 (including works stopped 8 times) Violations of occupational safety and Nature: non-use of personal protective equipment, non-compliance with health by contractor employees in the occupational safety and health rules inappropriate registration of works, Company’s objects and their nature performance of fire works, etc. Indicator of time lost as a result of 13 working days were lost as a result of accidents at work, 3996 working violations of occupational safety and days due to a sickness. health or injuries Society Relationships Possibilities of internship The Company is actively involved in communication with internships. In 2017, the Company attended the Career Days educational institutions, and provides opportunities for events organised by Kaunas University of Technology, also vocational students to apply their theoretical knowledge and met students of Vilnius Gediminas Technical University. acquire practical skills during the internships. Seeking to During 2017, 8 students from different universities in Lithuania attract young qualified specialists, the Company is actively had internship at the Company: 5 from Kaunas University of involved in communication with educational institutions, and Technology, 1 from Elektrėnai Vocational Training Centre, 1 provides opportunities for vocational students to apply their from Vilnius Gediminas Technical University, and 1 from theoretical knowledge and acquire practical skills during the Kaunas Technical College. Education – Tours Around Power Plants The Company demonstrates goodwill and invites the During 2017, the power plants of the Company members of public to participate in free-of-charge had in total over 3000 visitors from various excursions at its objects: the combined cycle unit, Kruonis educational establishments, schools and other PSHP, Kaunas HPP. Thereby, the Company contributes to institutions, as well as delegations from abroad. increasing awareness of the public, especially the younger generation, about the energy. Support In 2017 Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba provided support Group's companies, was centrally managed by this through the Lietuvos Energija Support Foundation foundation. All the information related to the foundation is established in 2014. Support for projects, programmes and published in the Social Responsibility section of www.le.lt. other activities of public significance, provided by the Environmental Protection The Company is committed to protecting the environment of new facilities and modernization of the old ones so that in its operations, sparingly using the natural resources, the impact of operations on the environment is minimized. introducing advanced, efficient and environmentally friendly The Company organizes environment clean-up campaigns, technologies, complying with the environmental laws and inviting other companies and organizations to join them. regulations, and implementing preventive measures to Meetings between employees of units are organized by reduce the adverse impact upon the environment in a means of video conferences in order to reduce both professional manner. transport costs and environmental pollution. Sparing use and sorting of electronic equipment and paper used for The most important environmental protection issues operations is encouraged at the Company so the use of include the safe operation of facilities, safe use of paper is decreasing and the increasing numbers of substances dangerous to the environment, waste documents are managed electronically by means of a management, ensuring that the water level fluctuations in dedicated document management system. the Kaunas Lagoon and the Nemunas River downstream the Kaunas A. Brazauskas HPP are within the permissible According to the company's approved resource saving limits etc. plan, measures are being taken to reduce the need for selfmanaged resources. The Company fulfils all the relevant environmental requirements and undertakes, on its initiative, construction Environmental Management Standard The Company maintains ISO 14001:2005 certificate Its Kruonis and Kaunas. This means that the strict global globally recognized certificate indicates that the Company environmental requirements are fulfilled by all the power meets the requirements for the identification, monitoring, plant operations: the electricity and thermal energy management and improvement of the main environmental generation and the operation of the power, heat, turbine, protection aspects. The certificate is valid for the products natural gas, oil and petroleum product facilities at the and services of the Company's power plants in Elektrėnai, Energy Company Group 16 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 Elektrėnai Complex, electricity generation and supply, The requirements for the monitoring and protection of the operation of facilities and power reserving at the Kruonis air, surface water, ground water and soil specified in the PSHP, and the electricity generation and supply as well as Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Permits are operation of facilities at the Kaunas A. Brazauskas HPP. fulfilled. Investments in Environmental Protection In 2017 the company invested EUR 326,000 in modernization of flotation equipment and combined environmental protection activities. Investments include the pumping stations, for cleaning the Obeniai plot, for protection of water resources, protection of soil and upgrading underground water pumps and for improving the groundwater, waste management, biodiversity and water level monitoring equipment at the Elektrėnai landscape protection. The funds are intended for the Complex. Waste Sorting Assorted waste bins and special containers for old batteries ferrous and non-ferrous metals is transferred to scrap and minor electronic equipment have been erected at the collectors at a market price. During 2017 about 2056 tons Company's divisions in Elektrėnai, Kruonis and Kaunas as of hazardous waste was transfer to waste managers, about well at the offices in Vilnius. 1763 tons of non-hazardous waste, 1736 tons of ferrous metal and almost 114 tons of non-ferrous metals were sold. A modern waste sorting yard at Elektrėnai Complex Also, about 62 tons of household waste have been enables to sort many types of waste. Hazardous and nonremoved. hazardous waste resulting from the Company’s operations are transferred to waste management companies. Waste of Environment Clean up Initiative The Company contributing to nature's development employees cleaned up the accesses of Elektrėnai and organizes environment clean up campaigns annually. Such Kaunas lagoon. a campaign was held in spring of 2017. The company's The Green Protocol It has been five years now since the Company joined the organizations confirm that they are committed to the Green Protocol initiated by ESO. It is the only agreement of practical application of the concepts of environmental this type in Lithuania whereby companies and protection and electric energy efficiency. Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba supervises and continuously improves the employees safety and health protection system, meeting the requirements of the standard OHSAS 18001: 2007. The Company ensures environmental protection in accordance with the requirements of the management standard ISO 14001: 2005 Market Activities Following the anti-corruption principle the tenth principle transparent manner and does not take part in any of the Global Compact, the Company pays all taxes that transactions that could potentially involve bribing or other are due, ensures transparency of public procurement corruptive behaviour. The Company makes comments and conducted by it, and requires transparency and good faith proposals to the authorities concerning draft legal acts or from its suppliers, both current and potential. The Company amendments thereto. carries out trading on the electricity exchange in a Zero Tolerance Towards Corruption Each employee of Lietuvos Energija Group forms an Group's policy on zero tolerance toward corruption is important part of the organization of national significance published on the Company's website. All employees of the that provides services to natural and legal persons. The Group are obliged to report any violation or suspected operations of the Group are based on the principles of violation of the policy either to the Prevention Officer or via transparency, openness and reasonableness. Therefore, the Trust Line, telephone number +370 640 88889 or email each employee of the Group including Lietuvos Energijos pasitikejimolinija@le.lt. Other parties are also encouraged Gamyba must be aware of the provisions of the Group's to report such actual or suspected violations using the policy on zero tolerance toward corruption. The Company same contact details, with the anonymity guaranteed. does not tolerate corruption in any form, either direct or indirect. Energy Company Group 17 www.le.lt The report on social responsibility 2017 Transparent Procurement In accordance with the Law on Public Procurement, procurement function to Verslo Aptarnavimo Centras UAB, Lietuvos Energijos Gamyba published draft technical the Company continues compliance with the same high specifications for all procurement procedures (except low standards of public procurement and contracting. value procurement) on the Central Public Procurement Portal. In addition, the Company placed information on Companies of Lietuvos Energija Group ensure that all such publication on its website, together with other purchasing and sale transactions are carried out correctly procurement-related information. Upon transferring the and in a transparent manner. More information and the contacts: www.gamyba.le.lt Energy Company Group 18 www.le.lt
