UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2017 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 1 Welcome AAR Health Care Holdings Communication Progress Report 2017 Vision Core values To be the provider of choice for in• Nurturing novative and quality healthcare solutions in Africa. • Excellence Mission • Integrity • Heritage. To provide healthcare solutions that make a difference to life. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 2 Table of contents CEO Statement of Continued Support 04 Scope of This CoP 05 About AAR Health Care Holdings Limited 06 Kenya 06 About AAR Healthcare Kenya Limited 06 Human Rights 07 Labour 08 Environment 09 Anti-Corruption 10 Uganda 11 About AAR Healthcare Uganda Limited 11 Human Rights 12 Labour 13 Environment 14 Anti-Corruption 15 Tanzania 16 About AAR Healthcare Tanzania Limited 16 Human Rights 17 Labour 18 Environment 19 Anti-Corruption 20 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 3 Messsage from the CEO AAR Health Care Holdings Group CEO’s Statement of Commitment to UN Global Compact I am a firm believer that corporate sustainability starts with a company’s value system and a principles-based approach to doing business. As an organization, AAR Healthcare prides itself in operating in ways that, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. AAR Health Care Holdings continues to demonstrate unwavering support for the United Nations Global Compact, since joining in 2008 and wherever possible has aligned the company’s business practices to support the UNGC’s Ten Principles. AAR Health Care Holdings continues to align the companies “Mission and Values” with the provision of high quality health services aimed at improving health and providing education and economic well – being to the citizens in countries where AAR Healthcare has a presence. AAR Health Care Holdings is one of the leading medical service providers in East Africa and continues to grow and diversify its services Mr Indren Poovan ensuring that the organizations strategy remains focussed on its core Group CEO mission which is to “Provide healthcare solutions that make a differAAR Health Care Holdings ence to a person’s life.” As AAR Health Care Holdings continues to expand its services and presence across East Africa, the organization will remain committed towards improving business solutions that are aligned to sustainable development. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 4 1. 2. 3. 4. Human Labour EnvironAntiCorruption rights ment Scope of this COP This COP report covers our operational internal processes in relation to our customers, our staff , our suppliers and our community in adhering to the four main areas of the UN Global Compact: Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption for the financial period 2016-2017. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 5 About AAR Healthcare Kenya Limited AAR Health Care Holdings Limited is one of the leading medical service providers in East Africa. As one of the pioneers in the provision of private healthcare in the region, AAR’s success has largely been driven by our staff and their commitment to always offer high quality and affordable healthcare by operating responsibly, executing with excellence, applying innovative technologies and capturing new opporKenya tunities for profitable growth. Being one of the largest providers of outpatient satisfaction of a dream-lived-on as envisioned by healthcare, we employ experienced medical and its founders. AAR has a long, robust history and other staff members. We also use internationalat inception its services were accident and medily approved disease management protocols and cal evacuation by road and air within the country. drug formulary supported by the state of the art AAR has grown and offers a diverse portfolio of information technology systems to provide conservices and has retained its values of quality, insistent treatment for our clients from anywhere novation and excellence. in East Africa. We differ significantly from other providers in the region, not only because of our comprehensive value chain, which can successfully treat those who are unwell, but because we have a strong focus on clinical risk management and provision of preventive care. This ensures that our clients receive quality and affordable healthcare on a sustainable basis. AAR Healthcare Kenya is marking 34 years in Kenya since its inception in 1984 and with it is the UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 6 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Our Promise AAR Healthcare Kenya compensates its staff in accordance to the provisions of an up to date job AAR Health Care Holdings Limited tagline, as huevalaution, for a 44 hour work week. Staff specialman as you, emphasizes and recognizes the inizing in medical courses or management courses herent dignity of all members of the human family are allowed less working hour contracts to enable who include our employees, patients who walk in them meet their study hours. through our doors day in day out seeking quality care as well as contracted third party companies. We have ensured our staff not only are free to exWe subscribe to local legislation that address press themselves but as part of our culture culemployment issues, labour standards and the ture change training, ensured we empower staff environment (Labour Relations Act, 2008, Emto know it is their right to express their opinions. ployment Act, 2014 and Occupational Safety and These among many other issues such as provision Health Act, 2007). of a safe and healthy working environment, provision of privacy for staff and our clients has culminated into the company being named as one of AAR Healthcare the top 100 companies to work for in Kenya. Kenya staff in one of our team building activities Businesses should support and Human Rights respect the protection of interPrinciple 1 nationally proclaimed human rights Businesses should make sure Human Rights they are not complicity in huPrinciple 2 man rights abuses UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 7 2. LABOUR Businesses should uphold the Our Promise Labour freedom of association and the Principle 3 effective recognition of the right to AAR Healthcare Kenya will continue collective bargaining to ensure that labour relations policies and laws are adhered to. We provide a safe and healthy work environment for all employees and we have embarked on having policies We do not that will ensure that any suppliers discriminate on the Businesses should eliminate all and third parties will or have adoptbasis of race, gender, Labour forms of forced and compulsory ed responsible labour practices. religion or tribe. Principle 4 labour Freedom of association is regarded as a fundamental right in the workplace and we strive to ensure employees are not victimized for this. At national level, some of our staff subscribe to trade unions that govern the healthcare industry. At Businesses should uphold the company level, employees are givLabour effective abolition of child labour en the opportunity to freely discuss with their managers on issues perPrinciple 5 taining to work, either for improvement, raise questions or addressing of grievances. We have a non-discrimination policy embedded in our human resource policies. This has been our founBusinesses should eliminate dation in ensuring that we promote Labour discrimination in respect of diversity which has focussed on gender, skills, tribe, religion, cultural Principle 6 employment and occupation background, etc. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 8 3. ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support and respect the Environment protection of internationally proclaimed huPrinciple 7 man rights Businesses should support and respect the Environment protection of internationally proclaimed huPrinciple 8 man rights Taking time to Environment Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed huplant trees in Principle 9 man rights Ngong Forest Our Promise How we implement We have interested all our staff in ensuring At AAR Healthcare Kenya, we recthat we all join together to conserve the environment. Last year we planted 27,000 trees ognise that environmental considand thus this year we have an ambitious plan erations are not separate from our of planting 37,000 trees. We have already core business, but an integral part planted 9,000 in the first quarter of the year. of our overall business sustainabilWe have had talks with students and pupils to espouse on environmental issues and ity and success. the value of conserving this and last year we reached 150,000 students and pupils. Our environmental responsibility is an issue that continues to We also recognise that responsible and efgrow in importance as we confective environmental management offers a host of benefits, including financial savings tinue to expand in our operation. from reduced waste generation and efficient We remain committed to environenergy consumption, easier compliance with mentally sound and sustainable environmental legislation, increased staff growth in communities we opermorale and pride, as well as improved customer relations. We continue to take our soate in through our CSR arm named cial and moral responsibility to manage our Trees for Health -T4H project. environment very seriously. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 9 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION We believe that corruption hinders sustainable development and impacts companies negatively by hindering economic growth, and eliminating healthy competition. Doing business in Kenya entails many challenges, and in corruption has been singled out as a vice that has negative impact on business and sustainable development. Despite the pressues of a competitive, AAR Healthcare Kenya has continued to conduct business ethically, based on its values of integrity. We have fostered a strong, value based corporate culture and this is repeatedly outlined in our communication to staff. Our policies cover anti-corruption and bribery. Every staff member signs a this policy. External and internal audit has also shown that there is no issue as far as this is concerned. We also have in place an online whistle blowing policy which the management staff have been trained on. Of work in progress, all other staff will be trained on this in 2018. A recent staff training Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Principle 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 10 About AAR Healthcare Uganda Limited AAR Healthcare Uganda Limited is a leading pioneer private outpatient medical service provider in Uganda with a growing branch network of nine Out-Patient Centers currently attending to an average of 18,000 clients per month. Uganda Being one of the largest providers of outpatient healthcare, we engage qualified and duly licenced medical practitioners with a robust non medical support teams. We use internationally approved disease management protocols and drug formulary supported by the state of the art information technology systems to provide consistent treatment for our clients. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 11 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Our Promise AAR Healthcare Uganda Limited upholds the All staff have their statutory benefits remitted in AAR Healthcare Uganda also operates under inrights and diginity each of its employees, clients, a timely manner but over and above the compaternal systems and policies that promote protect and all other business stakeholders. We not only ny provides life insurance, work man’s compenhuman righty like; The grievance policy and whissubscribe to the International Human Rights Act, sation, medical insurance, a pension fund, and tle blower’s policy among others. AAR subcribes 1998, Uganda Employment Act, 2006 and Occuprofessional indemnity insurance for all employto and upholds the patients’ right charter to maxpational Safety and Health Act, 2006 but also conees and also compensates staff for hours worked imize benefits and protect rights of all clients that duct sensitization trainings about the same with beyond the national recommended maximum walk through our doors. all employees. We also conduct regular monitorhours of labour per month. ing and evaluation by the Strategic Quality Management and Human Resources Departments to assess adherence to the expected standards. AAR Healthcare Uganda staff in one of our team building activities Businesses should support and Human Rights respect the protection of interPrinciple 1 nationally proclaimed human rights Businesses should make sure Human Rights they are not complicity in huPrinciple 2 man rights abuses UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 12 2. LABOUR Businesses should uphold the freeOur Promise Labour dom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective AAR Healthcare Uganda promotes and encourages its staff to join probargaining fessional associations and unions and goes ahead to pay subscription to these associations for staff with outstanding performance. These include the Institute of Public Cerfirifed Public Accountant (CPA), The Allied Health Professionals Council (AHPC) and The Pharmacutical Society of Uganda (PSU) Businesses should eliminate all The associations to which our staff subcribe include both medical and Labour forms of forced and compulsory lanon-medical associations. At company level we run an open door policy where all staff can easily access managers at the highest level to relay any Principle 4 bour concerns or grievancies. AAR Healthcare Uganda doesn’t discriminate on the basis of gender, race, tribe, religion, or anyother stereotypes before and after recruitment of employees. AAR promotes gender equity through human resources policies that enable both male and female employees thrive at work. One of such policies is the 3 months paid maternity leave on top of the one Businesses should uphold the effecmonth annual leave for female employees who give birth. Male employees Labour tive abolition of child labour are equally entiled to 14 days paid paternity leave. Principle 5 Businesses should eliminate disLabour crimination in respect of employPrinciple 6 ment and occupation UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 13 3. ENVIRONMENT Businesses should support and respect the Environment protection of internationally proclaimed huPrinciple 7 man rights Businesses should support and respect the Environment protection of internationally proclaimed huPrinciple 8 man rights AAR Healthcare Uganda Staff engaged in Environment Businesses should support and respect the a tree planting exercise protection of internationally proclaimed huPrinciple 9 man rights at a public school in Kampala. Our Promise AAR Healthcare Uganda is cognisant AAR Healthcare Uganda also runs of the possible threats of its operaa program called Trees for Health tions to the environment has taken a (T4H) in which all staff led by approactive approach towards protectpointed champions (but on a voluning the environment and promoting tary basis) actively participate in conenvironmental preserving activities. serving the environment by planting trees. In this program we mainly We run a robust waste management target schools where we plant trees program through the strategic qualdepending on the school’s available ity management department using space but also give health talks and companies certified by local authordeworm children. In 2017 we plantities and following internationally ed 347 trees in 13 schools and one recommended waste management community centre (Buvuuma Island protocol. We also regularly monitor in Lake Victoria) with a target of 2750 clinic effluent especially from the trees to be planted by close of the laboratory to determine the extent year. of threat to the environment and as such institute preventive measures. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 14 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION We believe that corruption hinders sustainable development and impacts companies negatively by hindering economic growth, and eliminating healthy competition. Doing business in Uganda entails many challenges, and corruption has been singled out as a vice that has negative impact on business and sustainable development. Despite the pressures, AAR Healthcare Uganda has continued to conduct business ethically, based on its values of integrity. We have fostered a strong, value based corporate culture and this is repeatedly outlined in our communication to staff. Our policies cover anti-corruption and bribery. Every staff member signs this policy. External and internal audit has also shown that there is no issue as far as this is concerned. We also have in place an online whistle blowing policy which the staff have been trained on. A recent staff team building activity with institutional corruption as one of the key topics discussed Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Principle 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 15 About AAR Healthcare Tanzania Limited AAR Healthcare Tanzania Limited is the leading private provider for outpatient medical care in Tanzania. With a branch network of 8 outpatient centres and 1 factory clinic, our facilities serve an average of over 400 patients a day. Tanzania UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 16 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Our Promise AAR Healthcare Tanzania in its Recruitment Polbanks to negotiate friendly check of rates for our including civil society organizations,and finally the icies and practices adheres to requirements on staff. Staff have feedom of religious association, company have an explicit policy to ensure that its safe and healthy working conditions. We guaranfreedom to join relevant professional associations security arrangements do not contribute to hutee freedom of association with relevant Trade and other registered bodies relating with individuman rights violations, adhering lay off by involving Unions & ensure non-discrimination in personnel al beliefs, grouping or associations. trade unions without impeding staff rights due practices. We comply with internaional labor laws payments and fairly compensation for salary rise to ensure no direct or indirect forced labour or AAR Healthcare Tanzania has in place explicit polbased on assessed performance and non perchild labour in our operations. We support staff icies that protect the human rights of workers in former awarded accordingly in documentation for bank loans to enhance perits direct employment, confidential information of sonal ecomomic empowerment by engaging an individual and families, disability, private level of education, tribal beliefs or civil and criminal incidences, tax payment to the govt, loan payments Doscar Massaba AAR Healthcare status the company actively engage in open diaTanzania business manager delogue with stakeholder groups, worming a student during T4H activities at Sokone Primary school in Monduli District Arusha Region Businesses should support and Human Rights respect the protection of interPrinciple 1 nationally proclaimed human rights Businesses should make sure Human Rights they are not complicity in huPrinciple 2 man rights abuses UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 17 AAR Healthcare Recruitment Policy proadvancement of staff at all levels , We grievance procedures are followed to 2. LABOUR hibits recruitment of underage employassign responsibilities for equal employaddress complaints, handle appeals and ment in line with provisions in theTanzament issues at a high level, issue clear provide recourse for employees. We nia Employment and Labour Relations company-wide policies and procedures provide staff training on non-discrimiAct, 2004 section 5 (1) We ensure that to guide equal employment practices, nation policies and practices, including Our Promise all company officials have a full underand link advancement to desired perfordisability awareness. We commit to reastanding of what forced labour is. Our mance in this area. We Keep up-to-date sonably adjust the physical environment empoyment contracts are clear on the records on recruitment, training and to ensure health and safety for employAAR Healthcare Tanzania treats all its terms and conditions of service, the volpromotion that provide a transparent ees, customers and other visitors with employees as an individual; and as partuntary nature of employment, the freeview of opportunities for employees and disabilities and provided by ELRA , 2004 ner in negotiations. Further, the repredom to leave (including the appropriate their progression within the organizaunder section 7 (1) “Every employer sentative Trade Union has been given procedures) and any penalties that may tion. Where any form of discrimination shall ensure that he promotes an equal free will as per the Tanzania labor law be associated with a departure or cessais identified, opportunity in employment and strive to to recruit members accordance with tion of work; We write employment coneliminate discrimination in any employnational law. We have also put in place tracts in languages easily understood ment polict or practices” non-discriminatory policies and proceby workers, indicating the scope of and dures with respect to trade union orgaprocedures for exit. nization, union membership and activity in such areas as applications for employAAR Healthcare Tanzania is aware of ment and decisions on advancement, country, regions, sectors, economic dismissal or transfer; we do not interfere activities where there is a greater likeliwith the activities of worker representahood of child labour and proactively mittives while they carry out their functions igates this through relevant policies and in ways that are not disruptive to regular procedures. We adhere to minimum age company operations. Moreove we allowprovisions of national labour laws and ing the trade union to do collection of regulations and, where national law is inunion dues on company premises, postsufficient, take account of international ing of trade union notices and Address standards. We use adequate and veriany problem-solving or other needs of fiable mechanisms for age verification in AAR Healthcare interest to workers and management, recruitment procedures . Tanzania staffs in a trade union being involved in redundancy procedures, safety and health issues, We have instituted company policies group photo during grievance and dispute settlement proceand procedures which make qualificaEnd of the year Party dures ,counselling on disciplinary relattions, skill and experience the basis for ed issues. the recruitment, placement, training and Businesses should uphold the freedom Labour of association and the effective recogniLabour Businesses should uphold the effecPrinciple 3 tion of the right to collective bargaining Principle 5 tive abolition of child labour Labour Businesses should eliminate all forms Labour Businesses should eliminate discrimof forced and compulsory labour ination in respect of employment and Principle 4 Principle 6 occupation UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 18 3. ENVIRONMENT Environment Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 7 Environment Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 8 Environment Businesses should support and respect the protec“Salima” a student at Mazoezi tion of internationally proclaimed human rights Primary School planting her tree Principle 9 during T4H activities at We are taking initiatives in protecting the Mazoezi Primary School in Our Promise environment through use of modern maMonduli Disctrict, Arusha Region chines and instruments which use minimum AAR Healthcare Tanzania has established difenergy and water consumption during operferent supporting procedures and manuals ations (energy serving bulbs/lamps, modern on environmental and safety matters. Such generators, water metres to control water documents include Standard Operating Proconsumption). cedures, Environmental Management Policy AAR Healthcare Tanzania also runs a volManual, Occupational Health and Safety Poluntary staff Corporate Social Responsibilicy Manual, Environment Health and Safety ity program called Trees for Health (T4H). Policy, Management of Harzadous Wastes Through this program, we promote enviroGuidelines, Infection Prevention and Conmental sustainability while ensuring health trol Guidelines which act as reference and for the communities within which we work. guidelines during its operations and deciWe do this through planting and nurturing sion making. trees, dewormng of primary school children AAR Healthcare Tanzania has been involved as well as Health and career talks for these in environmental audits, environmental talks students. and trees planting to promote environmenThrough this progam in 2017, tal responsibility within and outside the company. Regular facility audits and annual • 14,393 children were dewormed Water Effluent Tests have been carried out to measure the extent of adherence to the • 6,027 trees were planted guidelines. Training on Environmental and • 83 Health talks and career talks were Safety matters has been conducted whenpresented covering 125 hours in total ever gaps were identified through audit reports. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 19 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION All AAR Healthcare Tanzania staff are trained on elements of bribery and corruption at work places. In May to June, 2017 for example, staff was trained on: • Main Legislations & laws governing corrruption • How corruption in the workplace presents • How to identify & avoid corruption at workplaces There is in place an anticorruption working document which will be signed by all employees. This document will form a guideline on reporting any corruption practices through sharing experiences and best practices across the region. Signing of the “Anti-corruption Call to Action”, will be for all employees which is a call to address corrupAAR Healthcare Tanzania tion and foster effective governance. Through this, AAR Healthcare Tanzania will continue to management team discussing integrate anti-corruption into our strategies and “how to break the corruption operations. chain at work place” During Management Meeting The whistle bower policyas well ensures that all staff and our partners can voluntarily provide information on any intended or occured events that may be perceived as accomodating corrupAnti-Corruption Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery tion or unacceptable practices. Principle 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 20 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 | 21
