ENGLISH PRESS LIMITED COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018-19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 CONTENT About this document Contact CEO Statement of continued support English press at a glance English Press Reporting to United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS LABOUR RIGHTS ENVIROMENT ANTI-CORRUPTION OVERAL OUTLOOK FEEDBACK EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2 Period covered by our communication on progress June 2017 to June 2018 In April 2012 English press Limited committed itself to the United Nations Global Compact. This commitment includes supporting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact as well as reporting and communicating annually to its stakeholders on progress made to implement the principles. English Press Limited (EPL) will continue supporting the United Nations Global Compact’s 10 principles English Press Limited COP 2018 is available on our website www.englishpress.com EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 CONTACT: Company Name : English Press Limited Sector : Manufacturing – Printing-For quality print work and all forms of colour works Number Of employees: 500 UN GC signatory since: 2012/4/4 Contact Person : Mrs. Shreeti Patel/veronica mwanzia Address : P.O. Box 30127–00100 Nairobi, Kenya E-Mail :shreeti@englishpress.com/ qmr@englishpress.com Website : www.englishpress.com Phone : +254 20552266/7 : +254 206536914/5 Cell : +254 722509838 : +254 735339002 Fax : +2542065537141 EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 4 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to express our continued support to the UN Global Compact. We recognize our corporate responsibility to respect human and labour rights, to commit to environmental protection and to work against corrupt behaviour. Our CSR Policy as described in the Code of Conduct, Anti-Corruption policy and Employee Handbook, is based on the Ten Principles and has been approved by the Board of Directors. We have identified prioritized areas of improvement, and have initiated the process of optimizing these. We will follow up on progress on an annual basis. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the UN Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders In 2018 we also commit ourselves to improve our products and processes in order to further align our goals and efforts to comply with the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact This communication progress report covers the period of June 2017 to June 2018. I look forward to providing you with a further update on our progress in 2019. Mr. Kalpan Patel Chief Executive Officer English Press Limited EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 ENGLISH PRESS AT A GLANCE English Press Limited is your one stop print company, providing customers with high quality products and services including pre-press, printing, finishing, packaging and logistics solutions. Founded 80 years ago, we have grown to one of be the largest ISO certified offset print house in the continent. Located in Nairobi, and built on a strong foundation of consistent quality and service, our values have enabled us to compete in the regional and international print market. Our vision: Think of the Best...and Make it Better. By investing heavily in both our people and our technology, English Press is able to provide a quality of service that we believe to be unmatched in the market. English Press Limited consists of a team of about 500 personnel who are committed to delivering the highest standards of service. Our work ethic is founded on collaborative partnerships with publishers, clients and suppliers to provide efficient and effective print solutions. At EPL, we firmly believe that by applying our skills, expertise and resources to different causes, we can not only make a difference in the world around us, but also catalyze other businesses to follow our lead. It is a goal that we strive for through our business strategy, our values and our every-day activities EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 6 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We aspire to conduct business in a way that values and respects the human rights of our colleagues, customers, suppliers and those of the communities in which we operate. We understand that manufacturing has a unique interaction with human rights and we have policies and governance processes in place to mitigate associated risks. We have a zero tolerance approach to forced labour in any part of our business. No employee should ever be exposed to any physical punishment, threats or violence or physical, sexual, psychological or verbal harassment or maltreatment in the work place or in work related situations. English press supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We respect Human Rights within our sphere of influence and operate our business in a transparent and trustworthy way. English press has a clearly defined Code of Conduct, which is communicated externally and internally. English press has a dedicated Health and Safety Committee in place to regularly assess and evaluate the working environment. We want to support a culture of mutual respect and believe that diversity among our employees contributes to enrichment of ideas that drive innovation and progress. Workplace assessments direct our efforts to provide a safe and healthy workplace. We offer regular training to our managers and employees to minimize the number of work-related accidents and to increase awareness of mental health at work. We have integrated our policy and procedures within Quality, Health, Safety and Environment (QHSE) because we believe this approach holds mutual benefits and supports a culture based on continuous improvement, cooperation and business efficiency. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 Implementation and initiatives • EPL support sustainable development and commit to continuous improvement of Health, Safety, Environment and Quality (HSEQ) issues in their operations, and actively work towards employees’ safety. • EPL’s Health and Safety Management Department centrally coordinates the implementation of the Safety Roadmap as well as the Safety Alert and Safety programs and monitors compliance with the safety standards. • Health & Safety Standard with division-specific minimum requirements regarding occupational safety and health protection. • A standardized process of dealing with occupational accidents at EPL factory, documenting and communicating the cause of the accident, how it occurred and which measures were taken. • We also make sure our employees understand our commitment to human rights and we hold an open-door policy throughout our business structure. • It is very important to us that should our employees witness or experience any wrongful doing, it is easy to for them to report and for us to take immediate action. • All policies are adhered to and should anyone be found to have breached these, disciplinary procedures are followed. • In line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we have incorporated into our human rights policy commitments that reflect on international standards, as well as the ten principles of the UNGC. • In addition to compliance with the applicable laws and regulations • EPL respect human rights, comply with relevant ILO labour standards and relevant international human rights conventions. • We are currently looking into ways and possibilities to support the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Measurement of outcomes • The system we have in place allows us to quickly and effectively resolve any issues concerning human rights. In 2018 we did not experience a single occasion of our code of conduct transgression. However, should such an event arise, any contravention of human rights would be documented and the responsible party would be put under probation to resolve the issue. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 8 • We employ our staff depending on skills and suitability for the work and we stand against any discrimination based on gender, age, ethnicity, or nationality. At the moment our work force includes ages from 22 up to 72 and different nationalities. • Health is a human right. EPL therefore ensures safe and healthy working conditions at its factory. In 2017, the average number of sick-leave days per employee decreased to 5.6 from 4.1 • Zero cases identified of human rights abuses in the period • We have clear policies; regular training and robust processes to motivate employees to speak up if things don’t seem right and they can raise these concerns with supervisors, Human resource department and the top management. • All human resource policies and procedures are periodically reviewed to ensure that they are up to date and are in line with the Global compact principles. • Increased engagement and consultation with English press interested parties Actions to be implemented in the year 2018-2019 • Refresher training for employees regarding human rights • Risk assessment audit EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour and compulsory labour: Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS English press recognizes that we work in a richly diverse community and understand the strategic importance of achieving a diverse workforce, which reflects that community. We undertake to recruit, develop and retain the most talented people by valuing the varied skills and experiences they bring to English press and have identified key focus areas to ensure that we are equipping our people with the capabilities they need to achieve their career aspirations and help us meet our goals by: • Investing in their training and development; • Treating employees fairly and equitably; • Combating harassment and discrimination at work, and • Encouraging an honest and open culture which values the differences between us. Retaining employees remains an important aspect of our business, our goal is to remain an attractive employer respecting, supporting and adhering to internationally proclaimed human rights. Every employee at English Press is entitled to fair treatment and equal opportunities. We take an unambiguous stand on harassment, discrimination, child labour, forced labour or any exploitation: it is neither compliant with our values nor acceptable. We are committed to respecting human rights and workers’ rights, and we demand the same from all of our suppliers. We act in compliance with laws and regulations, which we see as our minimum standards. In accordance international standards, all of English press personnel have the right to organize themselves and to belong to union associations. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 10 We believe that personnel diversity is a competitive advantage both in business operations and in competing for the best talent. We offer all our employees equal opportunities regardless of their gender, ethnic origin, age, political or other corresponding matters. We are committed to respecting human rights and value all employees as individuals. We ensure a fair working environment. Zero tolerance of child labor and discrimination is an absolute must for English Press. Even before its accession to the UN Global Compact in 2012, English Press committed itself. Besides adequate and safe working conditions, fair remuneration and the right of assembly and collective bargaining are high priorities for us. In accordance with principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Global Compact English press: • Recognizes the right of employees to be members of a trade union and negotiate pay and working conditions. • Supports elimination of all forms of forced labour. • Applies preventative procedures and practices to ensure that persons below the minimum age are not employed. • Endeavors to prevent discriminatory practices and secure equal opportunities by means of the application of procedures and practices to prevent discrimination in connection with recruitment or dismissal, career development, training and education or the granting of staff benefits. Implementation • English Press Code of Conduct guides all employees in understanding the kind of activities that reflect our values and principles, not forgetting legal requirements. Personnel has the opportunity to learn more about the. • All new employees are familiarized with the Code during induction programs. • The importance of equality and diversity is highlighted in English Press Human Resource Policy and in the company’s recruitment and remuneration principles. • We guarantee all applicants equal opportunities and fair and equal treatment during the recruitment process. • Our factory is managed and operated according to OHSAS 18001 requirements. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 11 Measurement of outcomes • No Labor strike or any kind of unrest ever. • Number of child worker is ZERO. • Defined procedure for grievance management. • In the year 2018, EPL has not been subject to any statutory notice related to labour or health and safety. • No violations on freedom of associations have been reported in the reporting period. • We achieved OHSAS 18001: 2007 certification. • Support employee and worker organizations and respected collective agreements, completed the successful negotiation of the CBA contract 2018 • The shop stewards are allowed to hold meeting with the employees during work hours and attend union seminars without pay deductions. • We also request that our employee report and anomalies that they may see in the workplace to their Health & Safety Officer, these anomalies are then published in the company newsletter for full staff awareness. • We take the safety and security of our employees very seriously, we set up annual staff training in fire and safety, all of our employees have the opportunity to take part in these training sessions. In English Press 100% of staff had safety training in 2018. • English Press has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labor principles • When recruiting a new member of staff, we are scrupulous in respecting that no discrimination against sex, age, religion or any other factor is made. Actions to be implemented in the year 2018-2019 • To strengthen our employee induction program and materials to help new employees feel supported. • Review of employee handbook and updates communicate to all employees. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 12 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES: Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and discussion of environmentally friendly technology. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Environmental matters are of key concern to English Press which is reflected in all of the Company’s operations. English Press operates according to an ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System. The Company is still committed to environmental leadership in all its business activities and to preventing any negative impact that might come as a direct result of its operations. English Press is still committed to the responsible utilization of the natural resources it has been entrusted with. At English Press we are committed to protecting the environment at the highest level. English Press environmental policy articulates our commitment to complying with legislation and regulations on the environment. English press requires that the planning, design and operation of all its activities explicitly consider and target environmental risk in its many forms. We are committed to pollution prevention and compliance with all relevant local and international environmental legislation and regulations. Furthermore, we are committed to promoting environmental protection and minimizing the impact of our business activities on the environment. English Press recognizes that the delivery of its operations inevitably impact on the environment in a number of ways, for example, through the generation of waste through the production process and the use of energy for heating and lighting. Through a commitment to continuous environmental improvement, English Press’s aim is to ensure that our business operation is undertaken in such a manner as to have minimum impact on the environment. English Press strives to minimize environmental aspects by decreasing wastes, using optimum energy, using non-hazardous chemicals instead of hazardous chemicals, produce ecofriendly products that can be recycled and reused, seek continuous improvement in the design and implementation of products and processes, to eliminate or minimize probable health hazards, incident risks and minimize environmental aspects by using new technologies. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 13 English Press environmental management promotes the following principles: • Ensuring compliance with relevant environmental regulations and legislation governing the responsible manufacture and supply of English press’s products. • Carrying out of environmental risk assessments to identify actual and potential environmental impacts emanating from our operations. • Conducting environmental audits to evaluate the level of environmental compliance and the effectiveness of the applied environmental management system. • Promoting the efficient use of resources such as energy, water, paper and production materials with due regard to the scarcity of natural resources and the environmental impact resulting from the utilization and application of such resources in conducting our business activities. • Monitoring and measuring the quality of air emissions and waste water discharge against benchmarked standards and legal requirements through accurate and effective systems o measuring, reporting and controls. • The engagement of external experts or consultants to seeking dependent assurance on the levels of environmental compliance and/or for value-added advice on technically complex matters pertaining to environmental management. • Responsible management of waste through the selection of effective and feasible methods of waste disposal. Implementation • We are environmentally responsible o All our actions are safe for our neighbors and the environment o We are committed to the health, safety, and security of our people and others directly impacted by our activities, and to protecting the natural environment where we operate. o We ensure sufficient risk treatment and control, especially in the areas of EHS • English Press monitors the status of environmental risks through review of material environmental management performance indicators at scheduled intervals. • The Environmental health and safety Committee assists the monitoring the adequacy of environmental management systems in English press and the extent to which these comply with relevant legislation. • The Environmental health and safety manager responsible for ensuring compliance with all relevant environmental legislation • Air quality been monitored onc per year to study trends and to monitor the environmental impact. In order to the practices set forth in the series of environment system ISO14001 • All employees in the office practice the 3R (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle) as encouraged by company management to support waste reduction. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 14 • Communication of the EHS policy through awareness session, poster and newsletter. • Periodic workplace inspections by our EHS committee. • We conducted our annual noise surveys to ensure that noise emitted doesn’t exit exposure levels. • We monitor, collate and disseminate information relating to our environmental initiatives. Measurement of outcomes • English press has continued its recycling efforts of it waste • English press made every effort to conserve energy through the effective monitoring of electricity usage and other utilities at its corporate office • Certificate of ISO 14001:2015 for Environment Management System. • List of Environmental aspect-impact and control the significant impact. • Achievement of the objectives of Environment management system. • periodic internal & External Audit conducted • EPL has not experienced any reportable incidents during the past year and has not been subject to any statutory notice or persecution • Noise level survey results indicated that the noise levels are generally within occupational exposure limits. • The environmental audit conclusion by the external independent auditor stated that the environmental performance had not deteriorated for 2018 as confirmed by the waste water analysis, noise and air quality surveys. • All our waste collectors are approved by NEMA and provide us with waste tracking documents. • All solid waste that is generated is segregated at the source into different streams : paper wastes put in paper waste cages Actions to be implemented in the year 2018-2019 • Minimize energy costs • Raise awareness to employees to reduce energy consumption • Explore opportunities for renewable, alternate and new energy resources. • Conduct energy audit EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We consider responsible behavior and business ethics as the basic layer of all our activities. We are convinced that only by acting in a responsible and ethical way we can grow and maintain the trust of our stakeholders, which is the foundation of our continuing existence. Our policies on integrity and anti-corruption are essential for embedding integrity within our daily business. English press has a zero tolerance policy towards corruption and bribery. We have adopted this policy to communicate this message to all our employees to uphold it English Press’s Code of Conduct strictly forbids any form of bribery or corruption (irrespective of whether the recipient is a public official or an employee of a private customer). English Press fosters honesty, integrity and fairness in all aspects of its business and expects the same in its relationships with all those with whom it does business. In order to achieve this, all English Press employees must: • Comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including any regulations, codes, and guidelines which apply specifically to the business. • Not give or receive bribes, or any other inducements to obtain or retain business, nor conduct themselves in such a way as to give rise to any conflict of interest. • Seek mutually beneficial commercial relationships with third parties with whom they do business. • Ensure that they do not enter into contractual arrangements that they are unable to fulfill. • Use company assets only for the purpose o business and not to abuse their position in the company for personal gain. • Ensure that adequate systems are in place English Press’s to protect the business’ assets. English Press is committed to the fight against bribery. As a result, it is unacceptable for any employee of English Press to directly or indirectly offer, pay, solicit or accept bribes in any form Implementation • English Press is committed to conduct all of its business in an honest and ethical manner and ensure that it meets its legal obligations and averts notices and eradicates corrupt practices, and collaborates to reduce opportunities for bribery and corruption. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 16 • English Press requires all employees at all times to act honestly and with integrity and to safeguard the resources for which they are responsible. • English Press does not tolerate any form of corruption and takes the most serious view of any attempt to commit corrupt practices by employees, contractors, agents and business partners. • Cases of suspected corruption are to be properly investigated and appropriate action taken, including reporting to the appropriate authorities, disciplinary action, prosecution and active pursuit of recovery. • EPL complies with all legislation related to ethics, corporate governance and anticorruption. • As member of various trade and industry bodies, we work with peers, partners and independent organizations to create transparent and level playing fields. • Our code of conduct is made available to all employees, to foster an ethical culture based on our core values. • To make sure that corruption practices are not developed EPL encourages Employees to report any suspicious activities and we have established confidential reporting channel to the HR office. Measurement of outcomes • English Press has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. • EPL’s financial reporting is verified by external auditors to ensure transparency and accuracy of accounting practices.Our books and accounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. • Every year we submit our accounts to independent external auditors who check that our accounts are correctly managed and that there are no discrepancies which could be related to bribery or corruption. We did not receive any report of discrepancies in 2016. Actions to be implemented in the year 2018-2017 • Regular communications and guidance to employees. • Development of a culture of regular, open discussions between employees and management. • Review and develop anti-bribery processes and procedures. • Continue to communicate English Press Anti-Bribery policy internally and externally. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 17 OVERALL OUTLOOK English press will continue to develop the initiatives it has launched and to introduce new measures in the coming reporting period. In 2018-2019 we will continue progress towards our strategic goals and we will focus our efforts to ensure progress in 2018. The challenge presented by the economic environment is transforming our business. The speed of innovation across the entire business – from our manufacturing processes to product solutions is accelerating to address these challenges, creating more value and enhancing competitiveness. Sustainability will remain a key driver of value creation in English Press. English Press will be at the forefront in ensuring the needs of customers and markets are met in a sustainable way. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 18 Contact us: Let us know what you think As a valued stakeholder and report reader, your thoughts and concerns are important to us. We are interested in knowing what you think about our Communication on Progress and our performance overall as a responsible business. If you would like to send us any feedback on these issues, please write to us at qmr@englishpress.com. EPL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 19
