CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Remain true to our aspiration and keep our mission firmly in mind in the new era. This CSR report is dedicated to illustrating our aspiration, action, and performance in maximizing its integrated value, promoting the sustainable development, as well as our implementation of social responsibilities in 2017 and missions, strategies and responsibilities in the new era. Statement State Grid Corporation of China (State Grid) declares that all information within this CSR report is substantiated, balanced, and comprehensive. It systematically illustrates State Grid’s aspiration, action, performance, commitment and future improvement in terms of maximizing the integrated economic, social and environmental value. We hereby ensure the authenticity, objectivity and promptness of this CSR report. We hope, by means of publishing the CSR report, to strengthen the communication with our stakeholders and the society in general, establish mutual trust and cooperation based on the same value recognition, and promote sustainable development. February 2018 相关出版物 《国家电网公司履行社会责任指南》 《国家电网报》 《亮报》 《国家电网》 《能源评论》 相关出版物 《企业软实力》 《电网技术》 国家电网公司 国家电网公司 《国家电网公司履行社会责任指南》 《国家电网报》 《亮报》 《国家电网》 国家电网公司 社会责任报告 社会责任报告 《能源评论》 2009 2010 《电网技术》 我们支持全球契约 我们支持全球契约 2009 社会责任报告 2010社会责任报告 国家电网公司标识 国家电网公司标识 标识以球形设计展示国家电网公司美好的发展前 标识以球形设计展示国家电网公司美好的发展前 景，反映公司树立全球视野，建设世界一流电 景，反映公司树立全球视野，建设世界一流电 网、国际一流企业的坚定信心。 网、国际一流企业的坚定信心。 标识以圆形图案象征公司内外的互动、协调、团 标识以圆形图案象征公司内外的互动、协调、团 结、和谐，表达公司坚持“四个服务”宗旨，与 结、和谐，表达公司坚持“四个服务”宗旨，与 客户、员工、社会和谐相处，共同发展。 客户、员工、社会和谐相处，共同发展。 标识以纵横交错的经纬线表现公司以建设和运营 标识以纵横交错的经纬线表现公司以建设和运营 电网为核心业务，努力超越、追求卓越，为经济 电网为核心业务，努力超越、追求卓越，为经济 社会发展保障更安全、更经济、更清洁、可持续 社会发展保障更安全、更经济、更清洁、可持续 的电力供应。 的电力供应。 标识以绿色的标准色反映公司奉献清洁能源、建 标识以绿色的标准色反映公司奉献清洁能源、建 设和谐社会，象征公司持续发展、生机勃勃、基 设和谐社会，象征公司持续发展、生机勃勃、基 业长青。 业长青。 联系地址：北京市西城区西长安街86号 联系地址：北京市西城区西长安街86号 邮编：100031 邮编：100031 国家电网公司社会责任工作办公室 国家电网公司社会责任工作办公室 国家电网在您身边 社会责任报告 社会责任报告 2012 2014 我们支持全球契约 2005 2017 State Grid CSR Report 4 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 5 Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era The Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era builds on and further enriches Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory, the Theory of Three Represents, and the Scientific Outlook on Development. It represents the latest achievement in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context and encapsulates the practical experience and collective wisdom of the CPC and the people. It is an important component of the system of theories of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and a guide to action for all our members and all the Chinese people as we strive to achieve national rejuvenation. This Thought must be adhered to and steadily developed on a long-term basis. The Thought on Socialism with Everyone in the Party should stick Chinese Characteristics for a New Era to the following 14 principles makes the following things clear It makes clear that the overarching goal of upholding and developing 1 Ensuring party leadership over all work 1 socialism with Chinese characteristics is to realize socialist modernization and national rejuvenation, and, that on the basis of finishing the building of a moderately prosperous society in all respects, a two-step approach 2 Committing to a people-centered approach should be taken to build China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious, and beautiful by the middle of the 21st century. 3 Continuing to comprehensively deepen reform It makes clear that the principal contradiction facing Chinese society in 4 Adopting a new vision for development 2 the new era is that between unbalanced and inadequate development and the people’s ever-growing needs for a better life. We must therefore continue commitment to our people-centered philosophy of 5 Seeing that the people run the country development, and work to promote well-rounded human development 图片：新华社 and common prosperity for everyone. 6 Ensuring that governance is law-based It makes clear that the overall plan for building socialism with Chinese 3 characteristics is the five-sphere integrated plan, and the overall strategy 7 Upholding core socialist values is the four-pronged comprehensive strategy. It highlights the importance of fostering stronger confidence in the path, theory, system, and culture The 19th CPC National Congress of the Communist Party of China is a meeting of great importance taking of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Ensuring and improving living standards through 8 development place during the decisive stage in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and at a critical It makes clear that the overall goal of deepening reform in every field is to 4 improve and develop the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics moment as socialism with Chinese characteristics has entered a new era. The 19th CPC National Congress 9 Ensuring harmony between human and nature and modernize China’s system and capacity for governance. extensively addressed major theoretical and practical issues in sticking to and developing socialism with 10 Pursuing a holistic approach to national security Chinese characteristics in the new era, launched the blueprint for securing a decisive victory in building a It makes clear that the overall goal of comprehensively advancing law5 based governance is to establish a system of socialist rule of law with moderately prosperous society in all respects and striving for the great success of socialism with Chinese Upholding absolute Party leadership over the people’s armed Chinese characteristics and build a country of socialist rule of law. 11 forces characteristics for a new era and set the direction for the development of the country and the Party. It makes clear that the Party’s goal of building a strong military in the new 6 Upholding the principle of “one country, two systems” and era is to build the people’s forces into world-class forces that obey the 12 promoting national reunification Party’s command, can fight and win, and maintain excellent conduct. The most important theoretical output and historic contribution of the 19th CPC National Congress is the official launch of the Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. Xi Jinping Promoting the building of a community with a shared future It makes clear that major country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics 13 for mankind 7 aims to foster a new type of international relations and build a community Thought has been included in the Constitution of CPC as the long-term guidance of the CPC. It is of great with a shared future for mankind. practical and far-reaching historic significance for winning the great struggle, building the great project, 14 Exercising full and rigorous governance over the Party promoting the great cause and realizing the great dream. It makes clear that the defining feature of socialism with Chinese 8 characteristics is the leadership of the Communist Party of China; the greatest strength of the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics is the leadership of the CPC; the Party is the highest force for political leadership. It sets forth the general requirements for Party building in the new era and underlines the importance of political work in Party building. Building a world-class Energy Intergrid Company under the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era 6 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 1 Table of Contents Report Overview 01 06 08 The time frame covered by this report: References: Jan. 1-Dec. 31, 2017. Certain part may go beyond this UN Sustainable Development Goals time frame. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines by Global Reporting Initiative Reporting cycle: Guidelines to the State-owned Enterprises Directly State Grid’s CSR Report is an annual report, usually under the Central Government on Fulfilling Corporate Report The The released by the end of February the next year. Social Responsibilities by SASAC Guidelines to State-Owned Enterprises on Better Overview Aspiration Action Organizational coverage: Sate Grid (Refer to “Corporate Profile” for Fulfilling Corporate Social Responsibilities by SASAC GB/T 36001-2015 CSR Report Guide organizational structure). State Grid CSR Performance Guide Note on the data: Guidance on Chinese Enterprises’ Corporate Social The data for 2017 used in this report are preliminary Responsibility by Research Center for Corporate Social statistics. They may be slightly different from the final Responsibility, Chinese Academy of Social Sciences results. The data for 2016 are final statistics, part of CSR Guide for China’s Industrial Enterprises and which differs slightly from the 2016 CSR Report. Industrial Associations by China Industrial Economic Federation Extended reading: ISO 26000: Social Responsibility Guide (2010) by For information related to corporate governance, International Organization for Standardization ISO social responsibility management, stakeholder’s AA 1000 Assurance Standards by Accountability participation mechanisms, indicator measurement Institute, Britain and GRI report index , please visit the official website: … http://www.sgcc.com.cn/html/sgcc_main/ 102 106 110 col2017031221/ column_2017031221_1.shtml. Language of the report and how to get a copy: The CSR Reports are available in both Chinese and English, including paper and electronic versions. Please email csr@sgcc.com.cn or call at 86-10The The Benchmarking 66598394 for a hard copy. Or you can download the report from our CSR website. Performance Commitment Procedure for Report Preparation： Please visit our CSR website for more details. Scan the QR code for more contents 2 State Grid Corporation of China 国家电网有限公司 报告概况 3 New Era Messages from development of renewable energy, bringing down and Technology Progress and ranked on top both the volume and percentage of wind and PV among central state-owned enterprises in terms curtailment and realized 100% clean energy power of the number of patents and number of patent the Chairman supply in Qinghai for 7 consecutive days, finished the “Replacement of Coal by Electricity for heating” applications for 7 consecutive years. and President for a total of 1.99 million households in North State Grid made full use of its resources to China, expanding the use of electricity for heating serve the development of the “Belt and Road” in 500 million square meters, and successfully with new breakthroughs. It steadily promoted the completed the task of securing power supply M&A of overseas quality energy infrastructure and for major events such as the 19th CPC National completed the transfer of shares of CPEL Brazil The year of 2017 has witnessed the successful Congress and disaster-relief for the earthquake and ADMIE with an aggregated investment of 19th CPC national Congress and comprehensive New Reality in Jiuzhaigou. Currently, our ultra-large grid has 19.6 billion US Dollars and a total overseas asset implementation of the “13th Five-Year Plan”. In the world’s greatest transmission capacity, largest of 60 billion US Dollars. State Grid also deepened 2017, State Grid studied and followed the Xi integration of renewable energy and the highest international cooperation on production capacity Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese level of security. with contract value of about 40 billion US Dollars. Characteristics for a New Era and the spirit of The operation of the first phase of Belo Monte the 19th CPC National Congress under the strong Giving full play to the role of electric power hydropower project is a good example of “China leadership of the Central Party Committee with as a driver to economic growth, State Grid has been quality” and “China speed”. Moreover, State Grid President Xi Jinping at the core. State Grid achieved actively facilitating efforts to fight against poverty, led the development of 47 international standards. new progress and fruitful results in all aspects, promote the rejuvenation of rural areas and achieve With increasing international influence, State Grid successfully carried out the tasks assigned by the coordinated development across regions. State Grid became the chair of B20 China last year. Central Party Committee and the State Council, finished the new round of rural grid augumentation demonstrating the importance of the “six forces” three months ahead of schedule with a humanState Grid grows with its employees. We New Action of state-owned enterprises and making great contribution to building a well-off society in all oriented approach, benefiting 160 million rural residents, including 29 million people in poverty. own a great team with dedication, integrity and responsitibility. State Grid strengthened the respects. State Grid was awarded A Class by StateState Grid also vigorously implemented targeted PV development and selection of young leaders Chairman Mr. Shu Yinbiao owned Assets Supervision and Administration poverty alleviation and explored a replicable and to unleash their potentials, emphasized the Commission (SASAC) for 13 consecutive years, and universally applicable path of poverty alleviation construction of local teams, valued the innovation ranked 2nd on Fortune Global 500 for 2 consecutive through the development of electric power that of employees and cared for their well-beings. State years. ensures targeted and accurate power services in Grid also promoted the spirit of role models and all villages with long-term, stable benefits. Besides, craftmanship. In the construction of power grids, We have been loyal to the Party and State Grid also carried out President Xi Jinping’s reform and innovation, safe power supply, disaster kept highly consistent with the Central Party strategy on the governance and rejuvenation of relief and other major tasks, our teams showed Committee with President Xi Jinping as the border and remote areas through the construction great quality of discipline, hard-working, diligence core. We strengthened the “four consciousness” of the world’s highest and most complicated plateau and faith in face of difficulties and adversities. and the “four confidence”, firmly safeguarded power transmission and transformation project— the authority and centralized leadership of the Central Tibet Interconnection Project, speeding The 19th CPC National Congress depicted Central Party Committee and spared no effort to up the improvement of the 750kV backbone grid the great blueprint of realizing the Two Centenary implement the strategies and instructions of the in South Xinjiang and serving the development of Goals, starting a new journey in turning China into Central Party Committee and the State Council. Xiong’an New District for coordinated development a modern strong socialist country in all respects. Moreover, we integrated the leadership of the of Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei. The Central Economic Work Conference clarified Party into corporate governance through adopting the requirements for developing clean energy and the “unified responsibility” system in which the State Grid facilitated maintenance and deepening the reform of state-owned enterprises to Chairman of State Grid is also the Chairman appreciation of state-owned assets through reform promote high-quality development. These major of the Party Leadership Group to constantly and innovation. We carried out the reform of decisions of the Central Party Committee and improve the modern state-owned enterprise transmission and distribution tariff on provincial the State Council pointed out the direction and system with Chinese characteristics. We also levels, opened up power market and investment in provided the guidelines for State Grid to embrace comprehensively carried out the requirements of incremented power distribution and established the new era, demonstrate new responsibilities and the central government on Party management an integrated power market composed of national achieve new progress. and Party discipline to create a robust political and and provincial levels with more than 30% of power organizational bulwark for corporate reform and being traded, saving 73.7 billion RMB for power The year 2018 is the start to implement the development. users on an annual basis. State Grid also carried decisions of the 19th CPC National Congress. State out instructions of the Central Government on Grid will carefully implement the decisions and We vigorously promoted reforms in energy state-owned enterprise reforms and completed the policies of the 19th CPC National Congress and the production and consumption to provide secure enterprise restructuring, enabling vigor and vitality Central Economic Work Conference to seek for the and quality electric power for economic and social of institutions systems . State Grid also developed truth and make real progress to play a pioneering development. We also implemented the “four the world’s largest Smart Service Platform for and demonstrative role in building a beautiful revolutions, one cooperation” energy strategy Internet of Electric Vehicles(EVs) with a total China and delivering real benefit for the people. President Mr. Kou Wei proposed by President Xi Jinping to promote of 170,000 charging piles integrated. It actively In 2018, State Grid will carry on our mission to the construction of power grids of all levels and developed new business and new models ,such become a world-class energy intergrid company to improve the capability and efficiency of optimized as comprehensive energy services e-commerce make greater contributions for prosperous society resource allocation. State Grid successfully and PV cloud network. State Grid was selected and striving for the great success of socialism with delivered the “four AC and four DC” UHV projects as one of the second batch of national pilot bases Chinese characteristics for a new era and to write its included in the National Air Pollution Prevention for mass innovation and entrepreneurship and own splendid chapter in history. and Control Action Plan and Jiuquan—Hunan led the development of “Science and Technology and Zhalute—Qingzhou UHV projects. Besides, Innovation 2030” smart grid project. State Grid State Grid also took multiple measures to serve the won special prize in National Award for Science 4 State Grid Corporation of China 国家电网有限公司 Report报告概况 Overview 5 Corporate Profile Honors and Prizes for CSR Fulfillment in 2017 The Headquarters Provincial Companies Other Subsidiaries As a state-owned company established on regions and municipalities, covering 88% of 2nd on Fortune Global 500 1 Administration Office (Board Office) 1 State Grid Beijing Electric Power 1 GEI Group Co.,Ltd Company December 29, 2002, State Grid takes the Chinese national territory. 2 General Office 2 State Grid International Development Co., Ltd 1st Place of Chinese Top 500 Most Valuable Brands investment, construction and operation of power 2 State Grid Tianjin Electric Power 3 Strategic Research Office 3 Luneng Group Co., Ltd. (Duchengweiye Group Company) 1st Place of Top 500 Chinese Service Enterprises for 13 Company grids as core business. We are committed to reAs the largest public utility in the world, with a consecutive year 4 Dept. of Development and Planning 4 NARI Group Corporation (State Grid Electric Power electrification and energy connectivity, meeting registered capital of 829.5 billion RMB and assets 3 State Grid Hebei Electric Power Co.,Ltd Research Institute) 5 Dept. of Finance & Assets the power demand with clean and green of 3808.83 billion RMB, State Grid also owns and A-Class enterprise by State-owned Assets Supervision 4 State Grid Jibei Electric Power Co.,Ltd 5 State Grid Information & Telecommunication and Administration Commission (SASAC) evaluation 6 Dept. of Safety & Quality Supervision alternatives. State Grid supplies power to over 1.1 operates overseas assets in the Philippines, Brazil, 5 State Grid Shanxi Electric Power Technology Group Co., Ltd. on operation performances for 13 consecutive years 7 Dept. of Operation & Maintenance Company billion population in 26 provinces, autonomous Portugal, Australia, Italy and Greece etc. 6 State Grid Electric Vehicle Service Co., Ltd A-class financial performance by SASAC for 7 8 Dept. of Marketing (Dept. of Rural Electrification) 6 State Grid Shandong Electric Power 7 State Grid E-commerce Co., Ltd. consecutive year Company 9 Dept. of Science and Technology (Global Energy 8 China Electric Power Equipment and Technology Interconnection <GEI> Office) 7 State Grid Shanghai Electric Power Being awarded the National Sovereign Credit Rating Co.,Ltd(State Grid Project Management Company) Company by three major international rating agencies for 5 10 Dept. of Project Construction 9 State Grid Xin Yuan Co., Ltd. (State Grid Xin Yuan consecutive years 8 State Grid Jiangsu Electric Power 11 Dept. of AC Transmission Management Co.,Ltd Hydropower Co., Ltd.) “UHV±800kV DC Power Transmission Project” won 12 Dept. of DC Transmission Management 9 State Grid Zhejiang Electric Power 10 State Grid General Aviation Co., Ltd. Special Prize of the National Award for Science and 13 Dept. of Information and Communication Co.,Ltd Technology Progress 11 State Grid Supply Chain Management Co., Ltd. Technology 10 State Grid Anhui Electric Power Co.,Ltd The National Wind/PV/Energy Storage and 12 Yingda Media Investment Group Co., Ltd. 14 Dept. of Procurement (State Grid Bidding 11 Transmission Joint Demonstration Project won State Grid Fujian Electric Power Co.,Ltd Management Center) 13 State Grid Energy Conservation Service Co., Ltd. Outstanding Project of China Quality Award 12 State Grid Hubei Electric Power Co.,Ltd 15 Dept. of Affiliates Management 14 State Grid Zhongxing Co., Ltd. Electricity sales Overseas assets over 1st Prize of 2017 China Electric Power Science and 13 State Grid Hunan Electric Power Co.,Ltd 16 Dept. of Public Relations (State Grid Brand 15 State Grid XJ Group Corporation 3,874.5 60 Technology Progress Award 208 projects won 2017 Power Innovation Award 17 Building Center) Dept. of International Cooperation 14 State Grid Henan Electric Power Company 16 Pinggao Group Co.,Ltd TWh billion US Dollars 15 State Grid Jiangxi Electric Power Co.,Ltd 17 S h a n d o n g E l e c t r i c ( Powe r E q u i p m e n t a n d 2 Gold Awards of the China Patent Award 18 Dept. of Auditing Technology )Co.,Ltd 16 State Grid Sichuan Electric Power 19 Dept. of Legal Affairs 18 State Grid Operation Company 3 projects won 1 st Prize of National Corporate Company Governance Modernization Innovation 20 Dept. of Personnel 19 State Grid DC Engineering Construction Company 17 State Grid Chongqing Electric Power Over Profits 21 Dept. of Human Resources Company 20 State Grid AC Engineering Construction Company 1.6333 91.02 Being approved to build the National Technological Standard Innovation Base 22 Restructuring Office 18 State Grid Liaoning Electric Power 21 State Grid Information & Telecommunication Co.,Ltd Technology Company 23 Dept. of Retirement Affairs million employees billion RMB National Model for Corporate Information Publication 19 State Grid Jilin Electric Power Co.,Ltd 22 State Grid Call Center and Domestic Governance 24 Dept. of Logistics 20 State Grid Heilongjiang Electric Power 23 China Electric Power Research Institute 88 subsidiaries of State Grid were selected as National 25 Dept. of Corporate Culture Co.,Ltd 24 State Grid Economical and Technological Research Outstanding Organizations; 7 achievements were 26 Compliance Office 21 State Grid East Inner Mongolia Electric Institute Co.,Ltd on Fortune Global 500 selected as National Outstanding Achievements of 27 Labor Union Power Co.,Ltd Corporate Culture Construction; 3 employees were 25 State Grid Energy Research Institute Co.,Ltd nd 2 selected as National Moral Models 28 National Power Dispatching & Control Center 22 State Grid Shaanxi Electric Power Company 26 Global Energy Interconnection Research Institute 3 subsidiaries of State Grid won National Labor Day 29 State Grid Operation Monitoring (Control) 23 State Grid Gansu Electric Power 27 State Grid Management Academy (State Grid CPC Medal; 20 individual employees won National Labor Center Company School) Day Medal; 36 organizations won National “Labor 30 Association of Enterprise Management Pioneer Award” 24 State Grid Qinghai Electric Power 28 State Grid Advanced Training Center Providing power to EVA Company 1.1 11.79 29 State Grid Institute of Technology (State Grid Youth State Grid Sunshine Poverty Alleviation Action won Beijing Power Exchange Center Co., Ltd 25 State Grid Ningxia Electric Power League School) China Energy Poverty Alleviation Special Contribution Award Co.,Ltd 30 State Grid Yingda International Holdings Group Ltd. billion population billion RMB 26 State Grid Xinjiang Electric Power 2017 China Outstanding Enterprise in the Fulfillment 31 China Power Finance Co., Ltd. Co.,Ltd of CSR 32 Yingda Taihe Property Insurance Co., Ltd. Branches 27 State Grid Tibet Electric Power Co.,Ltd 33 Yingda Taihe Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Serving Total assets Five-star Enterprise of CSR Implementation among Chinese Industrial Companies 1 State Grid North 4 State Grid Northeast 88% 3,808.83 China Branch China Branch 34 Yingda Chang’an Insurance Brokers Group Co., Ltd. 2 5 Evergreen Award of GoldenBee of 2013—2016 CSR State Grid East State Grid Northwest 35 Yingda International Trust Co., Ltd. Report 3 6 of the national territory billion RMB China Branch China Branch 36 Yingda Securities Corporation Ltd. 2017 “Chinese Enterprise Best Practice” State Grid Central State Grid Southeast 37 State Grid International Finance Leasing Co., Ltd China Branch China Branch 38 State Grid Overseas Investment Co., Ltd 6 State Grid Corporation of China 国家电网有限公司 The Aspiration 报告概况 7 The Aspiration Responsibility, Mission, Strategy Our Identity Strategic Steps Leader of global energy revolution, Pioneer in serving the people and the nation 2020 Building up a modernized corporation with “A strong power grid with excellent Assets, Services and Performance”; making major progress in building a world-class energy intergrid company Our Mission 2025 Basically building a world-class energy intergrid company Promoting re-electrification, Building Energy Interconnection, Meeting power demand with clean and green alternatives 2035 Building a world-class energy intergrid company in all respects Our Tenet Guiding Principle Power utility by the people and for the people Six Commitments The Way to Success The Action of Responsibility The Foundation of Management Development Philosophy Committing to the leadership of the Party, Committing to re-electrification, building Committing to conglomeration, implementing the decisions and policies of energy interconnection and meeting power centralization, standardization, streamlization, Safe, quality, affordable, green and efficient the Central Party Committee and the State demand with clean and green alternatives digitalization and internationalization Council and forging an employee-oriented for energy production and consumption development, becoming a more competitive enterprise. revolution. modern state-owned enterprise. Core Values Original Aspiration Key to a Solid Foundation An Inevitable Approach Customer-oriented, Professional and dedicated, Ever-improving Committing to the tenet of power utility Committing to building up a strong & smart Committing to quality development, by the people and for the people to grid with UHV grid as the backbone and focusing on “one core, three pillars” Strategy promote the corporate core values of coordination among power grids of all levels (grid business,manufacturing, finance being customer-oriented, professional and to foster an extensive&interconnected, and international business) to strengthen Corporate Spirit dedicated, Ever-improving. smart & interactive, flexible&resilient,sec ure&controllable new generation power reform, innovation, service and culture . system. In search of excellence, in pursuit of outperformance Strategic Goal Strategic Thinking Eight Highlights Building a world-class energy intergrid company 1 quality development of power grids 5 serving the development of the “Belt and Road” Initiative 2 quality development of the company 6 deepening the supply-side structural reform 3 development of clean energy 7 promoting technical innovation 4 a customer-oriented approach 8 highlighting the leadership of the Party 8 State Grid Corporation of China 国家电网有限公司 The Action 报告概况 9 The Action Holding the banner high, Party to reach new peak within Building three years 10 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 11 Studying and implementing the Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era and the Spirit of the 19th CPC National Congress Learning, understanding and practicing Comprehensively strengthening Party building The Party Leadership Group of State Grid regards studying, promoting and implementing the Spirit of the 19th CPC National Congress as the top We consolidated the “Four Consciousness” and the “Four Confidence” to comprehensively promote the political, theoretical, organizational, behavior political task of State Grid for the time being and the near future through emphasizing the exemplary role of leaders to carry out the Spirit on and discipline construction of the Party with institutional construction being embedded in the process. We implemented the plan to “Holding the all levels. State Grid needs to make special efforts in “ten deep understanding”, “six focus” and “five full coverage” for thorough research, deep banner high, to reach new peak within three years” in Party building and regularized and institutionalized studies on the theoretical and practical understanding and concrete action, so that we can use the Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era to equip issues of Party building. We made continuous efforts to implement the eight-point guidelines to improve the management and value creation ourselves, guide our practice and promote our work. Executives of State Grid went to local branches to communicate with local staff and leaders of capability of Party-building, foster loyal, upright and responsible officials and constantly enhance the creativity, cohesiveness and strength of the different levels also organized different forms of promotion and research activities based on local circumstance. Party committees on all levels also Party. actively promoted the Spirit of the 19th CPC National Congress in local branches, factories and stations, leading a wave of studying and promoting the implementation of the Spirit of the 19th CPC National Congress. Holding the banner high, to reach new peak within three years 3rd year Organizational 2nd year leadership Striving for excellency st 1 year Performance Operation Reaching new peak, Standard benchmarking assessment management being in the front, Full coverage, Laying cornerstone becoming the pioneer Six work higher level, Establishing systems, systems new heights consolidating the foundation, minimizing gaps Responsibility Institutional fulfillments guarantee Supervision Shu Yinbiao,Chairman of State Gird elaborating the Spirit of the 19th CPC implementaNational Congress Political Party Philosophy Organization Behavior Management tion awareness discipline 48.4% 20 5,384 100% More full-time Inspection in provincial Local Party committees The Chairman of the company Kou Wei, President of State Grid, elaborating the Spirit of the 19th CPC The Seminar on Studying and Implementing the Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics and Party staff (autonomous region, completed the election at also held the position of National Congress the Spirit of the 19th CPC National Congress was held in December 2017 municipal) companies expiration of office terms Party Secretary in subsidaries State Grid has organized State Grid has organized more than 16,670 36,627 Party Party Number of Party Party Service centralized promotions centralized study activities committees branches members in State Grid Teams State Grid has organized With 100% 37,844 33,029 640,800 4,202 more than 13,370 participation theme Party Classes rate Organizing the study on the Spirit of the 19th CPC National Congress in local branches, factories and stations 12 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 13 Strengthening the Strengthening the leadership of the Party construction of Local Party State Grid followed the requirements of seeing Committees and Party Party self-governance exercised fully and with rigor, attached equal importance to theoretical and members institutional improvements in Party building and governance, identified and carefully implemented We need to implement primary political task the most capable take the hob. In 2017, State Grid to ensure system-based and regulation-based Party by Party members, backbone employees are Party 60 key tasks, regularized and institutionalized studies and promote the study of the spirit of the 19th carried out election in Party committees directly member development, education, supervision and members and the presence of Party members on on the theoretical and practical issues of Party CPC National Congress. State Grid launch the under the leadership of the Headquarters to make management. Besides, a new Party-building platform crucial moments. building and implemented the plan to “Holding the Announcement and Suggestion for staying the their Party-building efforts more effective. has been established with the launch of the State Grid banner high, to reach new peak within three years” Spirit of the 19th CPC National Congress and carry Party-building Information Management System. Stressing the demonstrative role of Party members in Party building to establish the “six major work out 50 concrete measures. State Grid also needs Stressing institutional construction to improve the to form synergy. State Grid strengthened theoretical mechanisms” and “Six-in-One” Party building system. to organize trainings for people in charge of Local systems of Party-building. State Grid followed the Strengthening the development of Party members. studies and promotion through organizing the theme We included Party building in corporate rules at all Party Committees to promote comprehensive requirement of institution-based Party-building State Grid promoted institutionalized and regularized activity of “Five Years of Unremitting Efforts” and levels to clarify the duty and responsibility of the Party study and discussion. State Grid leaders take the and took the lead to launch Work Regulations studies on the theoretical and practical issues of party “Under the Leadership of the Shining Party Emblem” Committee and the Board of Directors, executives lead to strengthen studies on the spirit of the 19th for Local Party Committees among state-owned building to implement the requirements of the central to strengthen the construction of spiritual civilization and the Board of Supervisors. The Party Committee CPC National Congress, give lectures on Partycentral enterprises, which clarifies the rules of government and State Grid Party Leadership Group and corporate culture and spur the intuitiveness of organized research and discussion before making building, organize discussions and oversee the discussion and the procedures of decision-making with special emphasis on routine education and Party members. State Grid also undertook major Partycorporate decisions. State Grid established Party implementation of measures and policies. They to safeguard the effective implementation of centralized training of party members to guide party building projects of the Organization Department of building leadership groups on all levels and realized visit Local Party Committees to promote the spirit domestic centralism. State Grid worked out a series members to strengthen “four awareness”, build up the Central Committee of the CPC and State-eowned the “Chairman of the company also held the position of 19th CPC National Congress and share their of basic rules and regulations on Party-building “four confidence” and fulfill “four qualification”. State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of Party Secretary in subsidaries” . We carefully understanding of Party-building with all Party to speed up the establishment, revision and Grid took concrete measures to ensure that Party of the State Council, contributing wisdom to Partyimplemented the Party-building responsibility members. Party Committees of all levels organized abandonment of regulations on Party-building committees and Party members of all levels take their building in central enterprises, demonstrating system and organized the first assessment work more than 3700 lectures and 30,000 centralized in Party committees under the direct leadership responsibilities to play a leading role in undertaking corporate value and improving the image of State report on Party building among chairmen of Party Party classes. More than 1 million employees of the Headquarters, including Detailed Rules on key tasks, including ensuring power supply during Grid. State Grid also used Party-building to lead Committees on all levels and comprehensive Party participated in the online knowledge contest on Organizing Theoretical Studies on Party-building the 19th CPC National Congress, the construction of Youth League-building through organizing a series building performance assessment throughout the the spirit of the 19th CPC National Congress, which in Party Committees and Work regulation for Local major projects and cutting-edge S&T innovation. of skill contests among young employees and “Youth Corporation. We also strengthened the construction demonstrates that Party-building has been carried Party Committees. The Corporation also organized The Corporation also organized theme activities Brightness Tour” Volunteer Service and holding the of Local Party Committees and comprehensively out throughout State Grid. trainings on organizational systems, rules and to promote Party-building, established 4202 Party 3rd Youth Innovation and Creativity Competition established the rules of Party governance and regulations to oversee the rigid execution of rules Service Teams, 56,000 Party Member Responsibility with 6000 innovation and creativity projects being organized elections in 5384 Party Committees, Strengthening accountability to safeguard the and regulations, the operation of Party committees Zones and 67,000 Party Member Demonstration hatched, creating an economic value of nearly 230 replacing all unqualified officials. effective implementation of the accountability and the development of Party members on all levels Positions to ensure that important posts are taken million RMB . system of the Party-building. State Grid worked out detailed plans on the implementation of the accountability system, launched 20 detailed rules and regulations for implementation and the PartyBuilding good conduct building Performance Evaluation and Assessment and political integrity Measures to improve the accountability system of Party-building from top to bottom. State Grid also State Grid continued to fight against undesirable organized centralized inspection of the problem of work styles, such as formalism, bureaucracy, marginalizing and underestimating the importance hedonism and extravagance, in line with the eightof Party-building and Party leadership and made point guidelines issued by the CPC leadership and a list concerning problems in 6 aspects. The gave full play to inspection through organization Headquarters urged related companies to come up internal inspection in 20 companies. During the with concrete measures to solve their own problems. inspections, 2101 problems were identified and State Grid also organized evaluation of Party solved, 2226 rectification measures were proposed Committee Chairman’s Report on Party-building and 415 systems were established. In the meantime, in 62 subsidiary companies for the first time, which 60 companies also organized inspection in significantly promoted the implementation of the secondary subsidiaries. State Grid supported the accountability system in Party-building. State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council to organize the Improving organizational construction to ensure the special action to supervise the solving of problems implementation of Party-building measures across identified by the central discipline inspection team the Corporation. All companies are required to to ensure that concrete measures are taken to include Party-building into their corporate charters solve problems. State Grid integrated strict Partyand clarify the legal status of Party committees of discipline with law-based corporate governance to all levels. Under the guidance of the “Super Partyimprove the corruption risk prevention and control building” framework, State Grid asked all subsidiary mechanism and the establishment of a “zerocompanies to establish leadership groups on Partycorruption” institution and system. We managed building and form a new work mechanism with to ensure that Party committees of all levels take regularized studies on Party-building, regulated their own responsibility in building good conduct and improved the institutional settings of Party and political integrity, signed contracts with Party Committee Office, Organizational Department members to promote building good conduct and Party-building Department of all levels, which and political integrity and worked out the list of substantially improved the capability of Partyresponsibilities and duties. We also organized building. State Grid also promoted organizational Party-building and work performance integrated construction and general election, transformed the assessment to hold those failing to perform their Party Leadership Group to Party Committee in 57 duties in building good conduct and political companies and supervised 306 Party committees integrity accountable to urge related parties to carry and 5078 Party branches (general branches) to out their duties and responsibility. organize elections to ensure that those who are 14 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 15 Quality Development Ensuring reliable, Gradually Developing modern energy improving the quality, reliable, services for efficiency of sustainable all; expanding energy use in and resilient infrastructure consumption infrastructure; construction and and production upgrading providing to disconnect existing sustainable and economic infrastructure modern energy growth and to improve the services for all environmental efficiency of by techical degradation. energy use. innovation. 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 16 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 17 Putting transformation Seizing the principle of Building World-Class UHV In 2017 (converting) capacity into operation grid development Transmission Projects 350 GVA (GW) Building a strong and smart grid with UHV grids as UHV power grid benefits all. It could significantly the backbone with coordinated development of improve the capability of resource allocation, power grids at all levels, establishing a safe, green, promote the intensive development of renewable Putting transmission line efficient and smart new-generation electric power energy, address the challenge of energy scarcity, over 110 (66) kV system, building an energy interconnection that is facilitate air pollution prevention and control in into operation flexible and integrated, interacted and extensively Eastern and Central China, build a Power Silk Road, interconnected. State Grid has been actively secure power supply during peak hours in summer 55 thousand kilometers promoting the safe development of power grids and has built the world’s largest power grid in terms of transmission capacity, level of safety and installed and aid the development of western China with significant social and economic benefits. capacity of renewable energy. State Grid will Breakthroughs have been made in UHV power continue to promote the safe, green, coordinated grids. State Grid successfully produced the world’s and smart development of power grids and first ±1100kV UHV DC wall bushing and put into coordinate the development of power grids at all operation the world’s first 1100kV AC filter bank levels for better resource allocation, supply reliability, circuit breaker through independent R&D. It also smart interaction and intrinsic safety. promoted multiple technological breakthroughs in GIL integrated corridor, 3D digital design and UHV AC composite transverse load. Coordinating the Integrated Development of Power Grids on All Levels State Grid made comprehensive plans for the class power distribution networks. State Grid development of power grid in China. State Grid promoted the construction of world class urban completed rolling optimization during the “13th Fivepower distribution networks in 10 cities including Year Plan”, made plans for grid retrofit and upgrade Beijing and Shanghai according to the special in small towns and improved rural and urban plan of building “world-class urban power power distribution networks. State Grid further distribution networks”. It is expected that by 2020, strengthened scientific and targeted investment the performance of major indicator could reach supervision and control, held meetings and signed advanced international standard with a safe, reliable, strategic cooperation agreement with 8 provinces quality, efficient, green, low-carbon, smart and (autonomous regions and municipalities) and steadily interactive world-class urban distribution networks promoted the delivery and reception of power supply having been basically established. facilities of state-owned enterprises. State Grid planned the construction of power grid State Grid promoted the coordinated development in Xiong’an New District. Aiming at building green, of power grids of all levels. State Grid made detailed smart and strong power grid, State Grid worked plans for lean management to promote the out the detailed plan on power grid construction classified and stratified management of key projects, in Xiong’an New District in a scientific and quality optimize, improve and build coordination systems manner that organically integrates with the New and strengthen the application of infrastructure District development plan and launched the plan information system. State Grid also promoted on power and telecommunication networks in “Dynamic Power to All Villages”, “Power to All Wells”, Xiong’an New District. State Grid also accelerated small town (central village) grid augumentation and the establishment of the power supply company the construction of affiliate grid for the “Replacement in Xiong’an New District according to the highest of Coal by Electricity for heating” in key areas of international standard with full consideration to the Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei. development of the New District. State Grid promoted the construction of world 18 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 19 Coordinated development of grids at all levels In our service area ”8 AC and 10 DC“ UHV projects into operation 1000 kV UHV AC projects zhalute Jindongnan—Nanyang—Jingmen Huainan—Zhebei—Shanghai Zhundong Zhebei—Fuzhou Huainan—Nanjing—Shanghai Hami Shengli Ximeng Ximeng—Shandong Shengli—Ximeng UHV projects Mengxi—Tianjinnan Yuheng—Weifang Ximeng The length of UHV transmission line Beijingdong Mengxi under construction and operation is Beijingxi 31,000 ±800kV UHV DC projects Jiuquan Tianjinnan Shanghaimiao Jinbei Yuheng km Xiangjiaba—Shanghai Ningdong—Zhejiang Jinzhong Shijiazhuang Taiyangshan Qingzhou Jinping—Sunan Jiuquan—Hunan Weifang Transformation (conversion) capacity is 320 Jinan Haminan—Zhengzhou Jinbei—Jiangsu Jindongnan GVA Heze Linyi (GW) Xiluodu—Zhexi Ximeng—Taizhou Zaozhuang Shanghaimiao—Shandong Zhalute—Qingzhou Zhengzhou Taizhou Trans-provincial and trans-regional Nanyang Huainan Nanjing transmission capacity reached 190 Sunan Suzhou Wannan ”Three AC and One DC“ UHV projects approved and under construction Zhebei Nanhui GW Jinmen 1000 kV Su—Tong GIL Integrated Pipeline Project Shaoxing Yalongjiang The UHV power grid has accumulated 1000 kV Beijingxi—Shijiazhuang UHV AC Project Zhexi Zhezhong delivered more than 900 Zhenan 1000kV Weifang—Linyi—Zaozhuang—Heze—Shijiazhuang Substation The First Phase of the Jinshajiang UHV AC Project Xiangtan TWh Converter station Fuzhou ±1100kV Zhundong—Wannan UHV DC Project 1000 kV UHV AC projects under operation 1,000 kV UHV AC projects under construction ± 800 kV UHV DC under operation Other key demonstration projects ±1100 kV UHV DC project under construction Accelerated the demonstration of the Haixi Wind, Solar, Thermal and Storage Multi-Energy Complementary Project, the Northwest 750kV Main Grid Structure Project and the Central Tibet Interconnection Project South China Started construction of Xinjiang Shache-Hetian 750kV transmission line Sea Islands project, and condenser projects in Suzhou and Zhengping Converter In 2017, 110 (66) kV and above AC and DC projects into operation Stations Built 500 kV Red Yan River Delivery Project and Jiangsu 500kV Unified Power Flow Controller Project Transformation capacity of AC projects 273 GVA were put in new projects Completed and put into operation the Qinghai Yangqu hydropower production were started 92 GW 1200 499 delivery project and Shanghai 220 kV Unified Power Flow Controller Conversion capacity Project of DC projects projects projects Completed the design of Zhangjiakou-Beijing Flexible DC Project and studied and formulated plans for energy Interconnection planning and AC line length 48,800 km construction in Asia, Europe and Africa 35kV and above rural distribution DC line length 7,600 km power gird projects 20 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 21 Intrinsic Safety Protect labor Develop Strengthen rights and quality, reliable, inclusive and promote the sustainable sustainable creation of and resilient urban a safe and infrastructure; development; secure working provide build cities and environment for financial, communities all workers. technical and that are resilient technical to disasters and support to implement promote the comprehensive development disaster risk of sustainable management. infrastructure that is resilient to disasters. 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities 22 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 23 Comprehensive voltage In 2017 eligibility rate in urban areas 99.994% Comprehensive voltage eligibility rate in rural areas 99.650% Improve Intrinsic safety Ensure safe and reliable Secure power supply for level of power grid power supply major events Comprehensive investigation of security risks. State Comprehensively strengthen safety quality control. Ensured the security of power grid during the summer Effectively respond to unexpected disasters. Faced Institutional mechanism guarantee. Strictly Domestic and international major events. State Grid Grid carried out the inspection of safety production, Promoted quality supervision and management, load peaks. In 2017, affected by the continuous largewith natural disasters that have occurred in China implemented the requirements of the Party Central carefully prepared and successfully secured with highcovering various levels of organizations, specialties, established infrastructure safety daily and weekly scale high temperature, the load of the six regional in 2017, State Grid launched an emergency plan Committee and the State Council, strengthened standard, high-quality the power supply during major places and working sites; carried out targeted special report mechanism, strengthened construction risk power grids and 21 provincial-level power grids to quickly implement emergency rescue, disaster organization and leadership, and carefully formulated events such as the 19th National Congress of the Party, inspections on construction safety; made efforts management to specific jobs, and strictly carried out hit a record high. Abiding by the the National Safe protection and power supply, restored damaged power supply plans; different departments and the “Two Sessions”, the Belt and Road Forum for to pursue safety of distribution grids, information supervision and quantitative assessment of safety Production Video Teleconference, State Grid analyzed grid facilities in a timely manner, spared no efforts organizations gave full play to the advantages of International Cooperation, BRICS Xiamen Summit, the and affiliated businesses. Actively upgraded power responsibilities. Improved the intrinsic safety and the power demand and supply situation of peak in emergency rescue and disaster relief, timely and the corporation and supported, cooperated and 13th National Games, etc. consumption facilities and improved the intrinsic operational level of information communication. hours during the summer, guaranteed the full-power promptly restored power supply, and effectively coordinated with each other; employees fulfilled their safety of power equipment. Achieved remarkable results on network security operation of the three UHV DC transmission projects responded to the 7.0 magnitude earthquake in duties with due diligence and dedication，ensured control. and ensured the safe operation of the power grid and Jiuzhaigou, Sichuan, lasting heavy rainfall in Hunan, safe power supply and made great contributions to reliable power supply. Jiangxi, Liaoning, Jilin, and other natural disasters such the success of major events. as the double typhoons of Nasha and Haitang. 24 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 25 Safety and Quality Index Company Inspected and headquarters supervised bottom set up inspection teams level organizations Increased year-on-year Increased year-on-year 6 510 0.0023% 0.0015% Power Supply Reliability for Urban Users Power Supply Reliability for Rural Users 99.9483% 99.7837% Investigated and rectified more than violations Improve intrinsic safety level Inspected and supervised project sites 90,000 Full coverage on risk and potential hazard investigation 469 Converter Station tripping rate Transformer tripping rate Transmission line tripping decreased year-on-year decreased year-on-year rate decreased year-on-year Inspected and 35.7% 25% 28% 500 (330) kV and above supervised project offices (teams) 1,050 Emergency repairs Summer peak period Emergency drills Secure power supply Conducted person·times emergency drills participated 8,196 169,200 Maximum peak shifting Involving industrial and averting enterprises Summer load peaks 6.67 GW 26,000 Formulated and printed A total of person·timess vehicle-times put implemented key measures put into repairs into repairs 30 185,100 38,000 1.18 GW of demand side responsein Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Jiangxi and Xinjiang 26 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 27 Excellent Management Expand Improve effective industrial supply to sustainability, meet effective increase the demand and efficiency accelerate the of resource formation of consumption, institutional provide mechanisms favorable and policies to development achieve methods that industrial will lead the diversification new normal and increase the of economic added value. development. 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 28 State Grid Corporation of China 28 The Action 29 Accumulatively reduced In 2017 the number of legal person at all levels 661 Registered market players on power trading platforms 55,700 Perfecting the modern state-owned enterprise system with Chinese characteristics Follow the right direction. Adhering to the Party’s construction of a world-class energy intergrid company leadership over state-owned enterprises is a major with outstanding competitiveness. political principle and it must be followed consistently; the establishment of a modern enterprise system is the Promote institutional development. State Grid direction of state-owned enterprise reform and also it comprehensively strengthened Party leadership must be followed consistently. Adhering to the Party’s and Party building with safety based, value oriented, leadership and strengthening the Party’s construction customer centered and team rooted principles.Taking is a unique advantage of the state-owned enterprise. reform-innovation as a driving force, State Grid paid State Grid insisted on the service, production and more attention to development quality and efficiency, operation without deviating from it and examined the and strived to promote upgrades of Party building and work and effectiveness of the party organization with power grids, management and services, put all efforts the results of the enterprise’s reform and development. to build a world-class energy intergrid company. State Grid will provide a strong guarantee for the Promoting power Promoting reform of industry reform state-owned assets and state-owned enterprises Promote the release of incremental distribution services. State Grid started the operation of mixed ownership power transmission and distribution Master the direction of reform. State Grid made companies, explored the market-based approach to overall plans for the promotion of mixed ownership, alleviate the “three-abandoned” issue; cooperated auditing systems, and reform of collective with the National Development and Reform enterprises, promoted the marketization of Commission to promote trans-regional and transindustries and financial organizations; standardized provincial power transmission price reforms, and the setting up of organizations to strengthen frontsuccessfully completed the provincial power grid end business integration. transmission and distribution price verification work. Complete the company restructuring. State Grid Promote the construction of the electricity market. achieved ”designating one person for both the State Grid continued to standardize trading Committee Secretary and the chairman of the board organizations, constantly enriched its trading in secondary organizations,” establishing the Party’s varieties, basically established a normalized market statutory status in corporate governance structure; operation mechanism, established interand intraresearched and explored business intensive provincial medium and long-term power trading integration approach and selected 19 organizations mechanisms, and established a national electricity to formulate pilot programs to conduct business market system with “unified market and two-level integration according to local conditions. operation”. Strengthen institutional development. State Grid Develop power transmission and distribution established the “1+N” leaders management system; market. State Grid explored the realization of mixed issued the first“White Paper of Managing Enterprises ownership of incremental distribution; the rapid According to Law” among central enterprises. The development of trials in the power sales side; set county-level subsidiaries were all re-registered to up power supply service organizations to quickly branch companies. respond to the electricity demand of customers, and greatly improved service efficiency. 30 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 31 Power industry reform State-owned Assets Reform and Corporate Management Reform Clearly define the task of reform, fully deploy and implement, formulate and issue The total trading power in Reduced customers’ electricity State Grid service area was expenditure by 4,046.7 73.7 Approved transmission and distribution tariff State Grid Corporation of China’s Notice on Solid Concentration Key Tasks Analysis and Opinions on Comprehensive and Promotion of Fully Implementation Measures for Expanded annual direct trading volume Deepening Reform Deepening Reform Work in the Reform in 2017 TWh billion RMB Second Half of 2017 Cancelled the city utility surcharge Cancelled the power tariff for the repayment Market trading of electrified railway Direct transaction reduced customers’ power purchasing expenditure by 1,209.5 TWh 29.5 billion RMB 21 123 State Grid Smoothly completed the secondary third-level and below Corporation task of company system organizations organizations of China reforming on schedule Power trading platform The daily visit of power trading platform exceeds 10,000 times Electricity turnover exceeded 1,200 TWh Management efficiency benefits continued to be optimized power r Retailing etai com Completed categorizing subsidiary Promoted “reduction” work, accumulatively Promoted business integration and ling 2,233 co mp an 5,000 ti m pan es y companies at all levels of the Corporate reduced legal persons selected pilot organizations 1,163 661 19 i es Registered Participated po market players market player 55,700 we 155,000 county companies were changed from Cleaned non-core and r ge subsidiary company to branch company inefficient investments sers 27,2 nera tion companies 50,000 Power u times er tim ati on com 594 67 00 tim es n es pan ies ge cu er ,00 sto w 0 26,3 mer s Po 100 Managment performance “163” Excellence Management System won Awarded as A-Class enterprise by 00 the first prize of the 23rd National Enterprise Management Modernization Innovation State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) Achievement Award evaluation on operation performance for 13 consecutive years 32 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 33 Improve corporate Improve internal State Grid Anshan Zhenjiang, Jiangsu Province Xinjiang Power Market Power Company performing post Established the First Batch of Power Management Committee formally governance capabilities management competency evaluation Distribution Companies established Clearly understand enterprise development trends. Build a special internal control system. State Post competency evaluation is a revolutionary Jiangsu Zhenjiang Yangzhong High-tech On June 8, 2017, the Xinjiang Power Market Targeting the goal of building a world-class energy Grid established a board of directors and special change in human resource management. Industrial Development Zone is the country’s Management Committee was officially intergrid enterprise, we upheld the principles of committees, set up comprehensive risk management It refers post as the target, according to the first batch of incremental power distribution established in Urumqi. 33 representatives from “clarified work objectives, standardized work contents, committee; implemented specialized management specific criteria of the position, and uses reform pilot areas approved by the National Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region’s power streamlined work procedures, formatted work and control, continuously improved the ability to scientific methods to determine the key Development and Reform Commission and the generation companies, power customers, State records, regulated work practices, and normalized allocate resources; established a good information and indicators that prompt employees to produce National Energy Administration. On November Grid Xinjiang Power Company, and Xinjiang work improvement”, centered by “safety, quality, communication mechanism; comprehensively used high performance, upon which to measure and 10, 2017, Yangzhong High-tech Zone MixedPower Trading Center became members of the efficiency and performance”, and promoted all-round daily supervision and special supervision, carried out assess the competency elements shown by Ownership Distribution and Retailing Company first management committee. transformation and upgrading of our business, built monthly supervision to core business such as finance, the employees in the process of achieving his was officially unveiled and established. This is high-end industrial clusters, deepened the integration engineering, procurement and marketing, etc. performance goals. one of the first batch of three power distribution The Xinjiang Power Market Management of industry and finance, and actively promoted “going companies established in the country, which is Committee, as an autonomous deliberative global”with the entire industrial chain and value chain. Practice“163”excellent management system. State Grid Through three-dimensional evaluation of an important point in the Jiangsu power system agency, is mainly responsible for studying comprehensively deepened excellent performance “measurement, analysis and interview”, it reform of the State Grid and marks a new step the regulations of the Xinjiang Power Trading Promote the construction of institutional mechanisms. management and evaluation, promoted the scientific effectively compensated for the inadequacy of the Jiangsu incremental power distribution Center, proposing power market construction State Grid innovated on management concepts, management of the Corporate, implemented accurate of previous performance evaluations focusing reform. and operation, discussing the power market focused on building institutional mechanisms benchmarking, coordinated management innovation on the termianal of employee performance operation rules, related implementation rules that will fully deepen reforms and target market work, implemented quality to strengthen enterprise; chain, increased the evaluation on generation Yangzhong High-tech Zone Distribution Power and important issues involving the interests competition, fully mobilized the enthusiasm of all levels promoted QC team activities, strengthened integration of performance chain, and comprehensively Company is entitled to operate the power of market players, listening to the market’s and stimulated the vitality of the bottom level. We of systems and standards, and carried out credit system examined the internal factors that produced distribution business in the 2.8km² to-bemain appeals, putting forward reasonable optimized the allocation of resources and promoted construction in pilot companies. high performance for employees. It has become developed area in the High-tech Zone, providing opinions and suggestions, supervising the the coordinated development of all organizations. By a new “benchmark” for selecting, employing, power distribution, power supply, and bottomimplementation of power market operations implementing big data strategy, we made full use of Optimize the overall management level. State Grid and training people at a deeper level, and keeping services in the region, conducting and trading rules, and promptly reporting modern information and communication technologies optimized and improved the “Three Intensives and Five used more scientific management to create value-added services such as integrated energy to the Autonomous Region’s Economic and such as “Big Data, Cloud Computing, Internet of Things, Majors” system; improved the professional integration continuous driving force for high-performance management, and competition in market-based Information Committee, the Development Mobile Internet”, and deepened the application of big and coordination mechanism; carried out 74 special corporate development. power purchases and retailing business. During and Reform Commission, Xinjiang Energy data in various business areas. State Grid built a “rule by audits for the inspection of enterprises in accordance the “13th Five-Year Plan” period, Yangzhong Supervision Office and other departments. law” enterprise, improved internal control mechanisms with the law, strengthened auditing, supervision, and High-tech Zone Distribution Power Company and elevated our management according to law. rectification of international and financial businesses; will invest 20.85 million RMB to transform the established a digital auditing studio to explore new regional power grid, continue to improve the State Grid Shaanxi Electric Power Company audit models. grid structure, the quality of power supply and achieved new height on“Procuratorate to maximize the release of reform dividends. and Enterprise Joint Construction” “Procuratorate and Enterprise Joint Construction” is the demand for the rapid development of power companies after the “Three Intensives and Five Majors” restructuring and it is an important safeguard measure under the new situation of comprehensive rule of enterprises by law. State Grid Xi’an Power Supply Company took the construction of “Procuratorate and Enterprise Joint Construction”as the starting point, based on education, system and supervision, continuously improved the management mechanism and connected the company supervision with the procuratorate supervision to form a new supervision mechanism which restricts and coordinates, utilizing the advantages of joint inspection platform to prevent job-related crimes. After setting up the platform of “Procuratorate and Enterprise Joint Construction”, prosecutors were invited to jointly search weak links in corruption risks, carried out prevention and legal consultations on problems encountered in the operation, management and supervision of enterprises, and seek preventive measures from the institutional and mechanism levels, deepening the construction of the punishment and prevention system and the construction of a coordinated supervision mechanism. Through annual risk prevention and control inspections and quarterly inspections, special supervision, risk prevention and control on “Three Important and One Major” decisions, key engineering areas and high-quality services have been stepped up, and the activities of “ruling enterprises by law” have gradually advanced. 34 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 35 Innovation-driven Strategy Facilitate access Enhance to clean energy scientific research and research, technology， upgrade the and promote technological investment capabilities in energy of industrial infrastructure sectors by and clean encouraging energy innovation. technology. 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 36 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 37 Overal line loss rate Major technical innovations In 2017 6.66% Promote all-round innovation. Innovation was integrated into all work, injecting drivers into the Promote entrepreneurship and innovation. In June 2017, State Grid was approved by the State Council as development of State Grid. Special attention was given the National Demonstration Base for“Entrepreneurship to areas like renewable energy, new-generation power and Innovation”. State Grid proposed the “1212” major Total valid patents system and energy interconnection to get major tasks (1 object: to build a world-class energy service 73,350 achievements in innovation, so as to consolidate and expand its advantages in the global industry. company, 2 methods: seeking the leading position in the industry, improving weak links and strengthening the foundation, regional cooperation, 1 development Enhance its leading position in power grid and energy path: lean development, 2 engines: strengthening technologies. State Grid took the lead to implement the Party self-discipline, and reform and innovation) and “Scientific and Technological Innovation 2030” smart innovative measures for the mechanism to build its grid key project and completed the implementation brand as a “Star Company in Entrepreneurship and plan; built Suzhou Energy Transition and Innovation Innovation”. The construction plan of the base was Demonstration Zone and Zhangjiakou Renewable approved by NDRC and SASAC and publicized. Energy Demonstration Zone, and established a National Technical Innovation Center for smart grid. Promote standardization. State Grid published its With these efforts, the company has consolidated and implementation action plan on technical standard enhanced its technical advantages in UHV power grids, strategy outline and orderly carried out pilot projects of large grid safty control and smart grids. good conduct on standardization in power companies. State Grid was approved to build innovative bases for national technical standards in smart grid, and the first 11 bases are under construction as planned. Build smarter grids Develop new businesses State Grid fully implemented innovative development Explore comprehensive energy services. State Grid action plan of information and telecommunication. carried out research on comprehensive energy services Carried out 74 key projects in 3 categories of innovative and made progress; established the State Grid (Suzhou) application in key areas, upgrading foundation City & Energy Research Institute to enhance research platforms and innovation in grass-roots units, and on energy transition in cities. promoted the construction of demonstration projects in key areas and their business models, making Build Smart Service Plarform for Internet of EVs. innovations in smart status sensing of grid equipment. State Grid built the world’s largest full functional Smart Service Plarform for Internet of EVs for the Follow the trends of “big data, cloud computing, developpment of EV industry. Internet of Things and mobile internet”. The MIIT (Ministry of Industry and Information Technology) Extend presence of e-commerce. State Grid made a 230 MHz Power Wireless Dedicated Grid Pilot Project plan for E-commerce eco-system, launched the online passed quality acceptance. State Grid preliminarily service platform, took the lead in setting up the SOE built a unified data center analysis domain covering e-commerce alliance, and operated the distributed PV all services, connecting 32 operation systems and cloud network and cross-border E-commerce platform. 394 terabytes of data. “State Grid Cloud” was officially launched to support the operation of 33 kinds of Enter the high-end manufacturing industry. State Grid business on the cloud, and had a size of around 2,300 implemented “Made in China 2025” and building a nodes. State Grid published its white paper on big data manufacturing power strategy, deepened the strategy application and built a system of big data open trial of“ ”Internet+ manufacturing”, and accelerated the R&D and sharing services. of high-end products like high-capacity VSC-HVDC converter valve and industrial main control chip. Fully implement the Cybersecurity Law. State Grid carried out the level-based protection “re-check” Seek profit growth point from various areas. State program, launched an action plan to improve the Grid developed TCU display screen, and lauched infrastructure cybersecurity of key information, built a advertisement in“e-charging”APP to expand the valuemonitoring and warn platform for cybersecurity risks to added services of advertisement in charging stations, ensure the security of power-related information and charging piles and APP. guaranteed the online security during major activities like the 19th National Congress of the CPC. 38 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 39 R&D input Total valid patents 62036 Patents for invention 50165 7.828 billion RMB 73,350 28311 40143 16,064 In 2013—2017 National standards led by State Grid National Science and Technology Award (special award) R&D 103 1 achievements National Science and ±800kV UHV DC transmission projects brought significant social and economic benefits,which are essential to energy production and consumption revolution, energy Technology Award (second award) : 7 upgrading in China and promoting the “Belt and Road” State Technological Innovation Industrial standards led by State Grid Initiative. Such projects greatly increased the transmission capacity of hydro, wind, solar power from west and north Award (second award) : 1 152 2 China to load centers, and promoted the large-scale China Patent Awards (gold medal) : concentrated development and accommodation of clean energies, withover 60 GW of hydropower generation in west and south China and 30 GW of wind and solar power China Patent Awards (outstanding award) : 17 generation in west and north China. Increase the level of intelligence Information system operation rate 99.95% , communication equipment operation rate above99.99%, operation and maintenance efficiency increased by 40% Investment in IT Year-on-year growth 5.324 billion RMB 7.5% Online line loss monitoring stations during the same period 3.833million,monitoring rate 92.47% , up by 11.99% Investment in State Grid erected 13,000 km of cable and completed equipment installation and debugging in 4,397transformer substations, power supply stations (outlets) Level of communication projects Year-on-year growth intelligence 7.046 billion RMB 15.13% State Grid orderly promoted coordinated patrol by helicopters, drones and workers. Helicopters traveled 171,000 km in total and found 17,000 faults 40 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 41 Excellent Service Ensure universal Strengthen the access to scientific and affordable, technological reliable and capacity modern to move energy services towards more and double sustainable the global patterns of improvement consumption rate of energy and production. efficiency. 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 12 Responsible Consumption and Production 42 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 43 Build a modern customerEnhance the new type of oriented service system business of providing comprehensive Upgrade power supply service and command energy services platform. The 95598 service platform followed the principle of “Serving Customers with Whole Heart”, prioritized customers, and continuously promoted to offer services in a scientific, standard and precise Deepen the application of “big data, cloud computing, way to send cross-discipline command, manage and Internet of Things and mobile internet”. APP allowed control the operation and maintenance of the power customers to operate online and reserve door-to-door distribution network, manage and control service services. “95598 Pay” launched innovative functions process and quickly respond to service requests. State including scanning code to pay bills, and using rewards Grid established the enterprise culture of serving points in other online shopping platforms. More customers to provide users with quicker response customers chose to use e-bills, greatly reducing service and better experience, and meet people’s needs cost. for electricity. By implementing the “Ten Promises” in Power Supply Services of State Grid, the company Inform customers of key links. Functions include real required employees to strictly follow the proceedings time positioning of repair workers, real time inquiring of verification and calibration, and upload the test of failure recovery path in, effective interaction with results on 95598 intelligent interactive website within 5 customers on high-frequency business, informing working days so that users could log in the website and customers of processing progress, service booking, check the test certification. information inquiry and scheduled outrage via APP, calls and text message, and building a realSupport public services. State Grid provided diversified time connection with customers and evaluation and tailored comprehensive energy services for mechanism. industry parks, industrial enterprises and large-scale public buildings; checked the power device, selfAll-in-one smart meters. State Grid accelerated the owned emergency power supply equipment, power information collection of power, water, gas and heating operation and management of railway, airport, in one meter and set up 5 pilot s; explored more service government, hospital, school, large shopping mall and channels, like WeChat platform where people could other high-risk stakeholders; provided power supply check the data of water and natural gas, electricitymanagement services to coal mine, non-coal mine and water-gas bill, and collecting water and gas bills on other high-risk and important stakeholders to ensure “95598 Pay”or in business halls. that the power supply to public facilities is safe and reliable. Extend the application of smart meters. State Grid reported the power cuts of smart meters and verified Build a convenient bill settlement system for power pilot projects to strongly support quick positioning of sales. State Grid optimized the regulations and blackout areas and emergency recovery. The company proceedings of market-based electricity sales , which found out stations and customers using low-voltage was applied in 27 provincial companies; improved the power with frequent blackout by daily monitoring bill settlement process, and facilitated the interaction to facilitate regualr management of low voltage and and collaboration of data among systems to build an blackout. efficient and user-friendly settlement system. Promote transition and upgrading of business halls. Safeguard information safety for customers. In line The company provided smart payment services to with the Cybersecurity Law, State Grid gives notices and low-voltage non-residential users and high-voltage gets users’ permission before the information system users, upgrading of traditional operation model (read collects their information; rigorously applies levelthe meter, verify the number and collect bills) and grid by-level examination and internal approval before services, cut the number of labours with efficiency providing such information to other organizations increased, supported the transition of business halls, and signs confidential agreements with them; Never optimized mobile marketing, and provided better provide privacy-related information to any person or functions including online business, smart payment, organization without the users’ permission or strictly e-bill and e-invoice etc. Online subscribers In 2017 removing sensitive information, and ensures that the of e-bill 3 data is not stolen or used for malicious purposes to ensure information safety. million Applications submitted for inspection and verification 38,000 44 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 45 Customer-centered service system New type of business: comprehensive energy services First-call resolution rate (complaint) Timely dispatch rate 83.81% Call-answering rate 99.99% Total failure recoveries Stations repaired with high line loss rate 95598 hotline 97.35% 567,000 times 336,500 Satisfaction rate 95598 of return visits Accurate failure positioning 99.10% First-call resolution rate (repair) 70.56% First-call resolution Users having registered in “95598 Pay” over 200 rate (consulting) 100.00% million Accuracy rate of Volume of E-commerce 260.3 order dispatch 99.98% billion RMB Total tariff from “95598 Pay” around “Internet +” 60.3 billion RMB Build a market-oriented business channel for electricity sales Electricity sales companies Electricity sales companies registered established in its service area over and publicized in power trading centers Over 1,000 electricity sales companies in 15 provinces joined power Self-inspection activities of network 10,000 2,233 market, set up sales services windows in 2,185 business halls at city and Network information safety loopholes information system handled 205 1,947 county level with diversified choices and value-added services. Safe and reliable online transaction Smart Meters Installed another Covering 37.487 447 Households covered in 2017 User information collection system provided 44.497 million smart meters million households million pieces of information on blackouts to the electricity quality online monitoring system and 24.52 billion 1.67 million Automatically sent the information of 1.11 pieces of voltage monitoring data to the production completed Coverage rate management system(PMS). Totaling million 192.2% of the annual target 99.03% 3.3 million “All-in-one meter” information collection households to business partners 46 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 47 State Grid Zaozhuang Power Supply State Grid Zhejiang Power Supply Promote the application of “Internet +” Company sets up a management State Grid Chongqing Central City Power Supply Company Company and State Grid Anhui Power system that prioritizes customers’ needs provides services for specific use Supply Company created power supply ecosystem with Deepen the application of “big data, cloud computing, “Sunshine Nth Power” project Internet of Things and mobile internet”. To comply Meanwhile, “95598 Pay” has enabled rewards points State Grid Zaozhuang Power Supply Company Clients at the core business area and sensitive with the power sales-side reform and new situations connectivity with Air China, China Eastern Airlines, analyzed the question that customers’ customers have high requirements on the of technical development in “Internet +”, State Grid Avic Intel, ICBC, China Mobile, China Telecom, China complaints had not been quickly responded reliability of power supply, but the management To actively meet people’s demands for quality promoted the application of “Internet+ marketing Unicom, womai.com, Ping’an Wanlitong, Wanda ffan. to, and put in place the “whole-process quick of devices for specific use has disadvantages and quick power supply in the new era and deal services”, made full use of Internet technologies to com, Jingdong and dozens of E-commerce enterprises, response mechanism that prioritizes customers’ like boundary of responsibilities and low-level with challenges like low efficiency in installation, upgrade traditional marketing for better services in a building a cross-industrial platform for customers with needs” which includes 6 phases: collecting emergency linkage. State Grid Chongqing State Grid Zhejiang Power Supply Company more efficient and cost-effective way. The company better services and experience. complaints, analyzing information, handling Central City Power Supply Company built joint hands with State Grid Anhui Power Supply built the self-owned online channels and better questions, return visit, standard management, a cooperation platform for stakeholders Company and other stakeholders to implement integrated the online and offline processes to provide Ensure information security of customers. A and wide application. Through analyzing including enterprises, government and the the theory of sustainable development, further online, digital and interactive sales services, and built mechanism was built to secure the marketing network information on the platform, the company found public to increase the management and handled the issue of “absence” of stakeholders its image as a company that “provides convenient and information, and enhanced standards building that customers had more questions concerning control of emergency risks in core business after installation, created and enriched the sales services, smarter way to use electricity, and useron information safety. The information system would smart payment. To deal with the situation, the areas and lower the potential safety risks for 2.0 version of “Sunshine Nth Power” and built friendly functions”. State Grid mobile APP and “95598 remove customers’sensitive information before using it company printed “a picture on smart payment” important and sensitive customers; promoted a community of value creation for installation Pay” were integrated and available in the APP store to for marketing purposes. The company strictly managed and promoted it to customers paying bills at the the governance of weak links of the grid ecosystem. By enriching “Sunshine 1st Power”, meet increasing demands of online services. Besides log-in passwords and accounts at its best efforts. The window. Moreover, employees made door-toand continuous improvement of the grid they launched “Letter of Undertaking of the “red packets”, the company designed featured“multiple company backed up and removed data in the offline door visits to introduce online payment so that structure to improve the ability to manage and Post-installation Alliance” activities to extend gifts” promotions based on the loacal situations system to avoid information leakage at the final link, more customers could experience the more control emergency risks; improved customers’ the chain of value. By enriching “Sunshine 2nd in different provinces (autonomous regions and and tried its best to get rid of any safety risk that may convenient and quicker “smart services”. emergency countermeasures to fundamentally Power”, they launched the interactive system municipalities). When a user completed authentication, disclose users’ sensitive information. Meanwhile, it held increase the reliability of power supply; pushed consisting of electricity replacement “big data” paid the bill, signed an online agreement, authorized regular training on cybersecurity to make salesperson With these efforts, the company dealt with the government to improve the review and to expand value space. By enriching “Sunshine the platform to collect bills, a red packet with a certain better aware of information safety. customers’ needs in a more efficient and approval process of power supply safety 3rd Power”, they launched “eManager” evaluation amount would be offerd. In 2017, State Grid held effective way, increasing the efficiency of planning for major customers, further increasing and decision-making system to reshape over 100 promotion activities, covering 25 provinces operation and customers’ degree of satisfaction. the level of services; efficiently avoided any the standards of value. The 2.0 version of (autonomous regions and municipalities) and sent red In 2017, over 600 pieces of information on potential social and economic loss caused by “Sunshine Nth Power” enriched the ecosystem of packets worth over 30 million RMB, attract extensive needs were collected, over 210 potential risks blackout or delayed power resume in core installation, explored a new way to solve public engagements. identified and 78 risks of complaints avoided. business areas and sensitive customers; adopted problems with the theory and tools of social The number of repair requests received by more sophisticated measures to ensure power responsibilities, and provided a good example hotline 95598 was down by 42% year on supply for major venues and activities; and built for social governance in public services in the year, customers’ comments and consulting an image of a reliable power supply company whole country. down by 63%, complaints down by 30%. The that enjoys high-level skills and provides quality power supply services were well applauded by services. customers from all walks of life. State Grid Zhangzhou Power Supply Company presented a robot called “eBaby” Provide modern services The first robot “eBaby” in Fujian Province was officially put in use in urban business halls of State Grid Zhangzhou Power Centralized management of services. State Grid Provide quality and efficient power supply through Supply Company. The robot is featured with launched smart service programs in business halls to business handling. State Grid comprehensively “Artificial+Interlligence”. It can effectively optimize the layout of halls and increase their functions. increased the quality and efficiency of metering and identify customers’ needs through verbal With these efforts, customers could pay their bills business installation, and carried out measures like communication, interaction on the screen and within 10 minutes in urban areas, and there are outlets “handling processes within the company” and “onebody languages. Moreover, it can automatically for each village in rural areas. Centralized operation was certificate acceptance”to build a matching mechanism identify positions ,walking around the business realized in the 95598 hotline to unify service standards, featured by “less procedures, better process, hall and helping welcome customers, get them improve service efficiency and make customers coordinated work and one window for customers”, queue numbers, answer questions, guide to more satisfied. Innovations were made in e-services constantly streamlining the whole process and handle operations and provide information by developing 95598 interactive website, State Grid reducing the average time of power installation. State inqueries. Customers can learn the latest mobile APP, “95598 Pay”, and “e-charging”, and opening Grid provides undifferentiated services to urban and preferential policies on bills by watching a WeChat official account on power supply to meet rural areas, strives to increase the capacity and quality videos on its screen. Such smart services at individualized needs of customers so that they could of power supply, and secures more stable power business halls provided more quality services to enjoy quality services at home. supply for key customers. customers. The robot can learn by itself quickly. After a period of pilot operation, its functions could be ungraded through the knowledge base. By the end of 2017, the robot served over 3,000 customers with around 4,000 times of consulting services, and customers’ satisfaction rate reached 100%. 48 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 49 Promoting Rural Development Ensure that Support positive all men and economic, women, have social and equal rights environmental to economic links between resources, build urban, perithe resilience urban and rural of the poor areas. and those in vulnerable situations to disasters. 1 No Poverty 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities 50 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 51 Replacment coal by In 2017 electricity for heating in North China 1.988 million households Emergency repairs 57,631 person·times Speed up grid augumentation in rural areas Promote full coverage of well-functioning township power supply stations Implement the new-round grid augumentation in rural Create new power supply methods for irrigation and deductions, meeting customers’ all-weather needs Comprehensive ser vices made significant Integrate mobile operation terminals. State Grid built a Intensify efforts to standardizing rules. State Grid began areas. State Grid implemented the supply-side reform drainage in rural areas. The company added a new for irrigation power supply. Moreover, challenges like achievements. State Grid adopted the station manager “three-in-one” operation mode that combined power to set up rules for building well-functioning township deployed by the CPC Central Committee to promote power management system where a main card and swiping card for power, keeping power use records system, appointing the station manager as the main supply service command platform, power supply power supply stations, optimized rules, regulations, social and economic development in rural areas, and several secondary cards could be used on the same of irrigation and drainage in the meter were solved body of grid services and owner of the equipment, to station comprehensive service monitoring and control and procedures for core business, summarized the performed its social responsibilities, including “Power meter, developed a scan-for-power system for “Power to avoid additional fees and clarify the responsibilities form closer relations with customers and equipment; platform and station manager mobile operation experience in building pilot projects, and formed a to All Wells”, power grid upgrading in small towns (key to All Wells”project where customers could scan the bar of people in charge of wells and those using wells, improved managers’ abilities to provide collaborative terminal, integrating terminals used for marketing system of rules and standards that could support villages) and “Dynamic Power to All Villages” projects, code on the meter with “95598 Pay” APP to remotely providing better management and services. work, cutting-edge services and all-round skills to and checking and examination on-site operation, and the operation and installation of “well-functioning” which were completed on September 25, 2017, 3 switch the power on for motor-pumped wells, calculate collaborate and support each other within the grid promoting its application. Thanks to these efforts, the township power supply stations. months prior to the original plan. electric charges in real time and authorize automatic and in inter-grid operation. For low-voltage failure at on-site operation efficiency was further increased and township power supply stations, the time it took to the mangers could better manage and control the onarrive at the scene and repair time reduced by 21% and site services. 22.8% respectively. 52 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 53 The average capacity of a distribution Wells covered by the project in 2017 transformer in a rural household increased to 1.535 million 2.64 kVA Average interruption hours of customer in rural areas decreased from 19.14 h to 18.944 Total investment 45.693 billion RMB h Electricity consumption per capita increased by CO2 emissions reduced 8.75 million tons Power to All Wells Increase power supply capacity 35.1% compared to the previous year Total investment Farmland benefiting from the project 142.36 billion RMB Electricity consumption per capita increased by 93,333 亿亩 km2 New-round Small town (central village) grid augumentation was completed 95.5 kWh grid augumentation in rural areas 66,000 Villages where dynamic power was built and upgraded Line for power transmission April 2016 to September 2017 Completed three months prior to 78,000 the original plan and distribution 897,000 Rural residents benefiting from km the project new businesses like agricultural and side product 160 million processing factories, or livestock companies, are established in each village on average. Distribution transformers 4 451,000 Substations Construct and upgrade Promoting the development 552 power grids in towns and small villages of agriculture and sideline production Attracting over Annual income growth by agriculture and tourism 4.4 million migrant workers to return to their hometown Households with reconstructed electricity meters 51.4 to start their own business 14.314 billion RMB or find jobs million 54 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 55 Employee Development Significantly Ensuring the Realizing the full increasing the comprehensive and productive number of and effective employment teenagers and participation of all men adults with the of women and women, skills needed in all levels including the for finding of decisionyoung and the employment making in disabled with and a decent political, decent jobs, job; eliminating economic equal work and the gender and public equal pay. difference in life and equal education opportunity for and ensure women to be equal access leaders on all to vocational levels. training for all. 4 Quality Education 5 Gender Equality 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 56 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 57 Adopting a Strengthening domestic Ensuring employees’ safety Helping employees with people-oriented approach management of enterprises and health career development Employees are the pillars of an enterprise. State Grid Employees are the masters of an enterprise. State Grid transparency, the signing of collective contracts on the Employees are invaluable assets of an enterprise and perspective of equipment safety and personnel safety Employees constitute the foundation of corporate respects and safeguards the legal rights and interests attaches great importance to the role of employees basis of equal negotiation, the inspection by workers’ their safety and health play a key role in ensuring while strengthening the management of occupational development. State Grid regards the career of its employee and treats employees of different in domestic management and supervision and representatives and the Chairman’s liaison system. State corporate growth. State Grid is keen to improving health risks, paying more attention to the psychological development of employees as the foundation of nationalities, ethnic groups, religious beliefs and strengthening domestic participation. State Grid Grid also normalized and promoted the incentivethe level of safety and the well-being of employees health of employees and setting up employees’ health corporate growth and provides education and gender in an equal and just manner. State Grid signs constantly improves the democratic management suggestion system to safeguard employees’ rights to through providing them with reliable safety protection profiles to keep track of the health of employees and training for all through organizing skill competitions labor contracts with all employees, implements an system with the Workers’ Congress as the basic form, know, to participate, to express and to supervise. and health insurance to solve safety issues and create a safe and healthy work environment. and professional skill training programs. State Grid integrated payroll system, pays social security in full and implements the Outline of the Democratic Management improving the safety awareness of employees from the launches innovative training programs for fresh on time, ensures that employees enjoy paid vacation, of Workers, sticks to enterprise information employees, expands the channel for promotion and maternal leave/paternal leave and bans child labor and supports diversified development. It also promotes the forced labor. development of international talents to foster a team with global vision, familiarity of international rules, operational insights and outstanding management capabilities. Annual full-time training In 2017 3.8 million persons Training hour per person 86 hours 58 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 59 Organized competitions (examinations) 628 Finished online training Over Promoting the 7.1667 million person·times 1.6333 development of employees million employees Creating Staff training (10,000 person time) decent jobs Took online exams 2013 340 2014 2015 360 360 4.40 million person·times 2016 364 Overall productivity stands at 771,100 RMB/ (person·year) Implementing the strategy of making the corporation 2017 380 Applied for professional qualification certification and evaluation stronger with talent development 196,300 person·times The proportion of male employees Upholding fairness and 72.51% Implementing major national talent development programs Training for skilled workers Training for operational staff 1.7956 56,100 justice and eliminating discrimination million person·times person·times Newly added The proportion of female employees 27.49% Academicians of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Chinese Academy of Engineering Candidates for the National BaiQianWan Talents Program 1 2 Training for service workers Training for fresh employees The proportion of foreign employees The proportion of employees from ethnic minorities 28,800 person·times 51,700 person·times Candidates for Ten Candidates for 1.81% 5.57% Thousand Talent Program Innovative Talent Promotion Program The distribution of employees with different length of service 3 1 Joint training Training for technical workers 15.74% 14.34% 69.92% Having Four kinds of talents on four levels 66,800 person·times Training for managerial staff 299,800 person·times 1 5 10 year 78,000 1.2216 million person·times 60 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 61 Safeguarding employees’ Promoting the development health and safety of employees’ organizations Safeguarding employees’ safety. Caring about the physical and psychological wellPromoting the spirit of model workers. State Grid Safeguarding the rights and interests of female State Grid held the 3rd Innovation and Promoting standardized production safety being of employees. attaches great importance to selecting model employees. State Grid strictly follows Regulations Creativity Competition for Young Employees management and strictly control high-risk Carefully implementing the simultaneous design, workers and promoting artisanship through on the Special Labor Protection for Female Employees to build a platform for young employees to operations. construction and putting into operation of making video clips and micro movies for maximum to safeguard the rights and interests of female demonstrate their talents Carrying out risk identification and capability facilities for occupational disease prevention effect. It also pushes forward the development of employees from the root, improve the mechanism analysis and implementing precautious measures and control with the main body of the project, Model Worker Innovation Studios to form synergy, for female employees to protect their own rights, against electricity shock, falling or mis-operation. occupational disease report, and assessment of create a favorable environment for innovation and and include the “Collective Contract on the The 3rd Innovation and Creativity Competition Organizing regular drills to improve the capability factors that may lead to occupational diseases to build corporate brands, so as to spark the creativity Protection of the Special Rights and Interests of for Young Employees, with the theme of “New Telecommunication Technologies Make Power and speed of reaction in handling emergencies. control and eliminate occupational diseases from and passion of employees. Female Employees” as an important component Grid Smarter and Enterprise More Intelligent”. Establishing the equipment quality supervision the root. of domestic management. State Grid also provides The event focuses on cutting edge technologies and regulation work mechanism to rule out Developing “S365”, a fitness APP for employees, Improving the well-being of employees. State Grid individualized services of all kinds and organizes in the development of power grid. 5700 teams suppliers with misconduct and exert harsh which has more than 600,000 active users to meet launched “Warmth of the Heart” project to visit and theme activities to improve the well-being of composed of 44,000 young employees competed punishment. the diversified demand of employees. aid employees in difficult situations and enrich the female employees. in three areas: big data and cloud computing, Strengthening on-the-spot safety management Organizing regular body checks for employees life of retirees. During the New Year holiday and the Internet of Things and mobile connectivity, AI and VR. More than 13,000 innovation project and sub-contractor management to ban and establishing health records to track the health Spring Festival holiday in 2017, State Grid leaders Tapping the potential of employees in making proposals entered the competition, of which, subcontracting against rules and replacing of employees. visited 54,000 employees in difficult situations and innovation and increasing efficiency. State Grid 46 outstanding outputs have been applied management with subcontracting and rectify Carrying out surveys to learn about the troubles of 189 elder Party members of Party Committees sticks to driving development with innovation and and promoted, 15 projects are identified as the frequent rule-breaking. employees, organizing lectures on psychological under the direct leadership of the Headquarters respects the creativity and initiative of employees, company’s annual key technological projects, and Fixating the types of safety protection equipment health and promoting the development of with financial difficulties. By now, 2300 senior encourages employees to make innovations and more than 5000 projects are being hatched and increase efficiency and promote the development applied within the corporation. The Innovation to be prepared and the cycle of distribution to Employee Aid Program (EAP) and Employee centers (houses and clubs) and 59 universities and Creativity Competition for Young Employees safeguard employees’ safety. Appeal Center. were built for the elderly with 8100 students. State of a result demonstration and exchange platform. integrates the innovation-driven development Grid also organizes art exhibition, video-making It organized the 3rd Innovation and Creativity strategy of State Grid with the need of young competitions and table tennis tournaments to Competition for Young Employees, Technological employees， in demonstrating their talents Deepening domestic Ensuring the enrich the life of employees. Innovation Contest, Model Worker Innovation to strengthen the sense of creativity, provide inspiration for creative thinking and bring out management and development of Studios and QC programs to integrate online and offline platforms to spur the enthusiasm, initiative the potential of young employees in making innovation with a positive influence on promoting supervision employees and creativity of employees. the transition and upgrade in power grids and corporate management. Promoting the development of labor unions. Adopting innovative models for the development Constantly promoting the construction of “State of fresh employees. State Grid increased the Grid Home” through innovative and enriched number of employees in remote and poor areas channels with employees at the center to improve through implementing the system of “order + the awareness of employees that they are the targeted development” and optimized the model Organizing various activities to enrich the cultural life of employees masters of the Corporation. 1559 labor unions have for the development of new employees through Launching of the “State Grid Seal been established, covering all employees. identifying the goals of training for different stages Carving Club”, promote seal carving art and emphasizing the fulfillment of responsibilities Consolidating domestic participation. on all levels to help fresh employees to understand To promote traditional Chinese culture, enrich Promoting the development of the Employees’ the corporate culture and adapt to their jobs. the cultural and recreational life of our employees Conference with 256 proposals from employees and popularize the art of seal carving, State being discussed and responded to, up by 100% Expanding the channel of promotion. State Grid Grid established seal carving clubs on all levels. compared with the previous year. improves the “four level, four type” talent structure Establishing more than 40 “State The 3-Year Action Plan for Building “State Grid Organizing representatives of employees to carry and stresses the leading role of companies and Grid Seal Carving Clubs” with several Seal Carving Clubs” aims to combine traditional thousand members art with corporate culture ,fully utilize the seal out two rounds of inspections and promoting the departments that the talents work for in the carving hobby to record the development and coordinated action of employees’ conference on selection, development and evaluation of talents Holding “Road to Excellence”—— Publishing Odes to Excellence ——State achievement of the Corporation. The program four levels. through allowing those who use the talents to State Grid Art, Calligraphy and Grid Literary Works Collection Series helped to spur an interest in seal carving art Extensively soliciting for incentive suggestions select, train and evaluate the talents. State Grid Photography Exhibition and among employees and the general public. By with more than 500,000 employees proposing also adopts an innovative talent assessment and Literature and Art Week series the end of 2017, more than 40 “State Grid Seal more than 200,000 suggestions, in which 161 evaluation mechanism that highlights moral Carving Clubs” have been established with several thousand members. They organized academic were selected as contributive suggestions, characters and performance to avoid the tendency exchanges and competitions and visited significantly promoting improvement in of degree-oriented, position-oriented and communities and schools to hold a variety of management. dissertation-oriented talent evaluation. promotion activities that not only help to promote Organizing “Fragrance of Books” Organizing and participating in Organizing the President’s liaison to conduct reading and sharing activity the 2017 National Table Tennis corporate culture and build a good corporate survey to learn about the ideas and wishes of Improving incentives for talent development. image, but also contributes to popularize that won State Grid the title of Tournament for Power Industry, employees. Five issues of Worker Directors Paper State Grid provides incentives to employees with traditional seal carving art. outstanding organizer in the winning six championships have been published by now, acting as a bridge outstanding results in evaluations and promotes “National Women’s Day Book between employees and leaders. the trial implementation of dividend-based Reading Activity” incentives in technological-oriented companies focusing on the R&D of new products and the Participating in the “Chinese Dream · Beauty of Labor” commercialization of scientific outputs through National Workers’ Micro Movie Competition, wining more giving additional bonus and dividends to motivate than 120 awards, including 3 top awards R&D staff to pursue innovation. State Grid also launched the standard treatment to talents of different levels as an important factor determining their payroll to combine short-term and long-term incentives. 62 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 63 Mutually-Beneficial Win-Win Cooperation Strengthen Deepen Encourage affiliate cooperation, international companies to develop industrial adopt sustainable technologies capacity and practices and to get access to equipment set up a regular clean energy manufacturing frequent reporting and promote cooperation mechanism in investment and assist other areas of sustainable in energy developing development; infrastructure countries promote and clean to improve sustainable public energy industrial procurement technologies. structure according to and realize state policies and diversified corporate priorities. industrial production. 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure 12 Responsible Consumption and Production 64 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 65 Pursuing joint Growing together with development with power construction companies generation companies Improving the management of technologies. State Grid vigorously promotes 3D design, factory Facilitating the construction of new energy power processing, modular production and mechanized generation bases. State Grid closely cooperates construction to improve the efficiency and quality of with power generation companies to carry out construction and promotes coordinated planning, the planning and construction of new energy design, procurement, construction, operation and power generation bases, actively participate in maintenance to foster a modern (smart) supply chain. the transmission and consumption of wind power and solar power ,building the largest distributed Strengthening technology, economic and cost PV energy network in China. management. State Grid improved procedures for the approval of preliminary designs and the Optimizing coordinated grid side and generation management of the budget for the construction side management. Strengthens the interactive map and promotes project settlement during response level between power grid and power construction to ensure standard management. It also generation. Carry out wind power monitoring and organizes research into project quota and pricing early warning tasks as requiremented by the National systems and make deeper analysis into project cost. Energy Administration. Implements the national PV integration projects for poverty alleviation. Promoting the management of the construction and operation of hydropower projects. State Grid carried out studies on models for the construction and management Forge platforms for scientific of hydropower projects and on-site inspection and supervision of flood control facilities in power stations and research cooperation under construction and in operation on rivers along the border areas of China and North Korea, accelerated the Extensively carrying out international cooperation construction of pumped storage projects, strengthened in scientific research. State Grid established the check and maintenance of hydropower projects and partnerships with more than 150 international technological management to improve the quality of organizations, government departments, businesses, hydropower facilities and infrastructure construction. universities and research institutions from 45 countries and regions, and organized studies on Enhancing team building of construction. Deepening the power grid planning in Asia, Africa, South America reform of local construction teams to comprehensively and Southeast Asia with the Feasibility Study of promote team-building, promote the transformation China-South Korea-Japan Grid Interconnection and upgrade of construction teams and strengthen the already finished. professional management of collective construction groups. Pushing forward cooperation with domestic scientific research institutions. State Grid signed cooperation agreements with National Natural Science Foundation of China on establishing a joint fund for Implementing the development of smart grid, proposed guidelines responsible procurement for projects selection procedure for the joint fund in 2017 and plans for major projects in 2018. Constantly improving procurement management. State Grid strengthens bidding and procurement supervision and management with the Pursuing win-win cooperation establishment of the headquarter-provincial -regional (municipal) three-layer e-commerce with financial institutions procurement system to expand the scope of e-commerce procurement. It is committed to Expanding financing channels. State Grid has improving the capability of securing the supply been awarded the National Sovereign Credit of material and capital to pull in resources for Rating by three major international rating intensive management and improve the level of agencies for 5 consecutive years and successfully standardization. issued 5 billion USD bond with a record low interest among Chinese enterprises. State Grid Promoting quality and green procurement. State also made efforts to fully tap the potential of Grid promotes the project of “fostering green supply internal capital and increased the collectivelychains and promoting green manufacturing”, strictly owned capital under China Power Finance Co., controls the quality of procurement, improves the Ltd.’s control to more than 100 billion RMB. management of suppliers and optimizes the stability and quality of massive production. Optimizing capital structure. State Grid made breakthroughs in equipment manufacturing Improving procurement supporting facilities. State affiliates’ process, successfully implemented the Grid effectively promotes the “two foundations asset restructure of NARI Group and Guangyu and one modernization construction”initiative, Development and increased the securitization gives full play to the role of supplier service center rate of companies with direct affiliation to 50%. as the “bridge” and the “window”. The State Grid State Grid launched reform measures for financial material and capital service micro platform has been operations and helped Yingda International Trust launched and put into operation, promoting the Co., Ltd. to attract strategic investment from China application of information technology in building a Southern Power Grid. new-generation e-commerce platform. 66 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 67 Improving the capability of Focusing on high-end equipment and suppliers in providing services smart manufacturing 16 directly-affiliated industrial companies Save the standard material supply for Centralized procurement 10kV power distribution networks by The e-commerce platform had more than 422 billion RMB 13.3% 80,000 Year-on-year growth 58.4% registered suppliers in 2017 Completing the bidding for Value of e-commerce substations procurement reached 61 13.5 billion RMB Supplier service centers Revenue 223.96 billion RMB Improving the closed-loop business mechanism with extended coverage Regulating the management communication mechanism Year-on-year growth Expanding the channels of service-provision and improving the on-the10.9% Annual procurement Innovation in spot service evaluation system target procurement management Establishing a new self-service zone for suppliers Enhancing the functions of WeChat platform for supplier services Responsible Comprehensively providing highly-efficient, convenient and quality Profit procurement services for suppliers on all fronts 25.1 billion RMB Companies followed the official WeChat account of State Grid A growth of Improving the fudmantal management skills for Quality supervision and control is being 15,500 191.3 billion RMB compare to the last year end material and capital constantly improved The equipment passed the offCompleting warehouse infrastructure production-line test construction and augumentation projects Total Assets 206 95% Answered hotline calls 769.47 billion RMB Completing warehouse information 37,326 infrastructure construction projects 2,656 cases concerning misbehavior of suppliers A growth of 183 were handled, representing a year-on-year growth of 122%. Guiding suppliers to pay more attention to the quality of products and services 60.86 billion RMB compare to the last year end Services 73,900 Equity 333.56 billion RMB 68 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 69 Corporate Citizen Eradicate extreme Ensure that all Adopt policies, poverty for all girls and boys especially fiscal, people everywhere, have access to wage and social implement nationally free, equitable protection appropriate social and quality policies, and protection systems primary and progressively and measures for all, secondary achieve greater achieve substantial education equality; coverage for the poor leading to implement the and the vulnerable, relevant and principle of special ensure that the poor effective learning and differential and the vulnerable outcomes; treatment for have equal rights to provide safe and developing economic resources effective learning countries, in as well as access to environments for particular least basic services. all. developed countries. 1 No Poverty 4 Quality Education 10 Reduced Inequalities 70 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 71 Aid to Tibet and Xinjiang Poverty alleviation Power grid construction. State Grid implemented State Grid Corporation of China insisted on the country’s policy of stabilizing and securing the use of electricity for poverty relief as an Xinjiang and Tibet and built a safe and high important force in promoting the industry quality Central Tibet Interconnection Project; development and supporting the poverty accelerated the construction of Xinjiang power alleviation, and incorporated it into the grids, promoted the transformation of South corporate development strategy. The company Xinjiang’s resource advantages into economic actively served new urbanization, agricultural advantages, and increased the reliable power modernization and beautiful countr yside supply level of the power grid. construction. It persisted in the overall planning of urban and rural power grid development, and Talent input. To implement the East-West talents’ strove to increase the power supply support assistance, 423 management and technical capacity of rural power grids in remote and personnel were selected from 31 institutes, impoverished areas. Electricity for poverty relief assisting five companies in Xinjiang and Tibet drove and radiated the industry for poverty to carr y out power grid construction and relief, being an important driving force behind management upgrades. accurate poverty alleviation. Cultural promotion. State Grid implemented The “State Grid Sunshine Poverty Alleviation cultural aid measures for aiding Xinjiang and Initiatives” achieved remarkable results. The Tibet; organized the compiling of bilingual “State Grid Sunshine Pover ty Alleviation ( Tibetan-Han, Uygur-Han) books of aiding Initiatives” has become a paradigm for the central enterprises; organized and carried out the state-owned enterprises in poverty alleviation. delivery of cultural works for aiding Tibet Actively communicating with the government and Xinjiang; distributed mobile book boxes, at various levels and project owners, State Grid digital integrated reading machine and cultural had smooth access to projects through green activities facilities; created a number of grid channels, ensuring that projects connected to theme literary works and provided a convenient the grid and generated electricity in a timely and efficient reading experience and a full range manner, settled the on-grid electricity charges on of cultural services for all employees. time according to the agreed period and timely allocated government subsidies. State Grid also formulated Guidelines for the Management and Evaluation of Photovoltaic Power Plants for Targeted Poverty Alleviation at Village Level. E-commerce poverty alleviation area is operated Help students, the elderly stably. State Grid would continuously promote and the disabled the assisting activities of central state-owned enterprises in tens of thousands of villages and a hundred of counties. Creating a public welfare brand for helping students, the elderly and the disabled. Relying State Grid wins stakeholders’ recognition. State on 500 public welfare programs, such as “Home Grid hosted the National Photovoltaic Poverty for Stay-at-home Students” “House of Spring Alleviation Site Watching Exhibition, which Seeding”, State Grid accumulatively helped was highly evaluated by the leadership of the more than 900,000 underprivileged persons. State Council Poverty Alleviation Office. Using The “New Great Wall” student aid program was awards instead of subsidy as poverty alleviation implemented and sponsored 100 students to practice were fully affirmed by the ministries attend university and assisted 400 high school and commissions of the State Council Poverty students from poverty-stricken families in “three Alleviation Office and won widespread attention counties and one district” in Hubei province.Pilot and recognition from all sectors of the society for trial of “Emergency and Difficulty Rescue” was the comprehensive value created by the central UHV Power Grid In 2017 also launched. state-owned enterprises. The practice of poverty alleviation based on awards instead of subsidy Scholarship 700 Awarded the 4th UHV Power Grid Scholarship. has become a subject for State Grid to actively In 2017, 180 undergraduates majoring in explore and practice. electrical engineering from 20 universities were granted UHV Power Grid Scholarship worth Created public welfare brand. Combining with persons over 1.8 million RMB, which demonstrated the photovoltaic power plants for targeted poverty core values of power industry. State Grid made alleviation in “Three Counties and One District” active efforts to enhance its cooperation with (Zigui County, Changyang County, Badong Volunteer Service universities and other companies, consciously County and Shennongjia Forestry District), benefit 2 shouldering its due social responsibility. Hubei province and Maduo County, Qinghai Province, State Grid created the public welfare brand of “State Grid Sunshine Poverty Alleviation Initiatives” and promoted the publicity of million persons programs such as “Lighting Up Jingangtai by Heart”, “Love·Red Ribbon” and “Spring Seeding Home of State Grid”. 72 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 73 State Grid sunshine poverty alleviation initiatives Created a public welfare brand Partner assistance to Tibet and Xinjiang nizations directly im orga 114 All ple me m il nt 2016—2017 lion ed RM B of ns Tibet Households benefited tio The cumulative investment The total network capacity from poverty alleviation na do 1.97 9.542 1.551 National photovoltaic poverty alleviation In 2017 billion RMB GW million external donations totaled power station ri 636 During “the 13th Five Year Plan”, In 2007 completed investment eG Tibet power grid planned to invest on power grid million RMB tat eS 51.1 15 Natural villages with Completed electricity capacity h th Completed investment power supply enlargement and upgrading for Throug billion RMB billion RMB 21.25 26,000 52,000 d Dynamic Power to All Villages billion RMB villages 522 m Pu illi bli cW elfa on re Fo RM undation B Started constructing the Central Tibet Interconnection Project with All institute the highest altitude, the most complex environment and the most s im ple 482 me difficult construction in the world, accelerating the leap-forward don nte development of Tibet’s power grid. Hosted the rural electricity a tio d ns of 16 counties outside Tibet power grid to achieve the unified management of Tibet’s power grid. Continuously launched targeted poverty alleviation In 2017 external donations “Three counties and one district” in Hubei Province Maduo County, Qinghai Province 500 t ar qu ad He er si 18 m do plem Xinjiang na ent Poverty alleviation, Established file card, alleviated Clean energy heating demonstration Disbursement of photovoltaic tio ed ns completed contribution of villages from poverty project, investment benefits for poverty alleviation 437 million RMB 236 7.64 million RMB 3.8 million RMB Volunteer service State Grid invested in power grid in Xinjiang in 2017 Built bases of agricultural planting, raising and products processing Solved drinking water safety problems and benefited Assisted students on education in pastoral area “Emergency and Difficulty Rescue” project relieved A total of Communist Party Member Service Teams Established youth volunteer service teams 17.6 billion RMB 18 6,800 persons 148 persons 41 persons 4,202 3,200 The 750 kV Ili—Kuchar transmission line formed the main grid of Xinjiang power grid. The amount of clean energy delivered has totaled at820 GWh, and the photovoltaic capacity of the four Young volunteers registered Members more than prefectural states in southern Xinjiang has reached 320 GWh, 190,000 The revenue generated by PV-powered poverty-relief power plants 107,000 500,000 Each 200kW village-level power station generated about equivalent to a reduction of 50,000 tons of CO emissions and RMB in benefits each year for poverty alleviation. The village-level 1,132 households, and the assisted in establishment of file card for people 2 power stations accumulated a total of 9.35 million RMB in poverty income of poverty-stricken people was increased by 3,357 RMB/ 560 tons of SO emissions. 2 alleviation benefits, providing a stable and sustainable poverty-relief (household·year). fund for 97,000 poor people. 74 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 75 Compliance with laws and State Grid Communist Party regulations Member Service Team Build an internal control system. Set up a bridge with the people. Kept in mind the In accordance with the requirements of the instructions of President Xi Jinping when he visited State Council SASAC Construction Standards the Communist Party Member Service Team of Board of Directors, State Grid teamed up a board State Grid Sichuan Electric Power; keep in mind the of directors and a special committee, set up a purpose, be mindful of the people and become comprehensive risk management committee the party’s bridge with the people. The Communist and implemented two-level legal person and Party Service Team adhered to the service concept three-level management to ensure that decision, of “Your Power, Our Care” and carried out activities execution and supervision are independent and such as emergency rescue, disaster relief, aid for check and balance can be achieved in these fields. the weak, and dedicating love, so that they could State Grid carried out thorough risk assessments, respond with aspirations and difficulties. adopted questionnaire surveys, expert interviews and risk reports, etc. to comprehensively assess Party members played an exemplary role. major risks at the company level. No major risk During the 19th CPC National Congress, State Grid events occurred throughout the year. dispatched nearly 50,000 security teams to team Deepened the centralized management of funds, up 95 party commandos, 79 party members’ State Grid carried out specialized management safeguarding team, and 88 party members’ and controls on production, business activities service team. State Grid organized “Party Member such as capital, procurement, assets, marketing, Pioneers·Lighting Tibetan Area” theme activity, set research, development and engineering. up 47 party members demonstration posts, 23 Deepened the life cycle management of assets, party member commandos, 20 party members State Grid promoted the construction of electricity responsibility area and 23 youth commandos; market and customer service, actively promoted three comrades, Zhang Canhui, He Jiajian and the “first-class and four-biggest” technology Peng Kechang were unfortunately sacrificed in strategy, and strengthened the responsibilities of the front of anti-flood and safeguarding electricity, design, construction and supervision. highlighting the noble quality of “power utility by Comprehensively applied daily supervision the people and for the people”. and special supervision methods, State Grid conducted monthly real-time supervision on the core business such as finance, engineering, Luoyanghe Village in Shennongjia State Grid Sichuan Electric Power State Grid Beijing Electric Power materials and marketing, as well as internal Initiated “Young Forestry District “Three Co-s” boosted the Enabling full coverage of the “Electric control thematic evaluations with information The happiness reflected by the 92 construction of the beautiful Yi projects, asset management, and “two funds” as Volunteers Action” fingerprints village Power Love Classroom”. key management and control areas. Volunteer service activities In April 2017, all the villagers of Shenyanghe State Grid Sichuan Electric Power successfully State Grid Beijing Electric Power has been Strengthen the management of the Corporation Village in Shennongjia, Hubei province, wrote copied the experience of precision poverty planning and implementing the “Electric Power Through group promotion, standardization a joint letter to Shu Yinbiao, Chairman and alleviation in Gaoshicun village in Mabian, Lebian Love Classroom” public welfare project since according to law. management, project operation and typicalization Party Secretary of the State Grid Corporation of and promoted it to the precision assistance on 2012. It has conducted cross-border cooperation State Grid implemented the requirements of guiding, the “Youth Volunteer Action” Service China. At the end of the letter, there were 92 red Ahou Village in Xide County, Liangshan Prefecture with the Board of Education, schools and “Three Full” (full compliance, full comprehensive Program has been widely implemented in the fingerprints, from 92 families’ representatives with the introduction of poverty alleviation charity organizations, and fully considered the coverage, and full control), strengthened in the village, expressing their gratitude of the model as “Party branch co-building, industrial coexpectations and demands of stakeholders. Corporation’s system for 15 consecutive years. “Five Law-based” (law-based governance, villagers. The Luoyanghe Village is a poor village development and civilization co-operation”. At the Through the standardizing ”Electric Power Love Among the central state-owned enterprises, State decision-making, operation, supervision, with 92 households (81 households are poor industrial demonstration base in Ahou Village, 103 Classrooms“, enriching the contents of teaching Grid established first youth volunteer service households) in the Shennongjia Forestry District. mu of lilies, alfalfa, and chuanbei were planted, materials, upgrading curriculum settings and and rights protection), and established “Four corps and set up 3,200 volunteer service units with It is also the most remote mountain village in the and 3 phases of competition for raising pheasant, organizing diversified activities, etc., Beijing Modernizations” (networking, integration, 500,000 volunteers registered. State Grid formulated forestry area. The natural environment is harsh, sheep, and ecological pigs were carried out, which Electric Power continued to explore sustainable specialization, socialization) platform. remote, obstructed and backward. The village in increased the income of poor villagers by 872,900 development paths for public welfare projects. the Youth Volunteer Service Activities Management Comprehensively strengthened contract collective has no sustainable source of economic RMB. Through two years of assistance, the per By the end of 2017, the “Electric Power Love Approaches and established a working mechanism management. State Grid revised the unified income. In February 2017, the 200kW photovoltaic capita annual income of impoverished households Classroom” has been set up in 100 primary schools for volunteers’ action. The “Young Volunteers tex t of 238 contrac ts and continuously power station for poverty alleviation that was in Ahou Village increased from 1,500 RMB in and 118 communities, a full coverage in all districts Action” service team has newly-added 2.5 million donated by the company was officially started, 2015 to more than 5,500 RMB in 2017, raising the and counties in Beijing; Beijing Electric Power improved the specification, standardization volunteers every year, dispalying the company’s with a total investment of more than 2 million awareness of poverty-stricken villagers in their established and operated five “Electric Power Love and precision management of contracts. State brand image. RMB. The company was responsible for material efforts to eradicate poverty and strengthening Classrooms” in Xicheng District, Haidian District, Grid strengthened E-commerce procurement procurement, installation and grid connection their confidence in poverty alleviation. At the Fengtai District and Tongzhou District and Miyun and settlement management and established of the power station. After the power station same time, Sichuan Electric Power organized District respectively. Mobile exhibition hall issued a mechanism for separating the demand for was completed and put into operation, it could three levels of pairing and helping, various party more than 5,000 promotional brochures and purchases from the receipt of goods to prevent generate 150,000~180,000 RMB/year under local committees and party branches cooperated with served customers with 16 batches of 6,502 people. the risk of e-commerce procurement execution, sunshine conditions. Chen Zuju, party secretary each other and assisted with the construction The “Electric Power Love Classroom” public welfare of Luoyang River Village, said, “If I want to do of the village branch, the establishment of the project was honored by the State-owned Assets goods receipt and fund settlement. something for the people in the future, I have “Four Goods” family, the safe use of electricity, and Supervision and Administration Commission of Strengthened the legal representative’s confidence and I can stand straight.” cultural and educational publicity. Sichuan Electric the State Council and the CYL Central Committee authorization management. Focused on Power carried out activities such as “be a civilized for the “Gold Case of Social Responsibility for the implementation of a general system for villager, cultivate a civilized habit,” and “bright Large State-Owned Enterprises”, the Gold Project reviewing the legitimacy of major decisions, State baby”, actively promoted modern civilization of Capital Learning Leifeng Volunteer Service Grid introduced legal advice and legal review concepts and ways of life and cultivated the good Demonstration Station (Post), and Gold Medal of hygiene habits of villagers and children. Beijing Volunteer Service Project Competition. management measures, deepened the legal protection of tendering and strengthened the legalization of the company’s tendering business. 76 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 77 Green Development and Environmental Protection Dramatically Relieving Enhancing increasing the negative the education the share of impact on related to renewable energy environment climate change in global energy per capita in and ability mix. The global cities, including of staffs and energy efficiency focuse on authorities on rate has doubled air quality, this aspect. advancing the management research and of city wastes technology on etc. developing of clean energy and promoting investment on energy infrastructure. 7 11 13 Affordable Sustainable Climate and Cities and Action Clean Energy Communities 78 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 79 Renewable energy In 2017 installed capacity grew by 60.66 GW Charging piles integrated the Smart Service Platform for Internet of EVs 170,000 Re-electrification Boosting energy Facilitating the energy Establishing Smart conservation and conservation and Service Platform for emission reduction emission reduction Internet of EVs of power grids Re-electrification is the fundamental way of energy The large-scale development and utilization of Profound replacement of fossil energies by The EIA (Environmental Impact Assessment) rate Aiming at the features like “more requirements A total of 170,000 charging piles have been transition. A new clean and low-carbon energy renewale energy. By means of establishing steering electric power. Actively expanding the range of grid construction projects has stayed 100% for 9 from customers, more projects in various areas integrated to the Smart Service Platform for system is required for energy transition. In terms groups on promoting its accommodation , and and fields which can be replaced by electricity, consecutive years; the gas of SF6 has been purified and complexity in category of techniques”, State Internet of EVs. The functions of this platform of production, re-electrification is represented formulating a comprehensive scenario, China has and systematically arranging an overall layout for by 70 tons, which equals to CO2 emission reduction Grid took the company of comprehensive energy were consistently renewed, including services of by large-scale development and utilization of become the country producing the largest amount replaceable areas according to the principle of of 1,675,000 tons ; advancing the work on ensuring service as the principal part, focused on industrial “e-charging”, “e-taxi-hailing”, and “e-cars in cities”, renewable energy, such as wind and solar power; of wind power. Also, establish distributed PV cloud “covering all domain fields, energetically advancing that the sealing sites of electrical facilities which parks, industrial enterprises and public architecture. and thus the e-service system which is advanced in In term of consumption, it can be represented network generation, meanwhile, popularizing new fields and implementing pilot scheme on contain polychlorinated biphenyl are harmless for We also integrated resources, planned for the the same industry has been built. The one package as deep replacement of fossil energy by electric PV generation for highway sidewall, and plan the creative fields”. Greatly reducing the consumption environment; finishing the special examination on technologies, including diagnosis and supervision service system of sharing charging information, energy. construction of UHV transmission channels for of final direct fired coal and oil to boost the reenvironmental and water conservation of projects of energy efficiency, improvement of energy renting and selling electric cars, running and hydropower out-sending. electrification in various fields. on UHV DC transmission from Shanghaimiao to conservation, combined supply system of cooling, maintaining charging piles as well as car insurance Shandong, from Ximeng to Taizhou, and from heating and power as well as energy storage, so has been fundamentally established. Zhalute to Qingzhou. as to satisfy customers’ demand for various energy services on electricity, gas, cooling and heating. 80 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 81 Accommodation of clean energy Completed task of “Replacement of Coal by Electricity for heating” Key projects of in Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei electricity replacement nearly 7,014 100,000 Cross-provincial clean energy trading Reduced waste hydropower 408.6 1.51 Year-on-year decrease villages TWh TWh 8.1% Year-on-year growth Completed task of “Replacement 8.5% Reduced wind curtailment of Coal by Electricity for heating” Replacement of electricity 115 in Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei Electricity 5.12 1.26 Year-on-year decrease replacement TWh Cross-provincial renewable energy trading TWh 12.9% million households 49 TWh Reduced solar curtailment Accomplished the government’s target of “Replacement of Coal by Electricity for heating” Taking up 150 Year-on-year decrease 100% 3% Year-on-year growth 35.6% GWh 2.1% of sold electricity of the company Charging piles were integrated to the Smart Service Platform for Internet of EVs EVs integrated 170,000 17,000 Reduced emission of CO2 Reduced emission of SO2 820 million tons Reduced coal consumption in east and middle China 1.40 million tons 400 million tons Charging cards issued Registered users Online rate of charging piles 171,000 801,000 99% Accumulated serving Accumulated sold EVs Accumulated trading volumes Reduced emission of NOX Power transmission in total over distance of “ehailing” on “EV City” APP more than on “EV City” APP more than Optimized resource 1.41 million tons allocation by UHV grids 900 TWh 490,000 km 20,000 20,000 Accumulated number of tenants Transactions on e-commerce platform 221.165 66,000 Hydropower trading from Southwest China to other provinces Establishing the Smart 140.5 billion RMB Reduced emission of smoke and dust Service Platform for 220,000 tons Year-on-year growth TWh 8.6% Internet of EVs 82 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 83 Being the leader in green Serving the construction of Playing a leading role in development of statea beautiful China energy conservation and owned enterprises emission reduction Reports in the 19 th CPC National Congress Based on its own advantages, State Grid held on to State Grid combined the active management and proposed the idea of promoting revolution on the principle of “focusing on electric power and two advertisement so as to gradually advance the energy production and consumption as well as replacements (replacing coal and oil by electricity)”, energy saving construction in buildings which have establishing a safe and highly efficient system accelerated the process of re-electrification, and took existed within the company and implemented of clean and low-carbon energy. As the leader in actions vigorously in establishing a safe and highly green management in newly constructed buildings. state-owned enterprises, State Grid keenly figured efficient system of clean and low-carbon energy, a State Grid also started the energy conservation and out the deep influence brought to power grid green and low-carbon economic system of cyclic emission reduction in office blocks, established by new age and contradictions, and seized new development as well as a creative system of green smart micro grid system which covered interior opportunities to cope with new challenges. Sticking technology which is oriented by market. In this buildings, checked the effect of energy conservation to the principle of green development, State Grid way, State Grid could promote green development, and emission reduction in real-time, gradually planned and promoted the construction of power join in the construction of beautiful China with weeded out energy-intensive office equipment so grid at all levels, improved the mechanism of actual measures, create a good environment of that the energy conservation and cost reduction market-oriented transaction, carried forward the production and living for Chinese people, and make in all aspects of daily office work can be realized. supply and consumption of green electricity to the contributions to global ecological security. Besides, the cross-regional allocation of materials largest extent, and tried actively to be a model in can be carried out by property transferring so as advancing the revolution of energy production and to utilize the value of recycling materials in a larger consumption. range; a “green channel” for wastes was opened by positively coordinating with specific departments, the incentive mechanism of assessment was Promoting the Actively building pumped optimized and scrap materials were better tackled. accommodation of renewable storage stations energy in all dimensions Promoting the initiative on Popularizing the cloud Innovation drives the formulating the Work Schedule of Promoting Investment Installed capacity management of carbon assets network of PV generation development of EV industry accommodation of Renewable Energy in 2017, (billion RMB) (GW) refining the division of work, implementing Establishing a professional company of managing The successful operation of State Grid’s cloud The Smart Service Platform for Internet of EVs responsibility system, and solving problems of carbon assets——Shanghai ZHIXIN Carbon network of distributed PV generation has realized with the largest number of charging piles, the Wind and PV curtailment through combining 8.02 Yixian in Hebei 1.2 Asset Management. Co., Ltd., which leads the 5473 million RMB of trading volume. most powerful charging function, and the most multiple methods and comprehensive strategies. development of this industry in fields including Fully implementing services for facilitation extensive service for users has been established. Organizing 11 themed researches on to come up auditing, exploiting, managing and transacting which covered “one-click” establishment of Models for charging prediction and fault Zhirui in with systematic solutions. 8.308 1.2 carbon assets, low-carbon research and carbon PV generation, intellectualized operation and monitoring were built, customized operation Inner Mongolia Strictly following the precautionary principle finance. management as well as online issuing subsidies and maintenance as well as intellectualized of supervision on State’s investment on wind for electric charge. In total, the cloud network repair were implemented to create the best user power, and meeting the requirements related Ninghai in Taking the lead in the business of green supply has been connected to 742,800 households with experience. 7.95 1.4 to guaranteed full purchase . Strictly controlling Zhejiang chain within the industry, and devising the project 28.1879 GW of generation, and 276 high-quality Innovation on a series of operation models for the integration of renewable energy and newly of “forging green supply chain and promoting the suppliers have joined in with 652 items for sale. platform business. Promoting the operation installed capacity of wind and PV. Jinyun in green industrial production”. Building a public service platform of distributed transformation and upgrading of charging 10.39 1.8 Case-studying the PV integration in north Hebei Zhejiang Organizing senior seminars on “carbon PV generation which covers all industries and stations, creating a “six in one” integrated service province, proposing advices and realizing the management and carbon finance of enterprises” combines “technology + service + finance”; model of charging, rest, catering, Internet access, integration by stages in turn. Luoning in together with academic institutions, including forming a new ser vice model for online car washing, and advertising; innovating the Carrying out Guiding opinions on the 8.88 1.4 China-UK Low Carbon College of Shanghai Jiao and offline collaboration to realize online services of charging facility inspection which Henan implementation of the “13th Five-Year Plan” for Tong University, Business School in University procurement and installation as well as cover the management and control of whole renewable energy development and Measures of Edinburgh, Edinburgh Centre for Carbon offline installation and access to electricity; for life cycle quality, and promoting value-added Pingjiang for resolving curtailment of hydro, wind and PV 8.804 1.4 Innovation and Hong Kong Centre for Carbon distributed PV owners, investors, manufacturers, services such as advertisements on APPs and in Hunan power generation, and providing specific working Innovation. operating service providers, financial institutions, charging piles as well as financial services. requirements. Studying the method, route and MRV crucial and governments at all levels, State Grid provided All of these have continually improved the Pumped storage station is an impor tant Organizing themed conference in the company, techniques in which the company takes part one-stop services including information releasing, operational effectiveness. State Grid also built a infrastructure and an eco-environmental project and arranging the goals and tasks in three years in national carbon emissions trading market. online transactions, smart management, financial demonstration base of “dual-innovation”, opened for balancing power supply. From 2013 to 2017, after the “13th Five-Year Plan”. State Grid also undertook the main project of services, and big data analysis in order to realize up data interfaces for Smart Service Platform for the construction of 21 pumped storage stations new industry launched by the government of the function of an all-dimensional and threeInternet of EVs, provided comprehensive and had been carried out, with installed capacity of Hongkou, Shanghai: A comprehensive service dimensional Internet platform which is “more convenient data services for small and micro 30.15GW; 5 pumped storage stations have been put platform of managing carbon emissions from convenient with one-click installation, more enterprises, and initiated the construction of into operation with installed capacity of 6.1 GW. The enterprises. energy-saving with the construction, more ecosystem for Smart Service Platform for Internet 6 stations in Yixian of Hebei and other cities have Having independently developed 4 intelligent with supervision on Internet, and faster of EVs. driven the growth of GDP by more than 70.7 billion methodologies about Chinese Certified Emission one-step settlement than ever”. Relying on the RMB, genetated more than 170,000 job positions Reductions (CCER) and put them on records by cloud network of PV generation, the “National and will bring about 840 million RMB of tax after NDRC. Among these projects, two have been Information System of Poverty Alleviation by PV put into use. assessed and approved by UN Executive Board Generation” was established to realize the full life of Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) so cycle management of power stations concerning that they fill in the gaps in the field of accounting poverty alleviation. carbon emission reduction, which lacked the carbon trade participated by both domestic and overseas enterprises of power grid. 84 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 85 Qinghai Province Deeply advancing shore-side Addressing Climate Change 7 Days of green electricity only electricity supply China is actively involved in the actions addressing The national trading system of carbon emissions a sound economic system which is green and low From 00:00 on June 17 to 24:00 on June 23, 2017, Strategic Framework Agreement for Coordinately Qinghai Province was fully (100%)powered by Promoting the Use of Shore-side Electricity by climate change. The COP23 was held in Bonn, was officially launched. On December 19, 2017, carbon recycling, for building a market-oriented clean energy for consecutivet 7 days, namely, solar, Ships at Ports was signed with the Ministry of Germany, from November 6 to 17, 2017. The General NDRC held a national initiative meeting of innovation system of green technology, and for wind power and hydropower, which leaded to Transport and the National Energy Administration, Assembly further discussed the implemention carbon emissions trading system, which marked promoting green and low-carbon development a reduction of 535,000 tons coal burning of and which marked the establishment of a working of The Paris Agreement and laid the foundation the beginning of building a nationwide carbon with higher quality in China. 964,000 tons CO2 emission of. mechanism at the national level to jointly promote for negotiations for 2018. China is becoming an emissions trading system. The establishment of a the development of shore-side electricity. The clean energy operation has set a world record. important participant and contributor to global national market for carbon emissions trading is a It is the first time in China and an important In 2017, 24 sets of high-capacity shore-side ecological civilization, so its actions have become significant and innovative practice, which applies milestone in global energy transition. State Grid electricity systems with a total capacity of 44 MW the focus of all parties. market mechanisms greenhouse gas reduction as fully utilized the advantages of large-scale power and 507 sets of low-voltage shore-side electricity well as green and low carbon development. It will grids and large market, coordinated the scheduling systems with a total capacity of 46 MW were be beneficial for related industries, for establishing plans of different provinces in northwest region, newly built at the ports along the “two vertical flexibly used a variety of market trading categories, and one horizontal waters”, including the Beijingand promoted the consumption and absorption Hangzhou Grand Canal, the eastern coast and of renewable energy in a wider range. During the the Yangtze River. As a result, 50% of the ports or Installed capacity of renewable energy. The installed capacity of wind Generation capacity of renwable energy. The company’s generation 7 days fully powered by clean energy, Qinghai wharfs and water service areas along the Beijingsigned a short-term and real-time agreement with Hangzhou Grand canal have been fully covered power and solar power in the company’s operating areas totaled 240 capacity of new energy in its operating areas reached 333.3 TWh, with all provinces (autonomous regions) in northwest by the supply of low-voltage shore-side electricity. China in advance. A total of 41 transactions were GW, with an increase of 33% year-on-year. The installed capacity of new an increase of 40% year-on-year. The generation of new energy in the conducted, totaling 67 GWh being purchased, The company innovated the “Internet+” service accounting for about 5% of power consumption and built an operation and service platform of energy accounted for 18% of total installed capacity of power sources in company’s operating areas took up 6.8% of total power generation, in 7 days. Qinghai successfully addressed the shore-side electricity for ships to realize the use of the company’s operating areas, going up 3% year-on-year with a rise of 1.6% year-on-year intermittence and fluctuation of renewable energy “All-in-One card” for ships in water service areas generation. along the Beijing-Hangzhou Grand canal. The crew and passengers no longer have to smell the In the future, the company will further break diesel smell every day or listen to the continuous market barriers, optimize allocation of resources rumblings, let alone adding water to the auxiliary in a wider range, improve trading mechanisms, diesel engine to cool it down two or three innovate trading categories, increase frequency times every night. The application of shore-side Promoting energy conservation and of transactions, and rationally plan and deploy various types of power sources so as to form a electricity enables passengers to really feel the superiority of green travel and provides a new life emission reduction on the power generation side complementary model of using various clean on water for the boat owners. energy. Overal line loss rate was 6.66% Power trading cross provinces and regions: 873.5 TWh North China Promoting cooperation with civil airports with 1.33 percentage points lower than 2016 Clean electricity trading among provinces: 408.6 TWh Clean Heating APU replacement of bridge loading equipment In 2017, a total of 1.26 million households State Grid actively strengthened the completed the “Replacement of Coal by Electricity communication with Civil Aviation Administration for heating” in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and of China, and both sides proposed to jointly Promoting energy conservation and surrounding areas, so the coordinated development promote the “oil to electricity” in fields of air of Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region was promoted and transport, such as APU replacement of bridge emission reduction on grid side the targets set by government were successfully loading equipment according to the principles of accomplished. The construction of power grid sharing resource and complementing each other’s supporting the “Replacement of Coal by Electricity advantages. for heating” in Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, and Shanxi have all been started. Provincial companies, such as State Grid Zhejiang and Sichuan Electric Power, actively conducted Completing the noise monitoring of 5295 substations Recycling and purifying 70 tons of SF , 6 The company’s leadership attached great importance to it. The chairman, Mr. Shu Yinbiao, market surveys, positively contacted with airports in their jurisdictions, and made every Treating 197 substations with excessive noise equaling to reducing 1.675 million tons of CO emission 2 proposed that “we must attach great importance effort to ensure the airport’s increasing capacity to this extremely significant project for people’s in electricity use. They also actively provided livelihood, carry out investigations on heating technical services and support for airports to facilities for the “Replacement of Coal by Electricity implement “oil to electricity” projects, like APU for heating”, strengthen operation, maintenance replacement of bridge loading equipment. The and safety management, ensure that there is no full replacement of APUs for bridge loading power outage, and provide sufficient power”. The provincial branches earnestly implemented these equipment was realized in provincial capitals and main cities in the companies’ operating regions. Promoting energy conservation and principles, carried out household inspections for emission reduction on the user side the “Replacement of Coal by Electricity for heating” There are about 90,000 flights berthing by project, strengthened the identification of potential Binhai Airport of Tianjin every year. The aviation risks in equipment as well as the control of operation and maintenance, and enhanced the linkage of fuel saved in a year by using bridge loading equipment, APU, can allow medium-sized aircraft Saving 12.8 TWh of electricity in 2017 Achieving 115 TWh of electricity replacement, supervision and repairs through customer service to fly about 1.25 million km, equivalent to more Saving 3.31 GW of power equaling to reducing 64.4 million tons of scattered coal burning in final energy consumption, hotline 95598. They also formulated an emergency than 30 laps around the equator. The replacement plan for accessing generator cars in accordance with of bridge loading equipment APU has improved reducing 110 million tons of CO emission, 2 the principle of “specific plan for one line, specific the efficiency of transportation, optimized the plan for one village, and specific plan for one zone”. structure of energy use and promoted the green reducing 36 million tons of emissions from impurities like SO2 , NOX and dust The event of theme day, “Walk into the State Grid development of the air transport industry. and Clean Heating in Northern Areas”, was held to promote the concept of convenient and green life at home as well as to meet the growing needs of people for a better life. 86 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 87 Serving and Promoting the “Belt and Road” Initiative Enhance Increase trade Enhance Northinternational support for South, Southcooperation to developing South and other facilitate access countries, regional and to clean energy in particular international research and for the least cooperation in technology, developed areas of science, and drive countries. technology investment and innovation, in energy and enhance infrastructure knowledge and clean sharing, energy improve technology. coordination among existing mechanisms. 7 Affordable and Clean Energy 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth 17 Partnerships for the Goals 88 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 89 Starting a new era for serving the development of the “Belt and Road” Initiative State Grid successfully invested and operated State grid makes full use of its advantages Invest, construct and operate the First and national and regional backbone energy networks in design, construc tion, technology and Second Phase of the Brazil Belo Monte Project in the Philippines, Brazil, Portugal, Australia, Italy management to participate in international power and Greece with a total overseas assets exceeding grid interconnection projects. Currently, projects 60 billion USD. State Grid follows the principle under construction include: Ethiopia-Kenya DC State Grid makes full use of its advantage in design, of extensive consultation, joint construction grid interconnection, Turkey-Iran back-to-back DC construction, technology and management and shared benefit, developped and operated grid interconnection project, cross-border grid to actively participate in international grid interconnection and backbone grid projects. backbone power grids in the “Belt and Road” interconnection projects between Portugal and The construction of the First Phase of Belo countries, deepened international production Morocco, between Greece and Cyprus, between Monte hydropower UHV transmission project capacity cooperation and improved the efficiency Israel and Egypt, between Saudi Arabia and Egypt. in Brazil as China’s first overseas UHV project, and safety of asset management. We gained The 500kV power transmission project of the Grand was completed in December, 2017, transmitting extensive recognition from local communities and Ethiopian Renaissance Dam build by State Grid abundant hydropower in North Brazil to load regulatory authorities, actively opening up a new was identified by the Ethiopian government as a centers in Southeast Brazil through long distance, in large capacity and less line loss, to meet local era of serving the development of the “Belt and base for patriotism education for the local youth. demand for economic and social development. Road” Initiative. State Grid also cooperated with Egyptian power The construction of the Second Phase of the transmission companies on the construction of Belo Monte Project already started, which will State Grid has been promoting the development 500kV power transmission lines and substations effectively serve the development of the power of cross-border grid interconnection projects with in Egypt and steadily developped the ± 660kV industry in Brazil. The project also promotes the development and use of hydropower resources in neighboring countries like Mongolia, Nepal and Matiari-Lahore DC transmission project in Pakistan. North Brazil, create more jobs and tax income for Russia, which played a positive role in addressing local community, contributing to the sustainable the challenges posed by power shortage and development of local economy and society. promoting people-to-people exchange and communication between countries. Promoting “going out” initiative in terms of capital, technology, standard and management. Making full use of our own advantage, meeting State Grid delivered a series of world-leading Supporting the development of MVIP in the international market’s demands, State Grid innovations with independent intellectual property the Philippines took a heavy focus on electricity grid related EPC rights, in areas of UHV, large grid control and projects, established a new model for international smart power grid, took the lead in establishing a production capacity cooperation that allows all complete UHV DC, smart grid technology industry Mindanao Island is not connected to the Promoting internationalization sectors from investment, technology, equipment standard mechanism. China becomes a permanent main power grid, and relies heavily on hydropower with frequent power outages with a global vision to design and construction to “going out”. With such efforts, China was able to export its electric member of the IEC Standing Committee with Chairman Shu Yinbiao as the Vice President. State and seasonal oversupply. In recent years, Philippine generation companies have built and engineering equipments, control and Grid also promotess Chinese industry standards to more generators on Mindanao Island. It is protection equipment, automatic dispatching “going out”, turning its technological strength into expected in the next 5 years, the Island will and control system and high-end power and global competitiveness. face the challenge of power surplus. The Securing a good reputation with steady and Promoting technologies and standards to “going electric equipment to 83 countries and regions, Philippine government proposed the inclusion prudent investment. State Grid received out”. State Grid took the lead in establishing of MVIP in the list of China-Philippine energy including developed European economies such as National Sovereign Credit Rating by three major the UHV AC and DC and smart grid technology cooperation project. The China National Energy Germany, The Great Britain and Poland. State Grid international rating agencies for years. industry standard mechanism and led the Administration (NEA) established the Chinaalso undertook the construction of key projects in Philippine expert team on energy cooperation development of 47 international standards. Ethiopia, Poland, Pakistan, Myanmar, and the Lao with State Grid as technical supporter. Today, Promoting grid interconnection. 10 interconnected PDR, driving the whole industrial chain and value with continuous improvement in diplomatic transmission lines with neighboring countries Building the image of a responsible international relations, State Grid’s efforts in promoting chain to “going out”. including Russia, Mongolia and Kyrgyzstan enterprise. State Grid adopted localization policies the implementation of grid interconnection have been built to promote exchanges and with 97% of all employees being natives. State Grid projects is of great importance to promoting the State Grid has been actively building international communications between locals. also pursues lawful business operation and carries development of the “Belt and Road” Initiative. financing platforms to make full use of the out its social responsibilities. international capital market, with 16.5 billion US Deepening international production capacity Dollar bonds and 2 billion Euro bonds already cooperation. State Grid undertook the construction issued, significantly strengthened the company’s of key grid projects in Ethiopia, Poland, Myanmar financing capability. and the Lao PDR, gaining recognition and appreciation from all sides. 90 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 91 Responsibly operating Responsibly operating State Grid Responsibly operating Responsibly operating overseas assets through Brazil Holding (SGBH) Greece ADMIE SGSPAA joint work, benefit sharing and win-win cooperation State Grid is operating its overseas assets in State Grid commits to the concept of sustainable SGBH actively participates in social welfare events , In economic sector. State Grid invested in the Greek ADMIE signed land use agreements with By diligently carries out its responsibilities as the Philippines, Brazil, Portugal, Australia, Italy and harmonious development. With long-term fulfilling environmental protection responsibilities national power transmission network construction local communities caring for regional natural the largest shareholder for SGSPAA, State Grid and Greece etc., with a great sense of social strategy of localized development, State Grid and enhancing communication with the media. and upgrading, improved the efficiency and reserves (eg. Cyclades program among others). supports SGSPAA on key decisions in area of responsibility. In the process, State Grid strictly respects local religions, customs and culture, and We helped the Mare Slum Orchestra grow from reliability of the system, contributing to the Greek We actively participate in community welfare new breakthroughs in natural gas business. complies with laws, respects local culture, religions sticks to the people-oriented approach to build less than 10 members to 500 members, benefiting economy. activities, including promoting civil defense and By improving SGSPAA’s credit rating to A class, and customs, and has increased employment inclusive and integrated international teams. a total of 2000 students. We also organized providing engineering equipment for public about 50 million RMB financial costs can be saved significantly,winning the recognition and respect professional training on 26 subjects in UHV In social sector. State Grid shares information with welfare programs. For smooth implementation annually. SGSPAA successfully won the bid for of local governments.State Grid also funds schools State Grid commits to enhancing stakeholder technology and management. Two batches of local community to protect their benefits. of the project, ADMIE advocates project benefits Australian largest 5-year power grid operation and and education, supports the construction of relations. By organizing high-level mutual visits, Brazilian key managers were selected for trainings with local communities, communicates with maintenance service contract; the company also public service facilities in poverty-stricken areas participating in the bidding and construction of on UHV technology and management program In environmental sector. State Grid designed and suppliers for products performance, and help successfully acquired the DDP pipeline project and participates in environmental protection and greenfield transmission projects, we pursue longin China. with 909 persons being trained in constructed indoor substations and underground them improve. ADMIE also actively takes part with a bid-winning price of 415 million Australian public well-fare activities, significantly promoting term development in Brazil. total. By learning from successful experiences in cables with less land occupation, and laid in international organizations and associations, Dollars. ElectraNet won the bid for solar power people-to-people exchange in the “Belt and Road” management, construction and operation of UHV submarine cables connecting island with onshore sharing expertise and experience. plant grid interconnection project(unregulated) countries. State Grid commits to social welfare . SGBH AC and DC projects, SGBH has improved its project power grid systems to reduce the reliance on oilwith 34.6 million Australian Dollars. The first smart has donated 5.34 million BRL in supporting 10 management capability. fueled power generation, hence protect the natural community micro grid experimental project public welfare projects including the “Mare Slum environment. initiated by SGSPAA was granted the“2017 Orchestra” program, “Rio de Janeiro Four Seasons Innovation of the Year Award”, creating a new Long-distance Race” and “An Ode to Human” Film stream of revenue for the company. Exhibition. Overseas assets 60 billion USD In 2017 Overseas project contract 40 billion USD Overseas investment 19.6 billion USD 92 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 93 International communications and cooperation International academic activities Chairman Shu Yinbiao is IEC’s Vice President and the Governor of IEC’s Market Strategy Board (MSB). We promote practical communications with related international organizations, strengthening During the IEC Executive Committee Meeting in Switzerland, Dr. Shu discussed with committee members cooperation in areas of energy strategy, power transmission and distribution technologies, smart grid IEC Executive Committee Meeting February on major issues concerning the operation and management of IEC and offered practical proposals in the and renewable energy, advocating China’s new development philosophy and State Grid wisdom , future development strategy. increasing our international influence. Chairman Shu Yinbiao was elected as the Chairman of the B20 China Business Council at the meeting B20 China Business Council May celebrating the establishment of the Council in Beijing. 2017 IEEE PES Annual Meeting was held in the United States. State Grid initiated and chaired five panels: “Challenges to AC and DC Power System Operation and Control” “Building Safer, More flexible and More adaptive Power Participating major international organizations and high-level meetings : IEEE PES July Grids” “Smart Grid Data Analysis and Integration” “Distributive Power Source and Micro Grid Implementation— Technology, Standard and Experience”“Information Physics System Safety Analysis and Control”. World Economic Forum Global Sustainable Electricity Partnership GO15 (WEF) (GSEP) B20 China Business Council September B20 China Business Council Energy Efficiency and Climate Change Salon was successfully held. Chairman Shu Yinbiao attended the 81st IEC General Conference and a series of high-level management meetings World Business Council for Sustainable Development 81st General Meeting of IEC October APEC in Russia and addressed on the Closing Ceremony. (WBCSD) State Grid signed MOU with IEEE in Beijing to further deepen and expand the scope of bilateral IEEE November cooperation in the future. B20 China Business Council Annual Meeting, December Chairman Shu Yinbiao attended the meeting and delivered a keynote speech. B20 “Belt and Road” Forum 2017 International Conference on Renewable Energy Development and Technology Over Promoting the development of international standards 130 Sharing the best practice of renewable energy development representatives Regarding the development of international standards State Grid led the development of as an important approach to serve the development 47 of the “Belt and Road” initiative, State Grid attaches great importance in promoting standards “going out”in international standards electric power sector. Addressing challenges in renewable energy International Energy Agency (IEA) 16th June, development Frankfurt Germany International Renewable In 2017, 11 international standards initiated and led by State Grid were approved. Energy Agency (IRENA) Power utilities 6 IEC standards: 5 IEEE standards: Wind and PV power station grid connection conformance assessment Smart Hydropower Station Technical Guideline EV charging roaming information exchange Guidelines for site Measurement of Overvoltage in Finding solutions Research institutes Power System Ultra-Fast Wave and Fast Wave Heads UHV AC voltage regulation and insulation design Guideline of Arc Angle Parameter Configuration of DC Grounding Electrode UHV AC substation design Guidelines for Evaluation of Geological Stability of Transmission Channels UHV AC equipment on-the-spot experiment Universities Insulation Piercing Connectors Jointly hosted by State Grid and IEC Unconventional power distribution network/micro grid Jointly promoting the Equipment manufacturers global green energy transition 94 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 95 Transparent Operation State Grid ensures that the public has access to all kinds of information to guarantee its basic freedom; establishes effective, accountable and transparent institutions; and substantially reduces all forms of corruption and bribery. 16 Justice, Peace and Strong Institutions 96 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 97 Cooperation in power Accept supervision grid construction and inspection In-depth research on development of power Consciously accepting supervision and inspection grid development, construction and other major is a responsibility carrying. State Grid didn’t issues. Consulting with governments at all levels evade supervision from all sectors of society and on power grid construction, State Grid completed consciously accepted all sectors’ inspections. the “13 th Five-Year” power grid development Moreover, State Grid actively cooperated with plan and company development plan, actively supervisory inspections at higher levels, improved seek government support, signed strategic and perfected the mechanism for inspections; met cooperation agreements and jointly promoted the public’s requirement of “openness, justice and power grid construction. By strengthening report fairness” for power supply services, consciously and communication to the National Development accepted public supervision, and relied on the and Reform Commission, the National Energy 95598 business system of customer service centers Administration and other higher authorities, to extensively listen to opinions from all parties. State Grid formed reports on accelerating the development and reforming related work of the power grid and received extensive attention. Strengthen social Promote stakeholder communication participation State Grid took the lead in releasing the social Adhering to the full implementation of social responsibility report for 12 consecutive years, responsibility, State Grid established a sound strengthening the disclosure of social responsibility social responsibility communication mechanism information, fully demonstrating the exemplary to improve the external information disclosure image of the responsible central enterprise, and mechanism, comprehensively promoted stakeholder relying on the news spokesman team to continuously participation mechanisms and strengthened effective publish information concerned by society and communication with stakeholders. The “Going into enhance enterprise transparent operation in the the State Grid” activity was launched in theme, form of press conferences and other forms. Focusing and nearly 150 domestic and foreign groups were on important issues, State Grid carried out all-round visited. Through aspects of institutional arrangement, multi-dimensional communication and interaction to resource guarantee and operational deployment, enhance the sense of participation and recognition of State Grid ensured stakeholders right to know, to stakeholders. supervise and to participate in order to give full rein to stakeholders’ potentiality in creating comprehensive value. State Grid participated in the launch of the “Global CSR2030 Initiative”, joining hands with China’s CSR pioneers, contributed to China’s implementation of the United Nations’ sustainable development agenda country program and helped the ultimate realization of the The company had 2013-2017 accumulated UN’s sustainable development goals. a total of 2,405 spokespersons Responsibility information disclosure Organization news released Participated in the China Electricity I n d u s t r y Tr a n s p a re n c y Fo r u m a n d Participated in the “Golden Honeybees Honey Collection” campaign, exchanged 3,182 times discussed new methods of transparency ideas with government, enterprises, management with representatives from research institutions, media and associations, universities and the electric other representatives to promote the Published more than power industry to help the power industry “Replacement of Coal by Electricity for 100,000 develop healthily and sustainably. heating” project innovation method to help protect the blue skies. pieces of information 98 State Grid State Corporation of Grid Corporation of China China The The Action Action 9999 Media attention A Matrix of New Media In 2017 In 2016 In 2017 In 2016 87,835 Pcs 57,786 Pcs 58,284 Pcs 42,856 Pcs Built a new media matrix with the headquarters The official WeChat account of State Grid Stories has official Weibo, official WeChat account, “Power Grid cumulatively released 427 issues of 1,843 articles, 52% 36% Headline“, official Weibo and WeChat accounts of each unit as the core. There are a total of 735 and the number of fans has reached 420,000. The official Weibo in the company’s system, a total of total reading volume exceeded 40.82 million. Central Industry 1,045 official WeChat accounts, and 9 news Media media clients. The “Power Grid Headline” was selected as the top 10 Among the TOP10 influential new media of the influential news media account of central enterprise News central enterprises’ secondary account in 2017, new in 2017. The WeChat public account cumulatively report media accounts under State Grid system occupied Market New released 1,222 articles in 700 sessions, with nearly In 2017 In 2016 media media In 2017 In 2016 6 seats, of which “State Grid Jiangsu Power” ranked 1.5 million subscribers and a total reading of more 43,340 Pcs 34,672 Pcs Internet 235,767 Pcs 130,982 Pcs first. than 94.87 million, among which there are 322 media articles was read more than 100,000 plus. 25% 80% In 2017 In 2016 233,763 Pcs 157,948 Pcs Responsibility management and communication 48% Release social responsibility Hold a comprehensive social Select social responsibility management tool series for responsibility management demonstration bases and Media focus on key issues power supply companies exchange meeting rooting demonstration projects In order to assist power supply companies and State Grid held a comprehensive social responsibility After more than 10 years of exploration, practice other companies to fully understand, systematically management exchange meeting in Jiashan, Zhejiang and accumulation, State Grid innovatively proposed Article reproduced 300 grasp, and proficiently apply social responsibility Province, and invited the leaders of the State-owned the “two-way drive and demonstration lead” means amount more 200 concepts, methods and tools, State Grid has carefully Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of of social responsibility work promotion model than (10,000 compiled and published the series of company social the State Council, external experts, and representatives that promotes comprehensive social responsibility times) 80 100 100 responsibility management tools for power supply of provincial company, municipal company and county management from top to bottom and promotes 50 60 35 10 20 companies. This series of books select the areas of company to attend the meeting. Participants visited integration of social responsibility from bottom to electricity supply and consumption that are closely the pilot unit set up by the well-functioning township top. In order to further deepen companies’ social related to social development and people’s lives. power supply station driven by social responsibility — responsibility management, solidify the rooting Through five dimensions of social responsibility the Xitang Power Supply Station, the Jiashan County results, promote and apply typical experiences, Various 32,445 31,526 boundary, social responsibility issue, stakeholder Power Supply Company’s overhaul (construction) area State Grid organized and selected 11 outstanding media reports 28,241 25,106 communication, public welfare project management assembly and delivery package plant, the public power demonstration bases such as State Grid Taixing and compiling social responsibility information experience hall, and the “responsibility road” — Overall Power Supply Company and 35 influential rooting (Articles/Pcs) 21,265 disclosure report, the social responsibility theory and Social Responsibility Management Achievements demonstration projects such as “Green Coast Power 16,808 11,275 13,389 12,435 methods are logically, structurally, and graphically Exhibition. The meeting also held the “National Grid Alliance”. These demonstration bases and rooting 10,637 interpreted, and a new perspective is used to Corporation Social Responsibility Demonstration projects represented the Corporate’s level of social define and analyze the key issues of company social Base Standard Research” project review meeting, and responsibility management and accountability, responsibility. The compilation of this series of books conducted exchange talks on social responsibility demonstrated the results of Corporate’s social will certainly play an important role in promoting the management work. During the visits and exchanges, responsibility theory research and practical Central Tibet UHV and State Grid North Region Study, Smart Quarterly Service New Round Grid Qinghai development of China’s company social responsibility the leaders of the State-owned Assets Supervision and exploration, publicized the Corporate’s scientific social Interconnection Other Major Sunshine Clean Heating Publicize and Service Press Xiong’an Augumentation “Green theory and practice, and will have an important and Administration Commission of the State Council and responsibility concept, and shaped the Corporate’s Project Power Grid Poverty Implement Platform for Conference New District in Rural Areas Power for 7 far-reaching impact on the sustainable development external experts spoke highly of the achievements of brand image of “responsible central enterprise”. Project Alleviation the Party’s Internet of Development Days” of China’s economy and society and the better the company’s social responsibility management and Construction Initiative 19th National EVs fulfillment of company social responsibility. put forward constructive opinions. Congress 100 State Grid Corporation of China The Action 101 101 Enhance report and Strengthen information Government Social Self-check and communication disclosure Regulation supervision self-correction Held talks and meetings with government Strengthen social responsibility information State Grid actively cooperated with the State-owned State Grid strengthened the supervision of the Conducting solid internal inspections, the Corporate’s leaders from 16 provinces (autonomous regions, disclosure. We deepened social responsibility Assets Supervision and Administration Commission professional ethics by openly hiring the supervisory Party Committee sent 5 inspection teams, highlighted municipalities) including Xinjiang, Beijing, and communication and cooperation, carried out public of the State Council to carry out deep inspection and staff from all society sectors. State Grid relied political inspections, adhered to problem-oriented Jiangxi, and one district in Yan’an. Focused on transparency activities for power grid companies, rectification and special inspections, resolutely put on the customer service center 95598 business orientation, completed 4 batches of 20 provincialthe construction of UHV and power grids at all promoted the integration of social responsibility into the problems found in the central inspections into full system to regulate allegations transfer, ruling out, level companies inspections, pushed forward 20 levels, the smart grid and the power equipment international operations, and compiled and published implementation; actively implemented the auditing investigation and handling, and received a total of units to formulate 2,226 rectification measures and industry during the “13th Five-Year Plan” period. reports on overseas social responsibility of State Grid and cooperation of auditing major policy measures, 593 allegations on the professional ethics, while 581 rectified 1,173 issues, establishing and improving Major consensuses have been reached in the Brazil Holding Corporation and Nuri Group. cooperated with the rural grid transformation and cases were concluded, of which 205 cases were true, 415 items in the system; adhered to quarterly and transformation and upgrades of rural power grids, upgrades project and other audit investigations, partially truthful or other problems were discovered, annual inspections and pre-control of anti-corruption the development of new energy sources and the Continue to release important information. Focusing and effectively rectified problems. State Grid’s 518 related persons were punished; conducted risks, and systematically investigated, hierarchically delivery of power and the reform of the power on important information such as promoting reforms accurate poverty alleviation and auditing system supervision of power supply services; widely listened managed, proactively prevented, and effectively system. and serving the people’s livelihood, State Grid reforms were fully recognized in the audit report; to opinions from all parties; conducted direct controlled on all types of corruption risks, 115 launched regular quarterly release and joint release. actively cooperated with the special inspection of investigation, quick solution and full supervision on warnings and risks were disposed throughout the The “13th Five-Year” Power Grid Development The Corporate’s image with clear-cut views, positive electricity prices, and assisted the National Energy events with strong reactions and frequent complaints year; increased supervision on bidding, procurement Strategic Cooperation Agreement was signed actions, and openness and transparency was highly Administration in completing 11 special inspections from society. and professional ethics, and conducted surprise with eight provinces (autonomous regions, evaluated. of key transmission passages for atmospheric inspections and supervised rectification in response municipalities) including Inner Mongolia, Hebei pollution prevention and control. to the problem-prone areas. and Shanghai, which provided a good external Important topics spread far-reaching. Focusing on environment for accelerating power grid the key issues of the Corporate’s key work and social development, promoting quality services, and concerns, State Grid promoted further the publicity economic and social development. of topics and invited various media at all levels for indepth report to popularize the Corporate’s values and To study and implement the Party’s spirit of the create a strong influence. 19th CPC National Congress, the series of issues including vivid practice and typical deeds, Extensive exchanges and interactions. In addition to research on synchronous grid pattern and use traditional media such as newspaper, magazine medium and long-term power grid planning, and television, State Grid advanced with the times, adjustment of the “13th Five-Year Plan” on power establishing a new media matrix, strengthening the grid planning and major issues, southwestern publicity of new media and using various expressions hydropower development and delivery, new such as stories, pictures, animation, micro-video, and energy consumption, electricity distribution H5, to conduct interactions with targeting employees reforms, implementation of electrical energy and the general public. substitution, the work related to major national projects of smart grids, and the promotion of electric vehicle development have been actively reported to the National Development and Reform Commission, the National Energy Administration and other higher authorities, and the information submitted has received extensive attention. Establish a “multiple in one” Strengthen communication Commercial powerdemand response cooperation mechanism and polymerize force Make sustainable use of social Solve the problem of selecting Carry out the separation and handover of resources Major State-Level Organizations that the Corporate Participates: substation site in urban areas “three supplies and one industry” Associations/Organizations State Grid’s Role The pressure on power supply in the central area of In order to promote the smooth development of the In response to the enforcing implementation the city has become increasingly severe, and new separation and handover of “three supplies and one of administrative order at current demand China Enterprise Federation Vice Chairman substations are urgently needed. However, due industry,” the State Grid Power Companies of Henan, management and large user influence, State China Industrial Economics Federation Chairman to urban planning and negative public opinion, Hunan, Shaanxi, Mengdong, and Gansu innovated Grid Jiangsu Power Company adapted to China Association for Quality Vice Chairman selecting location of substations is difficult. State ideas and methods of social responsibility, local conditions and adapted to the needs of Grid Hunan Power Company and Hubei Power actively built communication platform with local the time, and promoted innovation through China Standards Association Vice Chairman Company innovated to integrate the concept and government, state-owned enterprises of water smart technologies such as intelligent power China Business Council of Sustainable Director methods of social responsibility into the process supply and heat supply, community properties, management and air conditioning load control. of selecting substation site, and incorporated media, residents and other sectors, actively Jiang Power Company innovated the peak China Association of Work Safety Vice Chairman stakeholders such as government, customers, plant visited, in-depth researched, focused on analysis pricing mechanism, interruptible load incentives China Internal Audit Association Standing Executive Director substation companies, and media to establish a of stakeholder appeals, and actively publicized and other commercialization models, attracting “multiple in one” cooperation mechanism through and attracted all parties to participate. The use of customers and promoting the commercialization China Bidding Association Executive Director using overcapacity plant substations’ original site innovative methods has realized the contribution of demand response. This method has been China Equipment Supervision Association Vice Chairman to build new public substations, and the intended of increasing social responsibility values in a wider promoted in Jiangsu and Shanghai, giving priority plant substations for customer were incorporated range, and also provided new methods and paths to the flexible adjustment of power load through China Power Development Promotion Association Vice Chairman into public substations to break through the for the separation and transfer of “three supplies commercial power demand response, alleviating substation location problem and achieved and one industry”. the contradiction between supply and demand, remarkable results. maximizing social and economic stability, and achieved full savings of social resources. 102 State Grid Corporation of China The Performance 103 The Performance Economic Performance Financial Performance Operational Efficiency Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenue billion RMB 2,049.8 2,091.4 2,071.35 2,093.97 2,323.65 Overall productivity RMB/(person·year） 609,000 643,500 653,000 709,000 771,100 Total assets billion RMB 2,570.1 2,892.9 3,107.44 3,404.13 3,808.83 Total asset turnover period Day 439 474 521.7 570.3 566.5 Total profits billion RMB 70.58 81.21 86.52 86.62 91.02 Comprehensive line loss rate % 6.83 6.81 6.78 6.75 6.66 Pre-tax profits billion RMB 173.96 197.17 203.57 211.64 241.59 Number of equipment accidents 0 0 0 1 0 Return on equity % 4.72 5.18 4.97 4.56 4.32 Number of power grid accidents 0 0 0 0 0 Asset-liability ratio % 57.00 56.1 55.3 55.9 57.6 SASAC Evaluation on Operation Performances Class A A A A A Grid Capability Power Supply Performance Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Investment in power grid billion RMB 303.482 385.504 451.8 496.41 485.36 Electricity sales TWh 3,522.7 3,469.4 3,450.6 3,605.1 3,874.5 Length of transmission lines* km 1,045,300 843,600 890,000 932,000 987,000 Maximum load within State Grid’s service GW 654 631 649 702 762 area Transformation (converting) capacity ** TVA/TW 3.24 3.365 3.6 4.0 4.35 Number of customers million 343 378 420 430 447 Integrated generation capacity GW 962 1,049 1,161 1,271 1,379 Reliability rate of urban power supply % 99.956 99.967 99.957 99.946 99.948 On-grid electricity of integrated capacity TWh 3,690 3,650 3,620 3,830 4,100 Average blackout duration for urban users Hour/ household 3.854 2.891 3.74 4.73 4.529 Technical R&D Expenditure billion RMB 5.787 7.080 7.376 6.921 7.828 Voltage qualification rate of urban users % 99.949 99.982 99.989 99.993 99.994 Total patents 28,311 40,143 50,165 62,036 73, 350 Reliability rate of rural grid power supply % 99.852 99.878 99.844 99.782 99.784 Total National Science and Technology Awards 43 46 51 60 69 Average blackout duration for rural users Hour/ household 12.965 10.64 13.71 19.14 18.944 Trans-regional and trans-provincial UHV TWh 72.788 136.7 160.518 180.7 232.6 transmission Voltage qualification rate for rural users (%) % 98.567 98.808 99.065 99.491 99.650 National and industrial standards led and 206 144 185 236 255 Inter-provincial Electricity Trading Volume TWh 601.9 678.9 722.1 774.4 873.5 development by State Grid Fulfillment rate for the “Ten Commitments” % 99.999 99.999 99.999 99.999 99.999 on power supply service *Transmission lines of 110 (66) kV and above levels. **Transformation /converting capacity of 110 (66) kV and above levels. Note: Data in this report for 2016 may differ from the ones in the 2016 CSR Report, please note the data in this reportis the final count. The Financial performance figures for 2017 are from the express reports, which may also differ from the final statistics. 104 State Grid Corporation of China The Performance 105 Social Performance Environmental Performance General Service Serve Clean Energy Development Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Investment in the rural grid Billion RMB 50.73 46.45 125.799 180.0 147.4 Integrated capacity from clean energy generator units GW 274.26 331.83 372.9501 430.79 503.06 The average gap between urban and rural Hour/household 9.11 7.8 9.97 14.41 14.41 Including: integrated capacity of hydropower GW 185.37 198.82 207.8246 215.89 224.14 annual blackout time Integrated capacity of nuclear power MW 8,490 12,750 17,019 20,670 21,760 Note: After two years of hard work, State Grid had comprehensively solved the long term low voltage problems on our grid. At the moment, the low voltage problem is under constant Integrated capacity from renewable energy MW 92,470 120,260 148,106.5 194,230 257,160 surveillance and will be dealt with, as soon as being identified. generator units Including: integrated capacity of wind power MW 59,590 87,900 102,757 116,540 128,900 Public Donations Integrated capacity of PV power MW 14,290 24,450 35,975 66,760 115,060 Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 On-grid power from clean energy generator units TWh 767.9 921.8 980.569 1,134.7 1,262.6 Donations million RMB 116 114 128 136 636 Including: on-grid hydropower TWh 568.3 651.1 669.799 737.5 744.6 Via State Grid Foundation for Public Welfare million RMB 8.5 10.6 15 18 522 On-grid nuclear power TWh 60.6 73 101.948 117.3 138 On-grid power from renewable energy TWh 139 197.742 208.822 279.9 380 Staff’s volunteer service Thousand person·time 713 2200 2000 2500 2000 generator units Win-win Partnership Comprehensive Power Conservation Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Centralized tendering volume Billion RMB 334.3 369.0 507.7 468.9 422.0 Power saved by lowering the line loss TWh 1.89 17.1 10.36 1.16 3.74 Luban Awards in total 20 22 23 27 28 Generation rights transactions TWh 113.848 116.785 113.154 122.1 121.4 Electricity replacement capacity TWh 14 50.3 76 103 115 Transparent Operation Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 EV Development State Grid website’s browse statistics Visits 8,664,000 12,810,000 17,919,000 14,384,000 25,829,000 Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Information reported to governments from Piece 203 198 215 180 203 Total EV charging piles 19,700 24,000 29,600 44,000 56,000 State Grid Headquarters Employee Development Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Carbon Dioxide Emission Reduction Training coverage rate % 94 94.3 94.55 94.6 94.64 Unit 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Employee training Thousand person·time 3,400 3,600 3,600 3,640 3,800 Emission reduced by clean energy accommodation Thousand tons 668,291.3 741,620 810,000 880,000 980,000 The proportion of female employees % 26.9 27.2 27.3 27.5 27.49 Emission reduced by lowering the line loss Thousand tons 1,500 13,700 8,200 910 2,890 Labor unions 1,936 1,303 1,522 1,535 1,559 106 State Grid Corporation of China The Commitment 107 The Commitment Note: accomplished unaccomplished Commitment for 2017 Fulfillment in 2017 Commitment for 2018 Economic Performance Economic Performance Economic Performance Invested 587.1 billion RMB in corporate development Invested 608.1 billion RMB in corporate development Invested 581.9 billion RMB in corporate development Inter-provincial power trade: 952.8 TWh Invested 484.8 billion RMB in fixed assets Invested 506.6 billion RMB in fixed assets Invested 522.8 billion RMB in fixed assets Revenue: 2,460 billion RMB Invested 465.7 billion RMB in power grid Invested 485.4 billion RMB in power grid Invested 498.9 billion RMB in power grid Profits: 95.5 billion RMB Started the constructtion of 67,000 km 110(66)kV and above Started the constructtion of 49,000 km 110(66)kV and Started the constructtion of 61,000 km 110(66)kV and Added economic value: 12 billion RMB power lines with a transformation /converting capacity of above power lines with a transformation /converting above power lines with a transformation /converting 420 GVA(GW) capacity of 260 GVA(GW) capacity of 380 GVA(GW) Total assets: 4.13 trillion RMB Commissioned 60,000 km 110(66)kV and above lines with Put 55,000 km 110(66)kV and above lines into Put 52,000 km 110(66)kV and above lines into Asset-liability ratio: 57.7% a transformation /converting capacity of 380 GVA(GW) operation with a transformation /converting capacity operation with a transformation /converting capacity Overall productivity: 812,000 RMB/(person·year) of 350 GVA(GW) of 300 GVA(GW) Electricity sales: 3,767 TWh Electricity sales: 3,874.5 TWh Electricity sales: 4,070 TWh Inter-provincial power trade: 823 TWh Inter-provincial power trade: 873.5 TWh Revenue: 2,170 billion RMB Revenue: 2,320 billion RMB Profits: 79.04 billion RMB Profits: 91.02 billion RMB Added economic value: 10.8 billion RMB Added economic value: 11.79 billion RMB Total assets: 3.7 trillion RMB Total assets: 3.81 trillion RMB Social Performance Asset-liability ratio: 58% Asset-liability ratio: 57.6% Overall productivity: 746,000 RMB/(person·year) Overall productivity: 771,100 RMB/(person·year) One stop service for bill settlement, power access and energy related services etc. Realize 30% reduction in the cost of electricity connection Reduce the average time for 10kV and 400V non-residential electricity connection to 80 and 30 days respectively Social Performance Social Performance Get approval for the construction of six UHV projects, including: Yazhong—Nanchang, Qinghai— Henan, Mengxi—Jinzhong, Baihetan—Jiangsu UHV projects Finish the grid upgrade in small town (central village) Finished the grid upgrade in small town (central village) Start the construction of the VSC DC power grid project in Zhangbei and the 35kV superconducting and in irrigation systems. Replace oil by electricity for and in irrigation systems. Replace oil by electricity for rural cable experimental and demonstration project rural motor-pumped wells motor-pumped wells Put into operation the Central Tibet Interconnect Project, Chongqing—Hubei back-to-back, Shanxi Yu The value of e-commerce deals reached 160 billion RMB The value of e-commerce deals reaches 260.3 billion RMB County Power Plant and other key projects. Closed the deal for Brazilian CPFL acquisition and Greek Transmission network acquisition Closed the deal for Brazilian CPFL acquisition and Greek Implement the new round of rural grid upgrade, and build 75 outstanding electricity access Transmission network acquisition demonstration towns Completed 2 AC and 5 DC UHV projects in a quality and efficient manner Completed 2 AC and 5 DC UHV projects in a quality and Market traded electricity exceeds 1,400TWh efficient manner Completed key projec ts such as the Sichuan— Asssit the transfer of water, electricity, heat supply services and property management to professional Chongqing Third channel Completed key projects such as the Sichuan—Chongqing service providers Third channel Implement the development of power grid in poverty areas , including Tibet Autonomous Region, Tibetan inhabited areas in Sichuan, Gansu, Qinghai and four regions in South Xinjiang and build 11 village-level PV power stations in Maduo, Qinghai Accelerate the application of the new-generation of power distribution automation system, with a 60% coverage ratio Environmental Performance Environmental Performance Accomplished 113TWh of electricity replacement Accomplished 115TWh of electricity replacement Put into operaton 54 key projects replacing coal by electricity in Put into operaton 53 key projects replacing coal by electricity Environmental Performance Beijing,Tianjin,Hebei region in Beijing,Tianjin,Hebei region Newly integrate 26,000 charging piles and the total number of Newly integrate 63,000 charging piles and the total number of Reduce both the volume and rate of wind/PV curtailment by year end charging piles reach 160,000 charging piles reach 170,000 Build and put into operation auxiliary projects to replace coal by electricity in key areas in Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei Build 9 vertical, 9 horizontal and 2 ring highway quick charging Build 9 vertical, 9 horizontal and 2 ring highway quick charging networks Vigorously promote electricity replacement and realize 130 TWh of electricity replacement by year end networks Put the 4 AC and 4 DC UHV projects into operation, where the Build 30,000 charging piles, connect 50,000 charging piles and attract 500,000 more users to the company’s service Put the 4 AC and 4 DC UHV projects into operation, where the projects have already been included in the National Action platform projects have already been included in the National Action Plan for Air Pollution Prevention and Contro Plan for Air Pollution Prevention and Control 108 State Grid Corporation of China The Commitment 109 Featured CSR commitments from State Grid provincial companies in 2018 The commitments by the subsidiaries managed by State Grid have been included in the commitment of the company. Fulfillments in 2017 Commitments for 2018 Fulfillments in 2017 Commitments for 2018 Fulfillments in 2017 Commitments for 2018 Fulfillments in 2017 Commitments for 2018 Implement pointConstruct 52 charging Increase the proportion Invest 1.29 billion RMB Promote electricity to-point poverty stations and 1,000 charging of clean energy heating State Grid State Grid on upgrading the power State Grid State Grid Complete the grounding of Promote electricity replacement and realize Help 143 places to get alleviation projects in 29 piles; implement more than during winter in Beijing, Beijing Jiangsu grids for 47 towns; Jiangxi Shaanxi 80km overhead power lines replacement and realize 13.9 TWh of electricity out of poverty; help 2,112 impoverished villages; 180 point-to-point poverty the “Replacement of Coal Electric Electric save industrial power Electric Electric in 62 streets in the central 13 TWh of electricity replacement and a households to get out of solve the problem of alleviation projects with a by Electricity in heating” in Power Power consumption cost by Power Power areas of the capital city replacement productivity reach1.7934 poverty by the end of 2018 undevoltage for 280,000 total investment of more 407,700 rural households Company Company 100 million RMB in the Company Company million RMB (person • year) rural households within than10 million RMB in in 904 villages whole province the province poverty alleviation Promote clean energy Build 301 EV charging heating during winter and swaping stations All clean energy is Construct supporting in North China and State Grid and 4,417 charging piles, accommodated; State Grid Promote the export of State Grid Promote the export of State Grid Implement “two Upgrade power grid in power grids in 349 poverty the construction of Tianjin forming a 3km redius implement “two Zhejiang electricity generated in Sichuan electricity generated in Gansu replacements” and 782 key villages in the alleviation relocation “zero-coal area” in Electric charging service circle replacements” and Electric Sichuan; deliver over Electric Sichuan; deliver over Electric accomplish 7.0TWh of province, benefiting 2.66 destinations, benefiting Wuqing District; the Power in downtown area and accomplish 6.5TWh of Power 132TWh of hydropower power 140TWh of hydropower out Power electricity replacement million people 17,900 impoverished “Replacement of Coal by Company a 5km redius charging electricity replacement Company out of the province Company of the province Company households Electricity for heating” in service circle in other 169,000 households areas. Ensure no wind/PV Build 323.8km of State Grid Ensure no wind/ State Grid State Grid Help 500 villages in 11 State Grid curtailment all around Build 158 quick charging Upgrade the grids in 922 supporting lines for Hebei PV curtailment all Anhui Chongqing impoverished counties Qinghai the year, total installed stations with 1,289 Build 54 new quick small town (central village) electrified railways to Realize 2.1TWh of electricity Electric around the year, total Electric Electric out of poverty; realize Electric generation capacity of DC charging piles in charging stations and dynamic power in ensure power demand of replacement Power installed capacity of the Power Power 2TWh of electricity Power the renewables reach highway services areas 317 villages railways in Chongqing and Company renewables reached 6 GW Company Company replacement Company 4.59 GW Guizhou Support the development Support the of renewable energy; The “Replacement of Coal Installed capacity of development of State accommodate over 16 State Grid All clean energy is by Electricity for heating” State Grid Complete all supporting State Grid Upgrade power supply clean energy in the 43.4TWh of clean energy renewable energy; Grid Jibei GW of installed capacity Fujian accommodated; promote in 465 companies; the Liaoning grid projects for povertyNingxia facilities for 99,200 province accounts for is accommodated, accommodate over 15.2 Electric of renewable energy into Electric electricity replacement heating area reached Electric relief program and Electric households; all power more than 50%; realize accounting for 24% of total GW of installed capacity Power the grid, where renewable Power and realize 6TWh of 3,840,000 m2; annual Power projects of “Dynamic Power supply facilities included in 6TWh of electricity electricity sales of renewable energy Company energy taking up more Company electricity replacement electricity replacement Company Power to All Villages” Company the plan are delivered replacement into the grid than 51% of the total reaches 298GWh generation mix Invest 437 million Invest at least 8 billion Invest 3.402 billion RMB Build 5 outstanding RMB to build 47.2 MW Upgrade and the grids State Grid State Grid RMB in rural grid projects; State Grid Invest 488 million RMB in in rural power grid State Grid Invest 16.4 billion RMB electricity access PV power stations in in 1,951 small town Shanxi Hubei comprehensively promote Invest 5.29 billion RMB Jilin rural power grid; realize upgrade in 748 small Xinjiang in fixed assets; invest a demonstration towns.; villages, benefiting (central village) ; electrify Electric Electric electricity replacement, in rural power grid and Electric electric heating in 36,000 town (central village); Electric total of 82.6 billion RMB in upgrade and reconstruct 33,200 households or reconstruct 45,400 Power Power realize 5.16TWh of electrify 93,300 wells Power households; realize 2.6TWh realize electrification Power Xinjiang Grid during the all power grids for highand 102,800 registered pumped wells Company Company electricity replacement Company of electricity replacement and upgrade of 1,594 Company “13th Five-Year Plan” Period speed railways poverty-stricken pumped wells population The “Replacement of Coal Upgrade the power by Electricity for heating” grid in 2,119 small and realize clean heating Promote electricity Upgrade rural grids in town (central village) State Grid State Grid State Grid Upgrade the rural grids State Grid Realize 200GWh of during winter in 300,000 replacement and 1,259 poverty-stricken Accommodate 10.8TWh Accommodate 13.4TWh and electrify 420,000 Shandong Hunan Heilongjiang in 2,797 small town Tibet electricity replacement; households; realize accomplish 4.78TWh of villages; promote of wind power, accounting of clean energy; import pumped wells, Electric Electric Electric (central village) ; solve or Electric 67 towns will realize electricity replacement electricity replacement; electricity replacement, for 14.94% of the total 3.3TWh of electricity from benefiting 14.01 million Power Power Power ease the power shortage Power power supply by the main of 11.7 TWh. Create deploy 6,275,000 smart accomplish 5TWh of electricity sales Russia farmers and reduce Company Company Company for 1.6 million people Company power grid smart meter information meters electricity replacement annual irrigation cost by collection demonstration 2.5 billon RMB zones with 800,000 households Continue speeding up the construction State Grid Continue to promote grid Upgrade the rural grids State Grid State Grid Shanghai Henan Upgrade the rural grids Accommodate 18TWh East Inner Accommodate 18.2TWh of urban bus quick development, speed up in 1,900 key villages; Electric Electric in 4 deeply impoverished wind power, accounting Mongolia wind power, accounting charging network and the construction of grids help 3,943 impoverished Power Power counties and 1,235 deeply for 61.43% of the total Electric Power for 59.67% of the total realize an average 2 km with an investment of 16 villages out of electricity Company Company impoverished villages electricity sales Company electricity sales radius charging service billion RMB shortage circle in downtown 110 State Grid Corporation of China Benchmarking 111 Benchmarking Analysis on Substantive Topics in the 2017 Report Identify Topics Analyze Topics Order of Topics We continue collecting topics via: We invited stakeholders to vote on their top concerns understand these concerns. Practical analysis were According to State Grid CSR Guide, we continue Suggestions from the management team; regarding the CSR topics through official WeChat done to the topics included in the topic pool according applying the “value creationsocial concern” twoTopics from external stakeholders; accounts of “Power Grid Headline” and the provincial to their weighted contribution to the company’s dimensional matrix to sort out the importance of Analysis from external and internal experts; Topics benchmarked with CSR standards. companies, with reference to media analysis reports, economic, environmental and social value creation topics. Topics from subsidiaries; including central media, industrial media, new with reference to internal media reports including State Value Creation Dimension: assess the relevance, media, cyber media and marketing media to further Grid News, State Grid Magazine and Liang Bao. importance, and feasibility of specific topics to integrated value creation. Social Concern Dimension: assess the degree of concern on specific topics by the stakeholders and the public in general. Social Attention Power system reform Safe and reliable energy supply Clean energy development and Customer Electricity Poverty relief accommodation service replacement Serving the development of Global Energy the “Belt and Road” Interconnection Party Initiative (GEI) Employee building development UHV S&T innovation Corporate construction governance Community Secured power Responsible development supply for major procurement events Value chain partnership Value Creation 1 10 No Poverty Corporate Citizen. State Grid had 500 donations totaling 636 million RMB. It electrified 1,535,000 pumped wells, upgraded and reconstructed 66,000 small town Reduced Inequalities Excellent Management. State grid continued to improve efficiency and effectiveness of management, categorized 1,163 subsidiaries of Benchmarking 113 661 all levels, reduced (central village) and realized dynamic power supply to 78,000 villages, benefiting 160 million rural people. State Grid implemented Sunshine Action for Poverty redundant entities and promoted business operation integration in 19 trial companies. Alleviation, invested 1.97 billion RMB in poverty-relief PV stations from 2016 to 2017, with an installed capacity of 9.542GW, benefiting 1,551,000 povertyCorporate Citizen. State Grid organized talent exchange between East China and West China, selected 423 managerial staff and technical workers to work in 5 stricken households. State Grid invested 437 million RMB in poverty relief in “three counties and one region” in Hubei and 7.64 million RMB in clean energycompanies in Xinjiang and Tibet to aid grid construction and governance improvement. fueled heating demonstration project at Maduo County, Qinghai Province. Serving and Promoting the “Belt and Road” Initiative. State Grid adopted localization policies with 97% of all employees being local and successfully invested and operated national and regional backbone energy networks in The Philippines, Brazil, Portugal, Australia, Italy and Greece with a total overseas asset exceeding 60 billion USD, an overseas project contract value of 40 billion USD and an overseas investment of 19.6 billion USD. 2 11 Zero Hunger Sustainable Cities Intrinsic Safety.Sate Grid organized 8,196 emergency drills participated by 169,200 person time and effectively secured power supply during the Earthquake in Promoting Rural Development. State Grid adopted new models of agricultural irrigation power services to promote the development of agricultural and and Communities Jiuzhaigou, Sichuan, the continuous strong rain in Hunan, Jiangxi, Liaoning and Jilin as well as Typhoon Nesat and Tropical Storm Haitang and other national disasters. sideline products. An average of 4 businesses in agricultural and sideline product processing and animal husbandry have been established in each village, Innovation-driven strategy. State Grid invested 7,828 million RMB in technological R&D, 5,324 million RMB in information technology and 7,046 million RMB in with an additional revenue of 51.4 billion RMB from agriculture and tourism. In 2016 and 2017, State Grid invested 21.25 billion RMB in “Dynamic Power to All telecommunication projects. Villages”, giving dynamic power to 26,000 villages and expanding the installed capacity in 52,000 villages. Green Development and Environmental Protection.State Grid promoted energy conservation and emission reduction on the customer side, saved 12.8TWh of Corporate Citizen. State Grid helped more than 900,000 vulnerable people through developing more than 500 social charity programs including “Home for Leftelectricity and 3.31GW of power, replaced 115TWh of electricity replacement and reduced 110 million tons of carbon emission, 36 million ton emission from impurities Behind-Students” and “House of Spring Seeding”. like sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and dust. 3 12 Good Health and Well-being Responsible Consumption and Excellent Service. State Grid promoted the application of smart meters, with 37.487 million smart meters being installed, fulfilling 192.2% of the annual plan. Employee Development. State Grid developed the employee fitness APP “S365”, organized regular body checks and established health records to safeguard Production Mutually-Beneficial Win-Win Cooperation. State Grid promoted the project of “building green supply chains and promoting green manufacturing” and the heath of employees. It also regulated the types of safety protection equipment to be prepared and the cycle of distribution and carried out surveys to learn implementing quality and green procurement. about the troubles of employees, organized lectures on psychological health and promoted the development of Employee Aid Program (EAP) and Employee Green Development and Environmental Protection.State Grid built the world’s largest multi-functional Smart Service Platform for Internet of EVs to promote the Appeal Center. development of the EV industry. Employee Development. State Grid provided 3.80 million person·times of training, including 1,221,600 person·times training for managerial staff, 1,795,600 Green Development and Environmental Protection. Completed task of the “Replacement of Coal by Electricity for heating” for 1.26 million households in 4 13 Quality Education Climate Action person·times training for skilled workers, 28,800 person·times training for service workers, 56,100 person·times training for marketing staff, 51,700 person·times 7,014 villages in Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei, promoted the initiative on management of carbon assets, devised the project of “building green supply chains and promoting training for new employees, 299,800 person·times training for technical staff and 66,800 person·times joint training. It also organized 628 competitions green manufacturing ” and independently developed 4 methodologies about Chinese Certified Emission Reductions (CCER) which were all documented by National (examinations), 7,166,700 person·times online training and 4,400,000 person·times online exams and provided 196,300 person·times employee evaluation and Development and Reform Commission. Among these projects, two have been assessed and approved by UN Executive Board of Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) so professional qualification certification. that they fill in the gaps in the field of accounting carbon emission reduction in carbon trade both domesticly and overseas. State grid also organized seminars on “carbon Corporate Citizen. State Grid granted 1.8 million RMB“ UHV Grid Scholarship” to 180 undergraduate students majoring in electrical engineering in 20 management and carbon finance of enterprises” together with academic institutions, including China-UK Low Carbon College of Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Business universities, implemented “New Great Wall” Grant Program to sponsor 100 students to go to college and help 400 high school students from impoverished School in University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Innovation and Hong Kong Centre for Carbon Innovation and undertook the main project of new industry families in the “three counties and one region” in Hubei and 148 students from herdsman families in Maduo, Qinghai. launched by the government of Hongkou, Shanghai: A comprehensive service platform of managing carbon emissions from enterprises. 5 14 Gender Equality Life below water Employee Development. State Grid is determined to prevent all forms of gender discrimination and safeguard employees’ right of taking paid leave, maternal Green Development and Environmental Protection.State Grid invested 140 million RMB to build more than 600 sets of shore power systems at the ports along and paternal leave. It followed Regulations on the Special Labor Protection for Female Employees to include the “Collective Contract on the Protection of the the “two vertical and one horizontal waters”, including the Beijing—Hangzhou Grand Canal, the eastern coast and the Yangtze River, reduced air pollution and Special Rights and Interests of Female Employees” as an important component of domestic management. State Grid also organized theme activities to improve noise pollution in ports and built “green ports”. the well-being of female employees. 6 15 Clean Water and Sanitation Life on Land Corporate Citizen. State Grid continued to implement point-to-point poverty alleviation projects in “three counties and one region” in Hubei, solving the Corporate Citizen. State Grid established a special fund to protect the natural and ecological environment along the Central Tibet Interconnection Project to problems of the shortage of drinking water for 6,800 people. avoid causing harm to the stratum, swamps and bushes of the area and protected the ecological system and biodiversity. Quality Development. State Grid has built “eight AC and ten DC” UHV projects with “three AC and one DC” UHV projects under construction or being approved Excellent Management. State Grid carried out 74 special audits on law-based corporate governance, strengthened the supervision and management of audits 7 16 Affordable and Intrinsic Safety. In 2017, State Grid achieved an urban power supply reliability rate of 99.9483%, a year-on-year growth of 0.0023% and a rural power supply Justice, Peace and Strong Clean Energy Institutions on international and financial business and established a digital audit studio to explore for new models of auditing. reliability rate of 99.7837%, a year-on-year growth of 0.0015%. Corporate Citizen. State grid revised 238 contract templates to constantly improve regulated, standard and lean management, established the mechanism Innovation-driven Strategy. State Grid built Suzhou Energy Transition and Innovation Demonstration Zone and Zhangjiakou Renewable Energy Demonstration separating procurement demand and order reception to prevent risks in procurement execution, order reception and financial settlement and launched legal Zone and consolidated and enhanced its technical advantages in UHV and smart grids. consulting and legal approval management systems to strengthen the legal support for bidding. Promoting Rural Development. State Grid promoted the full coverage of well-functioning township power supply stations, increased the average capacity of a Transparent Operation. State Grid conducted inspection in 20 provincial companies in four batches, promoted 20 companies to launch 2,226 improvement distribution transformer in a rural household to 2.64 kVA and reduced the annual average interruption hours of customers in rural areas to 18.944 hours. measures, solve 1,173 problems and establish 415 systems for improvement. State Grid also facilitated the special inspection of tariff and helped the National Green Development and Environmental Protection. State Grid established the cloud network of distributed photovoltaic generation, realized 5.473 billion RMB of Energy Administration to carry out special inspection on 11 key power transmission projects for air pollution prevention and control. trading volume. The cloud network has been connected to 742,800 households with 20.1879 GW of capacity. 8 17 Decent Work and Partnerships Economic Growth Quality Development. State Grid promoted the development of world first-class urban power distribution networks in 10 cities including Beijing and Shanghai. for the Goals Serving and Promoting the “Belt and Road” Initiative. State Grid helped China to export its electric and engineering equipment, control and protection equipment, Employee Development. State Grid respects and safeguards the legal rights and interests of employees, signs labor contracts with all employees, implements an automatic dispatching and control system and high-end power electronics equipment to 83 countries and regions including developed European economies such as integrated payroll system, pays social security in full and on time, bans forced labor and ensures decent work. It has 1,633,300 employees in total and a productivity of Germany, The Great Britain and Poland and promoted Chinese product chain and value chain to go global. State Grid also took the lead to establish a comprehensive UHV 771,100 RMB/(person·year). AC, UHV DC and smart grid technological standard system and initiated the development of 47 international standards. State Grid built 10 transnational power transmission Serving and Promoting the “Belt and Road” Initiative. State Grid has been actively building international financing platforms to make full use of the international capital lines between China and Russia, China and Mongolia and China and Kyrgyzstan. market, with 16.5 billion bond in US Dollar and 2 billion bond in Euro having been issued, significantly promoting international financing. 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Quality Development. Sate Grid successfully produced the world’s first ±1100 kV UHV DC wall bushing and put into operation the world’s first 1100kV AC filter resistive circuit breaker. Intrinsic Safety. State Grid improved essential safety and organized comprehensive safety risk inspection, with more than 90,000 safety violations being identified and rectified. Innovation-driven Strategy. State Grid took the lead to develop 103 national standards and 152 industrial standards, won 1 special prize and 7 2nd prize of National Science and Technology Award, 1 2nd prize of National Technology Innovation Award and 2 National Patent Gold Medal. It has 73,350 valid patents, including 16,064 invention patents. Green Development and Environmental Protection. State Grid constructed the Smart Service Platform for Internet of EVs, integratinga total of 170,000 charging piles and 17,000 vehicles. 114 State Grid Corporation of China Benchmarking 115 GRI Index Initiatives and Performance of UN Global Compact GRI Index could help readers to understand how our report conforms to Sustainability Reporting Guidelines by Global Reporting Initiative. The indicators we have chosen, 我们支持全球契约 including all the key indicators and some additional indicators are closely related to our business. Our internal evaluation shows that we fully conform to GRI standards. Please refer to the GRI official website for more information. Index number and description Page Index number and description Page Index number and description Page Indicators Index GRI 101：Fundamental 103-1 P110-111 103-1 P110-111 Ten Principles of Action Performance EU1 P82/P85 GRI 102：Normal release GRI 200 GRI 103-2 P5/P28-32 GRI 400 GRI 103-2 P70-75 the UN Global Compact Economic 103 Social 103 EU2 P103-104 102-1 P4 103-3 P28-32 103-3 — 102-2 P4 201-1 P102-103 401-1 — EU3 P16/P18/P102 102-3 P5 201-2 P105 GRI 401 401-2 P56 EU4 P80-81 102-4 P4-5 GRI 201 201-3 P56 401-3 P56 Human Rights Respect and safeguard the legal rights and interests of employees and treat employees of different nationalities, 102-5 P4 201-4 — EU5 P22-23 races, religious beliefs and gender equally and fairly. GRI 402 402-1 — 102-6 P4 202-1 — 1. Businesses should support State Grid signs labor contracts with all employees, implements an integrated payroll system and bans child GRI 202 403-1 P57 EU6 P42-47/P85 Corporate profile 102-7 P5 202-2 — and respect the protection labor and forced labor 403-2 P58-59 EU7 P22-23/P37 102-8 P58 203-1 P70-73 GRI 403 of internationally proclaimed GRI 203 403-3 P57-60 102-9 P65-66 203-2 P70-73 EU8 Not applicable human rights; and 403-4 P57-60 102-10 P28-33 103-1 P110-111 2. take no part in human rights GRI 404-1 P58-59 EU9 Not applicable 102-11 P6-7/P74 103-2 P65-67 GRI 204 103 GRI 404 404-2 P57-59 abuses 102-12 P96 103-3 — EU10 Not applicable 102-13 P91/P96 204-1 P66 404-3 P57-59 EU11 P85 102-14 P3 103-1 P110-111 103-1 P110-111 Strategy GRI GRI EU12 Not applicable 102-15 P6-7/P10-13 103-2 P101 103-2 P56 103 103 102-16 P6-7 103-3 — GRI 405 103-3 — EU13 P103 Ethics and integrity 102-17 P6-7 GRI 205 205-1 P100-101 405-1 P56-59 Labor Promoting the development of the Labor Union and domestic participation; responding to and handling 102-18 P28 205-2 P101 EU14 P112-113 proposals from workers’ representatives and extensively soliciting for rationalization suggestions. 102-19 P28 205-3 P101 405-2 P56 EU15 P56-60 3. Businesses should uphold the Prevent all forms of discrimination, increase the percentage of foreign employees by 1.81% and that of ethnic 102-20 P3 GRI 206 206-1 P100 GRI 406 406-1 P56 freedom of association and minorities by 5.57% EU16 — 102-21 P110-111 103-1 P110-111 103-1 P110-111 the effective recognition of the GRI 300 GRI GRI EU17 P59 102-22 — Environmental 103 103-2 P78-85 103 103-2 P56 right to collective bargaining; GRI 407 102-23 — 103-3 -103-3 — EU18 P96-99 4. the elimination of all forms of 102-24 — 301-1 — 407-1 — forced and compulsory labor; 102-25 — GRI 301 301-2 — GRI 408 408-1 — EU19 — 5. the abolition of child labor; 102-26 P7 301-3 Not applicable GRI 409 409-1 — EU20 P32 and 102-27 P3 302-1 P83 GRI 410 410-1 P56-60 6. the elimination of 102-28 P102 302-2 P80 EU21 P18-19 Governance GRI 411 411-1 — discrimination in respect of 102-29 P110-111 GRI 302 302-3 P78-85 EU22 P48-52 102-30 P74 302-4 P80-81/P105 412-1 P56-60 employment and occupation 302-5 P83 GRI 412 412-2 P58-60 EU23 P42-47 102-31 P110-111 102-32 — 303-1 — 412-3 P56 EU24 — 102-33 P96-99 GRI 303 303-2 Not applicable 103-1 P110-111 GRI 102-34 P110-111 303-3 P82 103-2 P70-75 EU25 P50-53 103 102-35 P56 304-1 — GRI 413 103-3 — EU26 — Environment Organize and implement 11 researches on renewable energy accommodation. 102-36 — GRI 304 304-2 Not applicable 413-1 P70-75 Establish a clean, low-carbon, safe and efficient energy system, green, low-carbon circular economic system and EU27 P24 102-37 — 304-3 — 413-2 — 7. Businesses should support a market-oriented green technological innovation system to serve the building of a beautiful China and contribute 102-38 — 304-4 — precautionary approach to 414-1 P65-67 EU28 P103 to global ecological safety. 102-39 — 305-1 P105 GRI 414 414-2 P65-67 EU29 Not applicable environmental challenges; Vigorously promote carbon asset management and device the project of “forging green supply chain and 102-40 — 305-2 P105 GRI 415 415-1 P104 8. undertake initiatives promoting the green industrial production” 102-41 — 305-3 P105 *Electric utility supplement Shareholder 103-1 P110-111 to promote greater 102-42 — GRI 305 305-4 P105 Exchange GRI 102-43 P110-111 103 103-2 P42-47 environmental responsibility; 305-5 P105 102-44 P110-111 GRI 416 103-3 — and 305-6 — 102-45 P102-103 305-7 P79 416-1 P42-47 9. encourage the development Corporate Profile/ 306-1 — and diffusion of 102-46 416-2 — P110-111 306-2 — environmentally friendly 102-47 P110-111 417-1 P42 GRI 306 306-3 N/A technologies 102-48 Corporate Profile GRI 417 417-2 — 306-4 — 102-49 417-3 — Corporate Profile 306-5 — Report profile GRI 418 418-1 — 102-50 Corporate Profile GRI 307 307-1 — 103-1 P110-111 102-51 Corporate Profile 308-1 P65-67 GRI 102-52 103-2 P74 102-53 Corporate Profile Corporate Profile GRI 308 308-2 P65-67 GRI 419 103 103-3 — Anti-Corruption State Grid carried out 74 special audits on law-based corporate governance; organized internal inspection, established five inspection teams and finished 4 batches of inspections to 20 provincial companies. It promoted 102-54 Corporate Profile 419-1 — 10. Businesses should work 20 companies to come up with 2,226 measures to effectively correct bad practices, solved 1,173 problems and 102-55 P115 against corruption, extortion established 415 mechanisms for improvement 102-56 — and bribery in all forms STATE GRID CSR Report 2017 Publisher: China Electric Power Press Address: No.19,West Street of Beijing Railway Station,Dongcheng District,Beijing(100005) Website: http://www.cepp.sgcc.com.cn Graphic designer: Beijing Daliangzao Brand Consultants Ltd. Printing: Beijing Shengtong Printing Co.,Ltd All Rights Reserved If there is any printing or binding problem, please contact us for refund or replacement.
