UN GLOBAL COMPACT communication on progress 2018 ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT B Y P R E S ID E N T/ C E O , T HO MA S J O R G E N S E N JULY 27, 2018 Green Worldwide Shipping reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Thomas Jorgensen President/CEO greenworldwide.com ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS A S S E S S M E N T, P O L I C Y A N D G O A L S Green Worldwide is built on a firm foundation of respect – for all stakeholders, including vendors, customers, and employees – especially, for the environment. Green supports the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our Company commitment provides a written policy in our employee handbook as well as partner/vendor qualification and selection. Green is committed to working with partners that align with our corporate mission, vision, and values. IM P L E M E N T A T IO N Green Worldwide takes the following measures to prevent human rights violations in our organization: • Provides employees with written policy explaining rights and responsibilities in accordance with U.S. Department of Labor regulations. • Adheres to strict non-discriminatory hiring practices. • Provides employees with safe and healthy working conditions, competitive salaries, and access to health/life insurance. • Conducts inspections of the premises to evaluate and determine any vulnerability to workplace violence or hazards. Corrective actions are taken to reduce risks. • Maintains a written policy and annual training for proper storage, handling, and use of Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT). • Provides a communication mechanism to report unfair treatment to Human Resources. ME A S U R E M E N T O F O U T CO ME S Green Worldwide is committed to promoting the human rights and wellness of its employees and supporting partners that share our values. Green Worldwide has not received any claims of human rights abuses related to our business or operations. greenworldwide.com ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS LABOR A S S E S S M E N T, P O L I C Y A N D G O A L S Green Worldwide’s employee handbook covers policies regarding employee rights, compensation, responsibilities, and collective bargaining. Our Company standards do not permit forced labor, child labor, or discrimination practices. Green Worldwide follows all regulations issued by the Department of Labor, including but not limited to, Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) Act. We will continue to refine our employee manual as needed to support Global Compact policy. In 2018, Green Worldwide Shipping celebrated its tenth anniversary with the launch of The Green Way – an on-going culture development initiative to drive personal and professional growth. Implemented across each of Green’s 9 U.S. locations, the program features 33 written fundamentals, promoted continuously throughout the year, focusing on work ethic, relationships, and communication. For full details, please visit The Green Way Fundamentals. IM P L E M E N T A T IO N Green Worldwide takes the following measures to implement a positive labor policy, reduce labor risk, and respond to labor violations: • Tuition reimbursement program to promote career development. • Semi-annual reviews with staff for evaluation and professional growth. • Paid holiday, vacation, sick/personal and bereavement leave. • Robust health insurance policy, paying 100% of out-of-pocket expenses. • Employee 401K program. • Travel and expense reimbursement. • Paid volunteering initiative • Rewards portal providing additional health and wellness benefits. • Maintains state worker’s compensation insurance for its employees. • Subscribes to all the federally mandated policies about leaves of absence in the case of involuntary calls to active military duty. • Provides a written policy and communication mechanism to report unfair treatment to Human Resources. greenworldwide.com ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS LABOR ( CO N TI N U E D ) ME A S U R E M E N T O F O U T CO ME S Green Worldwide participates in an external, independent audit for Occupational Safety and Health (OSH) to ensure compliance. Green Worldwide has not received any discrimination or labor-related claims. Employee 401K Participation: 31% Volunteering Initiatives: The Salvation Army, Red Cross Blood Drive Worker’s Compensation Cases: 0 Green Worldwide maintains an 88% (4.4/5) satisfaction rating on Glassdoor.com, a leading employee-authored recruiting evaluation website. greenworldwide.com ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ENVIRONMENT A S S E S S M E N T, P O L I C Y A N D G O A L S Green Worldwide is deeply committed to reducing the environmental impact of business to both local and international communities. As an important player in international logistics, the Green team is dedicated to seeking out and implementing innovative and eco-friendly transportation solutions. Green Worldwide follows rules and regulations administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regarding hazardous materials. IM P L E M E N T A T IO N Green Worldwide has taken the following actions to encourage environmental consciousness in our office and industry: • Green Worldwide recently developed a client-facing carbon footprint calculator to encourage the reduction of carbon emissions amongst international shippers. • Green headquarters is housed in a resource-conscious consumption location that utilizes solar panels, sustainable water barrel irrigation system, conscientious site planning. • Green supports environmental awareness by mandating recycling in the workplace. • Employees are required to conserve energy by shutting down computers, monitors and printers at night and by turning off lights when not in use. • Green offices are transitioning into a paperless environment by year-end 2018. • Maintains a written policy and annual training for proper storage, handling, and use of Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT). • Maintains written procedure in case of environmental disasters/terrorism. ME A S U R E M E N T O F O U T CO ME S Green Worldwide’s headquarters feature rooftop solar panels that produce 200,000 kWh of renewable energy. Green Worldwide has not received any environmental-related violations. greenworldwide.com ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ANTI-CORRUPTION A S S E S S M E N T, P O L I C Y A N D G O A L S Green Worldwide is committed to implementing a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. Green is also committed to working with our international partners to improve supply chain security. Green Worldwide is an active member of the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT), a voluntary public-private sector partnership program which implementing supply chain security standards through close cooperation with the principle stakeholders of the international supply chain such as importers, carriers, consolidators, licensed customs brokers, and manufacturers. IM P L E M E N T A T IO N Green Worldwide takes the following measures to implement and adhere to strict anti-corruption programs: • Green Worldwide requires mandatory employee training and review of its C-TPAT procedure which encompasses eight areas of focus: o Business Partner Requirements – Supplier Security Assessment, Supplier Selection/Evaluation Criteria o Container Security – Seals, Container Inspections o Physical Access Control – Employees, Visitors, Deliveries o Personnel Security – Background Investigations, Drug Testing, Codes of Conduct o Procedural Security – Cargo Inspection, Shipping Documents, Receiving Reports, Document Retention o Physical Security – Fences, Alarms, Cameras, Locks, Lighting, Security Guards o Security Training and Awareness – Report Suspicious Activities, Policy Manuals, Evacuation Drills o Information Security – Passwords, Firewalls, Virus Protection, Internet Monitoring • A written security policy provides due diligence guidance for staff in identifying supply chain risk as outlined by C-TPAT program requirements. • Promotes awareness of ethics, values, integrity, and appropriate conduct by publishing articles, pamphlets, and posters, and by posting information on the web site. • Maintains an Ethics Committee that meets regularly to create, implement, maintain, and discuss issues concerning employee ethics and misconduct. Committee members are comprised of representatives from Legal, Finance, Supply Chain Management, Internal Audit, Human Resources, Quality, and Security. ME A S U R E M E N T O F O U T CO ME S Green Worldwide has not experienced or participated in any instances of corruption, bribery and extortion. greenworldwide.com
