Communication on Progress 2018 Period : 01 December 2017 – 01 December 2018 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER To all it may concern, HKV Consultants continues to fully support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication, like our annual report and our website. The visual representation of our Code of Conduct is the base of our policy on the Ten Principles. This Code of Conduct was drawn up in 2014, in order to make it unmistakably clear and accessible for our employees, our clients and other stakeholders. Employees are encouraged to act according to the Code of Conduct and clients and stakeholders are invited to confront us if we may act in conflict with it. In drawing up the Code of Conduct, we took the liberty of expanding the principle “Anti-Corruption” to “Integrity”. Being an independent research and consultancy company, integrity is of the utmost importance for the quality of our work. Sincerely yours, Kees Vermeer, CEO HKV Consultants 1 of 5 Code of Conduct HKV Consultants HKV Consultants 2 of 5 Code of conduct HKV consultants HKV consultants operates on a three-part mission that aims to create a safe and sustainable environment for everyone related to our business; employees, clients, partners, suppliers and society. Mission Our three-part mission guides our decision making. Product mission: Becoming the sustainable knowledge entrepreneur in flood risk and water management To offer high quality, sustainable and innovative solutions in flood risk and water management through advise, research and product development. Economical mission: To direct our company for sustainable financial growth To operate on a sustainable financial basis of profitable growth our company ensures increasing value for stakeholders and professional development opportunities for employees. Social mission: To take care of our society and environment when operating our business and implementing our projects To create a safe and healthy environment within our projects where growth and development take place in a sustainable way. Operating with progressive values across our business Social We recognize that our work and projects Enterprising To support a creative have an impact on the environment. We strive enterprising community a safe and healthy to respect society and environment by work environment is priority. We strive to minimizing our waste and carbon footprint. In achieve this by recognizing the unique our projects we are actively engaged to knowledge and experience of each incorporate environmental improvements. individual in our company and projects. Cooperation and partnerships play a central role. Quality Transparency To ensure high quality solutions we structurally We support transparency by open and invest in innovation, research and human structural communication about our capital. Sustainable solutions in flood risk and business operation and performance water management ask for a holistic view through annual reports, our works council, where connections are made with international social media and employee participation. themes like urbanization, food security and Information of clients is handled with care climate. The quality of our work is guaranteed and privacy. We strive to prevent conflicts by continuous fact checking and working with of interest and if they occur we will openly quality system ISO 9001. discuss them with the involved stakeholders. Corruption is not tolerated within HKV, by our partners or clients. HKV Consultants 3 of 5 DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS AND MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES The support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact of HKV Consultants is part of the policy on Corporate Social Responsibility of our company. Since 2015 HKV Consultants has a plan of action on CSR. In this plan we used the ISO 26000 standard as a guidance. Our Code of Conduct, drawn up in 2014 formed the base of this plan. In 2017 this plan of action was evaluated and a new plan of action for 2017 -2018 was developed, also based on our Code of Conduct and the ISO 26000 standard. In 2017 this evaluation and plan of action were submitted as a COP in 2017. In the first quarter of 2019 the CSR action plan of 2017-2018 will be evaluated. This will again serve as a COP for the United Nations Global Compact. The present COP is a pre-evaluation of the main features of the CSR policy of HKV consultants on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption are shortly mentioned and evaluated. Human Rights HKV consultants aims to create a safe and sustainable environment for everyone related to our business; employees, clients, partners, suppliers and society.  HKV consultants has internal regulations to provide a transparent, ethical, safe, and clean work environment. These regulations are communicated with and accessible for our employees. The regulations are accessible on our HKV-server for every employee, any time. These regulations comprise also the policy of HKV consultants on inappropriate behaviour. A violation of these regulations is encouraged to be reported. In the organization of HKV consultants there are several functions to which an employee can turn to: team manager, director, secretary, a confidential mediator. At least once in a year there is a conversation of the team managers with the employees individually where the wellbeing of the employee in his/her work environment is evaluated.  HKV Consultants works with partners that complement us on projects and technical expertise. HKV expects that all collaborators and partners comply with our views and regulations on transparent, ethical, safe, suitable and a clean work environment.  Within the ISO standard ISO 9001 an annual evaluation of the suppliers of HKV consultants is carried out. Labour To ensure high quality solutions we structurally invest in innovation, research and human capital. Employees of HKV consultants have labour contracts and have salaries and working hours that meet national standards. We ensure that the partners and clients we work with and suppliers we buy from do not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour, that they comply with minimum wage standards. HKV Consultants 4 of 5 Environment As consultants and expert advisors, we contribute to a environment and reduced negative impacts on the environment. We do this by reducing our CO2 emissions according to the CO2 performance ladder (www.skao.nl). Annually we report on our performances on the CO2 emmissions. These reports are published on the HKV website (https://www.hkv.nl/nl/over-hkv/mvo/ ) As a company we promote actions that reduces our ecological footprint and contribute to a better environment (e.g. public transport instead of using a car, carpooling), we separate waste and we minimise our paper consumption and energy use. Most importantly, we always consider the impact to the environment in our advisory services. Integrity (Anti-Corruption) Being an independent research and consultancy company, integrity is of the utmost importance for the quality of our work. When doing business, there is a risk of conflicts of interest, unethical behaviour or corruption. None of these are tolerated within HKV, by our partners or clients. We strive an open communication with our employees, partners, clients and suppliers. We strive to prevent conflicts of interest, but if there is a possible indication for this to occur we will openly discuss them with the involved stakeholders and find the appropriate solution. HKV Consultants 5 of 5
