COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2018 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT NAME OF THE PARTICIPATING COMPANY: VAPTECH COUNTRY: BULGARIA SECTOR: HEAVY MACHINE BUILDING INDUSTRY REPORTED PERIOD: 30 August 2017– 30 July 2018 CONTENT: Statement of continued support for the Global Compact…………………………….. 3 Description of practical actions taken to implement the Global Compact principles……………………………………………………………………………………………………… 4 Human Rights…………………………………………………………………………………….. 5 Labor Standards……………………………………………………………………………….... 9 Environment………………………………………………………………………………………. 11 Anti-Corruption………………………………………………………………………………….. 14 Sharing the COP with the company’ stakeholders……………………………………….. 15 2 Statement of continued support for the Global Compact Compact Sofia, Bulgaria Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact We at VAPTECH firmly believe that for a company to be successful it should not be only concerned by economical gain. We attach highest priority to always maintaining our status of a good corporate citizen and to advance into reaching new moral and spiritual levels: the ever higher social responsibility. This can be only materialized through very demanding requirements for personal integrity, values, mission and vision of our people. We at VAPTECH recognize UN Global Compact’ principals as being the guidelines towards reaching this aim and are committed to follow and promote them on a sustainable basis. B. BONEV, Chairman, Supervisory Board 3 Sustainability Description of practical actions taken to implement the Global Compact principles The Management and employees of VAPTECH are committed to adopting and promoting sustainability within its industry, business activities, operations and communities where it operates internationally. VAPTECH states its contribution to business sustainability, as follows: TRANSFORMS THE TEN PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTS ACTIONS WITHIN COMMITS TO PROVIDE NEW INTO MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES HUMAN RIGHTS, LABOUR OPPORTUNITIES FOR AND POLICIES FOR ITS ACTIVITIES STANDARDS, ENVIRONMENT AND IMPROVEMENT AND AND PROCESSES ANTI-CORRUPTION AREAS CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT AND SATISFACTION OF ITS EMPLOYEES, BUSINESS PARTNERS AND COMMUNITY 4 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support The people, the communities and all and respect the protection of stakeholders are the basis for the internationally proclaimed human sustainable development of VAPTECH. rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals ANY FORM OF DISCRIMINATION ENCOURAGEMENT AND VAPTECH DECLARES TO RESPECT IS NOT TOLERATED IN DEVELOPMENT OF OUR STAFF IS AND SUPPORTS IN ITS ACTIVITIES ACCORDANCE WITH THE VALID PART OF VAPTECH CORPORATE THE HUMAN RIGHTS AND CODE OF ETHICS CULTURE INTERNATIONAL HUMAN RIGHTS CONVENTION VAPTECH’ Code of Ethics supporting UNGC and the 10 principles: To be part of VAPTECH’ Team, one needs to have the following moral principles and behaviors: 1. We are honest and ethical in all our actions, meaning: 1.1 To be honest with yourself and others (no hidden agendas) 1.2 We act with dignity and respect the dignity of the others 1.3 We demonstrate loyalty to our company, team and colleagues 1.4 We respect every given commitment 1.5 We show consistency in all our actions and behaviors 1.6 In the process of communication, we behave politely, respectfully, ensuring good tone and manners 2. Punctuality is a must: 2.1. Discipline: Working time, quality and deadlines are strictly respected 2.2. Highest degree of responsibility in the process of performing the tasks 3. We work with precision: Principle 1:strive 3.1. We constantly Businesses shouldexecution. for precise support andWerespect the protection love paying of internationally attention to details proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; and 3.2. We learn from our mistakes and those of our colleagues, we do not overlook them, disguise Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses them or blame others for them 3.3. We constantly strive for personal improvement and development 4. Innovative thinking and continuous change, in compliance with an ever-changing world, is the only way to maintain a growing and sustainable company at all times 5. Respect of the law: VAPTECH complies with the laws of all countries where it operates 6. VAPTECH keeps all information related to its activities, its clients and partners strictly confidential 7. VAPTECH does not tolerate conflicts of interests A conflict of interests is any situation where the employee's personal interests are in conflict with his duties or prevent him from taking objective business decisions. 5 8. VAPTECH is member of the UN Global Compact and respects its principles in all its activities Human Rights Principles Social benefits for the employees 1. Dental care – VAPTECH provides free dental care for its employees. 2. Canteen – VAPTECH sponsors the meals of its employees. 3. Company transport – VAPTECH provides free transportation to its employees VAPTECH ACADEMY AND TALENT MANAGEMENT 2017-2018 • Targeted introductory trainings for new employees • Practical skills’ development • Practical training on project management • 360-degree assessment for leadership development • Survey among the workers for the assessment of their team leaders • Practical trainings on: Customer service, Communication improvement, Participation in tenders • Managerial trainings: Decision Making, Conflict Management Emotional Intelligence • Practical professional trainings • Team buildings • Total Quality Management • Health and Safety awareness Trainings performed during the reported period: Internal training 2017 Topics When Departments involved Participants Internal improvements Oct 2017 Design and Technologists 30 Health and Safety: Working at height HSE Oct 2017 Technician; Mechanic 1 E-mail communication and how to handle an Nov 2017 angry customer After sales 3 E-mail communication and how to handle an Nov 2017 angry customer Purchasing 4 Behavior of VAPTECH' s team members during Nov 2017 onsite activities Automation; After sales 19 57 Total 6 Human Rights Principles External trainings 2017 Topics When Departments involved Participants Internal Auditor of the ISO 9001 QMS Aug 2017 Quality team 2 Fundamentals of hydraulics Aug 2017 Design and After sales 8 Fundamentals of pneumatics Sept 2017 Design and After sales 8 First Aid training Oct 2017 Production 11 Health and Safety Oct 2017 Production 9 NX program for Engineering Design Nov 2017 Design 4 42 Total Internal training 2018 Topics When Departments involved Participants Enhancement of the qualifications of CNC Feb 2018 machines Technologists 4 Design documentation Feb 2018 Technologists 2 NX program for Engineering Design Feb 2018 Design and Technologists 15 Development and follow up of project budget Feb 2018 Sales 2 Types of fire extinguishers and working March procedures for their exploitation 2018 Production 118 Safety work with bridge cranes Apr 2018 Workers on crane 9 Accounting documentation Apr 2018 Planning 4 Safety work for manual handling of weights May 2018 Production 118 Safety work with lifting devices and equipment May 2018 Production 118 Design of hydraulic pressure unit May 2018 Design 2 392 Total External trainings 2018 Topics When Departments involved Participants Portable measuring arms for measurements Feb 2018 directly in the manufacturing environment Technologists; Quality team 4 NX program for Engineering Design Feb 2018 Design and Technologists 25 Enhancement of the qualifications of CNC March machines 2018 Production; Technologists 11 Enhancement of the qualifications of CNC March machines 2018 Production; Technologists 14 54 Total Table 1 7 Human Rights Principles VAPTECH’ CARE Employees’ motivation  Regular feedback on the job  Professional trainings for improving self-confidence and competencies  Permanent assistance on the job  Feedback from workers to their supervisors (evaluating leadership performance by the team members)  Participation of employees in the decision making  Illness benefits and assistance for employees with long-term professional contribution to the company  New computers and computer programs at the highest technological level, training for upgrading  Performance-based annual bonuses for the employees  Update of VAPTECH’ Education and Self-Learning online platform VAP Online Family care • VAPTECH event for the children of VAPTECH’ employees on the occasion of the International children's day on June 1st, 2018 • Vouchers for newborns • Vouchers for graduates • Vouchers for first day at school Volunteering initiatives  Long-term partnership and traditional participation in Manager for a Day initiative, organized by Junior Achievement Bulgaria.  Sponsorship of the Professional School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering in Pleven  VAPTECH collaborates with Amalipe Center for Interethnic Dialogue and Tolerance with the aim to support integration of Roma in the Bulgarian society.  Sponsorship for New Symphony Orchestra  Sponsorship for Summer ballet camp (Veliko Tarnovo), Prima Ballerina Ms. Diliana Nikiforova 8 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the VAPTECH POLICY freedom of association and the effective Company policy on Labour recognition of the right to collective bargaining; VAPTECH maintains Occupational Health Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of and Safety Management System according forced and compulsory labour; to OHSAS 18001:2007 standard Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Management of VAPTECH is fully committed to highest level of Health and Safety (HS) standards and overall respect of UNGC 10 principles. VAPTECH focuses on the prevention of all possible risks for its employees as well as on the improvement and sharing the best practices with suppliers and business partners. In this respect VAPTECH has the following objectives: 1. Focusing on prevention  A Working Conditions Committee (WCC) is established at VAPTECH in accordance with the requirements of the Health and Safety Working Conditions Act. WCC conducts regular meetings in order to develop and constantly improve the procedures for risk assessment and elimination. 2. Compliance with applicable legal and internal requirements  Implemented a procedure for the monitoring and evaluation of the compliance of OHS management system 3. Training and enhancement on personal responsibility of employees on risk prevention  Instructions in HS are conducted by authorized people, as well as internal and external trainings of VAPTECH employees are provided 4. Active cooperation with authorized organizations in the field of occupational health and safety  HS Expert actively cooperates and maintains communications with local authorities in HS and Labor officials – Labour Inspectorate office in Pleven  HS Expert participates at all trainings related to the introduction of new legislation, innovation and best practices in the field. 9 Labour Principles VAPTECH LABOUR CONDITIONS INDICATORS The data and statistics for the reported period 1. Registered working accidents or injuries during the reported period: 0 working accidents 2. Training and seminars on HS: please refer to Table 1 above Lean management VAPTECH maintains the working space clean and orderly through 5S methodology 5S is a technique for creating a new, clean and orderly organization of workplaces. Goal: Eliminate losses and increase productivity and job security in individual working places. STRATEGIC PLANNING – HOSHIN KANRI Hoshin Kanri Achievements in 2017: Updated Vision and Strategy up to 2021 Developed 9 action plans Completed Hoshin planning cycle for 2017 10 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should VAPTECH POLICY support a precautionary approach to Company policy on Environment protection environmental challenges; VAPTECH maintains Environmental Principle 8: undertake initiatives to Management System according to ISO promote greater environmental 14001:2015 standard responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals. The Management of VAPTECH is committed to respect the Environmental (E) Policy stated in the Company Management Policy. The document has been periodically audited and is accessible on visible locations at VAPTECH’ premises. VAPTECH RESPONSIBILITY VAPTECH determines the activities and their outcomes that can have a significant impact on environment and established objectives in order to comply with the environment norms. 1. Compliance with applicable legal requirements  Available sources for to-date information about changes in government regulations on environment protection 2. VAPTECH contributes to the environment by reducing CO2 emissions  During the period September 2017July 2018 VAPTECH has developed hydropower equipment for hydropower plants with estimated installed capacity of approximately 40 MW. The generated electricity of the HPPs will contribute with 220 times less CO2 emissions in the environment compared to coal usage1 3. Improvement of working environment and care for environment protection  Monitoring and measurement of key environmental factors (dust, gas emissions, noise, paint dissolvers emissions). The data for the reported period are indicated in table 2. 4. Provision of necessary training of employees  Information brochure for the ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 standards has been prepared: The objective of this brochure is to explain in a simple manner to the employees that most of the activities performed at the company are in practice requirements of the standards. 5. Active cooperation with regulatory bodies and all other stakeholders  During the reported period, no inputs data for complaints regarding ecological problems arise. 1 https://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/assessment-report/ar5/wg3/ipcc_wg3_ar5_full.pdf 11 Environm Environmental Principles ental Principles VAPTECH ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS VAPTECH data and statistics for the reported period Regular report and analysis of the data on natural gas, electricity and gas composites for welding consumption. For the reported period an increase in the nonhazardous wastes is observed while the consumption of electric power is reduced with 5 % comparted to 20162017. Environmental impact activities aiming for improvement of:  Reduced dust emissions  Reduced gas emissions in the heat chamber – СО, NO, SO2  Making sure that hazardous and nonhazardous waste is not mixed As per the legal requirements on hazardous chemical substances VAPTECH has the obligation to fill data sheets of official manufacturers and importers of chemicals. All employees working with the respective chemicals are trained on their usage. As per the legal requirements on waters – VAPTECH has no obligations. VAPTECH has a contract with a state company for water treatment. The state water company regulates the need of measuring the admissible degree of water pollution regarding the physical, chemical and industrial indices. VAPTECH ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION INITIATIVES VAPTECH constantly strives to preserve the environment and to protect the Planet. Sharing this common objective, TOYOTA & VAPTECH initiated long-term cooperation with regard to TOYOTA Hybrid vehicles that VAPTECH is using for its operations. 12 Environmental Principles Data with VAPTECH’s energy resources consumption indicated in the table: September 2016 August 2017 August 2017 – July 2018 Energy resource gJ/m3 Energy resource gJ/m3 Natural Gas 6865 Natural Gas 6535 Electrical Power 6870 Electrical Power 6217 Gas composites 1210 Gas composites 1136 Total 14945 Total 13888 Non hazardous wastes Tons Non hazardous wastes metal turnings 490 metal turnings 507 non ferrous metals 1,72 non ferrous metals 9.95 scraps 14 scraps 12.7 total 505,72 total 529.65 Hazardous wastes Tons Hazardous wastes other 0,4 *1 other 0.48 *1 0,0 0.0 gear oil *2 gear oil *2 0,4 0.48 total total Main source of Main source of Environmental factor Conformance Environmental factor Conformance pollution pollution Dust Yes blasting Dust Yes blasting chamber chamber Noise Yes production Noise Yes production buildings buildings Waste waters Yes industrial Waste waters Yes industrial Paint dissolvers organized Yes emissions Paint dissolvers organized Yes emissions emissions emissions Paint dissolvers non Yes emissions Paint dissolvers non Yes emissions organized emissions organized emissions Flue gas emissions Yes heat Flue gas emissions Yes heat Remarks: Remarks: *1 temporary storage before handling over *1 temporary storage before handling over *2 handling over to authorized supplier *2 handling over to authorized supplier VAPTECH Ltd. VAPTECH Ltd. Table 2 13 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should The actions taken in VAPTECH which are in line with “Fight with work against corruption in all its corruption and prevention of corruption activities at the company”: forms, including extortion and bribery 1. VAPTECH conducts its business and its relationships with all stakeholders in an ethical manner and has developed a Compliance Committee to foster an environment and a culture that promote prevention, detection, investigation and resolution of any misconduct. A representative of VAPTECH’ Management, Mr. Svetlozar Ivanov is appointed as Head of Compliance at VAPTECH 2. In 2017 was elaborated a strategic plan and policy for the activity of Compliance at VAPTECH. A working committee composed by members of the organization is responsible for the implementation and supervision of the Compliance plan. Activities of the Compliance in the reported period:  Following to a recommendation received from a customer of VAPTECH in the end of 2017, Compliance initiated a working group for improvement of the onsite activities of VAPTECH’ supervisors during commissioning works. In the beginning of 2018 a new procedure for VAPTECH’ supervisors was embedded in the company. 3. In the beginning of 2018 it was created a working group composed by expert in the field of the European privacy regulation The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in order the GDPR rules and principles to be successfully implemented within the company in 2018. 14 Sharing the COP with the company’ stakeholders This Communication on progress report and enclosures are published on VAPTECH official web site at: http://vaptech.bg/page/Global-Compact Contact person: Mariela Spasova Marketing & Sales Manager Contact information: T: +359 2 984 16 00 F: +359 2 984 16 01 M: +359 885 655 256 E: office.sofia@vaptech.bg mariela.spasova@vaptech.bg A: 17 Tsarigradsko shosse Blvd. 1504 Sofia www.vaptech.bg Date of submission: 30/07/2018 15
