Goby 2018 United Nations Global Compact Report A Communication on Progress 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 1 Contents CEO Statement: Commitment and Leadership ....................................................... 3 The United Nations Global Compact Principles ..................................................... 4 The United Nations Global Compact SDGs ............................................................... 5 Advancing SDGs ................................................................................................................... 6 Goby: Sustainable Mission Everyone Matters ............................................................................................................. 7 LEED Experts ..................................................................................................................... 8 ENERGY STAR Experts ............................................................................................. 9 Sustainability Tracking Experts ................................................................................ 10 Sustainability in our Operations Environment ...................................................................................................................... 12 Dynamic Workplace ....................................................................................................... 13 Air Quality Management .............................................................................................. 13 Energy Management ...................................................................................................... 14 Waste Management ........................................................................................................ 14 Sustainable Purchasing ................................................................................................. 15 Social Performance .............................................................................................................. 15 Goby Social Involvement ................................................................................................... 17 Conclusion: Transparency & Disclosure ..................................................................... 18 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 2 CEO Statement: Commitment & Leadership “Goby is proud to present its fifth Global Compact Communication on Progress. We will demonstrate our commitment to the UNGC’s ten principles with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. We are steadfast in our dedication to embedding the Global Compact and its principles into the strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations of our company. We also engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Our commitment to a more sustainable world not only translates ideas into actions, but resides in the core of our vision and business model. Goby’s mission has been to apply a sustainability lens to real estate portfolios in order to create real value. We improve building operations by capturing data once and providing actionable information through a powerful, cloud-based platform. Through this platform, we are able to increase asset value and social responsibility. We are continuing our expansion and are making certain to develop our activities, culture, and goals according to the UN Global Compact and its sustainability principles.” Sincerely, Chris Happ Chief Executive Officer Goby 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 3 The United Nations Global Compact Principles Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Principle 1 proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly Principle 9 technologies. Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Principle 10 extortion and bribery. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 4 Sustainable Development Goals Which of the following Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) do the activities described in your COP address? X GOAL 1: No Poverty X GOAL 10: Reduced Inequalities X GOAL 2: Zero Hunger X GOAL 11: Sustainable Cities & Communities X GOAL 3: Good Health & Wellbeing X GOAL 12: Responsible Consumption & Production X GOAL 4: Quality Education X GOAL 13: Climate Action X GOAL 5: Gender Equality GOAL 14: Life Below Water X GOAL 6: Clean Water & Sanitation GOAL 15: Life On Land X GOAL 7: Affordable & Clean Energy X GOAL 16: Peace, Justice, & Strong Institutions X GOAL 8: Decent Work & Economic Growth X GOAL 17: Partnership for the Goals X GOAL 9: Industry, Innovation, & Infrastructure 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 5 Advancing SDGs With respect to your company’s actions to advance the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the COP describes: X Opportunities and responsibilities that one or more SDGs represent to our business X Where the company’s priorities lie with respect to one or more SDGs X Goals and indicators set by our company with respect to one or more SDGs X How one or more SDGs are integrated into the company’s business model X The (expected) outcomes and impact of your company’s activities related to the SDGs If the companies’ activities related to the SDGs are undertaken in collaboration with other X stakeholders X Other established or emerging best practices 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 6 Goby: Sustainable Mission Everyone Matters Goby is the leading invoice automation and strategic ESG solutions platform for commercial real estate. Goby helps investors and owners save time, mitigate risks, and increase NOI with powerful analytics. Founded in 2008, Goby has 52 employees and hundreds of clients who manage over 1 billion square feet from our cloud-based platform. Goby has been recognized by the U.S. EPA with the 2017 and 2018 ENERGY STAR Sustained Excellence Awards and is the first GRESB Premier Partner as well as an Associate Member. Additionally, Goby is a LEED Proven Provider and a SASB Advisory Partner. Goby’s mission is to create technology that empowers organizations to operate as socially, environmentally, and financially sustainable entities. As the world shrinks and our population grows, the actions and inactions we take every day make an impact felt beyond the confines of our own lives. The size and scale of the commercial real estate industry places great responsibility and reveals incredible opportunities to create real financial returns and environmental impact through improved planning, implementation, monitoring, and operations. At Goby, our goal is to help each of our clients make this impact through the optimal performance of their real estate and operations. We are focused on supporting real estate owners, managers, and building teams in achieving dramatic financial and environmental results through a pragmatic and disciplined approach. Goby is named after the goby fish, adaptable creatures that thrive on building mutually beneficial relationships within a communal environment of other underwater inhabitants. This symbiotic relationship is a direct reflection of what Goby aims to achieve: relationships that benefit all involved parties, including clients, partners, and building teams, all around the world. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 7 LEED Experts LEED, which stands for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is a certification awarded by the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) for implementing measures that reduce the carbon footprint and increase the overall sustainability and operations of a building. Goby is the recognized leader in optimizing building efficiencies in the Midwest and through its team of LEED Accredited Professionals, we are able to bring our clients sustainable buildings, increased net operating income, and market exposure through long-term sustainability strategies for building performance optimization. Since our founding, the Goby team has completed more than 250M ft² of LEED projects across a wide variety of real estate including commercial buildings, hotels, retail, athletic arenas, and corporate offices. We have also earned the “Proven Provider” title for our list of environmental accolades. Goby has worked in some of the largest and most complex commercial real estate in the country, including one of the nation’s tallest LEED EBOM project (Franklin Center), one of the first pilot LEED for Neighborhood Development projects (Block 37), a LEED NC parking Garage (Greenway Self Park), the oldest LEED EBOM in Illinois (211 W Wacker), LEED ID+C for the Radisson Blu Aqua Hotel in Chicago, and a LEED CI spec suite (Rockefeller Center). Goby completed 10% (by square footage) of all LEED EB: O+M v2009 projects completed in 2013. Other notable projects that Goby has worked on include: LEED EB: O+M Platinum for 540 West Madison in Chicago, LEED EB: O+M Gold for NBC Tower in Chicago, LEED EB: O+M Gold for the historic building The Rookery, and LEED EB: O+M Platinum for McDonald’s Corporate Office and Hamburger University. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 8 ENERGY STAR Experts How does your building, office, hotel, or retail space compare to other similar facilities? Goby's first step in any sustainability program is performing an ENERGY STAR benchmark in order to determine the most appropriate next steps. First and foremost, an ENERGY STAR benchmark allows us to optimize processes and reduce operating expenses. Additionally, many states or cities are enacting ordinances and mandates which require ENERGY STAR reporting by planning ahead now, we help prepare clients’ portfolios for pending legislation and mandatory reporting. Additionally, many major corporations and the GSA require offices to be located in ENERGY STAR-rated buildings. ENERGY STAR Certifications by Year Achievement Year Goby is the leading ENERGY STAR certifier in the world, and we earned the 2018 ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Sustained Excellence award from the U.S. EPA for the third year in a row. We earned the same award in 2016 and 2017, and this is our fifth Partner of the Year award from the EPA. Our action plans have resulted in millions of dollars in operational savings for commercial real estate, multifamily, hospitality, retail, industrial, and corporate users. Goby has also become one of the few Licensed Professional firms for the EPA’s ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager. This level of achievement is a testament not only to our ENERGY STAR expertise but to the dedication that we demonstrate in continual sustainability excellence. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 9 “Achieving LEED status is no simple easy task. We needed assistance in the analysis of the Building and the LEED Application process. Goby’s team has the experience, certifications, and pragmatic approach towards achieving the LEED status.” Jeb Scherb Owner, 211 W. Wacker Drive Sustainability Tracking Experts Leading commercial real estate firms utilize Goby’s platform to track sustainability in a single cloud-based interface. Clients experience notable cost reductions just by tracking their sustainability performance. Goby platform clients utilize the sustainability dashboards coupled with Goby’s expert services teams to ensure compliance with regulatory and reporting ordinances, ENERGY STAR, and LEED certifications. After all, “You can’t manage what you don’t measure”. It’s an imperative responsibility to understand your exposure to the rising costs of energy, water, waste, and utilities. Goby clients are able to report to their stakeholders in each of these areas. Since 2010, Goby clients have experienced a reduction in energy consumption. Goby Professional Engineers review portfolio and property reports and trends to identify no & lowcost opportunities for savings. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 10 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 11 Sustainability in our Operations The success of Goby depends on our responsible environmental stewardship in all of our activities. We continuously commit ourselves to develop and implement best management practices for a sustainable, yet profitable existence. This commitment arises from a sense of concerned citizenship and moral duty. Goby has a desire to lead by example and extend our influence to improve the environment. As a role model, we need to endorse our own recommendation; therefore Goby is committed to implementing its own sustainability policy. We firmly believe a company’s responsibility no matter its size is essential to how it operates. This begins with the day-to-day relationships it maintains with employees, clients, partners, suppliers, non-governmental associations and society as a whole. We are committed to our sustainability progress by tracking our own performance through the Goby platform and reporting the progress for transparency. Environment We believe that preventing global warming is a great challenge for humankind and every company as small as they may be should contribute and take actions to reverse climate change and their footprint. At Goby, we are willing to incorporate pressing environmental issues into business decisions and conduct our corporate activities with controlled environmental impacts to meet our responsibility and stewardship as a corporate citizen. We have developed policies and best practices to control our impact on the environment and minimize consumption, and we encourage our employees to develop reasonable and eco-friendly habits. Under the responsibility of managers, all employees play an active role in adhering to environmental procedures in their day-to-day responsibilities. Goby is planning to dynamically control its environmental footprint from year to year. Our environmental protection policy particularly emphasizes global compact principles 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, and 9 around four key areas: Air Quality Management: with a strong focus on controlling business travel and enabling responsible mobility Energy Management: with priority to efficient use of energy in our office Waste Management: with priority to responsible printing and waste recycling. Sustainable Purchasing: with a strong focus on products that minimize negative environmental impacts. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 12 Dynamic Workplace Bolstered by the talent and expertise of our 50+ employees, Goby’s Human Resources policy focuses on the employee welfare and training to motivate staff and improve productivity. Competitive pay and benefits, career development in sustainable training (eg. LEED certifications), and equal opportunities are fundamental to attracting and supporting employees. Goby helps employees to balance work and home commitments by offering flexible work options. Goby offers a comprehensive Wellness programs via our healthcare provider that includes gym membership discounts to the gym located in our headquarters, among its plethora of perks. Health insurance is the core of wellness and as such Goby covers the cost of employees’ plans 100%. We holistically believe in providing a safe and healthy working environment for employees as well as outside the Goby organization. Air Quality Management Goby’s headquarters is located within a LEED-certified building which complies with higher standards of Air Quality Management for its employees. Since a robust amount of our clientele is located outside of the city of Chicago, mobility has become an essential aspect to our business operations. It’s important that we make ecologically sound and efficient choices to moderate the negative effects of business travel to the greatest extent possible. Goby is aware of the impact on the environment of the employees’ daily commute to work. This is why Goby makes sure its offices are located in areas easily accessible to public transportation. Our LEED Gold Office Building provides secure bike lock-up as well as locker room to entice Gobies to commute via bicycle. A vast majority of Goby employees use environmentally-friendly methods of transportation for their daily commute, whether through public transit or by walking and/or biking. Emissions produced by business travel are one of the major direct environmental impacts generated by service firms. Therefore, Goby controls its business travel by prioritizing web conferences and conference calls over flying and bundling of trips. We have engaged initiatives to control business travel and the environmental impact of our employees’ daily work commutes. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 13 Energy Management Goby recognizes that implementing processes to improve energy efficiency has a positive impact both at the economical level (lower energy costs), at the environmental level (reduced greenhouse gas emissions), and at the social level (enhanced comfort for employees). Goby’s environmental policy in terms of energy management primarily aims to efficiently use energy in our office. We have retro-fitted the lighting with energy efficient lighting, such as LED’s, which has reduced our energy costs by 25%. We utilize motion sensor lighting in our common spaces and inform employees of best practices in shutting down power at the end of each work day. All Goby employees are issued ENERGY STAR certified laptops that efficiently use power and we are consistently looking for technology to further reduce our carbon footprint. Waste Management At Goby, we strive to operate our daily office activities with as little impact on the environment as possible. Our environmental policy in terms of waste management is as follows: Recycling: We have dedicated paper, aluminum/plastic, and have recently eliminated coffee disc recycling stations at our office to a standard coffee maker in common areas for all to use to reduce waste. We also participate in quarterly e-waste recycling for better management of electronics recycling. Priority to Paperless Communication: Through Goby’s platform, we are able to conduct nearly paperless communication with our clients. All of our LEED projects and sustainability reports are available online, as well as a majority of our meetings are conducted over web meetings and conference calls. We are able to share documents and files by utilizing a cloud-based file sharing program, BOX, which allows us to share large documents with our clients without straining email storage capacities. When paper is necessary, we are committed to a greater use of recycled paper, both in our everyday business as well as for any communications (presentations, client meetings, product fact sheets, etc.). All of our LEED projects and client communications are virtually paperless. Responsible Printing: double sided printing, with emphasis on printing only if needed. Pages that can be reused are placed in the recycled printing paper bin for future reuse. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 14 Sustainable Purchasing At Goby, our environmental stewardship expands into purchasing products that minimize any negative environmental impact. We utilize green purchasing practices and evaluate the entire life cycle of the products and materials we purchase. Goby also implements the following sustainable purchasing policy: Developed and implemented ENERGY STAR-certified appliance/equipment purchasing guidelines. Purchase office products that are environmentally-preferred, considering not only the life of the product but its packaging as well. We will not utilize suppliers that don’t execute generally accepted child labor laws, as Goby supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor and the effective abolition of child labor. Furthermore, we support our client Carlson Rezidor in their philanthropic efforts against child trafficking. Social Performance GRESB (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) An industry-driven organization committed to assessing the sustainability performance of real estate portfolios (public, private and direct) around the globe. Goby works with GRESB’s dynamic benchmark and institutional investors to engage with their investments with the aim to improve the sustainability performance of their investment portfolio, and the global property sector at large. USGBC (United States Green Building Council) A non-profit organization dedicated to sustainable building design and construction. Goby is an active member and we attend many of their events, which are very environmental and stewardship-focused, providing tools and expertise, building communities, educating the industry and public and forming forums for industry dialog. A large portion of Goby’s employees are USGBC LEED or WELL Accredited Professionals. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 15 SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board) A non-profit organization dedicated to developing sustainability accounting standards used to disclose public information to investors. Goby assists clients with the process of SASB data capture and submission. BOMA (Building Owners and Managers Association) Goby participates in the environmental aspects, including holding a Brown Bag Session to present LEED recertification guidelines and the importance of tracking Sustainability data, as well as social aspects, when Gobies volunteer time at the Annual December Toy Drive Event Horizons for Youth and at the soup kitchen Inspiration Café. Greenbuild An annual conference and exposition of the U.S. Green Building Council, promoting green building materials, techniques, and products. In October 2016, Gobies participated at Greenbuild in Los Angeles, CA where they spoke about the integration of the Goby platform in their everyday building operations. NAIOP (National Association of Industrial and Office Properties) Goby has been attending their industry events, as we are focused on expanding our sustainability foot-candle to the commercial real estate community. Urban Land Institute (ULI) The Urban Land Institute provides leadership in the responsible use of land and in creating and sustaining thriving communities worldwide. ULI is an independent global nonprofit supported by members representing the entire spectrum of real estate development and land use disciplines. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 16 Goby Social Involvement All employees organize volunteer activities throughout the year for Goby’s sustainable social performance industry initiative called Gobyond. Gobyond’s mission is to simply introduce, encourage, and facilitate environmentally and socially responsible practices in our community through supportive and engaged volunteer efforts. Goby celebrates events and organizations that focus on our sustainability mission. We strongly encourage our Goby community to participate and take action with organizations that sustainably benefit our community. Here is a glimpse into our service volunteering projects: LunchTime to End Hunger® In this annual workplace giving competition, individuals donate what they would normally spend on lunch for one week to the Food Depository. Companies across Chicagoland compete to form teams and recruit their colleagues to raise funds. Chicago Gateway Green Dedicated to greening and beautifying Chicago’s expressways, gateways and neighborhoods. Goby partners, volunteers, and donates to this organization as we are passionate about the mission. We are there when Chicago Gateway Green needs Goby! Real Estate Ends Homelessness Chicago real estate industry professionals join together for an opportunity for Chicago to support and raise awareness for permanent supportive housing. Goby attended, volunteered, and made a monetary donation. ATA Bike Commuter Challenge An annual two week-long biking celebration. Individuals and companies are encouraged with a friendly competition to utilize bicycles to commute to work. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 17 Conclusion: Transparency & Disclosure The cornerstone of our sustainability initiatives is to not only have the ability to evaluate our progress but to harvest the willingness to admit our inefficiencies and continually improve our operations. For Goby, a look at our sustainability program is made streamlined and properly tracked with software solutions that allow for this reflection for improvement. Goby’s commitment to the United Nation Global Compact’s 10 principles is ingrained in our triple bottom line. We will strive for excellence as we continually raise the standard for corporate sustainability in our daily and long term operations. 33 North LaSalle Street, Suite 500 | Chicago, Illinois 60602 | info@gobyinc.com | www.gobyinc.com 18
