W I N N I N G T E A M About This Report Reporting Purpose This is Doosan Infracore’s sixth Integrated Report. External Assurance This report has been assured by Samjong KPMG, Doosan Infracore publishes an integrated report to share with its stakean independent assurance service provider, to ensure the propriety and holders the processes whereby financial and non-financial performance integrity of the reporting processes as well as the accuracy and crediresults are generated through the interaction of diverse corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities, based on which corporate values bility of its contents. Its Assurance Report is attached in the Appendix. 2017 are created. Doosan Infracore strives to incorporate CSR throughout Disclaimer This report contains details of some future activities, Doosan Infracore Integrated Report all business activities and makes continued efforts to improve its events and situations based on the company’s plans and estimations integrated report. of future financial outcomes, which may turn out to be inaccurate in the event of changes in the global business landscape. The plans Reporting Process To produce a comprehensive report on Doosan and estimations draw upon the best information available at the time Infracore’s financial and non-financial performance as well as social of completion of this report, with due consideration given to future MANAGEMENT CEO Message . 02 ANALYSIS and environmental values, various departments related to the business environments as well as the company’s elaborate business company’s strategy, sales, investor relations and communications have strategies. Doosan Infracore, therefore, would like to remind its stake80 Years of History . 04 participated in its planning. 25 working-level teams worked together holders that this report contains some predictions that may be affected to compile this Integrated Report, with a focus on performance results significantly due to the risks, uncertainties and other factors involved Business Model . 08 and future plans of the company. in the company’s global operations. Performance Review 2017 . 10 Reporting Period This report presents quantitative data about the Reporting Method Sustainable Value Creation . 14 company’s performance during the 2017 calendar year. However, the Printed Material This report is published in Korean, English, and company’s qualitative activities mentioned in the report, including the Chinese to communicate better with our global stakeholders composition of the BOD, include developments recorded until the end PDF This report is available in PDF format which can be OUR Strategy Overview . 19 of April 2018. downloaded at www.doosaninfracore.com STRATEGY Customer Value . 20 Reporting Scope This report is mainly on the activities and accomContact Us plishments made by the company’s worksites in Korea and China. Sustainable Growth . 30 Some qualitative activities, however, include those undertaken at CSR Part, Communication, Doosan Infracore the company’s overseas worksites. The CSR Facts & Figures section 23rd Fl. Doosan Tower Building, Smart Solution . 42 includes the quantitative outcomes of the worksites in Korea for the 275 Jangchungdan-ro, Junggu, Seoul (04563), Korea last three years. Figures on the worksites in China are on activities E-mail: csr.di@doosan.com Contribution to SDGs . 48 and accomplishments since 2016, after the execution of the overseas OUR Doosan Group & Doosan Infracore worksite CSR roll-out. RESPONSIBILIT Y CSR Structure . 53 Transparent and Ethical Management . 59 Customer Satisfaction and Product Stewardship . 65 Integrated EHS System . 71 Shared Growth with Our Suppliers . 80 Employee Value Proposition . 84 Supporting Development of Local Communities . 91 APPENDIX Performance Summary . 95 Consolidated Financial Statements . 96 CSR Facts & Figures . 100 Independent Auditors’ Report . 105 Independent Assurance Report . 106 Global Network . 108 Doosan Group Doosan Infracore 2017 The oldest and one of the fastest growing in Korea A world-leading company in ISB Our Heritage With 121 years of history, Doosan is the oldest enterprise in Korea. It is based on world-class competitiveness Doosan Infracore Integrated Report 2017 Financial Highlights 2017 Financial Highlights also a company with the great potential, having undergone continuous changes and (Unit: KRW million; based on (Unit: KRW million; based on Company Profile Doosan Infracore was founded in 1937 as Chosun Machine Works, the consolidated financial statements) consolidated financial statements) achieving significant growth throughout the years. Doosan has continued to grow since first large-scale machine manufacturing factory in Korea. Through continuous growth for its inception. In the twentieth century, it emerged as one of the country’s strongest Sales Sales the last 80 years, it has become the nation’s top machine manufacturing company. Its MANAGEMENT CEO Message . 02 consumer goods companies specializing in beer and beverages. At the dawn of the product line-up includes construction equipment, engines, a variety of attachments, and ANALYSIS new millennium, however, Doosan embarked on a massive transformation to become a global company by developing new growth engines and entirely overhauling its busi17,585,205 6,567,897 utility equipment. Based on its world-class competitiveness, Doosan Infracore is moving forward to grow into a global leader in the infrastructure support business (ISB). 80 Years of History . 04 Business Model . 08 ness portfolio. Through a series of successful mergers and acquisitions, Doosan has completely transformed itself from a consumer goods company into an infrastructure Performance Review 2017 . 10 More detailed information on Doosan Infracore’s 80 years of history is available on page 4 support business (ISB) provider, specializing in a wide range of industrial infrastructure of this report. Sustainable Value Creation . 14 such as construction equipment, energy, and production facilities. Backed by a diverse Operating Income Operating Income business portfolio and clear sense of purpose, Doosan continues to pursue innovation Company Name Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and change by focusing on the ISB which is needed to establish and operate social infrastructure, and thus enhances the value of lives of humankind. 1,179,916 660,769 Year Founded 1937 OUR STRATEGY Strategy Overview . 19 CEO Sohn Dong-youn Customer Value . 20 Main Business Areas Production and sales of construction equipment and engines Our Growth Engine Behind the success of Doosan is its unwavering “trust in people.” This Sustainable Growth . 30 Employees 4,027 (Including overseas worksites; as of December 31, 2017) belief is well summed up in our 2G Strategy – Growth of People, Growth of Business. The Smart Solution . 42 Total Assets Total Assets 2G strategy has been the driver of our past successes and will guide us through our journey toward prosperity in the future. At the heart of the 2G Strategy is the virtuous circle of “growth Contribution to SDGs . 48 of people laying the foundation for the growth of the company, and the latter leading back to 28,769,022 10,276,090 BUSINESS OVERVIEW OUR Doosan Group & Doosan Infracore the former.” With its trust in its staff and continuous investment in human capital, Doosan was able to successfully complete bold restructuring and innovative business portfolio Construction Equipment The Construction Equipment Business Area has supplied highRESPONSIBILIT Y CSR Structure . 53 quality medium and large heavy equipment to industrial sites since 1977, contributing transformation. Transparent and Ethical Management . 59 to the development of the global infrastructure industry. The Construction Equipment Total Equity Total Equity Business Area has prestigious global brands such as Doosan, Bobcat, and Geith, with Customer Satisfaction and Our Future Doosan hopes to become a ‘Proud Global Doosan,’ with ‘firm belief and trust in product line-up ranging from compact to medium and large construction equipment. Product Stewardship . 65 people.’ ‘Proud Doosan’ means becoming a company of which all stakeholders are proud, including employees, customers, shareholders, and society as a whole. Our vision is to be7,603,418 3,173,161 It has production bases in Korea, North America, China, and Europe. It provides worldclass products in construction equipment and attachments, portable air compressors, Integrated EHS System . 71 come a company in which all of our stakeholders can take pride. lighting systems, and portable power equipment. Shared Growth with Our Suppliers . 80 Employee Value Proposition . 84 Engine Established in 1958, the Engine Business Area produced the first diesel engine Doosan Way – Our Beliefs and Philosophy Supporting Development of in Korea, and has continued to expand its business portfolio. It supplies diesel and gas Local Communities . 91 Doosan Way engines for buses and trucks, power generators and ships, as well as various industrial Affiliates Doosan’s unique corporate philosophy and culture and operaengines across the world. Based on its product line-up that meets increasingly stringent Doosan is making efforts to improve the foundation for life. tion method to become a ‘Proud Global Doosan’ world-wide environmental regulations, the Engine Business Area is emerging fast as the Doosan can be found in various fields, ranging from the entire world’s top-tier engine manufacturer. It has been enhancing its global competitiveness ISB that includes industrial facilities, machinery, equipment, Core Values by attracting new customers for existing products and exploring new markets and new and construction, to the consumer goods business. Doosan people practice the nine core values of the Doosan business opportunities. Credo everywhere we operate. These values guide the way we Doosan Corporation do business, the way we treat each other, and the way we work Infrastructure Support Business (ISB) Brand with all of our partners. The nine core values of the Doosan Credo are as follows: Consumer & Service Business (CSB) Doosan Infracore’s brand represents Doosan’s proud history and remarkable growth, Cultivating Integrity and Auxiliary Organizations and receives worldwide recognition. APPENDIX Performance Summary . 95 People People Transparency Consolidated Financial Statements . 96 World-class CSR Facts & Figures . 100 Inhwa Customers Technology and Innovation Independent Auditors’ Report . 105 Social Safety and Profit Independent Assurance Report . 106 Responsibility Environment Global Network . 108 For more information on Doosan Infracore’s brand, More information on the Doosan Way and our core values is More information on the subsidiaries of Doosan Group is visit our website at www.doosaninfracore.com available at http://www.doosan.com/en/belief/credo available at http://www.doosan.com/en/intro/affiliate or scan this QR code with a smartphone 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis CEO Message CEO Message Outlook and Plans for 2018 We will prepare for the future and offer top-quality products, value, and customer satisfaction as we strive to achieve our vision of becoming a ‘Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions.’ Price and quantity-based competition has been intensifying, even as the market grows. Our competitors are also focusing on attracting customers by launching distinctive products, offering more solutions that are connected to information and communication technology (ICT), and securing future growth drivers by making investments into new technology and through M&As. In this very competitive market environment, Doosan Infracore will solidify our strengths by further focusing on profitability through cost control and innovation in manufacturing, and will diversify our product range and geographical sales in order to be ready for any potential market stagnation or downturn. In addition, we will continue to develop new technologies and identify new business opportunities as part of our preparations for the future. In 2018, we will continue to strive towards achieving our corporate vision of becoming a ‘Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions’ and implement midto long-term strategic direction, which was established in 2016, while pursuing three strategies as follows: First, we will offer maximum customer value through outstanding products and services. We will continue to enhance customer satisfaction by responding quickly to market and customer requirements, constantly improving basic quality, and further upgrading our services. Second, we will maintain our growth momentum. As the raw materials market has continued to strengthen recently, we have been responding to the growth trend by launching an ultra-large 80-ton excavator which has earned a very positive response from dealers and customers. We are aiming to increase sales of our outstanding, high quality large equipment this year. Sales activities will focus on each region and channel’s specific market characteristics, and headquarters will offer extra support where required to win large deals. We have been working at a company level to improve our capabilities in the AM. We expect our AM sales to increase this year, along with stronger profitability and competitiveness in I thank you sincerely for your unwavering support and trust in Doosan Infracore. sales channels and parts. We will develop strong global leadership across the entire value chain and all regions by acquiring business rights to sell heavy equipment in the advanced markets, which will enable us to substantially improve both the speed of our corporate decision-making 2017 was a meaningful year for Doosan Infracore, marking the 80th anniversary of our birth as the first large-scale machinery company in Korea. and work efficiency. We will strive to increase the profitability of our heavy business in the advanced market, while accelerating the growth pace In its early years, the company focused on producing military supplies, including 200-ton submarines, in addition to mining machinery, cast by providing rapid expert support from headquarters. In the engine business, we will further support and integrate the joint venture between products, and cast steel. In 1958, we became the first company in Korea to launch an engine business when we produced a diesel engine for Doosan Infracore and Lovol, and focus on increasing sales of the compact G2 engine. We will expand the vehicle engine business in Vietnam, ships. We began our construction equipment business in 1977, and developed an excavator using our own independent technologies, proving and widen the sales network for power generator engines. our ability to go beyond technical partnerships with overseas companies, and advanced into the global market. In 2007, we acquired Bobcat, the world’s No. 1 in compact construction equipment company, and thus became a truly global company in construction equipment. Third, we will seek more business opportunities for the future. In the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, Doosan Infracore has been strengthening our business by using digital technology, and through direct and indirect investments into new technologies and businesses. Thanks to the support of all of our customers, shareholders, and other stakeholders, in 2017, we also achieved the best sales growth in six years. More and more construction sites are using the ‘connected site’ concept, which increases efficiency by making equipment unmanned, In this Integrated Report, I would like to look back at last year’s achievements, and share with you our plans for the future, as we continue our automated, and connected. For this reason, we expanded DoosanCONNECT™ globally last year, and also began the Concept-X project as part of progress towards a new future. our efforts to create a construction site of the future. In addition, we advanced our unmanned, autonomous system technology by investing in an autonomous driving start-up company this year. We plan to make more investments in start-ups related to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, in Market Conditions and Accomplishments in 2017 order to grow our existing businesses, develop new businesses, and expand technological capabilities to areas beyond construction equipment. We have achieved growth by ensuring strong fundamentals in our business and securing fundamental competitiveness. Information acquired through DoosanCONNECT™ will be used to improve customer satisfaction through the development of new services and Most construction equipment markets grew in 2017, with the exception of the Middle East. Doosan Infracore’s sales increased substantially products. We will also continue with the successful execution of the Concept-X project. year-on-year to reach KRW 6,567.9 billion, thanks to increasing numbers of large-scale infrastructure investments worldwide, rising raw material prices, and the replacement cycle for equipment already sold. Operating income stood at KRW 660.8 billion, mainly attributable to increased Doosan Infracore is passionate about engaging in the socially responsible activities that are required of a global corporate citizen, and becoming sales of midto large-sized equipment and other high-margin equipment, as well as profitability improvement in the engine business. In a truly global leader by building the foundations for sustainable management. We abide strictly by all safety rules at our business sites at home particular, sales of more than 10,000 excavators in China drove the overall performance growth of the company. These improvements in and abroad, and our labor and management are working together to build a win-win labor-management culture that is based on mutual trust business performance in turn enabled us to strengthen our financial performance, with better profitability, the re-financing or repayment of and understanding. This is enabling us to establish the world’s most productive and efficient plants, and to create a healthy workplace. Doosan maturing debts, and the pre-payment of hybrid securities. We were thus able to lift the company’s credit rating and stabilize our financial Infracore also strives to preserve the environment by developing eco-friendly technologies and products, increasing efficiency in the use of structure. resources, and reducing our overall environmental impacts. In our relationships with our suppliers, we aim for a virtuous cycle of support and success by operating programs for win-win cooperation that build solid, long-term and profitable partnerships. For society as a whole, Doosan We also continued to strive to improve the company’s fundamental competitiveness and to generate stable revenues. There were challenges in Infracore is committed to undertaking heartfelt social contribution activities that will benefit future generations and all of our local communities. the engine business last year due to sluggish demand and increased competition in the power generator market. However, in partnership with Lovol, a leading agricultural machinery company in China, we successfully established a joint venture – Lovol Doosan Engine Company (LDEC) This year, we will look to the past 80 years of our history, and build on that heritage to write the first page in the next 80 years of our history. Over Joint Venture. We also achieved success in emerging markets for vehicle engines, including Vietnam. We focused on increasing after market (AM) the years, Doosan Infracore has built up and internalized the strengths needed to overcome continuing challenges. Based on those strengths sales by concentrating on improving the competitiveness of our parts and servicing, and we also expanded our offerings of smart solutions, and through seamless cooperation within the ‘Winning Team’, we will grow into a company with strong competitiveness. such as system upgrades and the global launch of DoosanCONNECT™. We helped our dealers to strengthen their service capabilities, and partnered with them to offer DoosanCARE services, resulting in increased customer satisfaction. Thank you. Sohn Dong-youn Chief Executive Officer Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. 02 03 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis 80 Years of History 1937-2004 THE BEGINNINGS The birth of machinery industry in Korea 1937 1976 1992 Established Chosun Machine Works Company name was changed to Daewoo Heavy Developed driving equipment for excavators Doosan Infracore was initially launched as Industries & Machinery Ltd. (hydraulic motor, decelerator) Chosun Machine Works in 1937. Established in 1977 1993 Incheon, Chosun Machine Works was Korea’s Became the first in Korea to mass produce a turbo The company’s production subsidiary in Europe first large-scale machinery factory. engine received ISO 9002 certification (excavator) Years of 1942 1978 1994 Built a casting, cast steel, forge welding, and In-house manufactured the DH07-3 excavator Established Doosan Infracore China Co., Ltd. rolling plant (Shandong Province, China) Innovation & Inspiration 1958 Produced a diesel engine for ships 1981 Established the Central R&D Center 1995 Developed the ultra-compact excavator SOLAR007 Chosun Machine Works signed a technical 1985 Doosan Infracore was founded in 1937 as the first large-scale alliance agreement with Austria’s AVL and Developed SOLAR, the company’s excavator model 1996 developed in-house Established the Reliability Evaluation Center machine manufacturing factory in Korea. The company has been commenced diesel engine development. It Doosan Infracore launched the ‘SOLAR at the Incheon Plant growing into a global machinery company that manufactures began producing a diesel engine for 25 to 100 horsepower ships. project’ in 1983 with an aim to develop its own The company built the industry’s first Reliability various compact to large construction equipment, including excavators using its accumulated technologies, Evaluation Center, where around 400 types excavators and loaders, as well as industrial engines and diesel 1963 and succeeded in launching the SOLAR series of equipment are used to test machinery engines for power generators, vehicles, and ships. Launched Launched as Korea Machinery Industries Corp. in 1985. The company exported its SOLAR series and equipment in 13 labs. It earned Electro as a new member of Doosan Group in 2005, Doosan Infracore The company was launched as Korea excavators to the Netherlands in 1987 – the Magnetic Compatibility (EMC) certification from first ever shipment of Korean heavy equipment TUV of Germany, thereby receiving recognition is emerging as a world-leading company by strengthening Machinery Industries Corp., a state-operated company, in 1963 and contributed to industrial overseas. as an international test center. competitiveness and developing new growth engines through modernization in Korea. global M&As. 1986 2001 Began mass production of four models of the Daewoo Heavy Industries & Machinery was listed 1970 Made a technical cooperation agreement with STORM engine – the company’s own model Began building ‘Hope Elementary Schools’ in MAN of Germany China 1988 1975 Completed development of the electronic power Completed the construction of the diesel engine optimizing system (EPOS) for excavators factory in Incheon – one of the largest in Asia 1990 Became the first company in the Korean heavy industry to establish a production subsidiary in Europe (Belgium) 04 05 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis 80 Years of History 2005-2010 2011-2017 GLOBAL GROWTH Paving the way for a global company SUSTAINABLE FUTURE A global leader opening a new chapter of sustainability 2005 2007 2008 2011 2014 2016 Launched Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Acquired the compact equipment business Acquired Moxy Engineering A.S., Published the company’s first sustainability Set the Group Code of Conduct Completed the advanced Incheon Excavator Plant (Bobcat) a Norwegian articulated dump truck company management report Launched DX300LC Completed R&D Centers (Global R&D Center in Doosan Bobcat listed on the Korean Stock Market Doosan Infracore emerged as the The DX300LC is an early model of the Released the DX225LCA to respond to Listed in Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Asia Pacific Incheon; Doosan Bobcat Acceleration Center Doosan Bobcat, the world’s leading No. 7 company in the global construction emerging markets in the U.S.; and Innovation Center in Dobris, DX Series that was developed to deal manufacturer of compact construction equipment industry by acquiring Bobcat, Created Sustainable Management Part and Social Czech Republic) with Tier 3 emissions regulations. It offers Provided support for restoration from Contribution Part equipment, went public on the Korean which has world-leading competitiveness in Doosan Infracore established an R&D belt at stock market, thereby paving the way for its improved fuel efficiency and performance compact construction equipment. the large earthquake in Sichuan, China compared to previous generation products. 2012 major overseas worksites. The Global R&D contribution to the international development Established the Warm Process Learning Completed the construction of the Compact Center in Incheon is a 12-story building with two of the country’s capital market, while building a Established Doosan Infracore India Private Center to foster technical personnel Established Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Ltd. – a overseas subsidiary in India Engine G2 Plant in Incheon additional basement floors, a total floor space momentum for even more impressive corporate (Rep. Office) – a subsidiary in the Middle East (Hunan Province, China) of 26,163 m2, and the capacity to accommodate The company completed the construction of the growth based on an objective evaluation of its Awarded the USD 2 Billion Export Tower on Received the ‘Warm Process Public Interest Compact Engine G2 Plant on a 14,000 m2 site in 1,000 R&D personnel. corporate value in the financial market. 2006 Trade Day Partner Award’ in China Hwasu-dong, Incheon, which can manufacture Established Doosan Infracore China Participated in the Doosan Day of Community Service 2017 Released the DX210W, a 21-ton 100,000 engines of three types a year. Tier 4 Investment Co., Ltd – a holding company 2009 next-generation excavator Final compact engines from the plant are also Launched DoosanCONNECT™ in the global in China Received the Safety Zone Certificate Published the company's first environmental mounted in Bobcat compact equipment. market report Released the 9C generation, customized for the 2016 Integrated Report received a Gold Award at Rated Class A in the ESG Evaluation by the Chinese market Released the DX700LC, the first large the International ARC Awards equipment of Doosan Infracore Corporate Governance Service, Korea The company reflected voice of local customers and launched a model for the Chinese market Established Lovol Doosan Engine Company Launched the ‘Dream School’ – a social that deals with Tier 3 regulations. (LDEC) Joint Venture 2010 contribution project Completed the construction of Gunsan The company established a joint venture, marking Construction Equipment Plant 2015 Launched the Doosan Way its first technology export. Released Tier 4 Final product Doosan Infracore completed the construction 2013 Released the DX800LC, an 80-ton equipment of a plant in the Gunsan Industrial Complex Implemented strategic tasks by subcommittee that can produce more than an annual Joined the UN Global Compact of the CSR Committee The company launched a new product that 4,000 units of large equipment, including features the latest hydraulic, full-length Published the company’s first integrated report Distributed supplier CSR guidelines and six excavator models and four wheel loader technologies and is receiving a good response in operated the supplier carbon partnership China and Indonesia. models. Established the CSR Committee Received the excellent rating in the 2015 Shared Completed the Construction Equipment Factory Began managing greenhouse gas and Growth Index Evaluation (Korea Commission for in Brazil energy targets Corporate Partnerships) Launched the Women’s Council Cumulative excavator production of Doosan Infracore China Co., Ltd (DICC) exceeded 100 thousand units 06 07 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Business Model Business Model Doosan Infracore has been achieving its vision of becoming a ‘Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions’ and strategic goals by investing its various financial and non-financial resources in the company’s value chain and creating corporate value. In its business model operation process, Doosan Infracore considers social and environmental issues, achieve sustainable growth of the company, and contribute to social development. CAPITAL INPUT VALUE CHAIN KEY PERFORMANCE IN 2017 FINANCIAL FINANCIAL1) Funds that were procured through manageSales KRW 6,567.9 billion Net income KRW 296.6 billion ment, investments or financing, and that Rose 14.6% year-on-year as a result of increased Assets KRW 10,276.1 billion market demand and strengthening of sales can be used by an organization to produce channels Liabilities KRW 7,102.9 billion products or provide services Operating income KRW 660.8 billion Equity KRW 3,173.2 billion Rose 34.6% year-on-year as a result of increased 1) Based on consolidated financial statements proportion of the highly-profitable Chinese midMANUFACTURED to large-sized construction equipment business, improved profitability of the engine business, Manufactured articles, such as facilities and and continued sales of Doosan Bobcat’s highbuildings that can be used by an organization margin equipment to produce products or provide services MANUFACTURED Production facility PRODUCTION investments KRW 94.3 billion Excavators and wheel loaders 20,974 INTELLECTUAL PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Investments to increase production capacity and improve the plant environment Engines 81,159 An organization’s knowledge-based intanDevelop products that reflect voice gible assets, such as patents, copyrights, of customers, advanced emissions INTELLECTUAL software rights, and licenses regulations, and eco-friendliness DOMESTIC AND OVERSEAS INTELLECTUAL Received the ‘2017 Good Design Award’ based on the NPD process IN-USE PROPERTY RIGHTS Develop service solution products Applications 3,422 and advance customer services HUMAN through DoosanCONNECT™ Registrations 2,184 Members’ capabilities, experiences, and HUMAN drive towards innovation that allow the understanding, development, and execution Establishment of the FC development 122 master craftsmen and 3 master of organization’s strategies system for office staff and technical staff technicians (cumulative) Completed the establishment of functional Nurtured technical staff with advanced skills and competency (FC) development system for all competitiveness by offering technical staff FC office staff members; conducted 11 FC assesssystem-based FC training and operating learning SOCIAL/NETWORK ments for technical staff; and completed building clubs and a system for supporting license acquia technical FC system sition Stakeholder relations and trust, and other intangible assets related to the brands and PROCUREMENT SOCIAL/NETWORK Dream School participants reputation developed by an organization (cumulative) — 721 Build a healthy ecosystem for Leading Suppliers (cumulative) — 22 Mentoring-based dream search program for youth win-win growth based on Operate programs to enhance capabilities of activities that strengthen supplier suppliers in making improvements, and to Doosan Day of Community Service support the development of fundamental comparticipants — 511 competencies, such as Doosan petitiveness NATURAL SALES & SERVICE Employee volunteer activities for local communities Supplier Excellence Program (DSEP) MANUFACTURING and the benefit sharing system1) Expand the line-up and parts All environmental resources that are renewSecure an advanced operation NATURAL able or not renewable and that are used to business for increased customer system that enhances product provide products or services satisfaction, and strengthen customer Reduction in energy expenses — KRW 1.28 billion Reduction in annual water consumption quality, flexible production system, after wastewater recycling — 7,200 tons services, such as DoosanCARE Continued to operate energy consumption and production efficiency based on reduction tasks, and made investment in energy, the Doosan Production System (DPS) such as compressed air pipe separation at the Reduction in annual water 1)  casting plant consumption expenses after A large corporation jointly carries out such activities wastewater recycling — KRW 135 million as developing a new technology, making process Greenhouse gas emissions — 97,955 tonCO2eq improvements, and removing inefficiencies with Around 73.7% of the volume allocated by the its supplier, and both parties share the income Korean government generated from the activity 08 09 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Performance Review 2017 Performance Review 2017 Financial Performance into infrastructure, and the replacement cycle for equipment. In order draws up three month and annual financial balance plans to minimize Sales Records to take advantage of this growth, Doosan Infracore took a number of the influence of business, investment, and other financial activities on its In 2017, the market for construction equipment grew compared to the (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) measures, such as overhauling the dealer network, strengthening its monetary balance. Through this financial balance planning, the company previous year. This was the result of an increase in large-scale infrastruc2015 2016 2017 bond management system, improving service capabilities, and offering calculates, secures, and maintains liquidity, in preparation for possible ture and mining investments as raw material prices rose, backed by the Sales 5,964,894 5,729,550 6,567,897 more competitive financing. As a result, the Construction Equipment BG liquidity risks. replacement cycle for equipment which was sold previously. Competition 4,747,331 4,404,459 5,024,999 led corporate-wide growth by more than doubling sales for the year. In Cost of sales in the engine market intensified due to the growth of Chinese companies emerging markets, the BG implemented a value-selling strategy, which Cash Flow Gross profit 1,217,564 1,325,091 1,542,898 (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) and increased priceand quantity-based competition from more involves offering consulting and other services alongside product sales. Selling and administrative 2015 2016 2017 established companies seeking to offset the impact of higher raw 1,312,651 834,273 882,129 By increasing customer trust and meeting their requirements, the BG expenses Cash flows material prices and labor costs as the global economy recovered. Doosan succeeded in winning large, highly-profitable deals. Infracore returned to growth last year after a long period of stagnation. Operating income (loss) (95,087) 490,818 660,769 Cash flows from 236,685 512,993 665,691 In order to build on this achievement, the company launched a number Other non-operating operating activities 51,657 56,182 64,153 In 2017, the Construction Equipment BG generated sales of KRW 2,004.4 of equipment products tailored to customer requirements, as well as income Cash flows from billion, a year-on-year increase of KRW 652.7 billion, or 48.29%. Operating (96,938) 909,634 (256,289) engines that meet advanced emissions regulations. Doosan Infracore Other non-operating investing activities 346,186 213,312 72,932 income rose by KRW 147.4 billion, or 817.67%, to reach KRW 165.5 billion. secured new customers by improving the service capabilities of its expenses Cash flows from 82,007 (1,454,380) 32,267 dealers, offering products and services with cutting-edge technologies, Net income (loss) before Construction Equipment financing activities (781,054) 82,050 489,627 (Unit: KRW million) including unmanned autonomous technology and DoosanCONNECT™, income tax expense Cash and cash equivalents (benefit) 2015 2016 2017 and looked at opportunities in new markets by establishing a joint Income tax expense Sales 1,395,250 1,351,718 2,004,427 Cash and cash venture with Lovol. Following its return to profitability in 2016, Doosan 161,078 162,640 192,984 equivalents, beginning 362,953 560,003 538,578 (benefit) Operating income (486,023) 18,031 165,465 Infracore was able to further lift sales and substantially strengthen its of the year Net income (loss) (859,505) 115,985 296,643 profitability in 2017, thanks to these fundamental improvements and Cash and cash increased competitiveness. 3-2. Engine Global economy gradually recovered, however, there was equivalents, end of 560,003 538,578 943,481 fiercer competition in the market as Chinese companies sought to grow, the year 2. Financial Status and established companies competed aggressively on price and quantity 1. Sales Records At the end of 2017, total assets stood at KRW 10,276.1 billion, an increase in order to mitigate against cost increases, including raw material prices In 2017, Doosan Infracore posted sales of KRW 6,567.9 billion, a year-onand labor costs. Even in this challenging business environment, the 5. Production Assets of KRW 249.3 billion over the previous year. Total liabilities went up by year increase of 14.6%. This was the result of greater market demand and KRW 524.5 billion to reach KRW 7,102.9 billion, while total equity fell by Engine BG strove to increase sales outside the company by expanding Consolidated entities’ facilities and equipment include land, buildings, the strengthening of sales channels. Operating income grew by 34.6% KRW 275.2 billion to KRW 3,173.2 billion. its coverage and identifying new customers. It also focused on entering structures, machines, and assets under construction. The book value of to KRW 660.8 billion, which was attributable to the increased proportion new markets by advancing into a vehicle engine market in Vietnam facilities and equipment was KRW 1,786.9 billion as of the end of 2017, a of sales of high-margin midto large-sized construction equipment in Financial Status and establishing LDEC JV – a joint venture between Lovol and Doosan year-on-year decrease of KRW 36.2 billion. Cumulative new acquisitions (Unit: KRW million; based on consolidated financial statements) China, improvements in the profitability of the engine business, and Infracore. As a result, the Engine BG achieved year-on-year growth in and capital expenditures in 2017 were KRW 112.3 billion, and deprecia2015 2016 2017 continuing high-margin sales at Doosan Bobcat. Net income rose by KRW both sales and profits, thanks to increased demand from the construction costs totaled KRW 141.1 billion. Current assets 3,876,021 3,049,571 3,767,434 180.7 billion to KRW 296.6 billion. tion equipment and commercial vehicle markets. Non-current assets 7,507,152 6,977,238 6,508,656 (Unit: KRW billion; based on consolidated financial statements) Total assets 11,383,173 10,026,809 10,276,090 In 2017, the Engine BG generated sales and operating income of KRW 6. Intellectual Assets Current liabilities 3,961,155 3,653,194 3,695,646 501.8 billion and KRW 75.8 billion, respectively, year-on-year increases Doosan Infracore improves its product competitiveness and builds Sales Operating income Net income of KRW 3.1 billion (0.62%) and KRW 17.1 billion (29.02%). the foundations for long-term growth by expanding investment into Non-current liabilities 4,319,061 2,925,238 3,407,283 14.6% 34.6% 155.7% R&D. R&D at the company consists of heavy product development, Total liabilities 8,280,217 6,578,432 7,102,929 Engine (Unit: KRW million) which undertakes research into the company’s key products, such as 6,567.9 660.8 296.6 Total equity 3,102,956 3,448,377 3,173,161 2015 2016 2017 excavators and wheel loaders; engine product development, which 578,193 498,699 501,792 focuses on meeting emissions and fuel efficiency regulations; product 5,729.6 Sales design and high-stiffness materials; and the technology center, which Operating income 2,361 58,781 75,837 490.8 3. Performance by Business focuses on the virtual verification and analysis of R&D. All these R&D In 2017, Doosan Infracore’s Construction Equipment BG achieved activities are aimed at creating a distinct technological advantage for the substantial increases in both sales and operating income as markets company, and establishing an advanced engineering process. 116.0 recovered. The Engine BG saw an increase in operating income as a result 4. Cash Flow & Solvency of more in-house sales and a better product mix. In 2017, cash flows from operating activities were KRW 665.7 billion, a Based on separate financial statements, Doosan Infracore’s R&D year-on-year increase of KRW 152.7 billion. As of the end of 2017, cash expenses in 2017 stood at KRW 112.1 billion, equivalent to 4.2% of total 3-1. Construction Equipment The Construction Equipment BG achieved and cash equivalents totaled KRW 943.5 billion, inclusive of the effects sales. As of the end of 2017, the number of intellectual property rights growth in most markets, excluding the Middle East, where markets were of foreign exchange. applications made in Korea and overseas by consolidated entities had stagnant due to continuing low oil prices. In particular, the company reached 3,422, and the number registered totaled 2,184. continued to see strong growth in sales and operating income in China Liquidity risk may arise when a consolidated entity fails to fulfill a payment and other emerging markets. In China, the market was boosted by a obligation for financial debt due to insufficient liquidity, or finds it number of factors, including a government-led expansion of investments impossible to raise the funds needed for normal business. Doosan Infracore 2016 2017 10 11 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Performance Review 2017 Non-Financial Performance There has been increased societal focus on issues, such as accounting Fostering technical staff with outstanding professional skills is a vital part of activities to create a culture of safety. These include using its health and 1.2 Engine Doosan Infracore’s Engine BG will aim to increase exports of fraud at large companies, corrupt hiring, human rights in the workplace, in becoming a global company. Since 2016, therefore, Doosan Infracore safety facilities, such as the Disaster Prevention Center, company-affiliated the Stage V engine, which meets the latest European emissions regulations, supplier safety, and climate change. Companies are therefore being has been reforming its technical staff personnel system, including hospitals and other specialist facilities, to provide firefighting, emergency and will also successfully establish the LEDC JV to build sales in China. The required to improve their corporate social responsibilities (CSR), including strengthening the technical managing director system and the technical treatment and medical support to residents near its Incheon Plant. company will diversify its vehicle engine business to cover the entire Asian transparent management, human rights management, supply chain expert system. As a result, the first technical executive in 80 years of region, including emerging countries such as Vietnam. Doosan Infracore management, energy efficiency, and management of greenhouse gas Doosan Infracore’s history was appointed in January 2017. continues to invest in the development of electronic engines and postemissions. In order to meet this social demand and become a truly global 2. Environmental Performance processing equipment that will comply with strengthened emissions and leader, Doosan Infracore reviews its CSR risks and opportunities, defines 1.3 Suppliers Doosan Infracore operates a range of programs to improve Korean regulations on the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions trading hazardous substance regulations in Europe, China, Asia and the Middle and implements CSR strategies, and discloses all relevant information, led its suppliers’ competitiveness. These include programs on technology scheme have applied to Doosan Infracore since 2015. Accordingly, the East. This has enabled the company to successfully offer engines that meet by the CSR Committee. Accordingly, the company strives to ensure that its development, quality improvement, and financial support. The company company operates an Energy Management System (EMS), uses LED advanced emissions regulations. In addition, the company will meet midto CSR activities are at the core of company management. is helping to strengthen the fundamental competitiveness of its suppliers lights and other energy-efficient devices, optimizes the supply of utilities, long-term customer requirements by developing LNG engine technologies, through the Doosan Supplier Excellence Program (DSEP) and the Leading operates a central control system for air-conditioning and heating, and expanding the line-up of gas engines, and developing the technologies The major eight CSR strategic tasks in 2017 were defined as strengthening Supplier program. The company also supports firstand second-tier conducts energy conservation PR campaigns. Over the period of the first needed to create the powertrains of the future. monitoring of human rights violations, reducing worksite energy use and suppliers in cooperating with each other to achieve quality goals, and plan, which ran from 2015 to 2017, the company’s GHG emissions remained increasing energy efficiency, establishing a midto long-term roadmap to share profits fairly. In addition, Doosan Infracore helps suppliers to within quota. GHG emissions in 2017 were 97,955 tCO2, which is around In 2018, Doosan Infracore is aiming to achieve sales that exceed the market on carbon trading, developing the REACH/RoHS 2 IT system, two tasks improve their health and safety management, in order to prevent industrial 40% of the 243,181 tCO2 permitted through the emissions trading scheme. growth rate by developing a next-generation Stage V engine, attracting relating to advanced emissions regulations, one task relating to smart accidents. It does so through a program which provides safety training, risk By establishing a midto long-term roadmap for dealing with the emissions major new customers, quickly stabilizing the LEDC JV in China, improving solutions, and helping overseas worksites disclose their CSR information. assessments, and technical support for hazard management. As a result, trading scheme, Doosan Infracore has been able to set a pre-emptive and sales of large power generator engines, and increasing gas engine sales in As a result of its outstanding CSR achievements, Doosan Infracore has in 2017, the company was ranked ‘Grade A,’ given only to the top 10% of sustainable direction for emissions trading after 2020. North America. In addition, the company will widen its product line-up by been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI)1) Korea in worksites in Korea, in the ‘2017 evaluation of coexistence and cooperation developing electronic engines and other new technologies, and will strive the machine and electric equipment category for eight consecutive years, programs for health and safety.’ In September 2017, the company began to be competitive on price by improving productivity and minimizing the including 2017. It also has been rated Class A in the ESG Evaluation by operations of a supplier support program which is aimed at building a impact of cost increases. All of these factors will enable Doosan Infracore to the Corporate Governance Service in Korea2) for seven consecutive years. virtuous cycle that will help not only first-tier suppliers but also secondOutlook 2018 create a midto long-term virtuous cycle of increased sales and enhanced In addition, our 2016 Integrated Report, which shared the company’s and third-tier suppliers, in-house subcontractors and service company customer satisfaction. achievements for the year, set out its vision for the future and outlined its employees to reduce the income gap and improve labor conditions. 1. Financial Outlook CSR activities, won the Gold Awards in two categories – ‘manufacturing 1.1 Construction Equipment The market for midto large-sized construcbusiness’ and ‘eco-friendliness’ – at the Annual Report Competition 1.4 Local Communities Doosan Infracore undertakes a wide range tion equipment is forecast to continue to grow in most regions in 2018. 2. Non-Financial Outlook Awards, one of the world’s largest corporate report competitions. of social contribution activities, so that it can grow in partnership with The Chinese market will likely continue to grow, but there is a risk of a The CSR Committee has finalized the CSR strategic tasks for 2018 through local communities, and fulfill its role as a global corporate citizen. Every market adjustment caused by a sudden policy changes from the Chinese materiality analysis and external evaluations, in line with business year, the company hosts the ‘Doosan Day of Community Service’ event, government, such as real estate or environmental regulations. In emerging unit work plans. The eight tasks are building a management system 1. Social Performance with participation from staff around the world, including Korea, Asia, the markets, demand for construction equipment is forecast to continue to and strengthening monitoring to enhance the human rights mindset, 1.1 Customers Doosan Infracore has been increasing customer satisfaction Americas, Europe, and the Middle East, helping local communities to remain strong as a result of increased infrastructure investments and establishing an emissions reduction goal and an action plan, identifying by developing products with cutting-edge technologies, offering technodevelop. Since 2012, the company has run the ‘Dream School’, a program rising raw material prices. The exception may be the Middle East. Steady suppliers’ CSR risks and monitoring the implementation of improvement logical innovation, and strengthening fundamental quality. The company through which our staff and specialist life coaches help young people growth is expected in North America as the oil & gas industry stabilizes, measures, establishing the REACH/RoHS 2 management system, meeting has launched products that reflect customer requirements, including find the right career paths, including through activities that promote the construction industry grows, and the Trump Administration expands advanced emissions regulations, developing new technology, improving engines that meet the latest emissions regulations, such as the Euro 6 self-growth. This enables young people to develop a positive mindset infrastructure investment. quality, and helping overseas worksites disclose their CSR information. and Stage V engines, as well as the extra-large/20-ton economy excavator toward their future and career. In April 2017, Doosan Infracore held a Three in-depth CSR Committee meetings will be held annually, starting in and other special equipment. In addition, the company has completed the launch ceremony for the fourth group of Dream School, with 41 particiIn order to generate stable income even in fast-changing markets, Doosan 2018, in order to examine the implementation of each task, study other global launch of the DoosanCONNECT™ service, which improves customer pants, including 19 staff mentors and 22 mentees in their second year Infracore will continue to launch products that are tailored to specific issues, and ensure that tangible outcomes are achieved. efficiency by providing information on equipment location, operating status, of middle school. In order to promote safety in local communities, the market and customer needs, and the company will also diversify its range and parts, including engines. The company also expanded the DoosanCARE company has signed a ‘safety culture social contribution’ agreement with of products and regional sales. In addition, it will increase after market Doosan Infracore is currently reviewing how to implement the Sustainable pre-emptive after-sales service, in partnerships with its dealers, in order to the Korean Ministry of Public Safety and Security, and carries out a range (AM) sales by improving parts supply, diversifying the AM business, and Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the UN in 2015 as a follow-up provide better and more convenient services. widening its service marketing. Doosan Infracore will continue to focus on to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) which ran from 2000 to customer satisfaction, by expanding the provision of customer services 2015. As a first step, Doosan Infracore has analyzed strategic outcomes 1)  1.2 Employees Doosan Infracore established a human rights risk Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI): The DJSIs are a sustainability benchmark codethrough DoosanCARE and DOosanCONNECT™, and by improving parts and connections to social responsibility activities from the perspective of veloped by Dow Jones of the US and RobecoSAM of Switzerland. They evaluate the management system in 2015 in order to protect the human rights of its supply and maximizing equipment operation through forward positioning People, Product, and Process (3P), which is how the company is defining sustainability performance of major companies on the basis of an analysis of corporate employees and other stakeholders, and the company now undertakes a economic, environmental, and social performance. Korean companies that have passed of key parts. Furthermore, the company will increase investments into the its approach to the SDGs. Further relevant information is provided on pages range of human rights activities, including the distribution of a Human the institutes’ industrial thresholds are included in the DJSI Korea, DJSI Asia Pacific, or development of new, cutting-edge technologies that meet current demand 48-49 of this report. Doosan Infracore will connect the SDGs strategically Rights Risk Prevention Manual and the operation of the Human Rights DJSI World depending on their corporate size and the stock markets they are listed on. for information and communication technology (ICT), including unmanned with its key businesses, and contribute to development by supporting Protection Center. In 2017, the company provided online human rights 2)  ESG Evaluation by the Corporate Governance Service, Korea: ESG stands for Environment, autonomous technologies. cooperation between advanced and developing nations and by developing training to office staff and offline training to technical staff. Doosan Social, and Governance. The Corporate Governance Service of Korea has developed its new markets and new businesses. The company will then systematically own ESG evaluation model and offered an evaluation service to boost listed local compaInfracore also runs a Women’s Council, aimed at ensuring gender equality support this strategy by expanding communications and cooperation with nies’ CSR activities and investors’ socially responsible investment. Each year, it discloses within the company, and continues to emphasize to employees the its evaluation results at seven levels rated from S to D. Companies with B+ (moderate) or all its stakeholders. importance of human rights. above are limited to around 20% of the total assessments. 12 13 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Management Analysis Sustainable Value Creation Sustainable Value Creation The positive and negative impacts that a company have on society can be an element that either contributes or hinders development of the 3. Method to measure values global human society, and they are also connected to the value that a company provides to its shareholders. Doosan Infracore pays close Economic, social, and environmental costs and benefits were measured by multiplying monetary value, based on the latest global research attention to the relevance between corporate value and social value, and seeks to enhance its capability in creating social values. As a first step, materials, to quantitative input data. The data includes the amount of money used to support major management activities and make investment, the company reviewed its performance in creating social values by using the ‘True Value’ methodology developed by KPMG. as well as environmental pollutant emissions and contaminated area due to management activities. Monetary value then was adjusted in consideration of the price fluctuation rate depending on the time of research and base country, and exchange rates on the last day of 2017 were used. 1. 2017 performance in generating sustainable values As of 2017, Doosan Infracore’s true value, including economic, social, and environmental added value, stood at around KRW 495.4 billion – an Input volume Monetary value of Economic, social, approximately eight-fold increase compared with its financial value. An analysis of changes in true value in the last three years indicates around attributable to social costs and environmental 1.8-fold increase. business activities or benefits by unit impacts of the year (Unit: KRW million) e.g. Water Social cost of using Negative impacts Financial Total consumption 1 ton of water on society due to water Performance (in consideration of local water consumption in 2017 554,044 tons depletion level) 109,689 1,097 6,893 495,446 Approximately KRW 5,322 KRW 2,949 million 2,904 421 2,949 41 6,555 126,602 4. Activities to manage impacts and link to the content in this report 200,834 2,730 Index Activities Page Increase the proportion of the midto large-sized construction equipment business in China; and improve Finance Net income P. 10 profitability in the engine business 60,471 Ensure equal pay regardless of the gender (provide fair opportunities); and strengthen management of Employee salaries P. 85 human rights risks, such as prohibition of forced labor Support for suppliers Operate a support team for strengthening suppliers’ competitiveness; and provide the Supplier Academy P. 82 Net Employee Support for Investor Government Human Contributions Greenhouse Impacts Impacts Impacts Impacts True Economy income salaries suppliers and value resources to local gas on air on water of waste on soil Value Investor and shareholder value Provide quarterly performance presentation and IR materials; and share business direction P. 59 shareholder (Corporate development communities emissions quality environment value tax) Government value Participate in national projects and government programs P. 61 (Corporate tax) Comply with laws and regulations and practice ethical management through internal control P. 61 Human resources development Operate a Functional Competency (FC) development system; and reform the HR system for technical staff P. 86 2. Description of indicators Society Contributions to Establish a Social Contribution Committee for transparent management of funds; and operate the Doosan Infracore selected major topics and quantitative indicators to identify the societal added value resulting from its management activities, from P. 92 local communities Dream School and DDCS the economic, social and environmental perspectives. The company’s net income, a financial value, was used as the baseline, and global research Identify tasks to reduce energy consumption at worksites; and upgrade the Energy Management System materials were analyzed to determine each indicator’s monetary value per unit. Greenhouse gas emissions P. 73 (EMS) Index Type Details Impacts on air quality Set up dust collectors, new painting facilities, concentration catalytic oxidation facilities, etc. P. 76 Finance Net income NA Net income of the year (Based on disclosed business reports) Environment Automate all processes of wastewater treatment; set up nonpoint pollution source reduction facilities; Impacts on water environment P. 76 and install water gates on drains Employee salaries + Average annual salaries of the year (Based on disclosed business reports) Impacts of waste Optimize design; inspect and maintain plant facilities; and diversify recycling methods P. 76 Amount of investment in strengthening supplier competency and Support for suppliers + Economy providing win-win support Impacts on soil Conduct a voluntary soil contamination survey and carry out restoration P. 76 Investor and shareholder value + Dividends and interests paid to investors and creditors Government value (Corporate tax) + Incorporation of the income tax of the year (Based on disclosed business reports) Human resources development + Amount of investment in human resources development Society Contributions to local communities + Return on investment in training projects (118%)1), Donation 1) * Calculation results are explicit information that was derived to set up a direction for G.Psacharopoulos and H.A. Patrinos, Returns to investment in education: a further Greenhouse gas emissions Social cost due to greenhouse gas emissons2) social impact management and value creation based on several assumptions, and do update (2004) not indicate integrity. Also, the monetary value applied in the current approach can Impacts on air quality Social cost due to emissions of air pollutants (NOx, SOx, PM)3) 2) EPA, Technical update of the social cost of carbon for regulatory impact analysis (2013) be additionally complemented or adjusted in accordance with announcement of new 3) EEA, Revealing the cost of air pollution from industrial facilities in Europe (2011) Environment Impacts on water environment Social cost due to water consumption 4) research results. There is thus a chance that impact valuation figures of the same year 4) will change. This information therefore cannot be deemed as part of the company’s TruCost PLC, Natural capital at risk: the top 100 externalities of business (2013) Social impacts due to waste disposal method (reclamation, incineration, Impacts of waste disclosure of financial performance. 5) A. Rabl, J. V. Spadaro and A. Zoughaib, Environmental impacts and costs of solid waste: recycling)5) a comparison of landfill and incineration (2009) Impacts on soil Social cost per soil contamination area6) 6) TEEB, Climate issues update (2009) 14 15 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Strategy Overview 19 Customer Value 20 Sustainable Growth 30 Smart Solution 42 Contribution to SDGs 48 Our Strategy 16 17 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Strategy Overview Strategy Overview In addition to building a momentum for growth through our new vision and strategic direction, Doosan Infracore pursues socially responsible management, The global market for construction equipment is forecast to grow and has launched the ‘Concept-X’ project which involves integrating so that we can achieve sustainable growth as a truly global company. steadily through 2020 thanks to increased infrastructure investment, cutting-edge ICT and unmanned autonomous technologies into construcespecially in the U.S. and China, continued growth in emerging markets, tion equipment. In addition, the company focuses on identifying new and favorable conditions in the mining industry as a result of rising business opportunities in the fast-changing global business environment. raw material prices. Against this backdrop, our competitors are in intense competition to secure customers based on price and quantity, Doosan Infracore is committed to supporting social development and also by providing distinctive products. In the era of the Fourth through cooperation between advanced and emerging nations, as well Industrial Revolution, customers have higher expectations of newer, as through the development of new markets and new businesses. All smarter equipment and applied cutting-edge technologies. To meet of the company’s key businesses are run in line with the Sustainable these expectations, companies are striving to offer products that are Development Goals (SDGs). As a global corporate citizen, Doosan connected to information and communication technology (ICT), while Infracore aims to create social value throughout its value chain, and also continually developing new technologies in order to develop their strives to contribute to the sustainable growth of both the company and future competitiveness. wider society. In line with these market trends, Doosan Infracore has been further In 2018, everyone at Doosan Infracore will work in unison in order to building the core strengths of its business by launching new products provide our customers with top-quality products and infrastructure that meet customer requirements, strengthening customer service solutions that offer unique value and convenience. Through these programs such as DoosanCARE, maximizing the profitability of its parts efforts, Doosan Infracore will enhance its corporate value and grow into business, and improving its manufacturing and production efficiency a total solution provider with fundamental competitiveness. and flexibility, including by building a G2 engine plant smart factory. In addition, the company is widening its DoosanCONNECT™ service, ∙ Maximize customer value and satisfaction Customer Value by offering world-class products, parts, and services Global Leader in Infrastructure Sustainable ∙ Consistently grow businesses to further enhance Solutions Growth ∙  the competitiveness of the existing businesses Secure cost leadership by consistently realizing cost innovation ∙ Develop new products and services by converging We aim to continue expanding our businesses ICT technologies such as big data and the Internet of Things to become a global leader in the Smart Solution ∙ M aximize operating efficiency by creating a smart factory infrastructure support business (ISB), and work environment offering not just the best quality products but also total solutions that offer better value to our customers. Business Portfolio ∙ Expand business portfolios toward high value-added Enhancement technologies and solution business 18 19 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value CUSTOMER 01 Developing Products to Meet Customer Needs VALUE 02 Quality Improvement Performance Strengthening Product Competitiveness 03 Strengthening Service Completed of 73 tasks identified Competitiveness Countries where DoosanCARE is available (As of 2017) ASIA LATIN AMERICA MIDDLE EAST AFRICA China Argentina Bahrain Algeria India Brazil Israel Cameroon Indonesia Chile Kuwait Egypt Malaysia Colombia Qatar Ghana Myanmar Costa Rica Saudi Arabia Kenya Philippines Cuba Turkey Madagascar Singapore Ecuador Morocco Thailand Guatemala Nigeria Vietnam Mexico South Africa Panama Sudan Peru Tunisia 20 21 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Developing Products to Meet The amphibious excavator is different from regular excavators in that its lower body has an air tank structure, enabling it to stay afloat. This In the forestry equipment sector, the company sells an array of machines that are tailored to the different characteristics of regions around the The front shovel, which is used to load stones onto trucks, is different from the front structure of a regular excavator which digs from top Customer Needs means that it can do jobs such as landscaping and waterway work in world, including North America, which requires particularly powerful to bottom. Instead, it loads from bottom to top like a wheel loader. environments like lakes and streams, where regular excavators would be equipment, due to the ruggedness of its wilderness, and Asia where It is used to load large stones onto trucks in environments such as bogged down by wet or muddy ground. The company’s first amphibious traction is a critical issue due to the abundance of marshland and mountains and mines. Because the front shovel can load stones from excavator, the DX140AM, made its debut at ‘PHILCONSTRUCT 2015’, the rainforest. In 2016, the company successfully entered the forestry one position through swing movements, it requires less work space than largest international construction exhibition in the Philippines, held equipment market in Malaysia, backed by the performance of its a wheel loader and also reduces work time. The company has released in October 2015. Since then, the company has applied its amphibious products in the nation’s tropical rainforests. For the North American four models, ranging from 34 to 80 tons, and has been increasing its Diversifying Product Portfolio for Greater excavator technology to six excavator models, ranging from 8 to 34 tons, market, the company has developed a new log loader tailored to working sales mainly in Indonesia, Latin America, and the Commonwealth Customer Satisfaction and is increasing sales mainly in high rainfall regions such as Southeast in the continent’s forests. This log loader has a high and wide substrucof Independent States (CIS), all of which have fast-growing resource Doosan Infracore has been expanding into new markets by launching Asia and Latin America. ture, strong track links, full-length track guidance protection devices, markets. customized special equipment and diversifying its product portfolio and top rollers equipped with special cleanout brackets. based on preemptive analysis on market needs. The company has The demolition is an excavator that was developed to accommodate All cars contain reusable raw materials, including plastic, glass, steel, developed eight types of special equipment that meet specific local European laws banning the use of high explosives in the demolition With ever-stricter environmental regulations, supported by social aluminum, and copper, which means there needs to be a process needs and customer work environments, including a material handler, of buildings. A scissor-shaped rotating crusher device for cutting demand for lower levels of greenhouse gases and dust, there has been for collecting these raw materials when cars are disposed of. The car amphibious excavator, demolition, log loader, and electric excavator. is attached to the end of its arm, so that rebar and walls can be cut increasing demand for electric excavators. In 2017, Doosan Infracore dismantler delivers and dismantles disused cars, and the company has into small pieces to demolish a building. The company’s demolition released the DX300LCE, a 30-ton electric excavator equipped with an developed 22-ton and 30-ton equipment in response to demand from The material handler was developed to transport and load materials is designed to efficiently and safely demolish buildings and other eco-friendly electric motor with the highest power output in its class. junkyards in China. While it takes about two man-days to dismantle one at landfill sites, barges, and other locations where work is difficult structures. There are five models available, ranging from 30 to 70 tons. It has a large-capacity, high-efficiency pump and cooling system, car, the company’s car dismantler, such as DX225 CD-9C and DX300 for regular excavators. It is especially useful in handling scrap iron, which enables the DX300LCE to effectively control the rate of flow from CD-9C, can dismantle 25 to 30 cars a day. industrial waste, and recycling waste. The company’s material handler the electric motor while maintaining outstanding cooling efficiency uses a new engine and a new hydraulic system that can be controlled by and minimizing vibration and noise. In addition, maintenance costs an e-OS, and is available in seven models, ranging from 20 to 80 tons. are around 60% of those of an engine-type excavator (excluding consumable maintenance costs, such as engine oil and filters), so that it offers both high economic efficiency and outstanding performance. Video clip of the DX300LCA material handler Special Equipment Portfolio of Doosan Infracore Material Handler Amphibious Excavator Demolition Log Loader Electric Excavator Front Shovel Car Dismantler Super Long Reach 22 23 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value The super long reach is specialized equipment for working in areas that Developing Engines that Meet Advanced In January 2017, Doosan Infracore completed the development of a Doosan Infracore has been also working on developing a new exhaust regular excavators are unable to reach. It offers a boom and an arm that Emissions Regulations compact G2 Stage V prototype engine that uses cutting-edge combustion gas post-processing technology. Diesel particulate filters (DPF) are now are 1.5 to two times longer than those of other excavators. The 22-ton Doosan Infracore has been focusing on improving the midto long-term technology, and a ceremony was held in February 2017 to celebrate essential, in response to the Stage V emissions regulations, which super long reach has an 8.5-meter boom and a 6.2-meter arm. It is roadmap for its engine line-up, thereby developing new engines that the production of the very first engine – D24. This engine has been have substantially strengthened regulations on particulate matter (PM). mainly used to extend its arm out into water to organize river floors or to meet different emissions regulations around the globe as well as offering developed in response to Stage V, European emissions regulations In response, the company completed the development of the SCR on dig in deep areas. improved performance. that will come into effect in 2019. It uses ultra low fuel-consumption DPF (SDPF)1) technology in 2017, which integrates SCR and DPF. SDPF is combustion (ULFC) technology, which is an upgrade of the combustion an exhaust gas post-processing technology that has been developed Doosan Infracore has a portfolio of various special equipment that were In March 2017, the company began using its Euro 6 diesel engine in technology used in the previous compact G2 engine. With fuel efficiency in response to passenger vehicle Euro 6, and has never previously developed to meet customer needs and requirements. The company customer vehicles. This engine was developed in 2016 to boost the improvements of up to 6%, the compact G2 Stage V engine offers global been applied to non-road mass production. The company used an is actively seeking to diversify its markets by providing customized competitiveness of the vehicle engine business, and offers improvemarket-leading class performance in terms of power, torque, durability, independent concept design process, including catalyst simulation, solutions for every work environment. ments in fuel efficiency and low-temperature start-up. Most engines and reliability. Currently installed on construction equipment, agriculand through this process, it was able to identify an SDPF concept that require an auxiliary device called an air heater, as it is difficult to start an tural equipment and forklifts, the new compact G2 engine will soon be could be applied within the space required by the equipment, while engine through internal combustion at temperatures of -20℃ or lower. supplied to KION, a world-leading forklift company from Germany. also meeting all Stage V regulations. The potential for mass production Providing Distinctive Product Packages This, however, can lead to quality issues. Through detailed testing of was then verified through rapid evaluations and analyses of major Doosan Infracore offers a wide range of product packages and programs, a common rail system, which is a fuel-injection device, the company As well as its compact G2 engine, the company is also responding to post-processing performance indicators. Doosan Infracore plans to including financing, extended warranties, preventive maintenance, identified an optimal system called multi-staged analysis, which in turn the Stage V emissions regulations in its mid-sized engines. In March release a highly efficient SDPF product at the same time as, or even and fuel efficiency guarantees. These are aimed at meeting the diverse enabled it to develop an engine that starts smoothly even in very cold 2017, a start-up ceremony was held for a mid-sized (DL06/08) Stage V before when major global companies release their own products. customer requirements that occur during the lifecycle of equipment, weather. In addition, the Euro 6 diesel engine produces more power, engine. The mid-sized Stage V engine, which is under development, is from equipment and parts purchase to maintenance and servicing. in part because it does not require an exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) different from the previous Stage IV engine, which used both EGR and The company will continue to develop and provide package programs device, and reduces lubricating oil consumption (LOC). Test drives have selective catalytic reduction (SCR) technologies, for it does not use EGR. through DoosanCONNECT™ which meet customer expectations and confirmed that this engine’s fuel efficiency is 10-19% better than that In addition, the new engine’s SCR removes up to 98% of nitrogen oxide, circumstances throughout their ownership of its equipment. of both Euro 5 engine of the company and the Euro 6 engines offered while maintaining strong fuel efficiency. This engine will first be used by other companies. Based on these capabilities, the company is in Doosan Infracore’s excavators and wheel loaders, and in Doosan expanding its business in the commercial car sector, and is already Corporation Industrial Vehicle’s forklifts, then the company plans to offer developing Euro 7 engines. the engine to customers across the globe. 1)  SDPF (SCR on DPF): A technology that coats SCR catalyst in DPF, thus considerably reducing the total volume of the catalyst 24 25 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Strengthening Product Competitiveness Continuing to Improve Manufacturing Quality In 2016, the company adopted DPS in the field – a standard developed Doosan Infracore offers global quality competitiveness through qualityfor construction equipment production based on the Lean production first policies that include innovative manufacturing, supporting its method1). It ensures the consistent production of high-quality products suppliers to be more competitive, quickly and fully resolving any quality across all plants around the world, and in the most efficient way. The issues from the customer perspective, creating an advanced quality DPS is unique to Doosan Infracore, and part of the company’s efforts management infrastructure, and pursuing quality innovation for all of to synchronize production systems, standardize manufacturing its new products. In order to ensure product quality even as production processes, and innovate at its plants. The DPS is composed of six tasks volume increases, the company continues to improve fundamental – ensure quality, improve constantly, produce in a timely manner, stable quality and deepen analyses of quality issues. It also focuses on quality operations, support management, and Team Doosan – in addition improvements in production lines, models, and parts where a thorough to 22 related modules. Each year, the company assesses the current quality management is required. In addition, the company’s standardconditions of plants according to each module, and then establishes ized production system, called ‘Doosan Production System (DPS)’, goals and plans for improvement. In 2017, the company completed ensures the best in preventive quality activities. the DPS system, and launched its implementation in full. It is now fully standardized and established at plants in Korea, and has also been Doosan Infracore is aiming to improve its fundamental quality level by disseminated to the plants in China, where it is now operating in a 20%. It is therefore constantly focused on quality, and on building a stable manner. In 2018, the company will strengthen field communicawork environment that complies at all times with both basic fundamentions, connect the DPS with company performance, offer training and tals and the highest standards. Every year, in order to serve customers PR activities, and disseminate the DPS across OEM plants worldwide, in better by making rapid improvements in how it addresses quality order that the DPS can be fully established at production sites across the issues, the company identifies priority tasks for improvement and globe. undertakes whatever activities are necessary to complete those tasks. In 2017, 73 tasks were identified and 93% of the improvements were In 2018, Doosan Infracore will strengthen quality management for new completed. As a result, the defect rate fell by 25% compared to the products, while using DoosanCONNECT™ to improve customer services previous year. and quality management, as part of the company’s continuing efforts to further build its fundamental competitiveness. Construction equipment is mostly used in deserts, plateaus, wetlands, Extending the Warranties on Key Parts and other harsh environments. Doosan Infracore conducts product Doosan Infracore has great confidence in the quality of its products, Verifying Equipment Durability performance tests to verify that equipment performance matches as well as a keen sense of responsibility for their performance. The Doosan Infracore conducts various tests and strict reliability evaluations customer specifications in actual work environments and circumcompany has therefore extended the warranty on its products as part of all its products, including excavators and engines, in order to stances. In January 2014, the company became the first in the Korean of its efforts to increase customer value. Previously, parts warranty was ensure that they perform according to their full specifications in any construction equipment industry to conduct a cold-weather test in actual 1 year or 2,500 hours, but the warranty on five key parts of the midto environment, and to maximize their life expectancies. As part of these work environments, to overcome the limitations of low-temperature large-sized equipment over 15 tons produced in China after 2014 is now efforts, the company established a Reliability Evaluation Center at its testing conducted in the cold chamber of the Reliability Evaluation up to 3 years/6,000 hours. The warranty on key parts of equipment Incheon Plant as early as 1996, when the concept of reliability was yet Center. These cold-weather tests examine equipment performance produced in Korea after 2016 has also been extended for domestic to be introduced to the local industry. Equipped with cutting-edge test and the ability of equipment to start in real work environments. They sales up to 3 years/6,000 hours. The warranty on key parts sold in rooms and equipment, including an environmental tolerance laboratory, are conducted twice a year, in Korea and China. In January 2018, the emerging markets has now been extended to 2 years/4,000 hours. a large anechoic chamber, and a vibration test laboratory, the Reliability company tested two excavators and one wheel loader, products which Evaluation Center tests and evaluates product durability, environmental were developed last year, at temperature as low as -25C with blizzards, tolerance, and structural safety across a wide range of work environand was able to verify starting performance and maintenance in very low ments. Doosan Infracore conducts performance verification starting right temperatures. Doosan Infracore will continue to make improvements from the product design phase at its Reliability Evaluation Center and at regarding quality issues that are identified through tests on equipment its R&D Centers overseas. performance and durability. 1)  Lean production method: Production system that maximizes production efficiency while keeping production capacity and resources, such as personnel and production facilities at the minimum required level 26 27 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Customer Value Strengthening Service Competitiveness PDC Network (As of 2017) Doosan Partners Academy (DPA) Expanding Customer Service Programs The DPA is the company’s flagship online training program for dealers. China (1996) Korea Doosan Infracore offers DoosanCARE services to customers to build It offers courses on how to maintain and repair Doosan Infracore (1994) up relationships and thus grow together with them. Experts from the products, as well as details on their major features, using Flash, videos, Optimizing the PDC Network Singapore company visit customers, irrespective of whether they have any existing animations, and photos. The courses are available in English, Spanish, (2012) Resolving requests from customers for equipment repairs, with the product or warranty issues, and offer services tailored specifically for Portuguese, Russian, French, and Arabic. In addition, experts from right parts and in a timely manner, is crucial to enhancing customer individual customers, including equipment management consulting headquarters provide hands-on training to dealer service personnel to satisfaction. In order to optimize the supply of parts, Doosan Infracore and training in maintenance. By listening to customer opinions about strengthen their service capabilities. As part of this training, the experts operates nine Parts Distribution Centers (PDCs), and supplies approxiits products and services, the company is able to promptly identify any use actual equipment in the field to demonstrate some of the most mately 400,000 parts worldwide. This global PDC network has enabled U.K. Germany problems that customers may have experienced, and then make further common causes of customer problems, and how to respond to them. (1996) (2014) the company to offer a 48-hour-maximum parts supply system, which improvements to equipment management efficiency. DoosanCARE increases both supply efficiency and customer convenience. Dubai goes beyond simply fixing product issues, instead reaching out to the Doosan Infracore has been evaluating dealer service capabilities since (2013) customer to offer the best possible service. Ultimately, Doosan Infracore 2016, and establishing annual action plans based on those evaluations In particular, Doosan Infracore established the Miami PDC in 2017, wants to use DoosanCARE to strengthen its fundamental competitivein order to standardize its service quality. In 2017, the company which supplies around 12,000 parts to 21 countries in Latin America. ness through a virtuous cycle of improving its products and services, undertook further discussions with dealers, and as a result, has set The Miami PDC has reduced the time needed to supply parts to Latin and thus constantly achieving higher levels of customer satisfaction. out a three-year action plan through 2020 to carry out systematic and American dealers, enabling them to curtail logistics costs and control effective service improvement activities. The company will continue U.S. their inventory levels, which in turn has strengthened their ability to Starting in 2017, dealers in some countries, including Indonesia, no to provide support for dealers’ service improvements and change serve customers’ requests for parts. This improved service is expected Chicago longer have to rely on headquarters to provide DoosanCARE services, management based on this action plan. (1999) to boost Doosan Infracore’s position throughout Latin America. The and are able to directly offer it themselves. Doosan Infracore is Miami company will continue to improve the operational efficiency of its therefore providing guidelines on DoosanCARE and relevant training to Doosan Infracore began its T.T.T program in 2018 to provide trainers (2017) PDCs, including the fill rate, so that it can provide customers with faster Brazil the dealers, enabling customers around the world to enjoy DoosanCARE for dealers with education on the company’s new services, DPA, and (2012) and more efficient service. This will increase customers’ equipment services efficiently and promptly. As a result, 804 units – 33% higher hands-on training. The first T.T.T was held in Latin America, followed operation rates, thus enhancing customer satisfaction. than the previous figure – were examined in 37 countries reflecting by programs in the Middle East, Africa, and Southeast Asia. Doosan the company’s ability to respond more actively to customer requests. Infracore plans to improve the training of its dealers, led by experts who In Korea, Doosan Infracore has developed a training program for have completed the T.T.T program, which in turn will boost the dealers’ customers and actual equipment users, which has helped prevent service capabilities and increase their understanding of Doosan breakdowns, and thus led to further improvements in customer value. Infracore products and services. Improving Services by Strengthening Dealer Capabilities In order to enhance customer satisfaction by improving the service capabilities of its dealers, Doosan Infracore offers a range of training activities, such as the Doosan Partners Academy (DPA), hands-on training, and Train the Trainer (T.T.T). The company also supports change management based on a detailed action plan developed for dealers. These efforts to improve service capabilities are providing greater value to customers. 28 29 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth SUSTAINABLE 01 Strengthening Strengthening Product Line-up Product Portfolio GROWTH 02 Strengthening Market Leadership 03 Diversifying the Structure of Engine Business 04 DX800LC DX220LCA-2 DX12 Enhancing Manufacturing An 80-ton flagship model that A 20-ton economy excavator that is In January 2018, Doosan Infracore held Competitiveness features 15% higher fuel efficiency anticipated to have a competitive a ceremony to celebrate shipment of and 10% faster work speed advantage in price, fuel efficiency, the first DX12 mechanical-type engine compared with competitor products and performance and a start-up ceremony for the first in the same class DX12 electronic engine Expanding Market Presence 16% Chinese Market Achieved a market share of 8.3% in 2017 – a year-on-year increase of 0.9%p Advanced Markets Established ‘Global One Heavy Governance’ to strengthen market position in advanced markets by acquiring business rights to sell heavy equipment Year-on-year sales growth rate of parts business in 2017 Emerging Markets Achieved No.1 in market share in Nepal’s construction equipment market in 2017 Entered into the Madagascar market in July 2017 30 31 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Strengthening Product Portfolio pre-emptive customer services through DoosanCARE, and has expanded its value chain by implementing the DoosanCONNECT™ and pursuing new businesses, such as Concept-X. Doosan Infracore focuses on market requirements when developing its products, which both improves product competitiveness and enhances the company’s position as a total solution provider. Building a Product Line-up that Reflects Market Demand Doosan Infracore has been taking a step further to become a Global In 2017, Doosan Infracore began mass production of the DX800LC, its Leader in Infrastructure Solutions by developing a line-up of construcflagship 80-ton model embodying the latest technologies. It has already tion equipment that meets customer requirements. Products include won positive market reviews, and the company has signed sales a 20-ton economy and an 80-ton extra-large excavator, a machine contracts for 44 units through March 2018. The DX800LC is an extra-large guidance-installed excavator, and other special equipment. The equipment, and features virtual bleed-off (VBO) technology, which company also sells parts that match each machine’s life-cycle, provides electronically controls hydraulic pumps, and full electro hydraulic (FEH) Strategy to achieve sustainable growth in construction equipment business – Expanding value chain Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions Concept-X technology, which efficiently adjusts equipment speed. The DX800LC is In order to strengthen the parts business and provide more options 15% more fuel efficient and 10% faster than competitor products in the to customers, Doosan Infracore offers economy-type parts, pursues Finished Vehicles Parts Services same class. Sales are expected to be strong, with rising raw material prices remanufactured engine business, and develops parts kits, such as filter driving increased mine development. Doosan Infracore also launched a kit, engine overhaul kit, etc. The company is also expanding its line-up Launch equipment that reflects Build a portfolio consisting of diverse Operate the DoosanCARE program customer needs by region parts in line with the machine life-cycle, 20-ton economy excavator which is about 20% cheaper than previous of attachments, including economical breakers and grapples for special Experts from each division of headquarters in addition to genuine parts equipment, and is also expected to be very competitive in fuel efficiency equipment, and the line-up of special equipment, such as material China ・ Economy-type, (product development, parts, services, performance-type, and Economy-type parts, such as a hydraulic etc.) inspect customers’ equipment and and performance. This model will contribute to economic and infrastruchandlers and amphibious equipment. The company fosters service and fuel efficiency-type equipment pump, travel motor, etc. provide consulting on how to use their ture development in emerging countries, including Southeast Asia. parts experts at its dealers, which is boosting parts sales in connection Emerging ・14/20-ton economy equipment equipment with servicing, and also holds technical seminars in different regions Remanufactured engine markets ・14-ton forestry equipment of the world. In 2017, the company expanded its social media-based Listen to VOCs of major customers, and ・80-ton equipment that offers Overhaul kits (Engine, Hydraulic parts) then provide feedback and identify Expanding Sales in Parts Business digital marketing efforts through channels, such as KakaoTalk in Korea a substantial upgrade in improvement measures if needed The parts business can be a stable business base and also can support and WeChat in China, and hosted seminars to have more dialogue with performance a virtuous cycle of customer support and improving revenues, which customers. Advanced ・Equipment installed with markets machine guidance and fuel is why it is important to Doosan Infracore. The company has therefore efficiency technology, such as expanded its parts business by identifying new customers, developing Doosan Infracore will continue to provide genuine parts that customers virtual bleed off (VBO) new products, expanding its market position in attachments and can trust, and will also offer products with improved performance, Release special application equipment other special applications which the company already has market thereby enabling customers to minimize the cost of operating their that reflects customer needs competitiveness, improving service capabilities, upgrading customer equipment, which in turn will boost the company’s parts business. 8 types, including a material handler, car communications, and optimizing the parts supply network. As a result, dismantler, amphibious machine, front sales in 2017 grew by 16% year-on-year to reach KRW 248.5 billion. shovel, and demolition 32 33 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Market size in china and the market share of Doosan Infracore Strengthening Market Leadership (Unit: Thousand units, %) 8.3 platform has connected information on potential sales opportunities in the field, which in turn has enabled rapid, regionally-targeted marketing, In the middle of the decade, the market for construction equipment in Nepal was just 100-150 units a year. However, after a change of government as well as better inventory management and supply, and real-time in 2015, substantial amounts of overseas capital flowed into the nation to 7.4 checks on the validity of customer receivables. support infrastructure investments. As a result, country-wide sales in 2016 131 stood at 700 units, and 1,400 units in 2017. Seeing the potential in Nepal, As a result of these efforts to seize growth opportunities and strengthen Doosan Infracore has provided a range of support to its dealers, including Chinese Market 6.7 competitiveness, Doosan Infracore performed above-market in China training, strategic planning of business operations, change management, After showing signs of recovery in the second half of 2016, the Chinese in 2017, including retail sales of 10,851 units and a market share of and improved sales skills. As a result, the company won the contract to 63 construction equipment market recorded explosive growth in 2017. 53 8.3%. The Chinese market is expected to continue to grow in 2018. supply 39 midto large-sized excavators for the Likhu River hydro-electric This was the result of more development of mines, extra investment Doosan Infracore therefore aims to further increase both market share power plant project, and achieved No. 1 in market share. into national infrastructure projects, including the development of the * Source: China Construction and profitability by boosting the competitiveness of its products and Machinery Association (CCMA) ‘One belt, One road’ initiative and new agricultural villages, as well as sales channels, strengthening its dealers’ capabilities and ensuring the In Saudi Arabia, Doosan Infracore made the achievement of selling 60 the cycle for replacing equipment. In particular, the proportion of sales 2015 2016 2017 soundness of its receivables. wheel loaders to Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil company, and of midto large-sized equipment rose considerably thanks to demand to Al Tamimi and Arabia Machinery, which are working together on generated by infrastructure projects and mine development. In particular, Doosan Infracore has improved transparency and real-time the construction of Saudi Aramco’s new oilfield. This was the result of management by making its work and decision-making processes more Advanced Markets strategic planning, focusing on long-term customer service, including Doosan Infracore focused both on increasing sales and improving customer-focused in 2017. The company has established a customSales and distribution of midto large-sized construction equipment in DoosanCARE, and was particularly important at a time when customers profitability in the Chinese market. Accordingly, the company improved er-centered sales process for the direct, one-on-one management of major economies, including North America and Europe, was handled place considerable emphasis on after-sales service. Doosan Infracore its risk management systems, built a sales network in regions where customers, and implemented real-time ‘visible management’ throughout until recently by Doosan Bobcat. However, following a reorganization has continued to build a business relationship with Saudi Aramco, it previously did not have a presence, provided customized financial the entire sales process, ranging from evaluation to sales and receivables to center the business on key products, Doosan Infracore has been which had only used equipment from one specific competitor for the last products, used WeChat to deliver online marketing, and launched management. Doosan Infracore China Corporation (DICC) upgraded its running the business directly since January 1, 2018. Doosan Infracore 40 years, and identified both specific customer requirements and the products that reflected market requirements, including the 9C model sales funnel1) system using an integrated mobile platform to connect it is building market share and profitability in the midto large-sized tailored services needed to meet those needs, and was thus able to win and the 80-ton extra-large excavator. to sales, and also developed a customer evaluation application which construction equipment markets in these countries by developing this major contract. Doosan Infracore will further build its presence in seamlessly connects the funnel to examination applications, integrating outstanding dealers, making continuing improvements to channel Saudi Arabia and other markets by expanding its offering of distinctive sales DCS, production MES, the receivables system, and telematics, coverage in order to strengthen the sales network, diversifying after customer management programs. which used to be operated separately. This integrated management market (AM) products through global sourcing, and using headquarters expertise to improve customer service. The company is focused on Doosan Infracore has been pursuing market entry into Africa, where the DX800LC-9C – an excavator launched in 2017 to meet market needs in China increasing efficiency and competitiveness across the entire value chain, company has been experiencing challenges caused by weak national including sales, product development, and production. It will also finances, backed by the official development assistance (ODA) funds, widen the use of DoosanCONNECT™ and other ICT-based cutting-edge including the Economic Development Cooperation Fund (EDCF)2). In July technologies, develop products that are tailored specifically to target 2017, Doosan Infracore won its first order in Madagascar, supplying 44 regions, and improve its services. excavators and wheel loaders for disaster recovery and emergency aid, as part of Madagascar’s national disaster management center construction project. Located southeast of the African mainland, Madagascar is Emerging Markets an island in the Indian Ocean, and regularly struck by natural disasters Emerging markets, including Asia, Africa, and Latin America, have due to its unique geography, including cyclones and localized extremely continued to grow thanks to infrastructure investments and rising raw heavy rains. This clearly presents a substantial risk of major personnel material prices. Doosan Infracore has been striving to increase coverage and economic losses. Therefore, in order to minimize personnel and and boost its competitiveness in emerging markets. Thanks to these property damage by managing the risks from natural disasters, the efforts, the company has been able to offer new midto large-sized government of Madagascar is building a national disaster management products in the market, as well as products that have been specifically center. This includes the purchasing of equipment that would be used in tailored to customer requirements. The company is also looking for emergency aid, including excavators, through support from EDCF funding. more opportunities to create value, in order to contribute to growth and Doosan Infracore will continue to contribute to social development economic development in emerging nations. Rather than simply focusing worldwide by partnering with ODA finances to discover new business on increasing the number of countries in which it has a presence and on opportunities. sales and market share, Doosan Infracore is implementing strategies that center on profitability, in particular by concentrating on high-priced large equipment and major supply contracts. As a result, the company is antici1)  Sales funnel: A system for uncovering and evaluating sales opportunities and customers. pating rapid improvements in profitability. These value-selling strategies, The upgraded system connects sales with evaluations based on Doosan Infracore’s management systems. which go beyond just selling products to instead identify customer needs 2)  Economic Development Cooperation Fund (EDCF): This policy fund was established in 1987 and then suggest solutions, have enabled it to win a number of major, to support industrialization, economic development, and welfare in developing nations, highly profitable deals in 2017 across emerging markets, including Nepal, and to facilitate economic exchanges between these countries and Korea. It is one of the ODA funds that is provided by the Korean government. Saudi Arabia, and Madagascar. 34 35 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Diversifying the Structure of Developing the DX12 Engine In January 2018, Doosan Infracore held a ceremony to celebrate the Doosan Infracore will develop consecutively the mechanical-type engine for vessels and vehicles, the electronic-type engine for vehicles, Engine Business shipment of the first DX12 mechanical-type engine. This engine meets and the CNG stoichiometric engine, beginning with mass production industrial Tier 2 and vehicle Euro 3 emissions regulations, and can of the DX12 mechanical-type engine. The company also plans to begin be used in most products, including construction equipment, power development of an electronic engine for vessels and power generators. generators, vehicles, and vessels. The DX-12 can also be developed into This will expand Doosan Infracore’s line-up of highly profitable midto an electronic engine that will satisfy even Euro 6 regulations. Given this large-sized engines, and drive company growth. future development, Doosan Infracore used higher quality and more Building a Line-up of Engines that Reflects Market Demand durable parts than in the DL11 engine, and was able to develop the DX12 Doosan Infracore previously focused on in-house engine sales for the using only its own in-house technologies. Increasing External Sales company’s midto large-sized construction equipment, for its power Doosan Infracore’s G2 compact engine was developed for various generator engines, and to Doosan Bobcat. However, this limited the Doosan Infracore has now begun the development of the DX12 electronic industrial machines, power generators, and agricultural machinery expansion of the company’s engine business, given the fluctuations in engine, and held a start-up ceremony for the first DX12 electronic engine that require 1,800 to 3,400cc engines. It uses the company’s new in-house demand caused by changes in the construction equipment in January 2018. In March, the company participated in the 2018 Middle combustion technology, ‘Ultra Low PM Combustion (ULPC)’, and market. The value of finished engines has also fallen as core engine East Electricity Exhibition (MEE), and unveiled a pilot product of the ‘Non-DPF’, a new technical standard. The G2 compact engine is a highly components are being incorporated into the black box to protect their cutting-edge electronic model of the DX12 power generator engine. efficient, eco-friendly engine that uses less fuel and engine oil but technologies, and post-processing technologies became ever more The DX12 electronic engine is a high-performance, eco-friendly engine still generates high output, thus delivering best value in performance important. In response, Doosan Infracore is now moving beyond which uses a range of new technologies. These include the common and durability. In addition, because it requires no costly DPFs, the G2 engine manufacturing and sales, and expanding its value chain to rail system, an electronic system that supplies and sprays diesel fuel at compact engine is very price competitive, and generates major savings include material and parts sales, and service businesses. By creating a high pressure, and the highly efficient selective catalytic reduction (SCR), in maintenance costs and time. structure based on a virtuous cycle of profitability and customer service, which prevents the discharge of hazardous substances. the company will ensure its sustainable growth. The G2 compact engine can be found in many machines in Korea and overseas. Customers include not only Doosan Bobcat but also other companies, including Daedong Industrial, Korea’s leading agricultural machinery company. Doosan Infracore has expanded its sales efforts Strategy to achieve sustainable growth in engine business – Establishing a virtuous cycle for the G2 engine, including offering distinctive services and operating a dedicated customer response team to assist customers with the final transition to Stage V and Tier 4 Final emissions regulations. One important outcome of these efforts was the signing of a contract in June Global Leader in 2017 with Germany’s KION, a world-leading forklift company, to supply around 67,000 engines by 2028. This is expected to boost the profitInfrastructure Solutions ability of the engine business, and the company continues to seek new customers, thus generating strong growth over the midto long term. In 2018, Doosan Infracore will focus on securing major new customers for the G2 engine in addition to Doosan Bobcat and KION, targeting smallto mid-sized customers in partnership with the company’s distributors in the U.S. and Europe, and improving its marketing. UPSTREAM AND DOWNSTREAM VALUE CHAIN DX12 Series FINISHED PRODUCTS (Materials and post-processing) Improved power Realize global-level Region Product Group specific power with a mechanical-type engine China Soft landing of the LDEC JV 1) Strengthen the large size line-up Material business Economic efficiency The lowest fuel Strengthened durability Application Emerging Expand the commercial Launch of the DX12; and the Increase external contracts for materials consumption among engines in the same of a 4-valve integrated-type cylinder head markets vehicle and power generator development of an electric DX 15/22 class and a 50% improvement in oil and substantially strengthened stiffness Expand the AM business to strengthen market in ASEAN recurring revenue consumption compared to the company’s of major parts Respond to Stage V emissions Advanced Increase the external sales previous power engine in the same class regulations Internalize core parts competencies over the markets of G2 engine midto long-term future Easy maintenance Automatic tensioner Improved safety Installation of safety inspections enable identification of the belt guards, including a belt cover and heat 1)  LDEC: Lovol Doosan Engine Company – a joint venture between Doosan Infracore and Lovol replacement time, and application of the screen, to ensure safety Integrated showroom of micro V-belt improves belt functions and the Engine BG – opened in March 2018 increases belt life 36 37 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Responding to emissions regulations and increasing external sales of the G2 engine Based on this full line-up of power generator engines, ranging from The establishment of the LDEC JV brings together Doosan Infracore’s mechanical-type engines to the most technologically advanced electronic engine technologies, mass production know-how, and global presence, engines, Doosan Infracore is aiming to find new customers, including in alongside Lovol’s size, sales network in China, and production plants. the Middle East and in major economies in North America and Europe. It also brings together the premium engines for advanced markets that Supply to 3 agricultural machinery companies in Korea are produced in Korea with the economy-type engines for emerging Full launch markets that are produced in China. It is also expected to generate of external sales Establishing the Lovol Doosan Engine Company (LDEC) JV substantial synergy to strengthen the competitiveness of the engine Sales activities during the transformation period In December 2017, Doosan Infracore signed an agreement to establish a business, including by sourcing in China using Lovol’s network and by of emissions regulations Supply to KION 50-50 joint venture with Lovol, the largest agricultural machinery compaexporting JV engines through Doosan Infracore’s global channels. ny in China, and launched the Lovol Doosan Engine Company (LDEC) JV Supply to Doosan Bobcat in China in March 2018. The founding of the LDEC JV represents the first The LDEC JV will localize Doosan Infracore’s eco-friendly, highly-effiDevelopment of the G2 engine technology export in the 80 years of the company’s history, and proves cient G2 compact engine to meet exhaust regulations in China. The the widespread market recognition of Doosan Infracore’s technological engine will be used in agricultural machinery manufactured by Lovol, capabilities. and then it will enter the power generator and construction machinery Supply to commercial vehicles and excavators of Doosan engine markets in China. It will also actively seek to make inroads into emerging markets with similar exhaust regulations to those in China. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 The LDEC JV is targeting the production of around 10,000 units in 2020, 50,000 units in 2023, and 100,000 units in 2026, which is equivalent to the production at Doosan Infracore’s own G2 engine plant. Doosan Tier 4/Stage IV emissions regulations Stage V emissions Infracore and Lovol will continue to strengthen their partnership to regulations ensure the success of the LDEC JV. Doosan Infracore develops vehicle engines which meet emissions regulations in countries around the world, and installs them in buses, trucks, and commercial vehicles. In March 2017, the company installed Euro 6 diesel engines, the development of which was completed in 2016, into the first customer vehicles, thereby further improving its market competitiveness. In addition, the company has been expanding its PR activities for the Euro 6 diesel engines, making continual quality improvements, adding more models in response to Euro 6, and entering the vehicle engine markets in other Asian countries. Doosan Infracore has entered Vietnam’s commercial vehicle market in response to strong economic growth and the impact of new emissions regulations, and is now seeking both customers and business partners. In July 2017, the company signed a contract to supply around 500 bus engines and bare chassis1) to four commercial vehicle manufacturers in Vietnam. This contract also moved Doosan Infracore beyond just supplying engines, and opened a new market as a supplier of half-finished products as a base for completed vehicle production. The power generator engine market is expected to recover as oil prices rise and infrastructure investment increases worldwide. In response, Doosan Infracore is focusing on strengthening its line-up of power generator engines, and expanding its sales networks, including in countries where it does not currently have a presence. At the MEE held in March 2018, the company displayed a line-up of six power generator engines, ranging from a pilot product of the DX12 power generator engine to the compact D24/D34 engines and the midto large-sized DX22/DL08 engines. 1)  Bare chassis: A half-finished product with the engine and other major running gear attached to a chassis frame 38 39 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Sustainable Growth Enhancing Manufacturing Doosan Infracore will continue to maximize production efficiency, including through process improvements and increased output, and In order to build a smart factory, Doosan Infracore is integrating the G2 engine production plant’s systems and data, and in addition it is applying Competitiveness will also further improve quality management in parallel with the radio frequency identification (RFID)-based automation and intelligence, changes in production processes. and virtual engineering. The company plans to complete construction of its first smart factory by 2019, and then apply this manufacturing technology to other plants in Korea. The smart factory will improve Enhancing Cost Competitiveness through Optimized Design productivity by optimizing production, creating flexibility, ensuring Product diversification and increased operating costs have given rise the highest standards of quality, allowing the use of front loading 3) Maximizing Production Efficiency entire production line as soon as a production issue, such as a defect to the need for new methods of planning, design, and production that engineering, and maximizing production-logistics-finance transparency. In 2016, Doosan Infracore created an advanced excavator plant by on the production line, occurs in order to ensure the prompt resolution can help improve cost competitiveness. Doosan Infracore therefore consolidating its two excavator production plants in Incheon. In of any issues. In addition, the new plant uses a pull-based material implements value analysis (VA) and value engineering (VE) to ensure Doosan Infracore is moving beyond just using smart technology in the doing so, the company built a system to ensure production quality, supply system, which supplies just enough materials for production efficient operations and the highest levels of quality, and to reduce costs. production phase, and is now digitizing its entire value chain, ranging used modularized designs, increased the efficiency of its production of one unit as required, thereby eliminating waste. Doosan Infracore All departments at Doosan Infracore, including design, purchasing, from product development to production and customer service. The lines, and applied other advanced operation systems. As a result, the optimizes its line of balance (LOB)2) by continually analyzing it in relation production, and quality, collaborate together efficiently, enabling the company has established its unique ‘Digital Transformation’ strategy, company has cut the number of processes and work hours by over to each plant, production process, and product, which ensures the right company to establish the right solutions, and then internalize them which aims to offer real customer value by connecting the customer 20%, and also improved per-capita production by more than 20%. balance between work processes. In China, the company is building a throughout the company to ensure that these activities are fully reflected to the company’s strategic direction. Doosan Infracore will reflect this In addition, all production processes, including welding, assembly, flexible production system that integrates the operation of the excavator in the new product development processes. strategy in all its midto long-term business planning. painting, and shipment, are now handled at a single plant, leading to a and wheel loader production plants, enables dual production on major reduction of more than 80% in the travel logistics required during assembly lines of compact and mid-sized models, and trains production the manufacturing process. Doosan Infracore has been expanding the personnel to perform multiple functions. As a result, Doosan Infracore Building a Smart Factory use of the Fool Proof 1) system in its major processes to ensure quality was able to increase production to 12,000 units without making major New technology, driven by the Fourth Industrial Revolution, is bringing and zero-defect production even in a flexible production system. It has financial investments. about major changes in company management, including at production also adopted the Andon system, a line stop system which stops the sites. In response, Doosan Infracore is building a smart factory that optimizes production processes through convergence between manufacturing operation technology (OT) and information and communications technology (ICT). The factory will also be equipped with operations systems that ensure the timely production of zero-defect products at optimal cost. 1)  Fool Proof: A device designed to prevent human errors 2)  Line of balance (LOB): The efficiency of each unit process of production is analyzed so that improvements can be made to prevent bottlenecks 3)  Front loading: A method for identifying issues through computer simulations, before the physical development of parts 40 41 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Smart Solution SMART 01 DoosanCONNECT™ DoosanCONNECT™ Process Communication Method SOLUTION 02 Concept-X Two methods are used for smooth transmission of information – communications satellites and mobile communication. 03 New Businesses Dual communication method Dealers Doosan Customers Device Installed on equipment, the device collects equipment information useful to customers. ADT Excavator Wheel loader DoosanCONNECT™ Website Customers can connect to the DoosanCONNECT™ website anytime to check and use equipment information 42 43 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Smart Solution DoosanCONNECT™ Features of DoosanCONNECT™ Worksite Increased work Preventive inspection Strengthened service management efficiency and management Detection of equipment Location check; and Equipment operation Management of abnormality signals and Global Launch of DoosanCONNECT™ and daily, weekly, and analysis; and fuel consumables, including communication rupture Other Advances in Services monthly report efficiency management filters and oil The world is in the midst of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, driving innovation and change in the global economy and wider society through the convergence of cutting-edge information and communications technologies, including mobile technology, the Internet of Things (IoT), big data, and artificial intelligence (AI). In the construction equipment market, competitiveness in information and communications technology (ICT) has become a critical factor with a demand increasing for newer, smarter equipment and solutions that use the latest technologies. Telematics combines wireless communications and a global positioning system (GPS), and thus enables the collection and analysis of information, such as equipment location and operational status, which in turn enables users to monitor operations via PCs, tablets, and mobile devices. Through telematics, users can remotely identify where equipment is, how much work has been completed, and how it is operating. They can also ascertain the status of consumables, and see if they need replacement. Customers can thus remotely monitor Strengths of DoosanCONNECT™ and diagnose equipment without having to go to the worksite, which substantially increases efficiency. Dealers can determine if there are Scan this QR code with a smartphone to find out more errors in equipment and what parts are needed, which improves service about DoosanCONNECT™ quality. Manufacturers can analyze the information collected through telematics to improve quality and develop new and better products. Efficiency Productivity Safety In addition, it is possible to perform big data analysis based on the Increase worksite Enhance work Prevent safety accumulated information. management efficiency productivity accidents DoosanCONNECT™ has integrated equipment location and information Customers can remotely check equipment location, operational Increase equipment Improve equipment Protect workers on operational status and major parts, including engines and information, and updates on the timing of parts replacement through Doosan Infracore was one of the forerunners to recognize the importance management efficiency management hydraulic systems, into all equipment in which a telematics device DoosanCONNECT™, and thus manage equipment more efficiently and convenience Prevent equipment and growth potential of telematics, and began offering telematics Increase work efficiency defects has been installed, so that information can be monitored through the economically. Furthermore, the data collected through DoosanCONNECT™ services as far back as 2005 in China. The experience and data accumuand curtail costs Increase equipment life DoosanCONNECT™ website (www.doosanconnect.com) and/or on the status of equipment and operations is used to improve quality expectancy lated over the last decade have enabled the company to offer distinctive through a mobile application. Doosan Infracore has also created an and performance. DoosanCONNECT™ also links with DoosanCARE, customer services, and also to improve and modernize its operational intuitive UI that was built using the input of customers, dealers, and another distinctive service from Doosan Infracore, to further increase processes, including product development, demand forecast, and DoosanCONNECT™ is Doosan Infracore’s telematics service brand personnel, which means that even first-time users can easily operate customer convenience and minimize downtimes. inventory management. With the use of telematics services spreading which has been upgraded by combining technologies developed it, and set the screen up according to their personal preferences. This across the industry, Doosan Infracore has continued to improve its in-house, and it is based on the company’s service capabilities and the has enabled Doosan Infracore to react more quickly to various customer Doosan Infracore will continue to upgrade DoosanCONNECT™ with an telematics devices and the user interface (UI), so that it can offer more data accumulated. DoosanCONNECT™ is applied to midto large-sized requirements when developing the DoosanCONNECT™ system. In aim to offer more advanced functions and information. Moreover, the advanced customer services, providing smart solutions that go beyond excavators, wheel loaders, and articulated dump trucks (ADT). Since addition, DoosanCONNECT™ complies fully with the AEMP1) protocol, company will strive to further enhance customer value by providing new just the production and sales of construction equipment. its launch in 2015, DoosanCONNECT™ has substantially exceeded and further advances are being made so that DoosanCONNECT™ meets service solutions based on the collected data and fully establishing its previous telematics services in user convenience and functionality. the telematics-related ISO/TS 15143-3 standard, enabling telematics internal data analysis environment. Doosan Infracore has completed the global launch of the service in data from equipment made by other manufacturers to be registered and major markets around the world, including Europe, the U.S., and managed on DoosanCONNECT™. emerging markets. The company has obtained business permission for location information from the Korea Communications Commission, that 1)  Association of Equipment Management Professionals (AEMP) Protocol: A protocol that is required to operate in Korea. It operates around 100 pilot equipment defines information used universally by construction equipment managers, and standardizes with an aim to launch the service in Korea in the first half of 2018. it to enable mutual exchange 44 45 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Smart Solution Concept-X performance of individual equipment and enhancing the productivity of customer applications. Concept-X will play a pivotal role in the future New Businesses of Doosan Infracore’s construction equipment and customer service solutions. Doosan Infracore is making substantial R&D investments in order Concept-X – Shaping the Future of Construction Equipment to develop and verify the technologies within the Concept-X project, Building Competitiveness through New Business Doosan Infracore’s experts in technology, environment, and society ICT and AI are vital parts of the current unprecedented revolution in particularly unmanned autonomous technologies for construction In the era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, it is essential to turn are working in unison to analyze trends related to the Fourth Industrial technology. As new methods for problem-solving using AI and big data equipment, and other technologies related to the Fourth Industrial the machinery manufacturing industry into value-added customer Revolution that could have a direct or indirect impact on the company’s have been developed, the use of unmanned autonomous technoloRevolution. The company is also very active in cooperating with solutions, in order to create new business opportunities, by converging business, and to uncover the future drivers of new growth. While gies – previously used in the automobile industry – rapidly spread in companies, which have outstanding related technological prowess, new and existing technologies. Leading companies in the construction continuing with the stable growth of its existing businesses backed by the construction equipment industry. In response, Doosan Infracore and making direct and indirect investments into the development of equipment industry are therefore breaking away from the traditional its global competitiveness, Doosan Infracore will actively advance into launched the Concept-X project in 2017 in order to create the construcnew technologies. In April 2018, the company launched an excavator framework of equipment manufacturing, and instead are seeking new businesses based on new markets and cutting-edge technologies, tion equipment technologies of the future and verify their feasibility, so that has installed the machine guidance system, a 3D solution for to offer customers products and solutions that reflect the latest and thus develop new growth drivers as well as additional sources of that the company can add value and meet customer requirements by construction, in partnership with Trimble Inc. of the U.S. In addition, technologies. These include hybrid excavators, products that feature revenue. applying the very latest in new technologies to construction equipment. Doosan Infracore has signed an investment agreement with PoteNit, a unmanned autonomous technologies, and equipment management start-up company that owns the leading autonomous driving system solutions using telematics. There has been a sharp increase in Driven by its vision of becoming a ‘Global Leader in Infrastructure The Concept-X project uses drones to identify and measure the worksite development technology in Korea, and the two companies have been the automation and digitalization of worksites throughout various Solutions,’ Doosan Infracore will go beyond product sales to offer better environment through 3D scanning, and based on this topographical jointly developing an unmanned autonomous system technology industries, ranging from mining and agriculture to manufacturing, value and enhanced convenience for customers as a total solution data, equipment can be operated unmanned. Control centers on sites since 2015. Doosan Infracore continues to seek further new business logistics, and construction. provider. where Concept-X is being used will monitor and manage the worksite, opportunities in relation to the Fourth Industrial Revolution. and the entire work process. The development of Concept-X reflects the worksites of the future, focusing on technologies that improve the Concept of the Concept-X 3D mapping Slope Truck dumping Driving Site Analyzer Autonomous X-Center digging and loading Fleet Management Trenching Autonomous loading 46 47 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Strategy Contribution to SDGs Contribution to SDGs Link to UN SDGs Doosan Infracore also does its utmost to go beyond CSR activities Doosan Infracore’s Approach to UN SDGs As a subsequent initiative of the Millennium Development Goals to create social values across the overall value chain with an aim to (MDGs), the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection systematically implement the SDGs as a global corporate citizen. (Global of 17 goals which encourage the global community to work together for Leader in Corporate Citizenship) the sustainable development of humankind by 2030. People This report provides information on the degree of links between the People Product Process Doosan Infracore seeks to strategically connect its key business with strategic performance of the company in 2017 and social responsibility Activities to support Activities to consider Activities to increase the SDGs guided by its direction to contribute to the development activities from the perspective of 3P – People, Product, and Process – and nurture ‘People’ – eco-friendliness and positive impacts while of society through cooperation between advanced and developing which is Doosan Infracore’s approach to SDGs. one of Doosan Group’s sustainability from reducing negative social countries as well as development of new market and new businesses. core values (Employees, such initial stage as and environmental customers, suppliers, R&D and product impacts of manufac(Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions) Doosan Infracore will continue to strategically contribute to achieving and local communities) design turing process SDGs, and thus generate synergy through communication and cooperation with stakeholders and also enhance its corporate competProduct Process itiveness by seizing future business opportunities. At the same time, it will take step towards sustainable growth of the company and society. Our Strategy Our Responsibility Activities by goal Page Product Adopt an evaluation system to measure Maximize the social impacts and increased sustainability of the company’s products; expand p. 14 impacts on sustainable development; the application of the evaluation system to the overall product portfolio and evaluate economic, social, and environmental impacts of the company’s Set a definition and standards for eco-friendly products; measure the portion of p. 67 products eco-friendly products Develop products that embody innovative Continue to expand investment in unmanned and autonomous technologies p. 46 technologies of the Fourth Industrial in order to gain a competitive advantage Revolution; and promote innovative Complete the launch of innovative new product through the partnership industrial development p. 46 with Trimble – a leading player – and plan to continue product development Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions Global Leader in Corporate Citizenship Develop LNG engines for small ships; and In the process of reorganizing the company’s product portfolio to include more Promote a sustainable and inclusive economic development Build a sustainable and inclusive civil society contribute to reducing pollutants through highly efficient, environmentally friendly products by developing new products which p. 25 energy-saving products can replace diesel engines Our Strategy Our Responsibility Continue to develop engines that comply Plan to respond to the emissions regulation policy of different governments by improving p. 24 with emissions regulations; and build a the existing EURO 6 engines and launching new products Activities by goal Page portfolio that considers climate change In the process of developing a new EURO 7 engine p. 25 People Process Maintain smoke-free workplaces; install more automated external defibrillators (AED); Build a safety facility at worksite; distribute safety manuals; and continue to provide relevant Expand programs to promote employee p. 79 p. 77 and launch new occupational disease prevention activities Continue to spread a safety culture educations and trainings health; and contribute to healthier lives at worksites; and build a safe work Continue to run work-related stress management programs p. 79 Help raw material supplies strengthen their safety management systems; and build environment p. 78 Continue to strengthen a Functional Competency (FC) system for employees at the company’s a safe work environment throughout the entire value chain p. 86 worksites in Korea and overseas; and adopt a new human resources system Develop competitiveness of stakeholders Continue to operate and expand Continue to operate the ‘Leading Supplier’ project to help raw material suppliers grow Expand the installation of water reclamation systems; and build rainwater-harvesting systems in our value chain; and continue to p. 80 the wastewater recycling system; and p. 75 into small giants to result in reduced water consumption by production processes support future generations contribute to ensuring sustainable water Operate the Dream School and the Junior Engineering Class; and build Hope Elementary Schools p. 92 Promote innovative industrial development in China through production processes that embody Fully establish a manufacturing process which uses ICT by operating DoosanCONNECT™ p. 44 Continued to operate the Gender Equality Center; and expand the Women’s Council to be run innovative technologies of the Fourth and creating a smart factory Expand the culture of gender equality; p. 85 at the company level Industrial Revolution and maintain the upward trend of the female staff employment rate The percentage of female employees from among newly-hired personnel is increasing; however, Reduce electricity consumption for manufacturing process, while improving energy efficiency, p. 85 p. 74 there is a need to further improve the percentage of female executives Maintain and continue to make by strengthening the worksite EHS management at home and abroad improvements to the EHS management Distribute manuals to prevent human rights risks; and provide education to all employees p. 85 Manage smart data on environmental pollutants; and strengthen the environmental leakage Enhance human rights at worksites; system; and improve energy efficiency of p. 76 accident prevention and response system and strengthen compliance through Increase transparency and sustainability of the company’s supply chain by managing manufacturing process p. 66 the monitoring of transparency and conflict minerals – 3TG Provide suppliers with support to help them strengthen EHS management p. 81 anti-corruption Maintain a transparent information disclosure system p. 60 Maintain a systematic risk management system by operating a business continuity management p. 64 (BCM) at the Group level Strengthen ties between corporate values and social values; and adopt the SDGs-connected Continue to implement climate Develop social values into the company’s p. 48 analysis in this report and plan to expand it change-related actions, such as In the process of establishing a midto long-term roadmap on responding to the emissions trading embedded values; and maximize p. 75 disaster management and emissions scheme; and in consideration of advancing into emissions trading business in the future social impacts through multi-party Participated in the EDCF program and delivered 44 units of equipment for disaster recovery and trading scheme roadmap work partnerships emergency aid to the government of Madagascar; and help local communities improve quality of p. 35 In the process of building a greenhouse gas inventory for worksites in China to deal with p. 75 life and make positive impacts on society by using its global partnership the emissions trading scheme 48 49 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility CSR Structure 53 Transparent and Ethical Management 59 Customer Satisfaction and Product Stewardship 65 Integrated EHS System 71 Shared Growth with Our Suppliers 80 Employee Value Proposition 84 Supporting Development of Local Communities Our Responsibility 91 50 51 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility CSR Structure CSR Management System In 2017, Doosan Infracore focused on enhancing stakeholder value through socially responsible management. We have demonstrated our efforts through CSR Promotion System by the heads of BGs and other key executives, the CSR Committee is strong performances across several sustainability indices and we were able to The corporate social responsibilities (CSR) Part at the company’s head composed of five subcommittees dedicated to human rights and labor, office is the organization responsible for coordinating overall CSR environment, fair operations, customer values, and local communities. increase our corporate value. execution, and is in charge of overall tasks related to CSR, such as The subcommittees form and operate the participating organization establishing CSR strategies, identifying stakeholder issues and needs, in a flexible manner depending on the nature of the CSR strategic task diagnosing CSR levels at domestic and overseas sites, presenting to increase the efficiency in decision-making and execution. A CSR CSR tasks and monitoring performance, disclosing information to Committee meeting has been held every quarter since 2015, and it will outside parties (publishing integrated reports, etc.), and responding be held three times a year starting in 2018 for more efficient operations. to evaluations. The CSR Committee makes decisions on major matters, such as setting up CSR strategic tasks and approving related operations The CSR Committee at the company’s business site in China has been and processes, after which the CSR Working Group, which is composed holding meetings twice a year since 2017. Chaired by the Regional Head, of working-level staff, draws up specific implementation plans. Doosan the leaders of each business unit serve as members of five subcommitInfracore promotes CSR through cooperation among the relevant tees – same as the head office. They are also in charge of reviewing and departments, as the CSR Part at its head office and persons in charge of approving the operation and process of CSR tasks. its overseas business sites take a leading role. The CSR strategic tasks are reflected in the management by objectives (MBO) of executives in charge, while some tasks are linked to the CSR Committee annual business plans to make sure that they are being carried out. Doosan Infracore’s CSR Committee at its head office is the company’s Doosan Infracore is looking into connecting CSR strategic tasks with highest decision-making body regarding CSR. For the company’s midto long-term management strategies. The company will seek new sustainable growth and strengthening of social responsibilities, the CSR CSR strategies and efficient implementation measures with an aim of Committee reviews risks and opportunities arising from changes in CSR enhancing its corporate and social values in the long term, and thus issues, establishes CSR strategies and policies, draws up CSR strategic generate tangible results. tasks, and examines outcomes. Supervised by the CEO and participated CSR Operating System Stakeholder communication and engagement Identify CSR CSR diagnosis issues and Materiality analysis improvement Analysis of the external assessment, measures such as DJSI1) and ESG2) Promotion of CSR strategic tasks and activities CSR Committee Disclosure of information on activities Establish and manage CSR strategic tasks, and performance through integrated reports review performance, monitor risks, and others and seek opportunities 1)  2)  Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI): The DJSI is a sustainability benchmark codeveloped ESG Evaluation by the Corporate Governance Service, Korea: ESG stands for Environment, by Dow Jones of the U.S. and RobecoSAM of Switzerland. They evaluate the sustainability Social, and Governance. The Corporate Governance Service of Korea has developed its own performance of major companies on the basis of an analysis of corporate economic, ESG evaluation model and offered an evaluation service to boost listed local companies’ CSR environmental, and social performance. Korean companies that have passed the institutes’ activities and investors’ socially responsible investment. Each year, it discloses its evaluation industrial thresholds are included in the DJSI Korea, DJSI Asia Pacific, or DJSI World depending results at seven levels rated from S to D. Companies with B+ (moderate) or above are limited on their corporate size and the stock markets they are listed on. to around 20% of the total assessments. 52 53 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility CSR Structure CSR Strategies CSR Strategic Tasks Doosan Infracore seeks to satisfy the demands of various stakeholders companies by 2025. The company will also systematically implement Doosan Infracore puts together the results of materiality analysis and developing new technology, establishing a midto long-term roadmap at home and abroad based on the strategy system of Doosan Group CSR strategies and operation systems, thereby contributing to the external evaluations, such as ESG and DJSI, as well as the results of CSR on carbon trading, and helping overseas worksites to disclose their CSR which aims to grow into one of the top 100 global CSR leading achievement of the CSR goal of Doosan Group. diagnosis at the company level every year to draw up and implement information. The company’s plan for 2018 is to identify and execute eight CSR strategic tasks. In 2017, the company continued to carry out CSR strategic tasks by focusing on advancing existing tasks and increasing strategic tasks that it set between 2015 and 2016, while adding new their implementation capabilities. Details of the CSR strategic tasks for tasks – developing the REACH/RoHS 2 IT system, three tasks relating to 2017 and 2018 are available in Our Approach of each part in this report. CSR Organization CSR Strategic Tasks CSR Committee 2016 2017 2018 Chairperson CEO Composition 10 persons including CFO, BG heads, executives in charge, and directors Coordinator Help overseas worksites disclose their Help overseas worksites disclose their CSR Establish the global CSR governance CSR Part Governance CSR information CSR information Subcommittees under CSR Committee Establish the REACH/RoHS 2 Human Rights/ management system Subcommittee Environment Fair Operations Customer Values Local Communities Labor Practices Develop the REACH/RoHS 2 IT system One task relating to advanced Human rights emissions regulations Worksite safety and health Suppliers Customers Community Customer Define eco-friendly products Two tasks relating to advanced Major Indices Labor practices engagement Environment and pollutants Ethical management Product and technology Value and set up standards emissions regulations One task relating to developing On-site energy Green partnership innovation Community development a new technology to secure future Green business One task relating to smart solutions Green operation and product competitiveness One task relating to quality improvement CSR Working Group HRM1), HRD2), Technology HR, EHS3), Facility Management Shared Growth, Compliance, Purchasing Teams in Charge Labor-management Cooperation Establish a management system Reduce worksite energy use and for worksite energy efficiency increase energy efficiency Establish an emissions reduction goal Marketing, Technology Institution, CSR Part, General Affairs Finance, Strategy, Doosan Way Environment Product/Quality and an action plan Establish a management system Establish a midto long-term roadmap for chemical substances on carbon trading 1) HRM: Human Resource Management, 2) HRD: Human Resource Development, 3) EHS: Environment, Health, Safety Strengthen CSR management CSR Value Structure system of supply chain Identify suppliers’ CSR risks and Fair monitor the implementation of Operations Build carbon partnership improvement measures with suppliers Doosan Aspiration Proud Global Doosan Establish human rights risk CSR Goal Top 100 global CSR leading companies1) by 2025 management system Build a management system and Human Rights/ Strengthen monitoring of Labor Publish a human rights risk prevention strengthen monitoring to enhance the human rights violation manual and educate office staff on human rights mindset CSR Mission Support responsible and sustainable growth human rights Existing or advanced Newly implemented in 2017 Newly implemented in 2018 Respect Reliable Responsibility CSR value CSR Pillars for people operating in engagement creation 1) Based on the announcement of the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) 54 55 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility CSR Structure Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Analysis Definition of Stakeholders Doosan Infracore puts communication, participation, and cooperation responds to subjects of interest (issues) for each stakeholder group. The Doosan Infracore conducts a materiality analysis every year to effectively activities. The company’s activities, achievements, and future plans for with internal and external stakeholders at the center of its approach to outcomes of its activities are also disclosed through communication identify changes in the business environment and various matters of major issues that are derived from materiality analysis are disclosed to CSR. The company chooses major stakeholders, and then identifies and channels. interest and issues of stakeholders, and thus reflects them in business stakeholders through its integrated report. Communication Channels for Stakeholders Materiality Analysis Process Communication Channels Major Issues Responses Step 01 Issue Pool Selection • Doosan Infracore conducts a CSR diagnosis every year to identify the level of internal competencies and improvements, and then selects internal CSR issues. In 2017, the company applied Doosan Group’s CSR model of diagnosis and performed a self-diagnosis on seven Annual general meeting (AGM), Improve profitability and a high dividend • Share the company’s midto long-term business major CSR areas, including customer values, HR, EHS, fair operations, and local communities disclosure materials, investor policy; strengthen disclosures; sound directions Shareholders/ for its domestic business sites. Investors relations (IR) information on the corporate governance; and business • Make earnings announcements and provide IR data company website, conferences, opportunity and risk management • Doosan Infracore ascertains CSR issues and interests of the international community and IR meetings • Hold analyst meetings stakeholders by analyzing media coverage as well as CSR-related international standards and guidelines, such as GRI, RobecoSAM, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), Field surveys, voice of Prompt customer complaint handling • Product presentation through exhibitions and dealer customers (VOCs), call centers, and feedback; make improvement to meetings etc. joint workshops, integrated product quality, performance, safety, • Doosan Infracore selects issue pools by putting together internal opinions and stakeholder • Tasks aiming for eco-friendly products customer management systems and convenience; thorough customer • Incorporate VOCs into products through the New issues regarding CSR, and carries out industry benchmarking to identify the status of information protection; R&D investment and the strengthening of technological Product Development (NPD) processes responses in the global market. Customers capabilities; differentiated customer • Enhance customer accessibility by providing dealers service; and develop eco-friendly, with web-based information and strengthen dealer high efficiency products management • Boost customer responsiveness through the Happy Call Step 02 Prioritization and dealer service training • The company evaluates issue maturity, business importance1), value chain influence2), and interest levels of stakeholders, and puts the results together to define priorities. Labor-Management Council, Fair evaluation and compensation; • The Doosan Way grievance handling system, education and competence • Human resources development based on the Functional Intranet, Doosan Way surveys, development; work-life balance; Competency (FC) system Employees dialogue with management win-win labor-management relations; Step 03 Review and Feedback and active communication within the • The Women’s Council • The CSR Committee reviews the connection between top priority issues and business company • Publish a human rights risk prevention manual and activities, and finalizes the company’s core issues and CSR strategic tasks. Throughout the provide education on human rights year, the Committee discusses and manages these core issues through CSR strategic tasks, and relevant business units manage any remaining issues by monitoring industrial and Supplier Council, supplier Share more information with suppliers; • Foster leading suppliers social changes. education, consulting, technical expand support to boost suppliers’ • Financial support for suppliers support for suppliers capabilities through financial, Suppliers • The Supplier Hotline technology, education, environment, and ethical management support; and • Share CSR guidelines with suppliers 1)  Business importance: The company assesses the importance of each issue in terms of ‘profit, cost, reputation, and compliance’ strengthen fair trade in the course of business conduct by reviewing the related midto long-term strategies and business plans and major industry trends among other factors. Meetings with residents, Eco-friendly products and production • Operate the Dream School Plus 2)  Value chain influence: The company assesses the socio-economic/environmental impact and relative importance of each issue workshops for workingprocesses; improve workplaces and in the value chain. Local • The Doosan Day of Community Service level staff in charge of CSR, surrounding environment; prevent Communities sisterhood relationship pollution; establish environmental • Social contribution projects tailored to local business (the environment, management system; communicate sites NGOs, etc.) with local communities; and help local • Participate in a meeting with residents in the western communities’ economic development part of Incheon city regarding air quality improvement Participate in national projects, Compliance with laws and regulations; • Regulatory monitoring and internal compliance operation of joint programs and public-private partnership Central/ • Suggest improvement measures through participation Local Governments in related organizations’ activities • Participate in the government’s public policy projects Press releases, press Prompt and accurate information • Issue press releases in a timely manner conferences, regular meetings, sharing Media • Support press reporters’ news coverage business site visits (field trips) • Find feature items and provide them to the media 56 57 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report CSR Structure · Transparent and Ethical Management Transparent and 01 Corporate Governance Results of Materiality Assessment Materiality Matrix Material Issue Contents Page Ethical Management Out of 18 CSR issues, Doosan Infracore selected core issues which have high stakeholder 1 Innovative management and smart solution Management Analysis P. 2-15 interest and business impact – innovative 2 Strategies for emerging markets management and smart solution, strategies for emerging markets, management strategy and 3 Management strategy and Our Strategy P. 19-49 Composition of Shareholders and Equity economic performance economic performance, and product responsiProduct responsibility and customer Doosan Infracore is a key subsidiary of Doosan Group and operates 38 4 OUR APPROACH bility and customer satisfaction. satisfaction financially consolidated or subsidiary companies (based on its annual Our Responsibility 5 Energy and climate change reports) around the world. By the end of 2017, the number of its shares Through the 2017 Integrated Report, the 6 Human rights and labor practice At the heart of Doosan issued stood at 208,000,119, of which the largest shareholder, Doosan company has disclosed its major activities, 7 Eco-friendly products CSR Structure P. 53-58 Infracore’s sustainability Heavy Industries & Construction, owned a 36.30% stake. Its equity achievements, and plans concerning the four capital stood at KRW 1,040 billion. core issues and the other CSR issues. In Our Impact valuation and information disclosure 8 regarding sustainable development Transparent and P. 59-64 lies transparent and Ethical Management Strategy section, the company presents key 9 Corporate governance ethical management for Ownership Structure information on its business strategies and 10 Worksite health and safety Customer Satisfaction (Unit: %) and Product Stewardship P. 65-70 its stakeholders. products. In Our Responsibility and CSR Facts 11 Win-win growth and cooperation 36.30 & Figures section, the company provides 12 Risk and ESG capability management Integrated EHS System P. 71-79 Doosan Heavy Industries information on different CSR areas, including of supply chain Doosan Infracore implements transparent manage& Construction activities and achievements related to its 13 Develop and maintain human resources ment through independent governance system and Shared Growth with strategic tasks. 14 Environmental impacts of business sites P. 80-83 prompt information disclosures. Beyond compliance Our Suppliers 15 Participation in and contribution to management, the company strives to ensure that local communities Employee Value P. 84-90 ethical management serves as the foundation of all its 16 Ethical management and compliance Proposition decision-making. It secures the stability of its manage17 Cooperation with global stakeholders Supporting Development P. 91-93 ment environment by implementing transparent 20.29 18 Efficiency of water and wastes of Local Communities Institutions management and strengthening preemptive risk 32.46 management through strict internal control system. Individuals 10.93 0.02 Importance to stakeholders Foreigners Persons specially related with the largest shareholder 6 Human rights and labor practice (As of December 31, 2017) Corporate governance 9 Impact valuation and 8 information disclosure regarding Strategies for 2 1 Innovative management sustainable development emerging markets and smart solution Worksite health and safety 10 Energy and climate change 5 3 Management strategy Shareholder and Investor Communication and economic performance Communication Channels Doosan Infracore actively seeks out the Participation in and 15 4 Product responsibility contribution to local communities and customer satisfaction expectations and demands of its shareholders, investors, customers, 13 Develop and maintain 11 Win-win growth and cooperation human resources and other stakeholders when making key decisions. The company 7 Eco-friendly products strives to attract investments in the global market by earning recognition Environmental impacts of 14 12 Risk and ESG capability management business sites of supply chain for its genuine values in terms of growth potential and technological Cooperation with 17 prowess. It has therefore established an investor-friendly investor global stakeholders 16 Ethical management and compliance relations (IR) strategy and carries out shareholder-friendly communicaEfficiency of water and wastes 18 tion. In addition, the company holds company briefings and securities investment conferences, and also invites institutional investors to its worksites to offer them diverse and reliable information. Importance to business * Each circle represents an issue, and the size of each circle represents the issue’s level of influence in value chain 58 59 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Transparent and Ethical Management 02 Protection of Minority Shareholders Doosan Infracore has adopted and Operation of an Independent BOD business execution. It incorporates opinions and suggestions of Ethical Management operates a paper ballot, an electronic voting system, and an electronic proxy The BOD and Its Decision-making Systems As the company’s highest shareholders, executives, and employees collected through AGMs and solicitation system to protect the voting rights of its minority shareholders. decision-making body in relation to corporate management, the IR activities into its decision-making process. It maintains its indepenWhen sending out notices of its annual general meeting (AGM), the Board of Directors (BOD) oversees and approves decisions on massive dence from controlling shareholders and executives, and checks and company encloses paper ballots so that shareholders can exercise their investments or borrowings, the consolidation or division of business balances corporate decisions to ensure the company’s transparent voting rights if absent. Their votes are valid under the condition that they entities, and other major business issues, from the perspective of management. arrive at the company one day prior to the date of an AGM. long-term growth. Ethical Management Policies There are three committees under the BOD which are entirely composed Doosan Infracore applies the Code of Conduct of Doosan Group that was Disclosure of Corporate Information Doosan Infracore complies Composition and Operations of the BOD The BOD of Doosan Infracore of outside directors – the Audit Committee, which is responsible for newly established in 2014 to all of its business sites across the globe. with all applicable legal disclosure requirements. It also strives to is composed of three internal and four outside directors who were guaranteeing the transparency and independence of audit procedures; The company also connects its company-wide operation system with disclose information in a balanced manner, concerning its financial transparently appointed through an AGM. The Outside Director the Internal Transaction Committee, which is designed to boost the the ERP, e-procurement, internal control and evaluation, and fair trade and non-financial activities, through the voluntary disclosure of the Candidates Recommendation Committee recommends outside director transparency of corporate management through the establishment of compliance systems, and thus improves the transparency and efficiency company’s compliance program (CP) status and CSR activities. candidates who are suitable for establishing a transparent governance CP; and the Outside Director Candidates Recommendation Committee, of its business activities. The company formed the Audit Committee structure and enhancing the BOD’s expertise. Outside directors are which has the authority to recommend outside directors. under the BOD to audit the legality of work execution by directors and STATUS OF DISCLOSURE ACTIVITIES appointed in consideration of their ownership of the company’s shares, executives. The Compliance Team is in charge of ethical management ・ Financial Disclosure of provisional statistics on sales performance; potential conflicts of interest, careers with the company’s competitors, BOD Activities in 2017 All directors are allowed to participate in the auditing activities as well as internal control design and operation Quarterly and biannual reports and statements of affairs; Disclosures relevant to AGM and special shareholders’ meetings; diversity, and stakeholder representativeness. BOD meetings via remote means, such as telecommunication devices evaluations. Disclosure of changes in the shareholding structure; and capable of transmitting audio and video data, which is considered to be Disclosure on the Online Provision of Enterprises Information (OPNI) system operated by the Korea Fair Trade Commission, etc. The BOD deliberates and makes resolutions on matters specified under present at the actual meeting. Directors may not delegate their authority Communicating and Promoting Ethical Management ・ Non-financial Status of CP operations; Disclosure of CSR activities including integrated reports; the relevant national laws and company bylaws, matters entrusted by to a proxy. Directors with a vested interest in a particular agenda item Doosan Infracore discloses the Code of Conduct and irregularity reporting and Disclosure of information through company presentations the AGM, key management policies, and important matters concerning are prohibited from voting on it so as to maintain transparency in the process on its website to ensure that both its internal and external decision-making process. In 2017, the BOD held eight meetings during stakeholders can access such information easily. Prior to all major Korean which deliberations and resolutions were made on 39 agenda items, holidays, the CEO issues a letter requesting strict compliance with the Intra-organizational Decision-making System including reports on management performance and the matter of Code of Conduct to all the company’s first-tier suppliers. To prevent BOD approving investment for the establishment of LDEC JV – a joint venture recurrence of Code of Conduct violations, the company clearly identifies between Lovol and Doosan Infracore – in China. The attendance rate of the process and cause of issues that arise during the work execution the outside directors in 2017 was 84.2%. process, and creates and shares a white paper. In addition, to maintain Outside Director Candidates a transparent ethical management system, Doosan Infracore urges Audit Committee Internal Transaction Committee Recommendation Committee BOD Evaluation and Remuneration The remuneration of internal and newly hired employees to sign a written oath pledging their compliance (4 outside directors) (3 outside directors) (3 outside directors) outside directors is determined within the limits approved at the AGM. with the Code of Conduct. It also requires new suppliers to submit a The company also implements a performance salary system that links written oath pledging not to engage in unethical business practices. Accounting audits, management Review and approval of large-scale internal Recommendation of performance audits and inspection of transactions (more than KRW 5 billion per case or outside director candidates executive compensation with business performance. Directors are The company requires each of its team leaders, part leaders, and higher internal accounting system operations per quarter) and audits of internal transactions therefore given a salary corresponding to their pay grade as well as a level managers, as well as its executives to write and submit a statement performance bonus based on the organization’s management results. of interests form on an annual basis, with an aim to remind them of the (As of March 28, 2018) Composition of BOD To ensure their independence from the management and controlling strict compliance standards. In 2017, all those required to submit the shareholders, members of the Audit Committee receive remuneration statement complied with the obligation. Name Current Position / Role in the BOD 2017 Attendance Changes only as directors and are prohibited from receiving any other types of Park Yong-maan Director of Doosan Infracore / Chairman of the BOD 88% Appointed on Mar. 25, 2016 compensation. The total amount of approved pay for directors and Education on the Code of Conduct Training on the Code of Conduct is Internal Sohn Dong-youn President and CEO of Doosan Infracore 88% Reappointed on Mar. 28, 2018 auditors in 2017 was KRW 15 billion, of which KRW 4,225 million was designed to raise employees’ awareness of ethical business practices and Directors Go Seokbum President and CEO of Doosan Infracore – Appointed on Mar. 28, 2018 actually paid. The payment amount was calculated based on the pay control the ethical risks involved in their business transactions in advance. for three registered directors excluding outside directors and members Doosan Infracore provides the training to all its employees, and notifies Director of Yuhan Foundation / Member of the Audit Committee, Han Seung-soo 63% Reappointed on Mar. 28, 2018 of the Audit Committee, one outside director excluding members of the them of major ethical management issues by posting the details on the Member of the Outside Director Candidates Recommendation Committee Audit Committee, and four members of the Audit Committee who were bulletin board of each business site. In 2017, the company expanded the President of Yoon Economic Research Institute / Chair of the Audit Committee, paid from January to December 2017. scope of its online training to include managers of its Chinese subsidiary in Yoon Jeung-hyun Member of the Internal Transaction Committee, 75% Reappointed on Mar. 28, 2018 Member of the Outside Director Candidates Recommendation Committee addition to managers at its domestic business sites. Outside Directors Attorney at Kim & Chang / Member of the Audit Committee, Jung Byung Moon Member of the Internal Transaction Committee, 100% Appointed on Mar. 31, 2017 Completion rate of ethical management training (Korea) Completion rate of ethical management training (China) Member of the Outside Director Candidates Recommendation Committee 98.7% 94.6% Professor at Business School, Korea University / Member of the Audit Committee, Yoon Sung Soo Appointed on Mar. 28, 2018 Member of the Internal Transaction Committee * Jung Byung Moon was appointed as an outside director and a member of the Audit Committee on March 31, 2017 Internal directors (Sohn Dong-youn, Go Seokbum), and outside directors and Audit Committee members (Han Seung-soo, Yoon Jeung-hyun, Yoon Sung Soo) were appointed at the 18th AGM held on March 28, 2018 * 1.3% were not able to attend training due to such reasons as long-term overseas business * 5.4% were not able to attend training due to such reasons as long-term overseas business The BOD consists of 7 members (3 internal and 4 outside directors) as of March 28, 2018 trips, leave of absence due to illness, childbirth, restructuring, etc. trips, leave of absence due to illness, childbirth, restructuring, etc. 60 61 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Transparent and Ethical Management 03 04 Internal Controls Risk Management Credit Risk Credit risk arises from ordinary transactions or investment activities when customers or business partners do not follow the conditions of the relevant business agreements. It may also arise from cash, cashable assets, derivatives, and deposits in banks and other financial institutions. Doosan Infracore manages its credit risks with the purpose of minimizing losses under its credit policies. For credits in Strengthened Fair Trade Voluntary Compliance Program The fair Audit and Monitoring Doosan Infracore has established risk management processes which which default is anticipated at the end of the fiscal year, the company trade voluntary compliance program (CP) is a compliance system which In line with the increased scope of the company’s management and are designed to enable its executives and working-level employees to properly assesses the risks involved and addresses the results in its enables a company to voluntarily observe fair trade-related laws. It is responsibility with the expansion of its overseas business and the recognize various strategic, operational, financial and non-financial risks consolidated financial sheets. related to a company’s internal compliance control activities designed adaptation of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), that could reduce its corporate value and incur economic losses, detect to prevent violations against the law. It presents its employees with clear Doosan Infracore has maintained an independent audit team in China any problematic symptoms early on, and take prompt remedial actions. Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk mainly arises from a shortage of liquidity. standards regarding conduct for compliance with competition laws, and for audit and monitoring since 2012. The Compliance Team at its The risk management processes ensure effective risk controls through It materializes when a corporation fails to fulfill its obligations to pay detects any violations at an early stage and establish measures. Doosan headquarters in Korea is striving to increase overseas subsidiaries’ various elements, such as identification of risk factors, evaluation of the off financial debts or to finance its normal operations. To prevent such Infracore has continued to strengthen its fair trade voluntary CP by accounting and management transparency based on respect for subsidpotential impacts of risks on the company, establishment of countersituations, Doosan Infracore establishes quarterly and annual financial expanding preventive and follow-up monitoring activities, updating a CP iaries’ responsible business management. measures, monitoring of changes in risk levels, and constant reporting balance plans which allow the company to minimize the influence of handbook regularly, and cultivating CP experts in each business group. based on a coherent reporting system. business, investments, and financial activities on the monetary balance. It also encourages its suppliers to introduce and implement the CP in Internal Controls Evaluation System The forecasts help the company secure and maintain sufficient liquidity order to take the lead in establishing fair trade practices throughout the Doosan Infracore established the Doosan Internal Control Assessment Financial Risk Management in preparation for possible liquidity risks in the future. machinery industry. To help suppliers with their CP implementation, the System (DICAS), an internal controls evaluation system, in 2006 Market Risk Foreign exchange risk occurs as a result of changes in company provides them with education on fair trade and export/import and since then it has been carrying out regular evaluations for its currency exchange rates, which may affect the forecasting of future Capital Risk Capital risk management involves the maintenance of an regulations as well as CP monitoring services. The company has reported entire business areas, ranging from finance to sales, purchasing, and deals, perceived assets and liabilities, and net investment in overseas optimum capital structure to protect the company’s capabilities, thereby the progress of its fair trade voluntary CP to the BOD biannually since production. The results of the evaluations are reported to the Audit operations. Doosan Infracore has set basic strategies with an aim to enabling it to provide its shareholders and other stakeholders with 2012, including education on fair trade and the results of monitoring for Committee and board meetings following the reports to CFO and CEO reduce fluctuations in profits and losses due to changes in foreign corporate profits while reducing capital expenditure. Doosan Infracore violations of rules and regulations, and it also discloses the results to in accordance with the ‘Act on the External Auditing of Corporations.’ exchange rates, and carries out hedge trading through exports and maintains its capital in alignment with its debt ratio. Specifically, it the public. In 2014, the company began applying the same internal controls imports. Interest rate risks are related largely to adjustable rate deposits adjusts its dividend payouts to shareholders and repays capital reserves evaluation system to its subsidiaries in China. and loans. To preemptively deal with such risks, the company minimizes to maintain or modify the capital structure, while issuing new shares and Compliance with the Anti-graft Law In Korea, the ‘Improper Solicitation external loans through its reserve funds, reduces high interest rate loans, selling assets to reduce debts. and Graft Act,’ also known as the anti-graft law, went into effect on Internal and External Reporting Systems improves the borrowing structure, monitors changes in interest rates, September 28, 2016. Intended to prevent public officials’ corruption, Doosan Infracore operates various internal and external reporting and establishes countermeasures. Since its financial instruments are the Act applies to employees and their spouses of all public institutions, systems to facilitate immediate reporting of any unethical acts such as exposed to the risk of changes in market prices that may negatively affect including constitutional agencies, central administrative agencies, bribery, unfair business transactions, corruption, as well as violations the fair value of the financial instruments and the company’s cash flow, and local governments, schools, and media outlets. The Act forbids of the Doosan Way, its Code of Conduct, regulations, and relevant laws. the management of the company measures risks arising from changes in improper solicitations to public officials and other relevant persons, and The reporting channels include website, Cyber Reporting Center, mail, prices regularly and manages key investment assets separately. prohibits them from accepting financial or other advantages. In 2016, telephone calls, fax messages, and personal visits. The Cyber Reporting Doosan Infracore carried out various activities to raise awareness among Center operates in three languages of Korean, English, and Chinese, Risk Management Process employees, such as providing education on the prohibition of solicitation and is open to anyone including employees and external stakeholders. to all its employees in Korea and expatriates in China, sending out CEO Reports are acted on promptly according to the applicable procedures. Communication with stakeholders messages, and collecting voluntary compliance pledges signed by the The reporter’s identity remains confidential. Any irregularities are strictly Relevant internal and external stakeholders are informed of the risks that have occurred and the results of employees. It is carrying out continuous monitoring through a dedicated sanctioned. The company’s actions, including correctives, are notified to the company’s response to the risks according to its risk management procedures. Doosan Infracore continuously communicates with its stakeholders through quarterly statements of affairs and annual integrated reports. task team. The company also added content for compliance with the the reporter and disclosed company-wide, thereby further raising ethical anti-graft law in the Code of Conduct training it provides every year to awareness among staff. ensure continued training on the law. PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 PHASE 5 Establish a Foundation Recognize Risks Identify Risks Evaluate Risks Respond to Risks for Risk Management Establish strategies, Build a risk pool by defining Identify potential Rate the identified risks Categorize required organizations and risk all uncertain risk elements risk factors and categorize according to the degree responses into companymanagement systems, in that might affect future them into appropriate areas of danger involved, in wide or by functional consideration of overall management environments consideration of their measures depending on the business environments and intensity and frequency risk and mitigate the degree industry characteristics to before analyzing the required of danger by distributing manage risks efficiently control level and determining risk-specific manuals and necessary management providing education on risk priority prevention PHASE 6 Monitor Control risks by continuously monitoring for any changes in the level of risk and report on a regular basis 62 63 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Transparent and Ethical Management · Customer Satisfaction and Product Stewardship Non-financial Risk Management Customer Satisfaction and Product Stewardship Safety Risk Doosan Infracore takes diverse preventive measures The company has categorized its non-financial risks into three – environto minimize potential risks, and strives to raise health and safety mental, safety, and disaster risks – and built a preemptive risk response awareness. The company has expanded the scope of its health and system. For full details of the company’s responses to its environmental safety management to include outsourced projects and external and safety risks, please refer to the ‘Integrated EHS System’ section on suppliers, while enhancing monitoring aimed at preventing occupapage 71. tional accidents. It also requires worksite visitors to watch a safety video before entry. Furthermore, the company engages in comprehensive Environmental Risk In order to minimize possible risks from environpublic-private joint disaster response drills, establishes countermeaOUR APPROACH CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2017 mental pollution, Doosan Infracore promotes diverse environmental sures for emergency crisis situations, and encourages its staff to be fully management activities, including efficiency improvement of its resource aware of them. Develop the REACH/RoHS 2 IT system use, reduction of pollutants through facilities to reduce environmental Doosan Infracore provides impacts, and the enhancement of environmental accident prevention Disaster Risk Doosan Group has established its own Business world-class products, parts and Chemicals regulations have been becoming stricter in Korea and abroad, and compliance risks are also rising, such as prohibition of sales and penalties in and response systems, based on its EHS management system. To Continuity Management (BCM), a risk management framework, at the minimize climate change risks, the company carries out greenhouse group level. It has published a BCM manual that is categorized into services, with an aim to maximize the event of relevant issues, which have in turn triggered the need to improve gas emissions reduction activities by making investments for energy 20 mandatory infrastructure items. It has developed an emergency customer value. the chemicals management system. Doosan Infracore does not use much of hazardous chemicals in its production processes, given the nature of the efficiency and conducting energy reduction activities. It considers future notification system that can reach all its employees rapidly in the event industry in which it is engaged. Nevertheless, to minimize negative impacts on scenario analysis to examine the impact which climate change has on of a crisis, so that leaders of business units can check on the safety of stakeholders, Doosan Infracore has set the development of REACH/RoHS 21) business, and vice versa. The outcomes of such activities are disclosed their members quickly, and the members can respond systematically Backed by its outstanding technological prowess IT system as its 2017 CSR strategic task by bringing together corporate-wide to outside stakeholders, such as local residents. according to the company’s emergency response procedures. In 2012, it and experiences, Doosan Infracore strives to create capabilities, with central roles performed by top management and executives contracted with International SOS, a medical and travel security services better customer value through products that take in each area. company, and has since provided comprehensive overseas safety into account not just performance but also customer  Activities Established a process and IT system to respond to REACH/RoHS 2; management services to its employees based or traveling overseas. safety and environmental impacts. In addition, the and Achievements built a supplier management process and trained relevant personnel; All Doosan people across the world have access to emergency medical stabilized the Doosan Infracore Chemical Management System (DICM); and company focuses on improving product quality with a developed an IT system for the Doosan Infracore China Corporation relief from war, natural disaster, or accident, and information on travel commitment to producing products of perfect quality security overseas. and promotes responsible customer services and active communication with customers, in order to CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2018 become a company trusted by customers. Establish the REACH/RoHS 2 management system In 2018, Doosan Infracore will enhance its implementation capabilities by Key Risks and Relevant Responses establishing a management system based on the REACH/RoHS 2 IT system that was built in 2017. Using the process and IT system that respond to Key Risks Responsive Measures REACH/RoHS 2, the company will strengthen monitoring and management Global economic slowdown Maximize profitability and strengthen core competitiveness of hazardous chemicals use and commence the development of alternative Strategic substances as part of continued efforts to minimize risks related to hazardous risks Stricter environmental regulations on products Develop and apply eco-friendly technologies chemicals. Market risks Manage exchange rate fluctuations, interest rates, and price risks Plans Form a corporate-wide hazardous substance management organization; establish restricted substance management policies; establish a supplier Credit risks Manage credit risks and minimize losses through safeguard measures in bonds Financial management process; train a key-man at suppliers; and commence the risks development of alternative substances to respond to RoHS 22) Liquidity risks Establish quarterly and annual financial balance plans Capital risks Reduce capital costs and manage liabilities Quality risks Establish a quality management system Operational Ethical management and compliance risks Audit unethical irregularities, provide employees with ethical training risks 1)  Risks related to personal information protection Establish personal information protection guidelines, build an information Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH): Chemical substance and data security management system, and provide employees with information security training management system of the E.U. that governs the registration, evaluation, approval and restriction of chemical substances according to their quantity and harmful effects Environment: Climate change risks, environmental Build a climate change response system, manage environmental pollution materials, Restriction of Hazardous Substances in EEE (RoHS): The EU directive that restricts the use of pollution, and grievance risks and disclose information hazardous substances, including lead, cadmium, mercury, chromium, and flame retardants such as PBBs and PBDEs, in the production of electrical and electronic products Non-financial Engage in risk factor management activities, enhance fire safety management 2)  RoHS 2: A stricter regulation compared with RoHS, including an increase in the scope of restricted risks Safety: Worksite fire and occupational accidents (operation of the Disaster Prevention Center), and boost safety management for substances, which has been applied in a phased manner since January 2013. It restricts the use of outsourced work ten substances – four phthalate-related substances were added to the previous six substances, such as lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and two bromine-based flame retardants Disaster: Natural disasters, man-made hazards Build the BCM and practice its applications * Responses to strategic risks are reflected in all of the company’s business processes and thus they are not mentioned separately 64 65 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Customer Satisfaction and Product Stewardship 01 02 Customer-centered Product Responsible Customer Service Development Strengthening Product Responsibility The company’s plans for 2018 include building an operation system, such Increasing Eco-friendly Products Doosan Infracore is conducting its Preemptive Response for Customers Doosan Infracore concentrates its efforts on securing customer safety as a corporate-wide hazardous substance management organization and business based on its corporate philosophy which defines minimizing its Doosan Infracore has been solidifying its relationship with customers and minimizing environmental impact throughout its entire process restricted substance management policies, establishing a management environmental footprint as a corporate responsibility through which the based on trust by acting ahead of customers’ requests. The company ranging from product development to production and sales. From process and training key-man for suppliers, and developing alternative company can create values. In accordance with this corporate philosophy, provides information on products for customer safety and increased the product planning and development stage, the company strives substances to respond to RoHS 2. Furthermore, it will continually the company established definition and management standards for convenience, and carries out voluntary preemptive correction measures. to ensure that customers use Doosan Infracore products more safely monitor hazardous chemicals in raw materials and parts, analyze their eco-friendly products in 2015, and reflected the eco-friendly product and conveniently while also delivering high performance. In order to replaceability, and thus minimize the use of hazardous chemicals in its management process in the new product development process and Provide Information for Customer Safety Doosan Infracore complies minimize the environmental impact of product manufacturing and use, production processes and products. It aims to achieve zero penalties by completed an upgrade of its environmental friendliness index in 2016. with regulations of each country related to increased customer safety, it focuses on expanding the development of eco-friendly products. It preventing violations against domestic and international regulations as Products that preemptively meet mandatory environmental regulations including Safety Standards and the Product Liability Act, and takes all also intends to contribute to the improvement of human rights and the well as zero use of substances of very high concern (SVHC). of each market in five areas – fuel efficiency, durability, noise control, the necessary actions to prevent occupational accidents. To ensure the environment in areas that produce conflict minerals by continuously safety, and emissions control – are defined as eco-friendly products. safe operation and maintenance of its products, the company provides monitoring the use of conflict minerals in its products. Conflict Mineral Management The international community has Those that surpass the mandatory level are premium eco-friendly customers with safety labels of three levels – danger, warning, and designated four minerals – tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold – that products. In 2017, Doosan Infracore’s eco-friendly and premium caution – according to the severity of the safety risks involved. It also Compliance with International Safety Standards At the planning stage, are mined in 10 war-torn countries in Africa, including the Democratic eco-friendly products accounted for 84.6% of its total products, mentions and emphasizes matters that are critical to customer safety in a the company sets up new product development and verification plans Republic of the Congo, Sudan, and Central Africa, as conflict minerals. indicating a year-on-year rise of 10.7%p. product manual. Doosan Infracore complies with ISO 92441) with respect by reviewing various countries’ technical regulations and international These countries are believed to still be caught up in conflict as rebels are to the safety labels attached to its construction equipment and publishes standards on safety and environment, including fire, explosion, noise, raising funds by monopolizing mining and distribution of the minerals. operator manuals for its machinery in accordance with ISO 67502). rollover, electromagnetic compatibility, and toxic chemicals. It also In addition to the loss of lives caused by long-standing disputes, the Classification of Eco-Friendly Products reflects the guidelines set forth in the world’s major technical regulations mining also causes serious social problems, such as forced labor for Preemptive Correction Measures Preemptive correction measures when setting up its product development objectives, such as the ‘Rules local residents, human rights problems related to child labor, and are improvement measures carried out by manufacturers after making on Construction Machinery Safety Standards’ of Korea, the ‘Machinery pollution caused by over-mining. Use of conflict minerals has become notices to customers without any outside pressure. For more active Directive’ of Europe, the ‘Occupational Safety and Health Administration an issue, and as a result, the international community, including the Products that surpass preemptive correction measures, the company not only utilizes local the eco-friendly product criteria (OSHA)’ and the ‘Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA)’ of U.S., the EU, and OECD, has established regulations and guidelines to staff but also dispatches its experts from the head office to any location and perform above a certain level in the U.S., and the ‘Guobiao (GB) Standard’ of China. The company also eradicate use of conflict minerals. At Doosan Infracore, relevant teams the environmental-friendliness index in the world. Construction equipment must be able to withstand rough ensures that its products are manufactured to meet the regulations of the collaborate to respond to the conflict minerals issue based on the for the relevant market(s) work environments. The company therefore repeatedly checks the markets to which they will be exported. Doosan Infracore runs the Global guidelines presented by the ‘Conflict Minerals Regulatory Response whole range of equipment features, from performance of the specialty Product Compliance Council (GPCC), through which it shares information Center’ of the Korea International Trade Association. It will establish parts to simple malfunction, when performing preemptive correction on the latest trends in global safety regulations and standards and standards and procedures designed to identify the use of conflict measures, and makes corrections so that the product can be delivered discusses preemptive responses to any changes. minerals and their origin with the purpose of preventing the use of to customers in the best possible state. In addition, the company Premium conflict minerals in the first place. Eco-friendly frequently manages the major correction measure status using a system Management of Hazardous Chemicals To respond to various hazardous Products for quicker preemptive correction measures. chemicals regulations of different countries, including the EU REACH/ RoHS, the ‘Act on the Registration and Evaluation etc. of Chemical In March 2013, construction equipment and excavators were designated Trainings regarding hazardous chemicals in 2017 Substances’ and the ‘Chemicals Control Act’ in Korea, Doosan Infracore by law as a subject to a recall in Korea. Voluntary recall involves the conducted a survey of hazardous chemicals that are used throughout Eco-friendly company making a direct report if it discovers an issue and officially 23 Products work processes in 2015. In 2016, it conducted a study on the possibility implements a preemptive correction measures. In December 2017, of replacing its hazardous chemicals, and replaced and removed 11 sessions for Doosan Infracore voluntarily chose one of its products as a subject of 497 types of chemicals subject to management under the Chemicals Control recall for it found possible defects in the lower heater of the fuel filter Act. In 2017, with an aim to systematically respond to stricter regulations, which may cause an inflow of moisture into an inner pin, damage it, Doosan Infracore developed a world-leading process and IT system that employees from suppliers overheat the fuel filter and thus make the filter stop functioning. The respond to REACH/RoHS, and completed roll-out at the Doosan Infracore Products that satisfy company sent out a recall notice to customers and offered free repairs at China Corporation. The scope of application of relevant regulations is the environmental regulations designated maintenance centers or locations preferred by consumers. expanding from finished products to include parts as well. In response, of the relevant market(s) in a preemptive manner the company continues to provide its suppliers with intensive training, counseling, and guidance services, so that they can recognize the 1)  importance of hazardous chemicals management and improve their ISO 9244: International standard specifications on general rules regarding construction equipment safety labels relevant capabilities. In 2017, Doosan Infracore offered 23 training 2)  ISO 6750: International standard specifications on the format of construction equipment sessions to 497 employees at is suppliers. manuals (guidance and content) 66 67 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Customer Satisfaction and Product Stewardship 03 Process to Reflect Customer Feedback Customer Feedback Collection and Handling Process Protection of Consumer Information Doosan Infracore has established Quality Stabilization and Collecting and Responding to Customer Feedback Doosan Infracore and implemented its own customer information protection system. collects and promptly handles customer feedback and requests through KOREA OVERSEAS It encrypts its personal information database for information security Standardization its dealers and direct visits to major customers. It also regularly holds and conducts integrated monitoring of access to its information system meetings to share voice of customers (VOC) in which major suppliers including any activities suspected of abuse or leakage. The company participate, and thus uses them as opportunities to analyze and apply Registration with the call center Registration with dealers has prepared guidelines on the management of information security market trends. and carries out education on information security for all its employees The Foundation of Quality Management Service action and entry Overseas subsidiary / Service entry every year. Doosan Infracore has not been subject to any sanctions for Quality Management Strategy To achieve its vision of developing In Korea, the Customer Support Center receives customer requests, leakages of its customers’ personal information or violations of relevant into a ‘Global Leader in Infrastructure Solutions,’ Doosan Infracore has and assigns personnel who are in a position to quickly visit customers laws in the past three years. established and been operating a customer-oriented quality management through the Global Positioning System (GPS). This is followed by the Integrated input of information on customers’ requests and malfunctions system. In 2018, the company will establish its midto long-term quality ‘Happy Call’ with customers three days after in order to check final Decision on claims Promotion of Digital Marketing In order to promote direct communimanagement direction, which is to focus on strengthening proactive progress. To smoothly provide services to customers, the company cation with customers, Doosan Infracore operates digital marketing quality management, global quality management system, improving mass Finalization of claims has built a one-stop AM service system from sales to final disposal, channels. In China, the company has been using WeChat, the largest production quality, and increasing quality capabilities. The company also and continues to enhance its dealer service training. It also carries out Adding weight messenger service in the market since 2016, to provide product news, plans to improve its quality to a level of global leading companies through trainings for office and field staff of the Customer Support Center on a information regarding used products and parts, and functions to help continued efforts in quality. Doosan Infracore is carrying out diverse quarterly basis in line with the release of new products. As an outcome customers manage their equipment in a customer-tailored way, and quality management activities across the entire value chain to develop of such efforts, the company has achieved 97.7% of claim settlement to identify customers’ demands for products. As of April 2018, the world-leading products and service quality competitiveness. The company ratio within the timeline set by customers. In 2017, the company company’s WeChat followers totaled 67 thousand which is more than is implementing quality-first policies based on strong leadership, such Management of major claims Notification to a department developed and provided training programs and major characteristics three-fold increase in the last two years. The company is recording an as quality innovation of new products through front loading, innovation in charge / Information sharing and checking points of machines to prevent machinery malfunctions increase in product sales that make use of digital marketing. Doosan of manufacturing sites, where quality is made, strengthening of supplier and increase customer value. Infracore is also making efforts for expanded application of digital competitiveness, quick and fundamental problem-solving from the Customer Satisfaction Management In Korea and China, Doosan marketing-based information and sales activities in emerging markets. customer perspective, advanced and scientific quality management, and In China, dealers receive customer feedback and requests through the Infracore conducts customer satisfaction surveys on provided services establishment of infrastructure. Service Call Center and aim to handle them within 24 hours, completing through Happy Calls and strives to keep the satisfaction level above 4.5 their services within seven days. VOCs are reflected in product points on a scale of 1-5 points. In 2017, the level of satisfaction in Korea design and quality improvement. Doosan Infracore provides various stood at 4.73 points. The company has been standardizing its customer Quality Management System online and offline training courses to enhance the technical capabilservices and providing specialized technical training and customer ities of its dealers’ service personnel. Approximately 20 emergency service education to all service personnel with an aim to improve service engineers make three month training visits to more than 30 customer service quality. dealers throughout China to provide training on mechanical repairs Global Leader in and maintenance while also helping to solve technical issues of the NPD Process Doosan Infracore operates the New Product Development Infrastructure Solutions company’s C (Chinese) models. As a result of these efforts, in 2016, the (NPD) process with the participation of such departments as R&D, company achieved 78.7% and 80.7% in claims processing rates for all Advance Quality, Sales Strategy, and Marketing, to reflect VOCs into its models and C models, respectively. It also achieved 90% in making the new product development. The company’s business sites in Korea, design improvements by successfully working on 36 cases out of 40 China, and Europe operate customer feedback collection channels from Customer-centric quality management system design-related VOCs. diverse perspectives. They have also built the NPD 4.0 in 2013, with improved perspectives in terms of laws, safety, and quality. They are Standardizing Product Post-sale Management Services Doosan currently operating the NPD 4.3 to ensure quality innovation throughout Infracore offers its customers the 4-One Service – One Hour Contact, One all steps of product development. Development quality Parts quality Manufacturing quality Market quality Day Repair, One Touch Repair, One Plus Service – to deal with product malfunctions and provide technical assistance. The company strives to Building Customer Trust in Marketing •  pgrade the New Product U •  evelop parts in connection D • E  stablish global standards to • L ifetime management regarding Development (NPD) Process with NPD comply with global quality quality issues (occurrenceprovide One Touch Repair on the day that service requests are made. and Sales Stages Strengthen quality •  •  un programs to nurture R • C  ontinue to improve improvement-completion) It therefore continues to make improvements in its technical capabiliResponsible Marketing Policies Doosan Infracore sets and complies pre-verification through suppliers with world-leading manufacturing quality through • Improve quality and service ties and service procedures while building a comprehensive customer with proactive and responsible customer service policies with an front loading competitiveness Doosan Production System quality recognized by customers support system that leaves no blind spot unaddressed and supplies aim of building customer trust and enhancing its product values. For Solve fundamental problems •  (DPS) • Curtail warranty costs parts in a timely manner. responsible marketing, it provides the latest product information via through the Design for Six its website and social media, along with unique brand guidelines to Sigma (DFSS) serve as the yardstick for marketing and communication activities, including advertising and sales promotions. The company complies with legislation related to sales, marketing, and information security, and Infrastructure and specialists was not subject to any sanctions for falsehood including exaggerated for quality management advertising practices in 2017. 68 69 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Customer Satisfaction and Product Stewardship · Integrated EHS System Strengthening Quality at the Parts Production Stage Integrated EHS System Company-wide Integrated Quality Conference Doosan Infracore has been holding the ‘Company-wide Integrated Quality Conference,’ particIn order to minimize the number of defects at the production stage, the ipated by the CEO, every month since 2010 with the purpose of attaining company has continued to improve parts quality through partnership the highest quality from the customers’ perspective. The conference with its suppliers. As a result of continuous efforts, the company has agenda reflects results of the VOC analysis and shares improvement achieved more than 40% improvement in both initial quality and points and responses. warranty quality, which are used as indices of the parts quality for construction equipment, in both Korea and China over the past three Quality Improvement Index Management Doosan Infracore places top years. In order to prevent fluctuations in quality, suppliers are required to OUR APPROACH CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2017 priority on making innovations in parts quality and improving product report any significant change that could affect their product quality, such perfection with a goal of manufacturing products that meet customer as personnel changes, reductions in purchasing prices, and process Reduce worksite energy use and needs. The company has selected initial quality and warranty quality as improvements. It also enhances its proactive quality management At Doosan Infracore, increase energy efficiency indices for customer recognition, and set an ambitious goal to increase endeavors through pre-inspection. In order to enhance the quality environmental values and safety Social concerns over energy consumption and GHG emissions and impacts customer satisfaction through quality management. consciousness of its suppliers, the company holds biweekly meetings with suppliers which have quality issues to urge them to implement culture are non-negotiable on business have been increasing. Worksite energy efficiency management requires businesses to make continuous investments in facility upgrades and Operation of the PTS The Project Tracking System (PTS) is Doosan quality-first management policies. In 2017, the company conducted principles to achieve energy conversion. Doosan Infracore therefore implements its CSR strategic Infracore’s system for managing quality projects. Using PTS, the company checks the progress status of the projects related to market quality inspection audits customized to suppliers’ quality levels and types of quality issues for supplier quality improvements. It checked sustainable growth. task of reducing worksite energy use and increasing energy efficiency, and focuses on improving energy efficiency at its worksites and coping with rapidly quality, process quality, and advance quality, responses to VOCs, and suppliers’ quality systems, processes, and products on a regular basis, changing energy markets in a stable manner. improvement effects to help the company make improvements to quality and urged them to place priority on preventing quality problems, while Environmental protection and safety are essential  Activities Upgraded the Energy Management System (EMS); built an energy meaand accelerate the pace of improvement. ensuring consistent quality management. In the event of changes in the prerequisites for a sustainable future. Stakeholders and Achievements surement equipment monitoring system; reduced energy losses during non-operating hours; made investments into energy reduction projects; and suppliers’ contractual status, design modifications, or process changes, therefore are raising their voices to call on businesses Considerable Improvement of Fundamental Quality the company will continue to make sure that no quality issues arise to behave more responsibly in terms of the environidentified items regarding energy reduction Improve the management level regarding energy consumption and intensity Plans Doosan Infracore focuses on quick, considerable improvements to through the diagnosis and inspection of quality risks beforehand. ment, health, and safety. Based on its company-wide management; reduce energy losses during non-operating hour; make fundamental quality to secure core competitiveness and increase investments into energy reduction projects; establish a plan to build an EMS integrated Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS) customer value. Aiming to improve the fundamental quality level by more With the Supplier Support Team performing central roles, Doosan for DICC and manage energy intensity than 20% compared to the current level, the company operates key tasks Infracore is operating various support measures and carrying out management system, Doosan Infracore is striving every year, strengthening compliance with basic quality rules with focus focused improvement activities to strengthen suppliers’ quality. These to use resources more efficiently and to minimize Establish a midto long-term roadmap on plants and suppliers. The company will strive to minimize problems include 3 P’s (Proper Items, Proper Quantity, Proper Place), 6 S’s (Safety, its environmental footprints by reducing pollutant on carbon trading that customers may encounter while using their equipment by improving Sort, Straighten, Shine, Standardize, Sustain), the Management Doctor discharge, while participating in response to climate Doosan Infracore has set a GHG reduction target by analyzing the GHG its quality through various preventive quality management endeavors. system, and the Benefit Sharing system. (For further details, please refer emissions status and sources of emissions in order to effectively respond to change by making continuous improvements to These activities include managing the company’s and suppliers’ quality to pages 80-84.) the second phase of emissions trading scheme slated to take effect from 2018 energy efficiency and managing greenhouse gas through 2020. Accordingly, the company identified reduction measures and fluctuation factors, strengthening the pre-shipment inspection process (GHG) emissions. The company also has been anticipated effects. Going forward, Doosan Infracore will build a sustainable through the re-examination of pre-shipment inspection times and items, establishing a safer work environment by raising foundation for operating emissions rights by conducting corporate-wide GHG and forming a precautionary quality team to strengthen proactive quality reduction campaigns and making investments into energy reduction projects. management for new products. The company will continue to enhance the safety awareness of all its employees and its prevention capabilities in order to improve the quality of parts, rigorously managing risk factors at all worksites. By Identified the potential GHG reduction amount; established a reduction Activities and Achievements roadmap; and established a decision-making process for emissions trading production, and final inspection to prevent possible quality problems implementing EHS management, Doosan Infracore before equipment is delivered to customers. is striving to minimize environment/safety risks that may arise in the business process and to create CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2018 positive influence. Establish an emissions reduction goal and an action plan Doosan Infracore aims to effectively respond to the second phase of emissions trading scheme slated to take effect from 2018 through 2020 by establishing a goal to reduce emissions and an action plan to achieve the goal, and thus secure a stable, sustainable foundation for responding to the emissions trading scheme. Establish an emissions reduction target for the second phase and assign Plans a target for each business group; operate a GHG reduction council at the Incheon Plant; identity items to make investments regarding GHG reduction and carry out other reduction activities; foster GHG/energy experts; and conduct GHG/energy reduction campaigns 70 71 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Integrated EHS System 01 Integrated EHS Management • Operation of the EHS System We establish, operate and EHS Management System Self-evaluation of Global EHS To further advance EHS management continue to develop a system designed to improve EHS impacts Doosan Infracore has been enhancing the level of its EHS management and strengthen EHS fundamentals, Doosan Infracore conducts Doosan of our products, activities, and services. by systematizing relevant organizations under the EHS Policy and EHS Rating System (DSRS)1) evaluations as well as evaluations on strategies, operating an EHS management system at global business compliance with EHS laws and regulations. Developed on the basis of • Compliance with EHS Regulations We adhere to national and sites, obtaining international certifications, and reviewing the global standards and in consideration of business characteristics, the international EHS regulations and agreements, establish strict status of implementation. In order to promote more systematic EHS DSRS is the basis to build an advanced EHS system and create an EHS EHS Management Strategy internal management standards, and faithfully implement management, the company established an EHS IT system, through culture shared by staff. Doosan Infracore performed a DSRS evaluation EHS Implementation Strategy To realize its vision of becoming a ‘Global them. which it managed EHS-related information in real time and carried on the Gunsan Plant in June 2017 and carried out improvement activities, Leading Green Company,’ Doosan Infracore has established five major out comprehensive analysis of various information, followed by reinand plans a DSRS evaluation on the Incheon Plant in 2018. EHS management implementation strategies and strives to achieve • Development of Eco-friendly Technology to Boost Customer forcement or improvement if needed. The company also has developed sustainable growth. Safety We develop eco-friendly technologies that place top corporate-wide EHS management evaluation indexes and applies them In the second half of 2017, the company evaluated its level of compliance priority on our customers’ health and safety, and then preserve to its business sites in Korea and China. For continued improvement with EHS laws and regulations at its business sites in Korea and China EHS Policy Having established its EHS Management Policy in 1995, resources and energy to actively contribute to sustainable and development of activity performance, Doosan Infracore manages in order to prepare for external assessments and inspections and Doosan Infracore implements integrated EHS management in its environmental conservation and fight against global warming. evaluation indexes through a performance analysis every year. By enhance field implementation capabilities. The evaluation was carried efforts to respect the dignity of all human beings, practice environreflecting the EHS management evaluation status in the performance out through field guidance to review proper use and management of mental conservation throughout all business activities, and help create • Realization of Zero Occupational Accident We create a pleasant indexes of top management and executives of relevant departments, dangerous machines, equipment, and chemicals, as well as the status of prosperous lives for humankind and enhance the future value of the and safe people-centered work environment, improve the Doosan Infracore is improving the implementation capabilities of the safety training progress. Evaluation results are linked to the management planet. The company’s EHS Management Policy was established to share health and quality of the lives of all our employees and supEHS management system and enhancing management standards. Based by objectives (MBOs) of relevant executives and the integrated reward key elements of its environmental management strategies both internally pliers, and aim for zero accident at work. on clear EHS standards and the systems linked to its value chain, such as system by duty type, which in turn has increased employee awareness and externally. Since its enactment in 2015, it has been amended on purchasing and production, the company seeks to enhance its required and thus leads to actual improvements. Doosan Infracore plans to nine occasions. The policy consists of five specific principles, including • Communication with Stakeholders We increase communicapabilities and increases its implementation capacity by connecting conduct evaluations on compliance with EHS laws and regulations at its operation of the environment and safety management system, through cation with our stakeholders and disclose EHS performance EHS management to the entire range of its business operations. business sites in Korea and China as well as in-house suppliers on two which it is promoting corporate-wide participation in environment and transparently in order to continue to grow as a trusted and occasions in 2018. safety management. respected company that fulfills its social responsibilities. EHS Organization With central roles performed by the EHS Team at the Incheon Plant, which is the company’s head office, the EHS units at overseas business sites work in unison for systematic and effective EHS management in response to the expansion of overseas worksites and a rise in global environmental issues. In 2017, the company ISO 14001 Certified Worksites 5 Strategic Tasks for EHS Management extended communications among staff regarding its EHS philosophy Korea ISO 14001 and standards and also strengthened EHS support and management (Incheon, Gunsan, Ansan) for its overseas business sites. In order to ensure all of its business China Global Leading sites adhere to the same level of high EHS standards, regardless of the (Yantai) Green Company country or region, the company established Global EHS Governance. The company’s plan for 2018 is to provide support to enhance EHS levels at overseas business sites based on Global EHS Governance, such as Safety and Health Management System Certified Worksites sharing EHS execution tasks and issues, holding EHS workshops, and visiting worksites. Korea OHSAS 18001 (Incheon, Gunsan, Ansan) Strengthen environmental Grow together Respond to Develop eco-friendly Expand communication Managing the EHS Management System Doosan Infracore has an China management system with suppliers climate change products with society (Yantai) EHS management system in place based on international standards, and examines the operation of the EHS management system and level KOSHA 18001 Develop and Achieve win-win growth Establish Develop products in Disclose environmental apply Leading EHS in EHS with suppliers and GHG management systems consideration of management information of compliance with relevant laws and regulations by conducting internal Korea Management Indexes in-house contractors the environment Strengthen social and external inspections every year. The global business sites of Doosan (Incheon, Gunsan) contribution activities Infracore continue to put efforts in minimizing environmental pollution and Build an EHS system at related to EHS overseas business sites damage that can arise from corporate activities by earning such internaStrengthen EHS tional standards as ISO 14001 Environmental Management Certification competencies and the Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS 18001/KOSHA 18001) Certification. They also focus on safety inspections on hazardous machines and equipment as well as the process safety management (PSM). In addition, they strive to remove industrial accident risk factors. In October 2017, Doosan Infracore took measures for a change in ISO 14001 certification specifications, and thus renewed to the ISO 1)  Doosan EHS Rating System (DSRS): The EHS evaluation system developed by Doosan Group to evaluate the EHS level of its worksites quantitatively and to encourage them to 14001:2015. It also carried out inspections for the OHSAS 18001/KOSHA make improvements; Doosan Group has made adjustments to the ISRS applied by global 18001 certification in Korea, and then made improvements. leading companies to suit its own circumstances 72 73 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Integrated EHS System 02 03 Energy Management and Responsible Responses to Climate Change GHG Emissions Management Doosan Infracore’s Incheon Plant Responses to Climate Change at Global Business Sites Business sites in China are monitoring energy use, including fossil fuels and steam, and Improving Resource Efficiency Responses to Climate Change became a subject to the Korean government’s GHG & Energy Target plan to build an energy and GHG inventory in response to the Chinese and Reducing Environmental Management System in 2010, after which all business sites of the company had fulfilled their legal obligations in relation to the Target government’s GHG emissions reduction plan. Impact Management System from 2011 through 2014. Since being subject to Response to Emissions Trading Due to global warming that is caused by an increase in GHG emissions, the emissions trading scheme in 2015, the company has been managing With the legal enforcement of the emissions trading scheme in 2015, all Doosan Infracore explores better ways of using limited resources more abnormal temperatures, frequent drought, typhoons, and floods, and GHG emissions at around 68% of the quota allocated by the government. business sites of Doosan Infracore in Korea were designated as being efficiently while striving to minimize the impact of its business activities other forms of climate change are influencing the ecosystem as well For GHG emissions management in Korea, energy consumption (use of subject to the scheme. The company was assigned a total of 486,095 tCO₂ on the environment and local communities in particular. To that end, the as all areas related to humankind, including industrial activities. To electricity, LNG, etc.) is measured by gauges at each plant and production (after the cancellation of quota, additional quota, and free quota company has adopted various ways of promoting the eco-friendly use preemptively respond to climate change risks and opportunities, Doosan line, and the results are converted and analyzed automatically in the GHG allocation per implementation year)1) as its emissions quota for the first of resources and conducts various activities that reduce the discharge Infracore forecasts GHG emissions based on its annual production plan monitoring system of the company’s integrated EHS IT system. Owing to phase – three years from 2015 to 2017. The company emitted GHGs within of pollutants. Doosan Infracore controls its emissions of pollutants and carries out diverse energy efficiency-increasing investments and the characteristics of its assembly processes, indirect emissions from the allocated quantities by continually managing GHGs, such as making more strictly than required by laws in all relevant areas. The company’s activities to achieve its emissions target. The company is also expanding purchased electricity account for about 72.6% of total GHG emissions of diverse energy use-reducing investments and carrying out energy use performance in using resources and managing emissions over the past the development and sales of highly energy-efficient, low-carbon the company, while process emissions as well as stationary combustion reduction activities. The Incheon Plant was designated for the second three years is found in the ‘CSR Facts & Figures’ section (pages 101-102) products, including electric excavators. and mobile combustion emissions account for the rest. In 2017, Doosan phase (2018-2020). To establish a foundation for operating the emissions of this report. Infracore emitted approximately 73.7% (97,955 tCO₂) of the quota trading scheme through preemptive emissions trading and to set a midImproving Energy Efficiency allocated (132,974 tCO₂) to the company by the government as a result to long-term direction on dealing with the emissions trading scheme, Improving Efficiency in the Use of Resources Reducing Worksite Energy Use and Increasing Energy Efficiency From of continued efforts to manage energy usage efficiency at worksites, Doosan Infracore has set ‘establishing a midto long-term roadmap on Water Reuse As extreme weather, such as drought and heavy rainfall, 2015 through 2017, Doosan Infracore has been implementing its CSR although its production has increased. carbon trading’ as one of its 2017 CSR strategic tasks, and identified the becomes more frequent, the importance of managing water resources strategic tasks of reducing worksite energy use and increasing energy potential GHG emissions reduction amount and established the roadmap has been increasing. For management of water pollutants, Doosan efficiency in Korea with the CSR Committee managing the status of for reduction as well as the decision-making process for trading. Infracore’s Incheon Plant has been operating a wastewater recycling Energy Consumption in 2017 (Korea, TJ) execution. The strategic tasks include identifying and implementing system since 2014, designed to recycle the effluent discharged from its energy consumption reduction tasks, building an energy intensity Doosan Infracore defined one of its CSR strategic tasks for 2018 as wastewater treatment facility and reuse it in production processes. In management system, and upgrading the energy monitoring system. In 2017, Doosan Infracore reduced KRW 1.28 billion in energy expenses 1,871 TJ ‘establishing a goal to reduce emissions and an action plan to achieve the goal’ to reduce GHG emissions and to build a more stable and 2017, the company identified additional places to use recycled effluent, including the casting plant’s sand treatment tower, and reused 77% of its by implementing energy consumption reduction measures, such sustainable foundation to deal with the emissions trading scheme. wastewater in production processes, a year-on-year rise of 5%, thereby as reducing energy losses during non-operating hours since 2016, The company plans to establish an emissions reduction target for the reducing water consumption and saving costs by KRW 135 million. By making investments into energy consumption reduction projects, second phase and assign a target for each business group; operate supplying recycled water to the casting plant’s sand treatment tower, the 1,463 such as separating compressed air pipes at the casting factory, and a GHG reduction council at the Incheon Plant; identity items to make company expects to reduce annual water consumption by 7,200 tons Electricity sharing information on the possible amount of reduction with relevant investments regarding GHG reduction and carry out other reduction and save costs by KRW 12 million a year. It also established a wastewater departments through base load analysis. By upgrading the Energy activities; foster GHG/energy experts; and conduct GHG/energy reduction reclamation and reuse system that enabled it to reuse 5,220 tons of water Management System (EMS), Doosan Infracore established an energy campaigns. Moreover, the company will set up measures to respond in 2017. In addition, the company built a rainwater-harvesting system and reporting foundation that enables monitoring of energy usage amount over the midto long-term by establishing a corporate-wide emissions reused 1,140 tons of rainwater for landscaping purposes and coolants. and costs, monthly energy usage trends by energy source, and energy 408 reduction target that reflects the nation’s GHG reduction roadmap, intensity performance in connection to production. The company also Fuel (LNG, diesel, etc.) and by providing support for GHG reduction activities to suppliers and built an energy measurement equipment monitoring system, and thus developing countries with insufficient capabilities to respond to climate Wastewater Reuse (Incheon Plant) change in order to get GHG emissions rights outside the company. 77% strengthened EMS data credibility. As a result of its efforts to reduce plant energy use and optimize efficiency, Doosan Infracore received confirmaGHG Emissions in 2017 (Korea, tCO2) tion from the Korea Energy Agency, in December 2017, on the installation of a ‘Factory Energy Management System (FEMS)’ on reducing plant energy use and optimizing performance. In 2018, Doosan Infracore will 97,955 tCO2 132,974 continue with activities that reduce energy losses during non-operating Production Wastewater Reuse Processes hours as well as energy consumption reduction investments in Korea, 97,955 and further advance energy usage status and intensity management to increase energy efficiency at worksites. 73.7% 135 1)  Cost savings The allocated emissions for the first phase was changed from the figure disclosed (KRW million) in the 2015 Integrated Report owing to the exclusion of the Changwon Plant and Suji Technical Institute since the sell-off of the Machine Tools BG, as well as the addition of the company’s early reduction performance and the adjustment made by the government Allocated Emitted 74 75 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Integrated EHS System 04 Reuse and Recycling of Waste To ensure the efficient use of limited The Incheon Plant conducted an external diagnosis on its processes that Enhancing Worksite Safety Respond to Process Safety Report Evaluation The Process Safety resources, Doosan Infracore pursues design optimization, thoroughly generate odors to preemptively respond to the metropolitan air quality Management System (PMS) has been in operation which requires checks its plant facilities, and maintains them in the optimal operational improvement policy and odor-related complaints that may arise due to Risk Management worksites that have large harmful, dangerous facilities that may cause a state, thereby conserving resources in its daily operations. In Korea, the development of nearby housing areas and a sharp rise in the residential major industrial accident to create a report on comprehensive, scientific company has been implementing its resource recycling policy, enabling population. Based on the outcome, it established an improvement prevention activities, such as process risk evaluations and establishment the company to reuse 93% of its waste in 2017. Doosan Infracore plans plan together with the respective local government, and continues to of a safe operation and emergency measure plan. This report is submitted to further increase its recycling rate by sorting waste by type and diversiincrease facility investments to improve processes that generate odors Worksite Safety Management to the government, after which the government examines and reviews the fying its recycling methods, as well as by identifying additional recycling and to apply eco-friendly processes. In 2017, the Incheon Plant carried with a Focus on Prevention report and has the respective worksite implement preventive activities methods and making improvements to its existing waste disposal out monitoring along the worksite border and nearby areas for more Worksite Hazard Management Doosan Infracore identified a total 3,486 to result in the prevention of major industrial accidents. Aiming to earn a methods. systematic odor management. risk factors in 2017 by continually implementing a discussion-based risk better grade in the regular inspection on the process safety report, Doosan factor identification process involving the participation of employees, Infracore revised the process safety report of its Incheon and Gunsan Management of Environmental Pollutants Management of Soil Contamination In 2010, Doosan Infracore and is making improvements. In 2018, the company will check unsafe plants and carried out an internal audit on the Incheon Plant’s PSM in Water Quality Management All wastewater generated from production conducted a voluntary soil contamination survey of the areas where conducts and status improvement results, while carrying out field-cen2017. Based on the results of the internal audit, the company identified processes go through a physical, chemical, and biological treatment facilities that cause soil contamination were operating in the Incheon tered self-management activities for risk factors. improvement measures, such as increasing supplier safety training, process at the wastewater treatment facility and is purified before final Plant, and completed soil remediation in those areas over the following expanding the scope of Job Safety Analysis (JSA), and revising safe work discharge. By automating the entire wastewater treatment process, three years. In 2013, it carried out soil contamination surveys of the areas Acquisition of Safety Zone Certification The certification of all the permissions, and continues to inspect the implementation status. Doosan Infracore manages pollutants at levels below 40% of the legal surrounding all its worksites. The company has undertaken additional company’s domestic worksites was completed with the Incheon and requirement. The company operates nonpoint pollution source reduction voluntary soil remediation work since 2014, which will be completed by Gunsan Plants’ acquisition of the Safety Zone Certification in December Expansion of Safety Management Culture facilities to remove the environmental risk of polluting nearby ocean August 2018. 2014 and November 2015, respectively. Awarded by Safety Zone-CERTI® Building a Culture of Safety The company continues to promote waters with rainwater that may have deposited at plant sites and carry and supervised by the National Fire Agency, the Safety Zone Certification compliance with the EHS 3-3-3 Basic Rules and engage in safety culture pollutants. The facilities ensure that clean rain water is discharged after Strengthening Environmental Disaster is the country’s only voluntary corporate safety evaluation system and activities, including improvements in the field of safety, to achieve zero going through a vortex device and a fiber-type filter. Also, additional Response System entails a comprehensive evaluation of building design, construction, accident. Each month, the heads of business groups provide safety water gates were set up on general drains, thereby building a system Doosan Infracore has established an emergency response system for and maintenance. In 2017, Doosan Infracore received a detailed evalreports to their employees. The company has designated April as Health that blocks the spread of pollution at its source even in the event of an environmental spills, including a pollutant leakage block system at the uation on six safety areas, including the safety management system, and Safety Month during which it strives to improve safety and raise unexpected dangerous substance leakage accident. More than 70% of Incheon Plant and spill monitoring system, in order to minimize the firefighting, building/fire proof, dangerous goods, machine/electricity/ safety awareness through education sessions, promotional campaigns, the wastewater generated at the Incheon Plant goes through in-house possibility and impact of environmental accidents. In 2017, it increased gas, and evacuation/natural disaster, from experts in the field of disaster and inspections. Visitors to its worksites are required to watch a video on treatment and is reused in the processes, resulting in minimized outside the number of floodgates from four to six to minimize pollutant leakage and safety. The company actively made improvements for matters that safety precautions first to raise their safety awareness. discharge of pollutants. Wastewater of the Gunsan Plant is purified at through rainwater, established a sensor to detect pollutants and an were pointed out, and obtained the Safety Zone Certification for the a legitimate wastewater treatment facility which then flows into each automatic water gate shutdown system, and replaced old wastewater second consecutive time in December 2017 following 2014. Doosan respective local government’s sewage treatment plant for retreatment. piping, thus building a spill accident response infrastructure. As a Infracore believes that investments in safety and firefighting are not Doosan Infracore also set an internal standard on discharging water result, there were no major environmental accidents in 2017. The expenses but are a must to protect staff members. Based on the Safety pollutants at around 40% of the legal requirement, as part of strenuous company’s plan for 2018 is to focus on preventing accidents by building Zone Certification, it will further spread recognition of the importance of efforts to comply with environmental laws and regulations. a preventive environmental facility maintenance process, including fire and disaster prevention, and systematically and efficiently manage establishment of a preventive environmental facility maintenance cycle safety facilities. Management of Air Pollutants and Odors Air pollutants, such as and implementation of relevant management, in addition to upgrades NOx, SOx, dust, and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), are generated to environmental utility sign management. Doosan Infracore will also from the company’s production processes, from electric furnaces and strengthen environmental accident monitoring, create environmental Acquisition of the Safety Zone Certifications the painting process. To minimize damage to local communities and accident identification and response scenarios by process, and provide 2 reduce environmental hazards, Doosan Infracore sets up various dust training on emergency incident response scenarios to further increase collectors, new painting facilities and concentration catalytic oxidation its ability to respond to emergency situations related to environmental facilities, etc. at each worksite unit, leading to reduced discharge of accidents. consecutive times (2014, 2017) air pollutants. Doosan Infracore conducts strict measurements, more than the self pollutant measurement cycle that is legally required, and Reducing Environmental Impact monitors pollutants. The company set a standard so that pollutants are on Local Communities emitted at less than 40% of the legal requirement. Doosan Infracore has intensified its efforts to minimize environmental Major evaluation categories impacts of its worksite operations on local communities, and thus making continued improvements to create a clean living environment. In 2015, the company set up a digital signboard to display information on air pollutants in the Incheon area in cooperation with three other companies based in the area. The company fulfills its obligations as a Safety management Machine/ Evacuation/ Firefighting Building/Fire proof Dangerous goods corporate citizen by engaging in precautionary management of factors system Electricity/Gas Natural disaster that may cause resident complaints, such as foul odors, as well as making continuous investments in local communities, including the Six categories Hwasu wharf improvement project near the Incheon Plant. 76 77 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Integrated EHS System 04 Support for Suppliers’ Safety Management Capabilities Doosan Social Contribution Activities for Safety Culture In 2016, Doosan Enhancing Employee Infracore has been implementing ‘Symbiotic Cooperation Programs’ Infracore signed a memorandum of understanding on ‘Social since 2012 to help its suppliers boost their safety management Contribution Activities for Safety Culture’ with the Korean Ministry Health Management capabilities, in accordance with one of its EHS principles – ‘We aim of Public Safety and Security and promoted safety culture in local to create a pleasant and safe people-oriented working environment, communities, including its suppliers, by leveraging its expertise. The improve the health and quality of life of all employees, including Social Contribution Activities for Safety Culture constitute a new CSR those of our suppliers, prevent losses, and thus ultimately realize a activity model under which the Korean government and the public and Improving Employee Health Management Developing an IT System for Health Checkup History Management zero-accident workplace.’ Launched by the Ministry of Employment private sectors join forces to utilize corporate expertise in their efforts Occupational Disease Prevention Doosan Infracore holds a monthly Doosan Infracore began to develop an IT system to manage health and Labor in 2011, the Symbiotic Cooperation Program is designed to establish a strong safety culture in local communities. In 2017, the meeting of the Musculoskeletal Disorder Improvement Working checkup history in February 2018. The company seeks to enable to urge conglomerates to improve their suppliers’ health and safety company focused its efforts on conducting health and safety activities Council, which is composed of labor union officials, worksite corporate-wide health checkup and training schedule management capabilities and to prevent industrial accidents through continuous for its adjacent areas, preventing children’s safety and health managers, and employees in charge of EHS and production, to discuss so as to ensure all staff members receive checkups and trainings, cooperation. In March 2017, Doosan Infracore held a ceremony to accidents, providing technical EHS support for suppliers that have physical load risks and identify ways of making improvements. The reduce productivity losses that are caused by a delay in placement launch a team for the ‘2017 Safety and Health Symbiotic Cooperation joined the Symbiotic Cooperation Program, and offering education company also arranges for medical professionals to visit its worksites of production technical staff, prevent legal risks from missing special Program’ participated by 22 suppliers. This was followed by on safety activities for external suppliers. Doosan Infracore actively regularly as part of its efforts to improve employees’ health and boost checkup data, and manage the history of the health checkup results diverse support activities, including safety and health training, risk engaged in safety culture activities by leveraging its specialized, their morale. To respond to an increase in the number of employees of each individual employee to ensure voluntary health promotion. assessments, and field safety skills. Thanks to these efforts, Doosan internal EHS capabilities, leading to the company’s receipt of a plaque subject to hearing management, including noise-induced deafness, Infracore received ‘Grade A,’ which is the highest grade that is given of appreciation at the ‘Performance Report on Social Contribution Doosan Infracore plans to establish and implement measures that Programs to Manage Job Stress Doosan Infracore conducts surveys to the nation’s top 10%, in the ‘2017 Safety and Health Symbiotic Activities for Safety Culture’ in December. prevent and manage noise induced deafness in 2018, including on job stress and implements specialized occupational stress Cooperation Program’ evaluation in January 2018 for the fifth time training on how to wear protective gear and activities to improve management programs for the benefit of employees’ mental health, since the company first earned the Grade A in 2012. Accident Rate Management manufacturing processes with high noise levels. particularly for high-risk groups of employees. In Korea, the company The method used to calculate the accident rate for industrial has been operating ‘DooHug,’ an in-house psychological counseling Safety Management for Outsourced Projects In recent years, accidents does not reflect the minor accident occurrence status. To Health Management Programs To help its employees manage their center, since 2014 as part of a job stress prevention management conglomerates have suffered from an increasing number of accidents address this shortcoming, Doosan Infracore plans to begin managing health, Doosan Infracore designated its Korean worksites as smoke-free program. In China, the company operates the Employees Assistance caused by their suppliers at their worksites, and social demands LTIR1), TRIR2), and LWSR3) indexes in 2018. These allow the company zones in January 2015. It also runs various health promotion programs, Program (EAP), which includes sand treatment and psychological for an expanded scope of safety management responsibilities of to identify minor accidents that resulted in lost time as well as those including the installation of automated external defibrillators (AED) counseling. Doosan Infracore plans to further expand its job stress conglomerates have increased along with stricter sanctions on their who received treatment among staff members and in-house suppliers. and the preparation of a low sodium diet in its canteens. Whenever a prevention programs in Korea in 2018 by conducting a corporatefailures. Doosan Infracore is further strengthening safety management By doing so, the company aims to prevent minor accidents from healthcare issue such as the spread of an infectious disease arises, the wide staff survey, operating a healing program and psychological to prevent supplier safety accidents during outsourced projects at repeating and becoming a major accident, and to further strengthen company operates the Emergency Situation Room and promptly offers examination center, and providing field manager training on its worksites. The company enhanced on-site patrol operations to supplier safety management. Accident rate indexes are managed the relevant information on preventive measures to its employees. The preventing stress disorders after an external injury. check onsite safety status once a day and have the results reported as a major key performance indicator (KPI) of respective executives, company pays for mandatory vaccinations for six diseases – yellow to management. It also implemented the Safety Walk every month, based on which Doosan Infracore plans to further promote a safety fever, cholera, malaria, typhoid, hepatitis A, and tetanus – designated Certified as Excellent Worksite in in which executives, production managers, and EHS officers carry management culture. internally for employees who go on business trips to countries with Employee Health Promotion out a safety patrol, identify potential safety risks, and come up with limited healthcare. The Incheon Plant was re-certified by the Korean Ministry of improvements. In 2018, Doosan Infracore plans to further enhance Employment and Labor and the Korea Occupational Safety and Health autonomous safety management capabilities by improving risk Agency in September 2016 for its excellence in promoting employees’ Accident Rate in 2017 (Korea) assessment skills and adopting a pre-approval system for tools with health, following its initial certification in August 2013. The Gunsan 0.52% an aim to achieve zero major accidents involving outsourced construcPlant was certified in November 2015, thus all of the company’s tion companies. domestic business sites have obtained certification in that area. Designated worksites are awarded the benefit of being exempted from supervision by the Ministry of Employment and Labor for the next three years. The company will continue employee health promotions as part of its efforts to create a better workplace. 1)  Lost Time Incidents Rate (LTIR) = (Total LTI*/Total work hours) X 200,000 (*LTI: No. of deaths and no. of incidents that cause a close down for a day or more) 2)  Total Recordable Incidents Rate (TRIR): No. of cases of treatment per 100 workers, No. of those treated/Total work hours*20,000 3)  Lost Workday Severity Rate (LWSR): No. of lost days per 100 workers, Total lost days/Total work hours*20,000 78 79 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Shared Growth with Our Suppliers Shared Growth with 01 Strengthening Suppliers’ Strengthening the CSR Competencies of Suppliers Our Suppliers Competitiveness LS Development Stages Doosan Infracore helps its suppliers to implement key CSR elements, including ethical management, fair trade, human rights, and environYear One Intensive guidance and cultivation for overall mental protection. The company will continue to share its core values improvements in the entire DSEP module with them so that they will carry out their own CSR activities. Doosan Infracore focuses on raising its overall competitiveness in STAGE 1 Diagnosis Strengthening CSR Management System of the Supply Chain In the areas of purchase and production by helping its suppliers boost 2015, Doosan Infracore published CSR guidelines for its suppliers OUR APPROACH Identify capabilities that need to be improved their competitiveness. To that end, the company runs a variety of by diagnosing factory operations, quality and distributed them in the form of a newsletter and a booklet. The support programs, including technological development, product assurance, and manufacturing technologies guidelines contain key rules with which all of its suppliers must comply, We seek ways to grow together improvements, and financial assistance. In addition, based on the including 27 rules organized under 10 categories, such as labor, human with our suppliers to realize Doosan Supplier Excellence Program (DSEP), a system to foster STAGE 2 Planning rights, health and safety, the environment, ethics, and fair trade. suppliers, it carries out the ‘Leading Supplier’ project in order to The contents of the CSR guidelines are reflected in the company’s the value of win-win management. help its major suppliers. In addition, Doosan Infracore has actively Draw up of plans by Doosan Infracore’s experts and supplier staff to address the purchasing policy to ensure that it applies a consistent philosophy to promoted the multi-party benefit sharing system, which is designed to identified capabilities diagnose, evaluate, and purchase while inducing its suppliers to engage Doosan Infracore considers win-win growth with expand its supplier development programs to second-tier suppliers, in practical CSR efforts. suppliers a primary source of its competitiveness. achieve common goals that include cost reductions through mutual STAGE 3 Development The company shares its technology, quality, and cooperation, and share the outcomes. Carry out improvement activities according Reflecting CSR Elements into Supplier Evaluation Doosan Infracore to the DSEP for one year and offer supplier management systems with its suppliers to strengthen reflects CSR elements, such as employee training, labor-management staff training each supplier’s competency and build a virtuous circle Fostering Leading Suppliers relations, environmental management, and regulatory compliance into of partnerships. In order to contribute to expanding Doosan Infracore defines its major suppliers as those that have more its evaluation of candidate suppliers at all of the company’s business STAGE 4 Sharing than a 30% dependence on the company in terms of sales or achieve sites in Korea and China. In the area of EHS in particular, the company corporate social responsibilities, Doosan Infracore Share improvements at the supplier annual sales of more than a certain amount. It makes continuous efforts conference held every October evaluates potential suppliers’ performance in both their systematic runs various evaluation and support programs to help to help such suppliers grow into ‘Leading Suppliers’ that are equipped preparations for and actual implementation of EHS in a variety of areas, its suppliers improve their CSR capabilities. with capabilities to supply quality products at competitive prices on time such as leadership, compliance with the laws, establishment of the by making innovative improvements in the areas of factory operations, relevant systems, and improvements to risk management. The company quality assurance and manufacturing technologies, and competenalso has conducted on-site EHS inspections of new suppliers prior to CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2018 Year Two Post-management through DSEP maturity cies worth being benchmarked by other suppliers. In other words, the evaluations and continuous management their registration since 2015. In China, it established the ‘Supplier EHS Identify suppliers’ CSR risks and monitor company helps suppliers not only solve their problems but also make Evaluation Criteria’ in 2016, and it has since distributed them to its local the implementation of improvement innovations to build capabilities and secure fundamental competiYear Three DSEP re-evaluation to enhance self-reliance suppliers and helped them conduct rigorous self-analysis ever since. and re-launch of the LS program for necessary measures tiveness through oneto three-year support programs. In particular, suppliers In 2017, it visited the suppliers and provided them with on-site EHS The occurrence of CSR issues, such as human rights, the the company carries out evaluations and takes additional supportive guidance and support. environment, and safety of suppliers, has been on the measures every year, thereby preventing the designated Leading rise. The supply chain CSR management has also been Suppliers from suffering deterioration in quality and delivery capabilities Supporting Suppliers’ Response to Climate Change Doosan Infracore gaining importance around the world. Doosan Infracore due to a shortage in post-management efforts from the company. At the established carbon partnership with 21 suppliers that were relatively has therefore set ‘strengthening CSR management system same time, Doosan Infracore also encourages them to internationalize Promoting Participation in the Benefit Sharing weak in responding to climate change from 2015 to 2016. Together with of supply chain’ as one of its strategic CSR tasks in 2016. their fundamental competitiveness. System them, the company formed the ‘Project for the Creation of a Foundation In 2018, the company will place priority on ‘identifying The benefit sharing system is an agreement made between conglomfor Energy Resource Circulation,’ a national task by the Korean Ministry suppliers’ CSR risks and monitoring of the implementation With the goal of fostering 50 Leading Suppliers by 2022, Doosan Infracore erates and smalland medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to improve of Trade, Industry and Energy. The company helped them build a of improvement measures,’ define suppliers with high CSR selected and supported a total of 22 suppliers between 2014 and suppliers’ capabilities to deliver high quality goods on time and share carbon management system by conducting energy diagnosis, providing risks, and establish necessary management processes. 2017. As a result of these efforts, it has made improvements to quality the benefits with one another. It is an iconic model for the creation of improvement measures, establishing a workplace GHG management Define suppliers with high CSR risks and set Plans and delivery with some suppliers achieving tangible results, such as a healthy corporate ecology. The multi-party benefit sharing system system, developing GHG emission reduction technologies, and standards; and establish relevant processes to increased sales through the development of new products and opportuhas advanced one step beyond the ordinary benefit sharing system evaluating potential reduction quantities. The project, which lays the manage suppliers with high CSR risks nities to export overseas. In 2018, the company will select five suppliers to include second-tier suppliers. Doosan Infracore collects firstand foundations for carbon reduction as a response to climate change, is and help them grow into Leading Suppliers. second-tier suppliers’ suggestions regarding quality improvements designed to boost suppliers’ carbon management competencies and or design changes through its benefit sharing system. The company help them improve their fundamental competitiveness through energy reflects suggestions into its products, and it shares the benefits evenly savings. In 2017, as follow-up education pertaining to the supplier with suppliers, thus creating win-win partnerships with its suppliers. carbon partnership project that ended in 2016, the company carried out Doosan Infracore now plans to improve its suppliers’ fundamental education on climate change for 27 suppliers’ officers in charge. Doosan competitiveness through an expanded benefit-sharing system to include Infracore will strive to build a collaborative carbon management system not only primary suppliers but also their second-tier suppliers in order to with all of its suppliers through continuous education on climate change stabilize fair trade in subcontracting transactions within the industry. and the sharing of outstanding cases on energy savings. 80 81 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Shared Growth with Our Suppliers 02 03 Diverse Supplier Support Financial Support Establishing a Culture of that have adopted CP but also to primary and second-tier suppliers that In Korea, Doosan Infracore helps its suppliers enhance their financial have signed a CP agreement. In 2017, the company did not violate any law Programs soundness by providing them with four types of financial support – direct Shared Growth related to fair trade or subcontract transactions. In 2018, Doosan Infracore support, indirect support, mixed support, and special support. will publish CP guidelines and action manuals, carry out education on subcontracting and unfair trade practices, promote efforts to voluntarily Financial Support for Suppliers in 2017 (Korea) reduce the risks of violating the Subcontracting Act through improveCompetitiveness Enhancement Programs Building Win-Win Partnerships ments in the fair trade monitoring system, and thus further internalize CP Supporting the Enhancement of Suppliers’ Competitiveness An Programs Support Amount Doosan Infracore strives to build a virtuous cycle of partnerships for in its corporate culture. exclusive team composed of more than 50 in-house experts and technical Facility Investment Provided suppliers with KRW shared growth with its suppliers. Such efforts are led by the Supplier interest-free facility engineers of Doosan Infracore visits suppliers and helps them innovate. Fund investment funds 2.28 billion Development Team and the Shared Growth Team, which focus on Motivating Shared Growth Doosan Infracore reflects the shared In 2017, 260 experts helped suppliers with their innovation efforts for Direct improving suppliers’ jobs and technical competencies while enhancing growth performance of the relevant executives in the evaluation of Support Provided financial more than five consecutive days1), providing key technical support for Financial Support support for shaping KRW their financial soundness and actively communicating with them through their management by objectives (MBO). In 2017, the company reflected welding, materials manufacturing and non-destructive inspection. They for Shaping Fixtures fixtures to enhance 12.8 billion the Integrated Cooperation Council. the findings of the benefit-sharing system in the MBO of executives in product competitiveness also provided support for innovation in the fields of 3 P’s 6 S’s2), Lean3), charge of purchasing in order to promote the benefit-sharing system. DTC4), Single PPM5), quality guidance and problem solving, localization Recommended loans Shared Growth System Furthermore, to encourage suppliers to participate in shared growth Indirect Family Corporate for suppliers via KRW 30 billion and product development. activities, it reflects their involvement in shared growth and relevant Support Loans arrangements with (promised) financial institutions performance in the comprehensive supplier evaluation. Management Doctor System Doosan Infracore is an active participant Vision Shared Growth in Global Enterprises KRW 103 billion in the Management Doctor System, which is currently being promoted Helped suppliers receive (raised) Strengthening Communication with Suppliers Mixed Shared Growth loans to fund operations by the SME Support Center of the Federation of Korean Industries (FKI). Support Special Fund with low interest rate KRW Competitiveness enhancement programs To enhance communication with its suppliers, Doosan Infracore is based on deposits 45.26 billion Suppliers recommended by businesses are selected through a review running a ‘Supplier Hotline’ and holding pledge ceremonies, meetings, (loaned) Profit sharing/ financial support process, whereupon experts from three parties – large corporations, Shared Growth and more. The CEO visits the company’s secondand lower-tier suppliers Industrial Innovation Programs suppliers, and the FKI’s own management consulting team – help them Support for joint advance into overseas markets twice a year to listen to their concerns and find solutions to their Campaign 4.0, Special Made contributions to KRW improve management environments and solve problems. Contribution (the 450 million Enhancement of communication problems. In China, senior executives hold meetings with suppliers twice Special shared growth programs Win-Win Foundation) for secondand third-tier a year, communicate the purposes of shared growth, and encourage their Support Competency Building Training for Suppliers’ Staff Doosan Infracore suppliers Shared Build a virtuous cycle partnership enabling commitment to realizing shared growth. Contribution to KRW Win-Win Supporters 100 million Growth Policy shared growth with suppliers conducts annual surveys to determine what kinds of trainings are required by its suppliers, and thus provides customized ‘Supplier Launch of the Integrated Cooperation Council For active and effective Competitiveness Enhancement Support Center Academy’ trainings to help them secure greater competitiveness. In Organization communication with suppliers, Doosan Infracore launched the Integrated (composed of in-house experts in shared growth, 2017, 120 employees from 37 suppliers benefited from the Supplier Support for the Creation of Sound Corporate in Charge purchase, quality and R&D) Cooperation Council in 2015. The Council meets twice a year to share the Academy in seven areas, including quality control and advanced tools, Ecosystem company’s business plans, quality policies, and the latest global trends, methods of reducing manufacturing costs, and productivity improvement Beginning in 2017, Doosan Infracore has been running a supplier support including environmental restrictions, and to align the strategies of the techniques. In 2018, the company plans to provide the Supplier Academy program that helps reduce the wage gap and increase welfare benefits for Establishment of Fair Trade Practices Doosan Infracore adopted the company with its suppliers and boost mutual exchanges. to 35 suppliers that need to enhance their competitiveness. In 2017, it the employees of its secondand third-tier suppliers6), in-house subconCompliance Program (CP) in 2002 to carry out its business activities in also carried out 11 different educational programs, including Supplier tractors7) and service providers. For the employees of those companies, a transparent manner and foster fair competition. The company acts On-site Supplier Survey Doosan Infracore launched the ‘On-Site Academy, participated by 124 employees from suppliers. Doosan its provides them with KRW 1.2 million per year (KRW 100,000 a month) according to the code of conduct that meets global standards. To build Supplier Survey’ in 2016 with a goal of identifying suppliers’ needs Infracore will establish curriculum tailored to the level of trainees and to reduce their wage gap in the form of Win-Win Encouragement Funds a culture of fair trade and horizontal transactions, it discloses such through feedback and promoting two-way communication. In 2017, the gradually increase the number of trainees as part of its efforts to help its while offering high school tuition fees to their children and allowing materials on its website as the CEO’s declaration of self-compliance, the company visited 26 suppliers, listened to their opinions on their overall suppliers enhance their fundamental competitiveness. them to use the company’s daycare center free of charge in an effort to four major goals (responsible contracts for win-win cooperation between management and product delivery status, and developed solutions enhance their welfare benefits. a conglomerate and SMEs, fair selection and management of suppliers, to their key pending issues. In 2018, it will share the solutions with its Seminars for Suppliers Starting in 2017, Doosan Infracore has been establishment and operation of the Internal Review Council, and suppliers and continue with on-site supplier surveys. holding the ‘Seminar for People in Charge’ for its suppliers twice a year desirable paperwork and its retention in subcontracting transactions), to introduce its win-win growth programs, motivate suppliers to actively Grievance Handling Channel for Suppliers In order to strengthen 1)  Criteria of the Korea Fair Trade Commission: 5 days = 1 person (1 day = 8 hours, based on and the declaration of fair transactions. the time and attendance criteria) participate in and take advantage of the programs and help them build 2)  communication with suppliers, Doosan Infracore has established a 3 P’s 6 S’s: 3 P’s (Proper Items, Proper Quantity, Proper Place), 6 S’s (Safety, Sort, competency. Straighten, Shine, Standardize, Sustain) Doosan Infracore uses the standard subcontract for the machinery ‘Supplier Hotline’ on its company website in the Shared Growth section, 3)  Lean: Activities designed to minimize inventories and innovate work processes, thus industry published by the Korea Fair Trade Commission, and all matters through which people may express their overall opinions or grievances reducing costs and enhancing productivity related to the selection of suppliers and contract execution are managed about the company’s trade practices and shared growth activities or 4)  DTC: Design to Cost Innovation through the ERP system. The company holds Internal Review Council request shared growth programs. Apart from the hotline, it also offers 5)  Single PPM (Parts Per Million): A quality innovation campaign designed to achieve the quality management goal of reducing the ratio of faulty products to under 10:1,000,000 meetings more than three times each month to review contract execution telephone, fax, or mail services for these purposes, and its supplies are products with suppliers and the pricing decision processes. It also connects duly notified. All communication made through the Supplier Hotline is 6)  Secondand third-tier suppliers: Suppliers that depend more than 35% in terms of sales the CP operating system to the Internal Review Council to block unfair kept strictly confidential. For those wishing to preserve their anonymity, on Doosan Infracore’s primary suppliers that count on the company by more than 35% in terms of sales subcontract transactions. The Council re-evaluates the justification for the hotline can be used anonymously. Doosan Infracore makes sure that 7)  In-house subcontractors: Employees of in-house subcontractors (except for big businesses executed subcontracts on a quarterly basis. In order to promote a culture no one faces retaliation for submitting information to the hotline, and or foreign enterprises) of fair trade, the company grants incentives not only to primary suppliers critical information is reported to the CEO and relevant executives. 82 83 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Employee Value Proposition Employee Value 01 Human Rights and Diversity Proposition education to all employees on gender equality (including prevention of sexual harassment), prepare for and respond promptly to cases of sexual harassment and verbal or physical violence at work. The company identifies employees’ grievances through diverse channels, such as the Human Rights Protection Center, the Internal Reporting Center, and the Cyber Reporting Center on the company website, which protect the Respect for Human Rights interests of reporters and victims of human rights violations. It takes As a participant in the UN Global Compact, Doosan Infracore supports immediate actions on grievances according to its established procedures. OUR APPROACH CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2017 the ‘UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles about Human Rights, Labor For the overseas business sites, Doosan Infracore operates NAVEX, a Strengthen monitoring of human rights violation and the Environment’ and complies with the International Bill of Human special hotline dedicated to dealing with various grievances that include We nurture leaders with Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at human rights issues. Training is conducted to boost the anonymity of expertise and pioneering spirits Human rights have become increasingly important both inside and outside workplaces across the globe. In 2015, Doosan Infracore enhanced the Work. Moreover, the company respects the human rights of its comprewhistleblowers and the independence of the hotline. The company hensive stakeholders, including its own employees and suppliers. It does guarantees protection of the identities of reporters who file grievances. to drive growth into a global post-management aspect through the publication of a manual on the managenot tolerate any type of verbal abuse, violence, sexual harassment, or It also protects the confidentiality of the content of their reports, which leading company. ment of human rights risks and the improvement of its reporting channels on human rights violations. Since 2016, the company has shifted its focus to the other improper acts that violate the spirit of ‘Inhwa,’ meaning harmony are handled in accordance with the relevant company regulations and between people, in interactions within the company and with suppliers. procedures. As a result, Doosan Infracore has handled all major grievance prevention of human right violations through human rights education for all of its employees. The company will continue to properly manage human rights Doosan Infracore runs reporting channels, such as the Human Rights reports filed in Korea in 2017. Based on a corporate culture where employees are Protection Center (Help Line) and the Internal Reporting Center. In the risks in advance, foster a core culture of respect and civility, and create a sound considerate of others and diversity is respected, corporate culture. event of a violation, the Personnel Committee will take immediate action Respect for Diversity Doosan Infracore helps its employees achieve according to the relevant regulations while ensuring that the same Protection of Employee Diversity As of December 31, 2017, there Conducted human rights education for all employees; implemented FGI Activities personal growth at their own pace according to the and Achievements to monitor improvements in human rights awareness; and operated the violation is never repeated through education. were 4,027 employees across the world at Doosan Infracore, including Functional Competency (FC) system while applying Women’s Council 2,602 in Korea (excluding those working for Doosan Bobcat after its Enhancing the Management of Human Rights Risks As a global enterpublic listing). Given the characteristics of the machine manufacturing reasonable standards and principles and providing prise, Doosan Infracore has run a human rights management system since industry, it is not easy to recruit female employees. The company however fair opportunities. Through this, the company has CSR STRATEGIC TASK FOR 2018 2015 to fulfill its obligations regarding human rights and to create a sound strives to eliminate bias by having its female engineers take part in the been building a mutually beneficial cycle in which corporate culture. The company has gathered information on human rights interviews of female applicants. To foster the personal growth of female people grow, and the growth of people in turn leads Build a management system and strengthen monitoring status through reporting channels and focus group interviews (FGIs), staff, the company does not discriminate against its female staff in their to the growth of business. Based on the Doosan Core to enhance the human rights mindset established response processes against human rights violations, and job assignments, nor does it place any restrictions on their assignments. Values, the company has been enhancing its organiIn 2018, the company will ‘build a management system and strengthen published and distributed a human rights prevention manual. Moreover, The number of female employees is on the rise, and it is expected that zational culture and win-win labor-management monitoring to enhance the human rights mindset’ in an effort to build a human to further raise its employees’ awareness of the importance of human the percentage of female managers will also steadily increase. rights management system focused on the prevention aspect. It will take a step rights, the company has continued to conduct human rights education relations with the aim of standing proud. forward from the existing post-management enhancement efforts combined while launching relevant campaigns. In 2017, it developed human rights Providing Fair Opportunities As specified in Doosan Core Values and with education on human rights and diagnoses the organization’s human rights education content that reflected characteristics and on-site cases of the company’s Code of Conduct, people at Doosan are respected for their awareness level, develop its own due diligence tool to prevent human rights technical positions. It also provided offline education for field leaders, individual characteristics. Their employment, evaluation and compenviolations from occurring, and take necessary preventive activities in advance. promoted technical staff and regular employees, and offered online sation are not discriminated against the grounds of gender, religion, Continue to conduct human rights education for all employees; develop Plans education for office workers. In 2018, it will take a step further from the disability, age, social status, country of origin, nationality, ethnic backthe company’s own tool to diagnose our human rights awareness level and existing focus on post-management and enhance its preventive measures grounds, race, skin color, physical conditions, marital status, pregnancy, control potential risks; conduct self-diagnosis for leaders; distribute human rights prevention manual to all employees; conduct human rights education through fact-finding surveys on human rights awareness, preemptive childbearing, family type or status, ideology, political opinions, sexual for employees; and operate the Women’s Council actions on organizations with higher risks of human rights violations, and orientation, educational backgrounds, or military service. Doosan people continuous education on human rights for all employees. are also not treated unfairly depending on their personal relationships with the company’s officials based on their academic or geographical backgrounds. Types and Details of Human Rights Violations Type Details Women’s Council In 2017, Doosan Infracore expanded the Women’s Gender; Age, position, employment type; Council, previously operated by the Division of Technology, to company Discrimination Country of origin, race; Marriage, childbearing level to listen to the voices of employees (VOEs) and share gender Verbal and physical Verbal abuse, violence; Sexual harassment; equality issues from its female employees’ perspectives. The company abuse Alienation, bullying; Invasion of privacy will continue to improve the operations of the Women’s Council and * The above types of human rights violations are based on our company's code of conduct develop it into an organization devoted to gender equality in organiand guidelines on the creation of a sound organizational culture. zational culture and identification of human rights risk in advance. Doosan Infracore will pay keen attention to the feedback of its minority Grievance Channels and Handling Processes Since 2011, Doosan employees such as female employees, on their personal growth Infracore has operated the Help Line at the Human Rights Protection opportunities and overall corporate systems to achieve gender equality Center (previously called the Gender Equality Center). It provided and respect for human rights across the organization. 84 85 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Employee Value Proposition 02 Human Resources Development Enhancing Functional Competency improvements in the professional competency of both individuals and Developing Global Talent Doosan Infracore has built a sophisticated Functional Competency (FC) the organization. Leadership Enhancement Under the judgment that the future of development system, with the head office taking a central role, in considan organization depends on the commitment of its leaders, Doosan eration of individual employees’ unique skill sets and capabilities. The To improve the technical expertise of its technical staff and support their Infracore runs leadership training programs at every level in the organicompany also encourages its employees to devise their own education efforts to grow into technical experts, the company conducts job training zational hierarchy, including the leader coaching program and the team plans according to the result of their FC assessment. based on its FC system and support the operation of various study circles leader workshop designed to equip the participants with necessary Doosan Infracore runs diverse management systems and educational and their efforts to acquire technical certifications. Doosan Infracore understanding and skills of leadership. The company conducted the programs designed to share the values and culture required of people Building the FC Development System FC enables employees to define has restructured the training system in line with its directions for the leader coaching program for seven months from July 2017 to January at Doosan in order to develop ‘global leaders who can lead the way in competencies they need to carry out their duties successfully and development of employees’ job competencies based on VOCs and the 2018 for team and part leaders so that they can improve their leadership organizational changes and innovation.’ The company also develops set their own roadmap for personal growth based on their identified feedback of production executives. The company has prioritized a total competencies and exercise their leadership in the most effective ways those individuals into global experts in their respective fields with strengths and weaknesses. Doosan Infracore operates an FC-based of 271 training courses., and completed the development of 16 courses through learning and putting into practice diverse coaching skills. In leadership. HR education and development system to help its employees grow out of them and ran the courses in 2017. A total of 29 study circles with order to educate its employees on the common way of performing at work into experts in their respective fields. In 2015, it published the FC 212 participants were opened in 2017 with the purposes of technology as Doosan people, the company runs Strategic Thinking Enhancement Building the Global HR Information System Development Directory which shows the list of courses customized for transfer and certificate acquisition. As a result of full support for technical through Problem Solving (STEPS) courses separately for its managers In March 2017, Doosan Infracore launched a new HR system called different competency levels, along with information on various curricula staff, Doosan Infracore nurtured 122 master technicians (10.8% of total (STEPS) and assistant managers (STEPS-Junior). In 2017, the company ran ‘MY HR’ to standardize and simplify various HR systems, processes, designed to boost competency in the areas of R&D, manufacturing and regular technical staff), three master craftsmen (one master craftsman of the two courses twice, respectively. standards, and data from the viewpoint of the Doosan Core Values and to sales, and marketing. In 2016, the company completed the FC develKorea1) and two Incheon Metropolitan City Michuhall master craftsmen2)) integrate more than 50 HR systems that were previously used by different opment system for R&D, production and market-driven areas, such as − a remarkable achievement. In 2017, based on the Doosan Core Values and technical expertise, the subsidiaries in various countries around the world. MY HR is a globally sales, and restructured various courses at the Job Academy, including company held workshops five times that were participated by major integrated one-stop HR system designed to handle various HR tasks, 33 R&D courses, 11 innovation courses and three sales and marketing representatives. It reorganized its technical leadership development such as Doosan Competency Model (DCM), management by objectives courses. In 2017, the company has completed the establishment of Outcomes of Development of Technical Staff system in order to nurture field leaders who are ready and able to lead (MBO), and development plan (DP), as well as training applications. It its FC system for all office staff. In particular, the company developed sustained growth of the company. The company also introduced a group 122 is available to all our worksites in Korea, China, the U.S. and Europe. All a three-year cultivation plan for team members at the manager-level coaching program for the technical field leaders of Gunsan Plant to help employees have the right to create or view personal information regarding or above in the R&D sector according to their respective FC diagnosis them practice solving the issues they face at sites and bring practical Master Technicians and 3 themselves and their team members (if they are managers) through MY results, to upgrade their FC levels. changes in their daily operations with the assistance of professional HR. They are thus required to sign the Pledge of Personnel Information coaches. Protection to promise to handle and process the personnel information In order to grow into a global machinery company, the company must Master Craftsmen of themselves and their team members according to certain principles. nurture technical staff equipped with professional competencies and In 2018, based on the role model for technical field leaders established (As of December 2017; Accumulated figure) a high degree of competitiveness. Doosan Infracore has therefore in 2017, the company plans to make improvements in the technical established an FC system devoted to technical staff, identified their leadership education system and develop and operate a leadership HRD Directions of Doosan Infracore needs for job competence improvements as well as their strengths and course while expanding the technical field leader coaching program weaknesses, and help them set up their own specific visions for personal to Incheon Plant. Furthermore, to nurture YB3) in the technical field, it growth. Following the preparation of a draft proposal for the FC system prepared an education plan to boost organizational vitality and launched Developing Proud Doosan Employees on the World Stage for technical staff in 2014, it carried out FC diagnosis for all 11 technical ‘Vision Camp,’ an intensive leadership course in 2016, in which a total of The Doosan Way job categories in 2017 after the company completed the establishment 283 employees took part in 2017. of a FC system for technical staff. In 2018, Doosan Infracore will launch FC-linked job training programs including sessions in which participants Education on the Global Work Environment To help its employees share our FC diagnosis results and discuss further HRD plans. function efficiently in a global business environment without any Develop experts who communication difficulties, the company runs ‘Let's Do Biz English,’ an Develop global leaders will enhance the HRD Goals who have internalized company's fundamental Competency Development Trainings Doosan Infracore has set up a 80-hour practical English course, in addition to Chinese and Japanese Doosan Core Values competitiveness and take self-directed learning system so that employees may study voluntarily education courses. In 2015, Doosan Infracore launched a collaboration the lead in innovations under their own volition. Employees can search, apply for, or access website called Global Mobility Support (GMS) to provide employees various courses offered by the company’s self-directed learning system assigned to overseas posts with information on various regulations, on their computers or mobile devices anytime, anywhere through ‘MY welfare benefits, and tips intended to help them enjoy a pleasant life Competency Leadership Competency Functional Competency HR.’ In December 2017, the company launched CELL (Community of 1)  Master Craftsmen of Korea: This is a craftsman who has the highest level of skilled crafts overseas. The company also runs online/offline programs including Systems (DCM) (FC) in 96 trades in 22 industrial fields and who is designated by the President as such under Employee-Led Learning), a new learning organization support system ‘the Act on Encouragement of Skilled Crafts’ among those who have greatly contributed to language courses tailored for its employees and their family members. whereby the company promotes and assists employees’ small group the development of skilled crafts and the improvement of status of skilled craftsmen by engaging themselves in industrial fields for a long period of time. leaning activities with an ultimate goal of further enhancing their Development 2)  Incheon Metropolitan City Michuhall Master Craftsmen: This refers to those who are Development Plan self-directed study. As of April 2018, 40 CELLs are in operation. A CELL Method designated by Articles 3 and 4 of the ‘Ordinance on the Selection and Support of Incheon is composed of three to ten people engaged in voluntary yet systematic Metropolitan City Michuhall Master Craftsmen’ among those who are equipped with an outstanding spirit of master craftsmen and the highest level of skilled crafts by having study for five months. Through the operation of CELLs, the company worked in the same fields and trades for at least 15 years and having greatly contributed to Doosan Way Leadership College Professional College University provides comprehensive support for diverse studies related to the the development of skilled crafts. participants’ job duties, expecting to offer practical assistance for 3) Young Boy (YB): Technical staff hired in 2004 or after 86 87 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Employee Value Proposition 03 Reorganizing Personnel Management System for Technical Staff Invigorating Organizational Communication and Consideration pursuit of a sound work-life balance through family-friendly management Doosan Infracore runs diverse communication channels, including practices, including the operation of childcare centers and the granting Doosan Infracore has been creating a talent development system in line Culture online/offline grievance mechanisms, the Human Rights Protection of parental leave, reduced working hours, and family care leave. In 2017, with the Doosan Core Values, which includes rules on job assignment Center, the company website, and the in-house portal with the purposes the company promoted childcare leave and flextime and supported and promotion, competency evaluation, technical expert training of boosting employees' satisfaction at work through genuine communicacustomized organizational cultural activities in an effort to create a courses, and FC promotion, in order to motivate its technical staff to tion between the company and employees. Since 2016, the company has happier workplace. pursue self-development and present them with a vision. The company Implementation of the Doosan Core Values shared with all employees media coverage about the company as well as introduced the position and promotion system in 2012, presented its Nurturing the people of Doosan becomes possible when the company public notices that it has made externally through ‘D-Briefing.’ In 2017, Operation of Flextime In Korea, Doosan Infracore runs a flextime technical staff with a vision for personal growth, and nurtured technical creates outcomes through securing fundamental competitiveness and the company further enhanced communication on new business and system to support its employees’ work-life balance. Through pre-consulpersonnel’s pride in their individual ability and status. With the introducthe achievement of development and scientification. It is the ultimate new growth engines, shared with its stakeholders the company’s vision tation with their leaders, staff can choose different daily work schedules tion of the competency recognition system, the company has enabled goal of the internalization of the Doosan Core Values to create a virtuous through CEO Talks, and improved transparency in the communication of (07:00-16:00, 08:00-17:00, or 10:00-19:00) for a month to a year for a leaders to nurture their members’ competencies while helping the cycle in which the people at Doosan that have been nurtured in the corporate activities. variety of reasons, such as childbearing, childcare, family care, personal members to recognize the strengths they require for personal growth and situations above in turn create positive outcomes themselves. Under health management, or overseas work. In addition, the company has the need to work harder to develop them. It has also opened technical the initiatives of CAs (CORE Agents), employees of Doosan Infracore Work-Life Balance implemented a work schedule adjustment system (a part-time work specialist courses designed to help its technical staff acquire national fully understand the Doosan Core Values, which are Doosan Group’s Doosan Infracore complies with the labor regulations of the countries system) to allow those employees who cannot work on a typical work qualifications for technicians, industrial engineers, and craftsmen. unique philosophy and decision-making basis, implement them in daily in which it operates. To further improve its employees’ quality of life, schedule to continue working for the company in Korea while maintaining operations, and strive to internalize them. the company offers a wide range of welfare benefits that match each their work-life balance. In 2016, the company upgraded its FC-based HR development system country’s unique situation. Of particular note, it proactively supports the along with field leaders and changed the titles of our technical staff, Every year, Doosan Infracore finds cases of improving its fundamental which has had some positive effects on raising the status of technical competitiveness, creating job performance improvement effects, and Support Systems for Family-Friendly Business Management (Korea) staff in the organization. In January 2017, it introduced two new growth embodying the Doosan Core Values. The company recognizes these and pathways for its technical staff − the launch of the technical managing uses them as sustainable ways of spreading and sharing the Doosan Core System Details Eligibility and Period director system and the enhancement of the meister development system Values throughout the company. In 2017, it conducted a survey among Parking tickets for pregnant employees − so that they can work toward becoming either field leaders or technical its employees to figure out their internalization levels of the Doosan Guidebook on pregnancy, childbearing, and childcare Pregnant experts. It also appointed a technical managing director for the first time Core Values followed by a CA workshop, a company-wide team leader employee caring Pregnant female employees Pregnant employee badges, stickers, and parking tickets in its 80-year corporate history, presenting technical staff with a vision workshop, and a company-wide executive leadership session in which program Use of affiliated hospitals, in-house lounges, internal, and to grow into technical experts. Technical managing directors are those major issues identified in the survey were discussed and their solutions external psychological counseling centers, if needed who are equipped with leadership and practical skills to play the role of were found from the field staff's perspective. Basic support Compliance with 8-hour workday and prohibition of holiday work Pregnant female employees (the entire pregnancy period) production team leaders in the company’s production units, presenting Pregnancy during pregnancy a vision for growth to technicians. Meisters serve as the company’s field Nurturing Leaders Initiating Changes and Innovations Support for medical bills during pregnancy and childbearing Pregnant female employees (from pregnancy to childbearing) leaders, equipped with the professional skills and high competitiveness Leaders’ Initiatives in Workplaces Doosan Infracore emphasizes Shortened working Shortened working hours for the health of pregnant employees Pregnant female employees (reduction of up to 2 hours per day hours during required to take the lead in corporate growth. the need for its leaders to initiate changes and set a strong example pregnancy and their babies until the 12th week and after the 26th week of pregnancy) for others to follow. For continuous changes in the way the company Pregnant female employees (once every two months until the operates, executives in Korea have prepared the LAP (Leader’s Action Leave for prenatal 7th month of pregnancy: once per month from the 8th to the Parental checkup leaves Plan), which promises changes to employees on the part of their checkup 9th month; and once every two weeks during the 10th month of Career Development Paths of Technical Staff pregnancy) leaders under the theme of ‘changes in the way we work, starting with our leaders.’ The leaders practice LAP in their daily operations, Female employees who give birth to a child Field Leaders Technical Specialists Childbearing leave (90 days / 120 days for twins) thus eliminating inefficiencies, and leading changes in the way of working through open communication and on-site management. The Leave before or Male employees whose wives give birth (5 days) Childbearing after childbearing company also conducted a survey regarding how its employees felt Female employees who have a miscarriage or abortion Technical Managing Directors Miscarriage/abortion leave (Leave duration varies depending on pregnancy period, with Meister about improvements brought about by the LAP system in 2017, as it did a ceiling of 90 days for pregnancy of more than 28 weeks) Technical General Manager Supervising in 2016. The results indicated that employees were positive about the Foreman Childbirth cash gift Cash gift in celebration of childbirth Employees who have childbirth Technical Senior Manager leaders’ LAP implementation efforts and results thereof. Expert Employees with children aged less than 8 years or second graders Technical Manager Foreman in elementary school (once per child for mother and father, Operating the Leadership Session Doosan Infracore holds leadership Leave for childcare Childcare leave respectively, and reduced working hours for childcare for a total of Technical Assistant Manager one year for parents) Junior sessions annually so that the CEO and senior executives can get together Senior Technical Staff Foreman to share the latest changes in business management circumstances, Childcare Reduced working Reduction of working hours for child care (15-30 hours per week) Technical Staff figure out the implications of the changes, discuss the directions that the hours for childcare company’s organizational culture must pursue, and find ways to make In-house daycare Employees with children aged 3-5 years (selected through Daycare centers in Incheon, Gunsan, and Seoul improvements together. center transparent procedures at a fixed time) Leave of absence to take care of family members suffering from • Set the ultimate goal for field • Enhance the technical Employees (90 days per year) Special leave of illness or recovering from accidents leaders as technical managing specialist path and prepare Family directors a personnel management absence Leave of absence intended for family members in need of special Employees (6 months + additional 6 months) system conducive to growth care, personal development, and treatment of infertility into technical specialists 88 89 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Employee Value Proposition · Supporting Development of Local Communities 04 01 Supporting Support for Building a Stable Life In Korea, the company offers Win-Win Labor-Management Development of CCI Strategies and Directions industrial accident insurance, supports medical costs, and carries out Relations Local Communities regular medical checkups to protect its employees in the events of health emergencies or accidents. It also helps its employees financially through loans for their children’s tuition fees and housing support measures. EAP Operations Doosan Infracore provides its employees with the Compliance with Labor Policies CCI System Employee Assistance Program (EAP), which offers counseling and Doosan Infracore complies with the labor standards of the InternaCCI Strategies Based on continuous communication with local OUR APPROACH education on health, laws, and finance among other areas of interest. In tional Labour Organization (ILO)1). Each year, the company conducts communities and its own Corporate Community Involvement (CCI) Korea, the company has been operating DooHug, an in-house psychoinvestigations to detect any child labor or forced labor practices within guidelines, Doosan Infracore fulfills its corporate social responsibility logical counseling center since 2014. Starting in 2018, the company the company through the annual CSR assessment of all domestic We are leveraging our (CSR), one of the Doosan Core Values, by participating in diverse CCI will further expand the operations of its employee workplace stress and major overseas business sites. According to the results of a 2017 capabilities to create a better programs. Doosan Infracore’s CCI refers to every kind of activity that it prevention programs, such as the operation of a healing program, a self-examination, none of the company’s business sites worldwide have undertakes by exploiting its major competencies in finance, products, psychological testing center, and education on the prevention of PTSD resorted to child labor or forced labor of any kind. It has also signed society through investing in human resources, and technologies for the purpose of promoting the for field managers. In China, the company offers sand-therapy as a the Guidelines on the Protection of the Working Conditions of In-house our communities. wellbeing of future generations and improving the competencies of special program for the staff and their family members. In Korea, the Subcontractors’ Workers with the Korean Ministry of Employment and the communities to which the company and its employees belong. company provides psychological counseling to the employees and their Labor. The company ensures compliance with all relevant regulations The company’s CCI activities are led by the CSR Part at the head office, family members. through monitoring in-house subcontracting activities whether they Based on its pursuit of sincere corporate community which works together with the staff in charge at the company’s overseas comply with the government’s guidelines on fair transactions. involvement (CCI), Doosan Infracore has established worksites to plan and execute CCI activities that are unique to their own Recharging Opportunities In Korea, Doosan Infracore encourages its a global CCI system and guidelines that reflect its communities. employees to take a two-week vacation (a one-week vacation plus an Labor-Management Relations corporate capabilities and social demands while additional one-week vacation) before or after the first week of August Since the launch of the Win-Win Labor Union in 2011, Doosan Infracore carrying out CCI activities worldwide on the basis when domestic plants halt their operations. The company has also has maintained and developed labor-management relations based on CCI Strategies of shared values. The CCI Committee ensures that implemented the Overseas Advanced Culture Exploration Support System mutual trust and respect, including the strike-free conclusion of collective donations are spent in a transparent way. Together for itsgular staff − office or technical staff who joined the company before bargaining agreement for seven consecutive years. Labor and management January 1st of the previous year − to help them experience foreign culture continue to communicate through diverse channels, including the with its employees around the globe, Doosan Infracore Top 100 global CSR leading companies on the occasion of their annual vacation periods. The company offers Labor-Management Council and the Welfare Subcommittee, and share is striving to implement CCI programs that are instruGoal by 2025 1) them round-trip air tickets and Eurail passes so that they can take the major issues through the quarterly Business Information Session. mental to the development of local communities. opportunity to recharge themselves, experience different perspectives, and boost their pride in the company by offering them a differentiated In 2017, the company carried out diverse labor-management joint events, benefit program. such as ‘Vitamin Day’ and ‘Healing Day’ for field technical staff, labor-manTo boost local communities’ future agement joint community involvement including ‘Support Activities for Mission competitiveness and the company’s corporate values through strategic CCI activities Family-friendly Management Doosan Infracore allows its employees Migrant Females’ by the field manager association, the ‘80th Anniversary to choose childcare leave and family care leave or reduced working Marathon Race, Concert and Photo Exhibit.’ In China, the company runs hours depending on their situations. The company also runs flextime a special council which is an organization that represents the company’s To promote the shared growth of the company Value and leave of absence systems according to the circumstances of the employees, according to the Council Law, which is equivalent to the Labor and society through CCI activities relevant countries. In Korea, it has implemented the ‘Mom’s Caring Law in Korea. The four representatives of the council are elected every four Program’ at the company level and distributed the ‘Guide on Pregnancy, years. The council and management hold a council meeting on a monthly Childbearing, and Childcare,’ which contains information on various basis to discuss major developments and share opinions on various Support Support for Support for support measures available inside and outside the company concerning worksite issues; wage discussions are conducted annually. based on the 3 Strategies the next local company’s core pregnancy, childbearing, and childcare. For pregnant employees, the generation communities competencies company grants reduced working hours and prenatal checkup leave, and Joint Customer Support of Labor-Management offers leave to both parents upon childbirth. The company also provides In order to overcome the market downturn in 2016, the labor union and those who have had an abortion or suffered a miscarriage with a recovery management visited the company’s customers across the country and 1) Based on the announcement of the World Economic Forum (Davos Forum) period equivalent to that required for childbearing. During childrearing, collected their opinions while engaging in various customer service the company ensures that both parents are eligible for childcare leave or activities provided jointly by labor and management. In 2017, Doosan reduced working hours, and it also runs its own daycare centers at three Infracore conducted joint customer support of labor-management six locations −Incheon, Gunsan, and Seoul. Furthermore, Doosan Infracore times, with the labor union figuring out customer requirements and also allows its employees to use their leave to take care of family relaying the VOCs directly to the company’s production sites for further members in need, promote personal development, or focus on infertility improvements in quality. treatment. In China, the company offers a leave of absence or a shorter workday to female employees who have just given birth to a child. 1)  Compliance with the ILO labor standards: Doosan Infracore ensures that the labor standards of the ILO are complied with at all its global business sites. The company prohibits all forms of discrimination, child labor, and forced labor while promoting freedom of association. 90 91 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Our Responsibility Supporting Development of Local Communities 02 Operation of the CCI Committee and the CCI Council Doosan Infracore Construction Support for Hope Elementary Schools in China Under the Support Based on the Company’s Core Competencies Employee Engagement spends donations after carrying out a comprehensive review of the slogan of ‘We will build a beautiful China together,’ Doosan Infracore Doosan Infracore utilizes its business resources to promote its CCI public’s interests, the appropriateness of relevant programs and instituChina Corporation (DICC) has been participating in ‘Project Hope,’ a activities, including expertise in construction mechanical engineering tions, and the relevance of the programs to the company’s CCI directions. public service project that involves the provision of educational support and product development. For more transparent and proper collection of donations and execution for Chinese youth and improvement of the educational environment thereof, the company has launched a ‘CCI Committee,’ an organization in underprivileged regions of China. DICC has built numerous Hope Support for Natural Disaster Relief In the event of a massive disaster that deliberates on and determines all matters related to donation, in Elementary Schools, provided local youths opportunities for education such as an earthquake or a typhoon, Doosan Infracore promptly provides In addition to various CCI programs ran by the company, employees of 2017 according to relevant regulations. Led by the CEO, who also serves and contributed to the development of local education and sustainable construction equipment, such as excavators, wheel loaders and compact Doosan Infracore run support voluntary service clubs. The company has as the chairman of the CSR Committee, the CCI Committee is staffed by development for the country. Since 2001, out of a total of 37 planned construction machinery, and funds for relief efforts, thus providing also set various CCI support programs in place, including the CSR Awards, the CFO, the Legal Team executive and the CSR executive. The committee Hope Elementary schools, DICC has so far completed building 34 support based on its core competencies – one of the company’s core which are designed to encourage its employees to participate in various deliberates where to spend donations followed by reviews of how Hope Elementary Schools in impoverished areas of the country. DICC CCI strategies. It has provided construction equipment and donations CCI activities. much to spend on each proposed program considering each program’s has also run the ‘Doosan Hope Travel Summer Camp’ every summer for rapid relief and recovery from devastating natural disasters around relevance to the company business and its public nature together with while implementing an ‘honorary school principal system’ since 2007. the world over the years, such as Hurricane Katrina in the U.S. in 2005, Employee Donation the company’s financial situation. Doosan Group’s CCI Committee, which Teachers and students of Doosan Hope Elementary Schools from all the Sichuan earthquake in China in 2008, the earthquake in Haiti in Approximately 75% of the Doosan Infracore employees in Korea (excluding is composed of executives from eight subsidiaries of the Group including around the country join the summer camp, which enables students 2010, the Tohoku earthquake in Japan in 2011, Typhoon Haiyan in the those dispatched overseas) participate in ‘Collection of Small Change’ Doosan Infracore, makes decisions on Doosan Group’s overall policies to enjoy cultural experiences while having fun. Under the honorary Philippines in 2013, and the devastating earthquake in Nepal in 2015. from ‘Employees Salaries and Opening Donation Account’ in order to on donations along with the donation beneficiaries and amounts for principal system, the CEOs of Doosan Infracore dealerships are raise CCI funds and donate to the Community Chest. The details of each Doosan subsidiary. In addition, donations worth KRW 500 million or appointed as principals with the aim of encouraging participation of Donation of Equipment and Model Doosan Infracore donates excavators, fund execution are disclosed transparently through the company’s CCI those deemed necessary to be reviewed by the BOD are deliberated and dealers and ensuring continued support for the schools. parts and engines produced in the course of product development stage Information System and in-house portal news service. approved by the BOD. for tests to the relevant departments of universities and vocational high Support for Local Communities schools to be used as educational materials. Building Infrastructure for Employee Engagement Support for the Next Generation Doosan Infracore carries out a diverse set of CCI activities in consideration The company has established a CCI Information System on our company Operation of Dream School Doosan Infracore has been running ‘Dream of the characteristics and needs of local communities with an aim to grow Furthermore, to help soldiers stationed along the country’s snow-heavy Intranet to increase employees’ awareness of the company’s voluntary School’ since 2012 together with World Vision, an international NGO together with them. The company holds two workshops each year with northern border, the company has donated compact track loaders and services while keeping track of their participation. devoted to humanitarian aid across the world. Dream School is a mentorCCI experts at our worksites, and also partners with reputable non-profit attachments to military units in the Gangwondo province in February ing-based youth dream search program, which offers youth diverse organizations in local communities to promote various CCI activities that 2018 to facilitate the soldiers’ errands of weeding and clearing snow in Doosan Day of Community Service experiences required for self-exploration and career searching for up address the needs of the communities. hazardous areas. Doosan Day of Community Service refers to CCI activities participated by to five years. Middle school mentees take part in mentoring services employees from all locations where Doosan Group carries out business provided by the company’s employees for two years. The services Local Hope CCI Activities Doosan Infracore carries out a variety of CCI The Junior Engineering Class Launched in 2008, the Junior Engineering around the world in the areas where each community needs assistance. include education on self-exploration, specialist mentoring sessions, activities with the participation of not only its employees but also their Class is a talent donation circle consisting of Doosan Infracore Doosan Infracore takes part in the Doosan Day of Community Service and career experiences. High school mentees engage in self-directed family members in a way that the activities can bring practical assistance researchers with science and engineering backgrounds. The volunteers every year and makes small but meaningful changes. The company also activities, including meeting those working in the areas they are thinking to local communities. In Seoul and Incheon, the company strives to teach children about key scientific principles in fun and easy ways holds a photo/video contest to share heartwarming moments of our of pursuing through Dream Club activities, in an effort to find their career improve the housing environment and boost residents’ welfare in through the assembly of science kits. event with all the participants. In 2017, a total of 511 Doosan Infracore paths. The results of an in-depth survey on the outcomes of Dream Dongdaemun and the Hwasu fishing village by replacing their ordinary employees participated in the Doosan Day of Community Service School conducted in 2014 indicate that both mentees and mentors wallpaper with insulated wallpaper, carrying out customized home around the world. made positive personal growth. improvement, and beautifying village walls with paintings. In Gunsan, the company is engaged in home improvement for local communities Dream School selected mentors and mentees for Dream School 4 in 2017 in Naun-dong and its surrounding areas by focusing on upgrading the Participants in Doosan Day of Community Service and for Dream School 5 in 2018. As of February 2018, approximately 700 residents’ home furnishings. The company also continues to supply employees and youths have joined the Dream School activities, with 38 kimchi (salted and fermented vegetables) and briquettes to the needy in 13,395 students having graduated from Dream School. local communities. It undertakes its Local Hope CCI activities with funds raised through voluntary financial contributions from the employees as people Doosan Infracore will continue to support Dream School students so that well as the company’s matching funds. they can receive training from professional coaches, take part in diverse * The accumulated number of participants from 2014 to 2018, community activities, boost self-reliance, and grow into healthy members excluding Doosan Bobcat employees since 2017 of society where they will make their dreams come true. 92 93 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Performance Summary Performance Summary KRW 6,567.9 billion KRW 660.8 billion KRW 296.6 billion Appendix Sales Operating Income Net Income Performance Summary 95 Consolidated Financial Statements 96 CSR Facts & Figures 100 Independent Auditors’ Report 105 8 consecutive 7 consecutive International Independent Assurance Report 106 years years ARC Awards Listed in DJSI Korea Rated Class A in the ESG Received Gold Awards for Global Network 108 the machine and electric Evaluation by the Corporate the 2016 Integrated Report equipment categories Governance Service, Korea 84.6% 97,955 tonCO₂eq Benefit sharing Percentage of premium Greenhouse system eco-friendly or eco-friendly gas emissions Expanded to include products second-tier suppliers Programs to support Provided education 7 consecutive suppliers on human rights years Helped reduce the wage gap and increase to all employees and Agreed on collective welfare benefits for the employees operated the Women’s bargaining agreements of secondand third-tier suppliers and in-house subcontractors Council without dispute 94 95 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Profit or Loss DOOSAN INFRACORE CO., LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES DOOSAN INFRACORE CO., LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In Korean won) (In Korean won) December 31, 2017 and 2016 December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2017 2016 ASSETS Sales ₩ 6,567,897,225,498 ₩ 5,729,550,204,080 CURRENT ASSETS Cost of sales (5,024,999,368,311) (4,404,458,833,345) Cash and cash equivalents ₩ 943,481,141,254 ₩ 538,577,771,079 Gross profit 1,542,897,857,187 1,325,091,370,735 Short-term financial instruments 160,166,932,394 148,025,668,394 Selling and administrative expenses (882,128,558,541) (834,273,183,329) Short-term investment securities 34,182,400,175 3,030,992,836 Operating profit 660,769,298,646 490,818,187,406 Trade and other receivables 1,197,046,622,163 1,030,593,672,444 Finance income 296,665,608,495 176,163,146,947 Derivative assets 1,868,202,287 6,219,743,447 Finance costs (455,734,726,941) (427,649,808,272) Inventories 1,254,963,515,735 1,177,009,110,959 Other non-operating income 64,152,908,525 56,182,312,441 Other current assets 175,725,123,533 146,113,591,597 Other non-operating expenses (72,931,806,741) (213,312,054,726) 3,767,433,937,541 3,049,570,550,756 Loss on disposal of investment in subsidiaries and associates (3,294,696,326) (151,702,916) NON-CURRENT ASSETS Profit (loss) before income tax 489,626,585,658 82,050,080,880 Long-term financial instruments 10,500,000 2,011,500,000 Income tax expense (192,983,826,788) (162,639,901,346) Long-term investment securities 93,687,457,663 148,120,965,082 Profit (loss) from continuing operations 296,642,758,870 (80,589,820,466) Long-term trade and other receivables 16,150,386,229 7,015,864,222 Profit from discontinued operations 196,574,676,248 Non-current derivative assets 4,387,862,259 Profit (loss) for the year ₩ 296,642,758,870 ₩ 115,984,855,782 Investments in subsidiaries and associates 91,838,684,125 29,030,018,221 Property, plant and equipment 1,786,904,298,672 1,823,100,285,900 Owners of the Parent Company 148,594,494,986 63,180,866,208 Intangible assets 4,169,281,753,860 4,440,698,436,635 Non-controlling interests 148,048,263,884 52,803,989,574 Investment properties 20,609,998,094 51,375,818,001 Earnings (loss) per share Deferred tax assets 251,122,643,405 365,928,831,884 From continuing and discontinued operations Other non-current assets 74,662,610,602 109,956,369,825 Basic earnings per share ₩ 627 ₩ 214 6,508,656,194,909 6,977,238,089,770 Diluted earnings per share 620 214 Total Assets ₩ 10,276,090,132,450 ₩ 10,026,808,640,526 From continuing operations LIABILITIES Basic earnings (loss) per share ₩ 627 ₩ (734) CURRENT LIABILITIES Diluted earnings (loss) per share 620 (734) Trade and other payables ₩ 1,281,736,493,268 ₩ 1,041,875,892,086 Short-term borrowings 1,409,287,187,360 952,163,757,440 Current portion of bonds 474,641,545,632 764,734,004,459 Current portion of long-term borrowings 96,310,179,828 540,098,382,122 Current tax liabilities 32,398,041,440 13,098,873,730 Derivative liabilities 4,026,802,750 1,542,154,578 Provisions 167,059,619,793 147,784,958,483 Other current liabilities 230,185,572,715 191,895,701,579 3,695,645,442,786 3,653,193,724,477 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Non-current other payables 1,218,603,784 1,253,774,857 DOOSAN INFRACORE CO., LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES Bonds 1,154,956,082,362 714,649,461,884 (In Korean won) Long-term borrowings 1,513,805,807,222 1,451,538,091,287 Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2017 2016 Net defined benefit liabilities 451,858,134,854 510,101,486,646 Non-current derivative liabilities 41,708,762,306 Profit (loss) for the year ₩ 296,642,758,870 ₩ 115,984,855,782 Deferred tax liabilities 93,587,876,395 78,243,7 1 7,573 Other comprehensive income Non-current provisions 9,584,045,726 25,167,184,042 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Other non-current liabilities 140,563,747,861 144,284,457,632 Remeasurements of net defined benefit liabilities (6,717,591,709) 1,076,069,895 3,407,283,060,510 2,925,238,173 ,921 Revaluation reserves of property, plant and equipment 34,547,697,525 (29,875,400,000) Total Liabilities 7,102,928,503,296 6,578,431,898,398 Share of other comprehensive income of associates 397,099,884 EQUITY Share of retained earnings of associates (71,846,321) Share capital 1,040,000,595,000 1,037,276,570,000 Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss Capital surplus 211,545,565,029 249,488,144,851 Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (4,403,370,796) 7,509,623,052 Hybrid capital instruments 508,259,603,649 Share of retained earnings of associates (54,238,168) Other components of equity (108,457,073,777) (42,440,546,020) Exchange differences ₩ (157,850,633,039) ₩ 28,106,613,754 Accumulated other comprehensive income (334,050,917,882) (270,371,100,895) Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives (5,400,168,266) 18,149,753,211 Retained earnings 784,702,285,730 578,245,971,895 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 1,593,740,454,100 2,060,458,643,480 Total comprehensive income for the year 157,143,946,148 140,897,277,526 Non-controlling interest 1,579,421,175,054 1,387,918,098,648 Total comprehensive income for the year is attributable to: Total Equity 3,173,161,629,154 3,448,376,742,128 Owners of the Parent Company 70,873,060,791 46,187,327,828 Total liabilities and equity ₩ 10,276,090,132,450 ₩ 10,026,808,640,526 Non-controlling interest 86,270,885,357 94,709,949,698 96 97 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows DOOSAN INFRACORE CO., LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES DOOSAN INFRACORE CO., LTD. AND SUBSIDIARIES (In Korean won) Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (In Korean won) Years Ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 2017 2016 Attributable to Owners of the Parent Company Cash flows from operating activities Accumulated Share Capital Hybrid capital Other other Retained Non-controlling Cash generated from operations: components Subtotal Total capital surplus instruments of equity comprehensive Earnings interests Profit for the year ₩ 296,642,758,870 ₩ 115,984,855,782 income Adjustments 683,827,770,950 653,349,944,296 Balance at January 1, 2016 ₩ 1,037,276,570,000 ₩ 245,301,050,451 ₩ 508,259,603,649 ₩ (37,401,620,359) ₩ (207,670,131,707) ₩ 475,597,665,117 ₩ 2,021,363,137,151 ₩ 1,081,593,171,229 ₩ 3,102,956,308,380 Changes in operating assets and liabilities (83,731,338,160) 20,023,264,004 Total comprehensive income (loss): Interest received 11,127,322,178 13,406,879,435 Profit for the year 63,180,866,208 63,180,866,208 52,803,989,574 115,984,855,782 Interest paid (185,853,970,400) (227,942,883,719) Remeasurement of net defined (344,604,900) (344,604,900) 1,420,674,795 1,076,069,895 Dividends received 2,108,514,977 5,400,000 benefit liabilities Income tax paid (58,429,689,782) (61,834,959,484) Revaluation reserves of (88,030,246,138) 58,154,846,138 (29,875,400,000) (29,875,400,000) property, plant and equipment Net cash inflow from operating activities 665,691,368,633 512,992,500,314 Changes in the fair value of Cash flows from investing activities available-for-sale financial 7,509,623,052 7,509,623,052 7,509,623,052 Decrease in short-term financial instruments 25,050,508,204 179,351,302,468 assets Disposal of long-term investment securities 3,388,601,075 55,340,845,687 Share of retained earnings of (54,238,168) (54,238,168) (54,238,168) associates Disposal of property, plant and equipment and investment properties 41,292,473,602 50,396,713,962 Exchange differences (11,646,759,548) (11,646,759,548) 39,753,373,302 28,106,613,754 Disposal of intangible assets 1,226,414,034 1,305,963,518 Gain(loss) on valuation of 17,417,841,184 17,417,841,184 731,912,027 18,149,753,211 Business transfer 929,419,723,186 derivatives Increase in short-term financial instruments (12,141,264,000) (74,749,541,450) 120,936,869,278 46,187,327,828 94,709,949,698 140,897,277,526 Increase in loans (168,851,490) Transactions with owners Acquisition of long-term investment securities (3,510,363,900) (40,066,219,698) Acquisition of treasury shares (2,030,605) (2,030,605) (2,030,605) Acquisition of investment in associates and joint ventures (65,864,874,081) (27,936,825,000) Cancellation of share options 4,187,094,400 (4,187,094,400) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (134,197,987,710) (173,943,691,398) Share-based payment 134,592,399 134,592,399 134,592,399 Acquisition of intangible assets (77,460,993,080) (64,233,909,078) Dividends paid for hybrid capital (18,288,562,500) (18,288,562,500) (18,288,562,500) securities Others (33,902,408,352) Capital increase of subsidiaries 22,118,381,131 22,118,381,131 (23,277,026,187) (1,158,645,056) Net cash inflow (outflow) from investing activities (256,288,745,698) 909,633,903,647 Purchase of subsidiary equity (4,521,363,632) (4,521,363,632) (120,501,975,875) (125,023,339,507) Cash flows from financing activities Disposal of subsidiary shares (18,581,410,554) 12,048,572,262 (6,532,838,292) 355,393,979,783 348,861,141,491 Proceeds from borrowings 1,380,727,776,826 4,187,094,400 (5,038,925,661) 12,048,572,262 (18,288,562,500) (7,091,821,499) 211,614,977,721 204,523,156,222 Proceeds from issuance of bonds 1,015,382,768,080 467,186,644,080 Balance at December 31, 2016 ₩ 1,037,276,570,000 ₩ 249,488,144,851 ₩ 508,259,603,649 ₩ (42,440,546,020) ₩ (270,371,100,895) ₩ 578,245,971,895 ₩ 2,060,458,643,480 ₩ 1,387,918,098,648 ₩ 3,448,376,742,128 Change in subsidiary equity 133,721,600,000 242,528,119,780 Balance at January 1, 2017 ₩ 1,037,276,570,000 ₩ 249,488,144,851 ₩ 508,259,603,649 ₩ (42,440,546,020) ₩ (270,371,100,895) ₩ 578,245,971,895 ₩ 2,060,458,643,480 ₩ 1,387,918,098,648 ₩ 3,448,376,742,128 Repayment of borrowings (1,115,135,547,875) (1,096,762,547,569) Total comprehensive income (loss): Repayment of bonds (765,000,000,000) (922,859,192,122) Profit for the year 148,594,494,986 148,594,494,986 148,048,263,884 296,642,758,870 Dividends paid (46,907,603,700) (18,288,562,500) Remeasurement of net defined Capital increase of subsidiaries (1,158,645,055) (5,908,110,490) (5,908,110,490) (809,481,219) (6,717,591,709) benefit liabilities Purchase of subsidiary equity (125,023,339,507) Revaluation reserves of 33,549,343,476 34,930 33,549,378,406 998,319,119 34,547,697,525 Acquisition of treasury shares (2,030,605) property, plant and equipment Exercise of call options on hybrid capital securities (570,521,500,000) Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial (4,403,370,796) (4,403,370,796) (4,403,370,796) Net cash inflow (outflow) from financing activities 32,267,493,331 (1,454,379,553,498) assets Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (36,766,746,091) 10,328,398,232 Share of other comprehensive 368,821,194 368,821,194 28,278,690 397,099,884 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 404,903,370,175 (21,424,751,305) income of associates Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 538,577,771,079 560,002,522,384 Share of retained earnings of (64,025,578) (64,025,578) (7,820,743) (71,846,321) associates Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year ₩ 943,481,141,254 ₩ 538,577,771,079 Exchange differences (96,515,360,869) (96,515,360,869) (61,335,272,170) (157,850,633,039) Gain on valuation of derivatives (4,748,766,062) (4,748,766,062) (651,402,204) (5,400,168,266) (71,749,333,057) 142,622,393,848 70,873,060,791 86,270,885,357 157,143,946,148 Transactions with owners Cancellation of share options 1,053,454,693 (1,053,454,693) Transfer of capital surplus (82,200,482,487) 82,200,482,487 Issuance of bonds with warrants 41,976,882,023 41,976,882,023 41,976,882,023 Exercise of stock warrants 2,724,025,000 1,227,565,949 3,951,590,949 3,951,590,949 Dividends paid for hybrid capital (18,366,562,500) (18,366,562,500) (18,366,562,500) securities Dividend of subsidiary (28,541,041,200) (28,541,041,200) Repayment of hybrid capital (508,259,603,649) (58,904,993,351) (567,164,597,000) (567,164,597,000) securities Disposal of subsidiary shares (6,058,079,713) 8,069,516,070 2,011,436,357 133,773,232,249 135,784,668,606 2,724,025,000 (37,942,579,822) (508,259,603,649) (66,016,527,757) 8,069,516,070 63,833,919,987 (537,591,250,171) 105,232,191,049 (432,359,059,122) Balance at December 31, 2017 ₩ 1,040,000,595,000 ₩ 211,545,565,029 ₩ ₩ (108,457,073,777) ₩ (334,050,917,882) ₩ 784,702,285,730 ₩ 1,593,740,454,100 ₩ 1,579,421,175,054 ₩ 3,173,161,629,154 98 99 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix CSR Facts & Figures CSR Facts & Figures Environment Environmental Expenses Air Emissions Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 DISCLAIMER 1) 1) Environmental Total tonCO2eq 110,190 87,413 97,955 Data on the worksites in China began being included in 2016, when the CSR rollout to KRW investments and Korea billion 27.5 8.6 16.7 overseas worksites was conducted operating costs Scope 1 tonCO2eq 30,954 23,707 26,890 2) As the business transfer of Machine Tools Business Group (BG) was completed in 2016, Korea Scope 2 tonCO2eq 79,237 63,708 71,067 relevant data is excluded from some figures 3) As Doosan Bobcat completed its IPO on the KOSPI on November 18, 2016, its data is excluded tonCO2eq/ Environmental Management System Intensity KRW million 0.0476 0.040 0.037 Emissions of Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 greenhouse Total tonCO2eq 91,074 71,082 79,625 No. of gas Incheon Scope 1 tonCO2eq 20,456 15,085 16,924 Worksites with Korea sites 3 3 3 (Including Economic Transparent Management ISO 14001 (EMS) certification No. of direct and Scope 2 tonCO2eq 70,618 55,997 62,701 China sites 1 1 indirect Total tonCO2eq 15,710 13,668 15,518 Economic Growth: Sales Records Corporate Governance emissions) * There is a difference from the disclosed data in the 2015 Integrated Report because Gunsan Scope 1 tonCO2eq 8,998 7,533 8,706 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 data of the Changwon Plant is not included Scope 2 tonCO2eq 6,712 6,135 6,812 Sales KRW 5,964,894 5,729,550 6,567,897 Participation million rate of outside Total tonCO2eq 3,406 2,666 2,812 Korea % 86.8 82.5 84.2 Energy Usage Operating KRW directors in BOD Others Scope 1 tonCO2eq 1,500 1,089 1,259 Consolidated (95,087) 490,818 660,769 meetings Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 income million Scope 2 tonCO2eq 1,907 1,577 1,554 Net income KRW Total TJ 1,007 812 1,871 (859,505) 115,985 296,643 NOx 2) ppm 0.4 0.80 12.9 (loss) million LNG 242 200 216 Ethical Management TJ SOx 3) ppm 0.0 0.00 0.4 KRW Sales million 2,387,024 2,204,890 2,651,329 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Electricity TJ 610 490 1,463 VOCs Ethical Korea 98.9 95.3 98.7 Energy Korea Diesel 145 114 124 (Continuous Operating KRW % TJ Separate (263,677) 45,924 137,632 9.8/25.2 income million management usage Others Incheon type/Nonppm 18.8/12.0 15.0/5.7 trainings China % 100 94.6 volume continuous Net income (LPG, KRW (719,193) (56,312) 60,472 (Including TJ 10 8 68 type) 4) (loss) million kerosene, * Once a year per person direct and etc.) Emissions Dust (Electric indirect usage) of air arc furnace/ mg/m 3 3.2/3.5 3.2/3.3 4.6/6.0 LNG m³ 855,611 1,305,168 Collection rate pollutants 10) others) 5) Financial Soundness: Financial Status Electricity kWh 9,992,440 14,931,783 of statement of % 100 100 NOx 6) ppm 0.11 0.10 0.37 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 China interests form Steam ton 8,731 5,038 5,998 SOx 7) ppm 0.15 0.20 0.1 KRW Gunsan Total assets million 11,383,173 10,026,809 10,276,090 * Not conducted in 2015 Diesel ton 683 1,174 VOCs 8) ppm 4.83 4.80 6.39 ** No. of employees who submitted a signed copy of statement of interests form / Total KRW No. of office worker who has a job title of part leader or higher from among employees Dust 9) mg/m3 1.80 2.40 3.56 Consolidated 8,280,217 6,578,432 7,102,929 liabilities million in Korea and resident employees in China Resources Usage VOCs mg/m3 12.43 10.15 KRW China Total equity million 3,102,956 3,448,377 3,173,161 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Dust mg/m3 14.22 11.12 Compliance 1) KRW Steel plate ton 9,280 8,001 1)  There is a difference between the total emissions volume by GHG type and the total of worksites Total assets 5,979,890 4,846,201 5,053,901 million Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 which sums up rounding off numbers of each worksite’s emissions ton/ Steel plate 2) Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 80ppm Total KRW Legal measures on KRW 0.004 0.004 Separate 4,092,486 3,042,101 3,707,435 No. of 0 0 0 intensity liabilities million unfair trade conduct cases million 3) Legal limit: 400ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm Scrap metal ton 29,053 17,438 25,170 4) Continuous type: Legal limit: 40ppm, company’s internal limit: 32ppm / Non-continuous type: KRW Fine levied due to Korea Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm Total equity million 1,887,404 1,804,100 1,346,466 No. of a violation of laws or cases 0 0 0 Scrap metal ton/ 5) 3 3 Electric arc furnace: Legal limit: 20mg/m , company’s internal limit: 8mg/m / Others: Legal Fuel KRW 0.012 0.008 0.009 regulations Incheon intensity limit: 50mg/m3, company’s internal limit: 20mg/m3 usage million 6) Legal limit: 200ppm, company’s internal limit: 80ppm Research & Development Sand 7)  Legal limit: 400ppm, company’s internal limit: 160ppm Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 (molding ton 15,329 22,586 14,484 8) Legal limit: 40ppm, company’s internal limit: 32ppm sand) 2) 9) 3 Legal limit: 50mg/m , company’s internal limit: 20mg/m 3 KRW R&D investment million 151,017 97,552 111,802 ton/ 10) Due to the amendment to Enforcement Decree of the Clean Air Conservation Act (Act No. 492 of Sand R&D investment Korea Customers intensity KRW million 0.006 0.010 0.0055 the Ministry of Environment), a boiler was classified as an air pollutants emission facility in 2016, and relevant data has been calculated and managed ever since % 4.3 4.4 4.2 per sales Protection of Personal Information * Intensity is calculated based on sales of separate financial statements of each year 1) * Based on separate financial statements No usage of steel plate at the Incheon Plant since the excavator plant advancement Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 2) Molding sands are 100% recycled CFC, HCFC, Violations of Incheon ppm 0 0 0 No. of Korea No. of cases 0 0 0 CH₃Br, R-22 Application cases 3,137 3,193 3,422 protection of Emissions Intellectual Water usage of ozoneCFC, HCFC, Global customer’s personal 662,755 631,849 554,044 Gunsan 0 0 0 properties No. of China No. of 0 0 volume ton depleting CH₃Br, R-22 ppm Registration cases 1,430 1,936 2,184 information cases substances Water usage ton/ CFC, HCFC, *  Number of intellectual property rights applications and registration made at home and Korea KRW 0.278 0.287 0.209 Changwon ppm 0 intensity 1) CH₃Br, R-22 abroad Water million usage * Zero emissions of ozone-depleting substances Recycled or ton 70,284 83,365 85,450 reused water 2) Water usage China ton 64,735 64,152 volume 1) Intensity is calculated based on sales of separate financial statements of each year 2) Total volume of reused water, including reused waste water, reclaimed water, and recycled rainwater 100 101 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix CSR Facts & Figures Safety Employees Effluents and Waste Occupational Safety and Health Employment Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Korea ton 63,140 67,544 58,953 Occupational Korea % 0.22 0.37 0.52 No. of No. of Korea persons 4,191 2,550 2,602 Male 1) persons 225 94 116 accident rate Number of employees Emissions Incheon ton 56,180 60,139 51,288 China % 0.22 0.10 Number of No. of on parental leave No. of of effluents China persons 1,113 1,266 2) Female persons 18 10 14 Gunsan ton 6,960 7,405 7,665 * Based on accidents requiring medical care covered by Industrial Accident Insurance employees No. of No. of China ton 61,498 57,737 Global 11,086 3,919 4,027 Male 1,643 1,206 875 persons Number of persons BOD 1) mg/L 4.0 6.2 13.1 No. of employees eligible Office persons 2,312 1,388 1,426 for childcare leave 3) No. of Female persons 63 43 47 COD 2) mg/L 20.8 14.8 23.7 By job Incheon No. of Suspended Technical 1,879 1,162 1,176 No. of Win-win Growth persons Number of Male 4 4 14 mg/L 2.4 3.8 12.7 persons solids 3) employees on Korea Emissions Non-regular 1) No. of 409 151 87 No. of of water BOD 4) mg/L 99 89.5 188.7 By persons childcare leave 4) Female persons 23 12 11 pollutants Support for Suppliers employment COD 5) 102 104.6 161 type Ratio of mg/L % 9.8 5.9 3.3 Number of No. of Gunsan Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 non-regular 2) Male 6 3 7 employees returning persons Suspended mg/L 4 13.2 7 Number of Korea Disabled 3) No. of 89 35 28 to work after childcare solids 6) persons No. of Female persons 33 14 9 suppliers leave 5) No. of China COD mg/L 33 23 received companies 171 45 42 National merit No. of financial persons 123 75 82 Continue to work rate Male % 100 33 83 recipient 4) 1)  Legal standard 120mg/L, company’s internal standard 48mg/L support for 12 months after 2) Legal standard 130mg/L, company’s internal standard 52mg/L Diversity No. of childcare leave 6) Female % 63 21 100 Elderly 5) persons 627 174 219 3) Legal standard 120mg/L, company’s internal standard 48mg/L Amount of KRW No. of Financial financial billion 50.25 43.00 43.50 No. of Male 95 67 4) Legal standard 400mg/L, company’s internal standard 160mg/L Korea support 1) Male 3,963 2,394 2,408 Number of employees persons support persons 5) Legal standard 400mg/L, company’s internal standard 160mg/L on parental leave No. of 6) Legal standard 200mg/L, company’s internal standard 80mg/L Ratio No. of China Female persons 20 26 Female persons 228 156 194 of cash % 46.6 17.5 0.1 Return to work rate settlement No. of 100 100 Office 570 550 after parental leave % Total weight cases persons ton 31,068 21,179 27,179 By job of waste No. of 1) Employees who began their paternity leave in 2017 Number of Technical 573 716 Times 3 per month 1 per month 1 per month persons Recycled payments 2) Employees who began their maternity leave in 2017 Korea ton 29,479 19,571 25,334 volume Non-regular No. of 17 62 3) Staff in Korea with children aged eight or under, or second graders in elementary school or below By 1) Excluding indirect support persons 4) Recycling employment Number of employees who began childcare leave in the base year % 95 92 93 Ratio of rate type % 1.53 4.7 5) Number of employees who returned from childcare leave in the base year Support for non-regular China 6)  No. of (12 months after the return to work) Number of current employees in 2017 from among employees General developing cases 66 59 45 ton 27,975 18,453 23,932 Technical No. of who returned in 2016 / Employees who returned in 2016*100. Calculation for 2017 is based on waste technology Disabled persons 0 0 development Korea figures as of April 2018 Specified support Support for No. of Incheon ton 2,130 1,861 2,321 No. of Elderly 4 7 waste protecting cases 20 8 7 persons technology Diversity Labor Union Recycling No. of Waste % 96 94 94 Male persons 926 1,087 discharge rate Training No. of Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Course 49 17 11 and courses Female No. of 170 179 General persons Union membership rate Korea % 80.2 71.2 78.5 recycle ton 739 647 743 waste Korea Staff at Education suppliers 1) Contract workers (entrustment, technology entrustment, outside directors, advisory, outside * Technical staff (884 with membership out of 1,126 in total as of 2017) No. of Specified 1,380 204 124 appointment) Gunsan ton 224 218 183 support completed persons waste trainings 2) Non-regular/Total staff*100 Recycling 3) Based on MY HR; national disabled classification (levels 1-6) % 60 55 71 Training No. of rate China hours 18 28 4) Based on MY HR; national merit recipients (person with a merit number or someone approved) hours 5) Above the age of 55 (Based on total staff in Korea) Total weight Number of ton 2,161.8 3,469.5 of waste 1) 148 179 260 Competitiveness Korea operation man-day persons persons persons Recycled enhancement days Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 China ton 1,291.3 1,814.5 volume 2) support Number of Annual employee China man-day 156 286 Korea % 32.4 2.9 1.92 Recycling supports turnover rate 1) % 60 52 rate * Fair Trade Commission standard: 5 days=1 person (1 day=8 hours, Based on the application 20s % 21.0 1.7 3.65 1) Hazardous and general waste period of punctuality) Turnover rate 30s % 25.0 5.0 2.33 2) Waste steel, waste wood by age 2) 40s % 27.6 1.9 1.72 No. of Provision companies 122 104 74 50 and above % 57.0 0.0 0.18 of casting Part Korea molds to KRW 1) Based on regular workers. Total number of turnovers in 2017 / Annual average number in Korea development 40.8 14.5 12.8 in 2017 strengthen billion capacity suppliers’ 2) Based on regular workers. Total number of turnovers in 2017 by age / Annual average number in enhancement Korea in 2017 by age capacity of support developing No. of China 77 parts companies * Figures include multiple provision of casting molds to suppliers No. of Korea companies 57 40 41 EHS support No. of China companies 3 102 103 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix CSR Facts & Figures ∙ Independent Auditors’ Report Social Contributions Independent Auditors’ Report Education Social Contribution Activities Classification Unit 2015 2016 1) 2017 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 English Translation of a Report Originally Issued in Korean Average annual training No. of 99.5 57.5 47.9 person Including 2,943 587 978 hours overlap hours per person Number of Korea Korea employees who Average training KRW person Excluding 1,141 332 374 1,210 679 480 participated in overlap expenses per person 1,000 CSR activities No. of China persons 242 595 Average annual training No. of hours per person hours 14 17.1 To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of China Total hours of Average training KRW CSR activities No. of hours 9,752 2,527 5,247 Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. 221 290 expenses per person 2) 1,000 1)  There was a change in the per-capita annual average training time and training expense management We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting standards starting in 2016 Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates Per-capita annual average training time=(Total training time for office and technical personnel)/ CSR KRW 12.5 2.6 6.85 made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of Total number of employees. Per-capita average training expenses=(Total training expenses for investment 1) billion as the “Group”) which comprise the consolidated statement of financial office and technical personnel)/Total number of employees 2) Korean won calculations are based on the average exchange rate of the year Korea CSR position as at December 31, 2017, and the consolidated statement the consolidated financial statements. CSR Investment per % 0.52 0.12 0.26 investment sales 2) of profit or loss, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Education to prevent Korea No. of 5,000 2,264 2,515 consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and sexual harassment persons Investment KRW China in social 13,563 28,803 of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 1,000 contributions 3) financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting 1) Used amount of donation 2) policies and other explanatory information. Opinion CSR investment/Sales of each year based on separate financial statements 3) Korean won calculations are based on the average exchange rate of the year In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements Management’s Responsibilities for the Financial Statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 2017, Employee participation rate in the salary fraction donation campaign 1) % 91 80 75 the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Republic of Korea flows for the year then ended in accordance with Korean IFRS. Annual fund raised by the salary KRW 169,468 78,321 60,514 fraction donation campaign 2) 1,000 (Korean IFRS), and for such internal control as management determines is 1) Excluding staff sent to overseas worksites necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free Other Matters 2) Excluding the matching grant made by the company from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The consolidated financial statements of Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries as at and for the year ended December 31, 2016, were Auditor’s Responsibilities audited by another auditor who expressed an unqualified opinion on Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial those statements on March 23, 2017. statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we Auditing standards and their application in practice vary among comply with ethical requirements, and plan and perform the audit to countries. The procedures and practices used in the Republic of Korea to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial audit such financial statements may differ from those generally accepted statements are free from material misstatement. and applied in other countries. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including March 19, 2018 the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated Seoul, Korea financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. This report is effective as at March 19, 2018, the audit report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances, which may occur between the audit report date and the time of reading this report, could have a material impact on the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. Accordingly, the readers of the audit report should understand that there is a possibility that the above audit report may have to be revised to reflect the impact of such subsequent events or circumstances, if any. 104 105 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Appendix Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report We were engaged by Doosan Infracore to provide limited assurance Assurance Standards Opinion on the ‘2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report’ for the year ended We conducted our engagement based on the International Standard on • Stakeholder Inclusiveness December 31, 2017 (further ‘the Report’). Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Assurance Engagements other – Doosan Infracore operates communication channels with key Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the stakeholders such as shareholders/investors, customers/dealers, come to our attention to indicate that the Report is not presented fairly, Context and Scope International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, and also employees, suppliers, local communities (environment/NGOs), in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether AA1000AS. The standards require that we comply with applicable ethical local/central government and media. the Report is presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance requirements, including independence requirements, and that we plan – We are not aware of any key stakeholder group that has been with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether May 2018 excluded from dialogue in the Report. Initiative (GRI). We do not provide any assurance on the achievability of the Report is free from material misstatement. KPMG Samjong Accounting Corp. the objectives, targets and expectations of Doosan Infracore. CEO Kim, Kyo Tai Limitations • Sustainability Context The scope of our engagement conforms to the KPMG Sustainability A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a – Doosan Infracore has established a process to incorporate CSR in Assurance Manual™ (KSAM™), including the aspect of “materiality”. reasonable assurance engagement, and consequently does not enable management’s decision-making and the business management With regards to financial data, our procedures were limited to verifying us to obtain assurance on all significant matters that we may become plans of relevant teams, thereby securing continuity. that they were correctly derived from audited financial statements. To aware of in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not – We confirmed that Doosan Infracore recognizes general business obtain a thorough understanding of Doosan Infracore’s financial results express a reasonable assurance conclusion. management and social responsibility management comprehenand position, the audited financial statements produced on 29 March sively and applies such understanding within the Report. 2018 should be referred to. This report has been prepared solely for Doosan Infracore in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We do not accept or assume Responsibilities responsibility to anyone other than Doosan Infracore for our work, or for • Materiality As stated in the ‘Reporting Principles and Standard,’ Doosan Infracore the conclusions we have reached in the assurance report. – Doosan Infracore conducts a materiality test in determining material is responsible for all content within the Report in respect of the GRI issues. Sustainability Reporting Standards. It is the responsibility of Doosan Main Assurance Procedures – We are not aware of any material aspects concerning its sustainInfracore’s management to establish and maintain appropriate Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether ability performance which have been excluded from the Report. performance management and internal control systems from which the the Report is presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with reported sustainability information is derived. the reporting criteria. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance on a sustainability report consists of making inquiries, • Completeness Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement and to primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information – Doosan Infracore applies reporting scope, boundary and temporal express a conclusion based on the work performed. presented in the integrated report, and applying analytical and other criteria. evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures – In terms of criteria mentioned above, we confirm that the Report is Independence included the following: suitable for stakeholders to assess social responsibility performance. In conducting our engagement, we have complied with the requirements • Confirmation on whether the financial information presented in of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for the Report was correctly derived from Doosan Infracore’s audited Professional Accountants , issued by the International Ethics Standards financial statements Board for Accountants. We do not engage in any and all activities that • Inquiries to gain an understanding of Doosan Infracore’s processes may influence our independence from Doosan Infracore. KPMG has for determining the material issues for key stakeholder groups systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code, and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business unit levels responsible for providing the information in the Report • Visit to Doosan Infracore’s offices in Doosan Tower • Comparing the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, Doosan Infracore’s performance on corporate social responsibility 106 107 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report Global Network Headquarters Production Subsidiaries Sales Subsidiaries Parts Distribution Center Headquarters Production Subsidiaries Sales Subsidiaries UN Global Compact – 10 Principles Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Seoul, Korea | Yantai, China | Human Rights Beijing, China | Chennai, India | Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon, Korea 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon, Korea proclaimed human rights; and The paper used in printing the 2017 Doosan Infracore Integrated Report is Americana, Brazil | Santiago, Chile | certified as an environmental-friendly product by the Forest Stewardship Council®. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. In addition, the report was printed at a FSC-certified print shop using soy oil ink Elnesvågen, Norway | Doosan Infracore (China) Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Labor Standards which drastically reduces the emissions of air pollutants. Groot-Ammers, Netherlands | Investment Co., Ltd. 185, Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Suwanee, U.S. | Prague, Czech Republic Business Locations in Korea 19th Fl., Tower B., Gateway, No. 18, Jeollabuk-do, Korea recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Xiaguangli, North Road, East Third Ring, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Seoul Office Doosan Tower, 275, Jangchungdan-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and +82-2-3398-8114 Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, China Doosan Infracore China Co., Ltd. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. No. 28, Wuzhishan road, ECO & Tech. Parts Distribution Center (PDC) Incheon Plant 489, Injung-ro, Dong-gu, Incheon Environment +82-32-211-1114 Doosan (China) Financial Leasing Development Zone Yantai, Shandong, Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Gunsan Plant 185, Dongjangsan-ro, Gunsan-si, Jeollabuk-do Corp. China Ansan, Korea | Yantai, China | challenges; +82-63-447-3043 20th Fl., Tower B., Gateway, No. 18, Leipzig, Germany | Dubai | Singapore | Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Ansan Parts 48, Yongdam-ro, Sangnok-gu, Ansan-si, Gyeonggi-do Xiaguangli, North Road, East Third Ring, Doosan Infracore Norway AS. Americana, Brazil | Miami, U.S. | Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Service Center +82-31-400-2114 Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, China Chicago, U.S. | Cardiff, U.K. technologies. Varholvegen 149 N-6440 Elnesvågen, Date Published June 2018 Norway Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Publishing Team CSR Part, Communication, Doosan Infracore extortion and bribery. E-mail: csr.di@doosan.com Planning and Design Talantone Creative Group Doosan Infracore supports UNGC – Ten Principles. 108
