Annual Report KEY DATA 2017 LANXESS Group € million Q4 2016 Q4 2017 Change in % 2016 2017 Change in % Sales 1,915 2,337 22.0 7,699 9,664 25.5 Gross profit 370 482 30.3 1,754 2,145 22.3 Gross profit margin 19.3% 20.6% 22.8% 22.2% EBITDA pre exceptionals1) 183 248 35.5 995 1,290 29.6 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals1) 9.6% 10.6% 12.9% 13.3% EBITDA1) 162 214 32.1 945 1,072 13.4 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals1) 56 84 50.0 514 695 35.2 EBIT1) 35 49 40.0 464 434 (6.5) EBIT margin1) 1.8% 2.1% 6.0% 4.5% Net income (loss) 2 (49) < (100) 192 87 (54.7) Earnings per share (€) 0.02 (0.54) < (100) 2.10 0.95 (54.7) Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets (€)2) 0.24 0.44 83.3 2.69 4.14 53.9 Dividend per share (€) 0.70 0.80 7) 14.3 ROCE3) 6.9% 9.3% Cash flow from operating activities 157 333 > 100 689 868 26.0 Depreciation and amortization 127 165 29.9 481 638 8) 32.6 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 211 260 23.2 439 547 24.6 Total assets 9,877 10,396 5.3 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 3,728 3,413 (8.4) Equity ratio4) 37.7% 32.8% Provisions for pensions 1,249 1,490 19.3 Net financial liabilities5) 2,394 2,252 (5.9) Net financial liabilities after deduction of time deposits and securities available for sale6) 269 2,252 > 100 Employees 16,721 19,029 13.8 Personnel expenses (€ million) 1,467 1,663 13.4 Work-related injuries resulting in at least 1 day’s absence (per million hours worked) 2.0 1.7 (15.0) Hire rate of apprentices in Germany 81.0% 80.0% Turnover resulting (from voluntary resignations) 2.45% 2.34% Specific energy consumption 2.2 (gigajoules per metric ton of product) 7.14 7.30 Specific Scope 1 CO2e emissions (CO2 equivalents, metric tons per metric ton of product) 0.26 0.28 7.7 Specific Scope 2 CO2e emissions (CO2 equivalents, metric tons per metric ton of product) 0.459) 0.46 2.2 Emissions of volatile organic compounds (in thousand metric tons) 4.7 4.9 4.3 1) E BIT: earnings before interest and taxes. 3) R  OCE: EBIT pre exceptionals in relation to capital employed (total assets less EBIT pre exceptionals: EBIT disregarding exceptional charges and income. ­deferred tax assets and interest-free liabilities). See “Value Management and EBIT margin: EBIT in relation to sales. ­C ontrol System” for details of capital employed. EBITDA: EBIT before depreciation of property, plant and equipment and 4) E  quity ratio: equity in relation to total assets. ­amortization of intangible assets, less reversals of impairment charges on property, 5) S  um of current and non-current financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued plant, equipment and intangible assets. interest) less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. See “Value Management EBITDA pre exceptionals: EBITDA disregarding exceptional charges and income. and Control System” for details. EBITDA margin pre exceptionals: EBITDA pre exceptionals in relation to sales. 6) S  ee “Value Management and Control System” for details of the financial assets See “Value Management and Control System” for details. deducted. 2) E arnings per share pre exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets: 7) D  ividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2018. earnings per share disregarding exceptional charges and income, amortization 8) N  et of reversals of write-downs of €1 million. of intangible assets and attributable tax effects as well as non-recurring earnings 9) F  igure restated. effects of the U.S. tax reform. See “Business Performance of the LANXESS Group” for details. CONTENTS 02 To Our Stockholders 03 Letter from the CEO 05 Strategy 11 Corporate Responsibility 12 CR Management 23 Employees 34 Value Creation Chain 46 Corporate Citizenship 48 LANXESS on the Capital Market 51 Corporate Governance 52 Corporate Governance Report 59 Report of the Supervisory Board 63 Financial Information 64 Combined Management Report 117 Consolidated Financial Statements 181 Responsibility Statement 182 Auditor’s Report 187 Further Information 188 About This Report 190 Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report 192 GRI Content Index 199 Glossary 203 Financial Calendar/Contacts ✓ Audited disclosures of the LANXESS Group that are included in the 2017 separate non-financial ­c onsolidated report. LANXESS AT A GLANCE Group Structure Segments Advanced Specialty Performance Engineering ARLANXEO Intermediates Additives Chemicals Materials Advanced Industrial Additives Inorganic Pigments High Performance Tire & Specialty Intermediates Materials Rubbers Rhein Chemie Leather Business units Saltigo Urethane Systems High Performance Material Protection Elastomers Products Liquid Purification Technologies ›› Agrochemicals ›› Plastics and ›› Disinfection ›› Automotive ›› Automotive rubber additives ›› Protection and ›› Construction ›› Construction ›› Phosphorus-­ ­preservation ›› Medical ›› Aroma and flavors based and of wood, technology ›› Pharmaceuticals ›› Electrical/ Applications ­brominated flame ­construction ›› Tire chemicals retardants ­materials, coatings electronics ›› Semiconductors ›› Plastics additives and foodstuffs ›› Mining and photovoltaics such as flame ›› Color pigments ›› Tires and wheel ­retardants and ›› Materials for ›› Oil and gas plasticizers ­leather ­production ›› Industrial and ›› Lubricants and water m ­ echanical treatment products Market Europe no. 1–2 Top 3 position No. 1–4 in niches Leading position Globally no. 1–3 positions LANXESS Annual Report 2017 GLOBAL LANXESS at a glance Global PRESENCE presence 42.2% 41.0% 27.9% 15.4% 16.8% 19.2% 17.6% 13.9% 9.3% Germany 28.2% 25.0% Asia-Pacific North America 19.6% 9.3% 7.5% 7.1% EMEA w/o Germany Latin America Employees Sales Payments for investments LANXESS Annual Report 2017 » L ANXESS IS GENERATING PROFITABLE GROWTH. OUR JOURNEY IS FAR FROM OVER.« Letter from the CEO 03 LETTER FROM THE CEO 2017 was a year in which LANXESS made great strides. We chemicals business of the Belgian chemicals group Solvay. This re­alig­ned our company while achieving the best results in its acquisition is another example of our rigorous implementation history. LANXESS is now a repositioned global group – profitable, of our growth strategy, focused on medium-sized markets and stable and fast-growing. the regions of North America and Asia. The acquisition of the U.S. company Chemtura at the end of April Since spring, we have also been supporting our growth with 2017 – the biggest in our history – was a key strategic milestone. the newly created dLX Group function for digitalization. Across It has made us one of the most important players on the global functions, countries and all business units, it works on various additive market, and the acquired Urethanes and ­Organometallics initiatives to actively shape the digital future of our Group. divisions have given us a foothold in new business areas. As a result, the “New LANXESS” is taking shape more quickly than To us, being future-proof also means operating in a sustainable, expected. responsible way. We have firmly embedded the principle of sustainable development in our corporate strategy. In our view, this LANXESS is generating profitable growth. However, our journey philosophy also includes fulfilling our responsibility to humankind is far from over. In the years ahead, we aim to enhance quality and the environment all over the world. We re-emphasized this in within the Group and boost income even further. We have set 2017 with our commitment to the principles of the U.N. Global ambitious new medium-term financial targets. From fiscal year Compact. 2021, our average operating margin – measured by EBITDA pre exceptionals – is expected to be between 14% and 18% over a Our great success in 2017 was the result of hard work and would business cycle. In addition, we intend to carry out ­further ­rigorous not have been possible without a strong team. We achieved a differentiation of our product range, increase our regional diverhuge amount last year and can be proud of that. The whole Board sification even more and continue to reduce our dependency of Management would like to thank all employees worldwide for on individual sectors. their dedication and sound collaboration with our customers. We regard organic growth as crucial to achieving our goals. ConWe are making good progress, and our tireless work is bearing sequently, we will invest around €400 million across all segments fruit. My fellow Board of Management members and I would like by 2020, thus further strengthening our international sites as well to thank all our shareholders for their continued confidence in us. as our large domestic sites in Germany. However, we also aim to Let us keep on working hard together to ensure that LANXESS maintain our inorganic growth; in 2017, we significantly enhanced remains successful. our additives segment, and in 2018 we acquired the phosphorous Matthias Zachert Chairman of the Board of Management LANXESS Annual Report 2017 04 Letter from the CEO THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT THANKS ALL OF THE GROUP’S EMPLOYEES AND THE EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES FOR THEIR WORK IN FISCAL YEAR 2017. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 STRATEGY LANXESS 2021: leading positions, more stable and with a stronger cash flow 06 Strategy The Success Story Continues In an increasingly volatile political and economic environment, we have managed to get LANXESS back onto a sound footing. However, the Group’s development is far from complete. With a clear strategy, we aim to make full use of our potential and continue to post profitable growth for years to come. A CHANGING WORLD, requirements. In many cases, these requirements are driven by A CHANGING INDUSTRY sustainability. More than ever, chemical companies are required to take responsibility for their products and production processes Change is anything but an unknown quantity in the chemical – from the acquisition of raw materials to disposal. Their innovation industry. For more than a century, our industry has constantly dem­ is focused on solutions that will help overcome major challenges to onstrated its capacity and willingness for change and helped to society such as climate change, shortage of drinking water and the shape or indeed enabled technical and social progress. Now, the ability to feed a growing world population. In particular, digitalization pace of change has taken on a new dimension, but by no means will significantly change processes, working conditions and value can all changes be regarded as progress. chains in the chemical industry in the years ahead. In the political sphere, protectionism is back on the agenLANXESS will play an active role in shaping the change in its da, and many places have suddenly reverted to putting national markets, even in these challenging conditions. The right attitude ­interests ahead of overcoming major global challenges together. and a clear strategy are the keys to success here. We aim to live All these political tensions are causing increased volatility and out a team-oriented and performance-oriented culture and speed uncertainty. Fluctuating currencies and commodity prices, trade up our ability to think and act even more. Our strategy is geared sanctions and protective tariffs are also affecting the highly glotowards achieving an even better balance of our portfolio in terms balized chemical industry. All stages of the value chain are ­under of regional markets and customer industries and attaining leading extra pressure due to change processes within the industry such positions with all our businesses. as the ongoing wave of consolidation and stricter regulatory LANXESS Annual Report 2017 The Success Story Continues 07 REALIGNMENT IMPLEMENTED Milestones of the Realignment 01 02 03 Competitiveness of Operational Competitiveness the business and competitiveness of the business portfolio administrative and alliances structure ›› Consolidation of business units and ›› Manufacturing excellence: ›› Evaluation of portfolio options for a Group functions with similar business ›› Analyze and adjust asset base better-balanced corporate structure models ›› Evaluate mothballings and site closures ›› Consider alliances to improve ›› Improve customer and market focus and ›› Implementation of operational best c­ ompetitive access to raw material leverage synergies practices e.g., for r­ ubber business ›› Develop leaner administrative ›› Optimization of supply chain ›› Improved market access through s­ tructures by restructuring and ­marketing partnerships ­adjusting business models Basis for New LANXESS (segments Advanced Intermediates, Specialty Additives, Performance Chemicals, Engineering Materials) Leaner management, Implementation of best practices, Foundation of ARLANXEO, €150 million in savings €150 million in savings acquisition of Chemtura CULTURE OF SUCCESS AND TEAMWORK We reached key milestones in the context of our strategy with All these organizational measures were accompanied by our realignment program of New LANXESS. A new and more actively managed cultural change. Each and every employee at efficient organizational structure and extensive optimization of LANXESS is expected to display an entrepreneurial mindset, to our business units and Group functions have not only brought act quickly in a solution-oriented manner and to be open to new us closer to our markets and customers but also sustainably approaches. We aim to live out quality and sustainability in all ­reduced our cost position by around €150 million. As a result of their dimensions as we regard this as an essential requirement our ­program to optimize our production, sales and supply chains, of our business operations. Renewed inclusion in the Dow Jones we will achieve further cost savings of €150 million a year by the Sustainability Index World, incorporation in the Dow Jones Sustain­ end of 2019. In Saudi Aramco, we have found a strong partner for ability Index Europe and confirmation of our place in the “Climate our synthetic rubbers business, and together we have successfully A List” of the Carbon Disclosure Project provided emphatic proof positioned the new strategic alliance ARLANXEO. The acquisition in the reporting year that our claim of “Good for business, good of ­Chemtura, which we completed sooner than expected, marks for society” is a lived-out commitment and not an empty slogan. a major step towards a more balanced, more profitable portfolio. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 08 Strategy MAINTAINING GROWTH, ENHANCING We have expanded our “Manufacturing Excellence” initiative STABILITY AND PROFITABILITY to the former Chemtura production sites to ensure that their processes and technologies are also optimized further. Our first We have paved the way for stable growth for our company. major measure will be to close the former Chemtura Ankerweg However, our journey is far from over. Not all our businesses have site in Amsterdam (Netherlands) by November 2018 at the latest. attained the intended leading positions in their respective marWe can produce the volume of base oils we need to cover prokets. And we have not yet caught up with the leading companies duction of our own high-performance lubricants and additional in our industry in terms of profitability. Therefore, we aim to make market demand at our Elmira site in Canada. full use of our potential and accelerate our profitable growth in In addition, we are constantly analyzing and optimizing the cost the years ahead. To achieve this, we will be building especially structures of our own established businesses. For instance, in the on our strengths in mid-sized markets. Here, we can offer our reporting year, we bundled the international chrome ­value chain customers an attractive combination – the professionalism of a of our Leather business unit in South Africa at the Newcastle and global chemical company coupled with the customer proximity Merebank sites. In line with this, production of s­ odium dichromate and agility of a specialized niche provider. These advantages, and chrome tanning salts at the Zárate site in A ­ rgentina was disalong with mostly above-average growth rates in these markets, continued in the fourth quarter of 2017. create very good prospects for LANXESS. Our strategic measures extend beyond the year 2021 and Driving forward organic growth cover several areas of activity. In order to further improve the positioning of our existing businesses and leverage future growth potential, we will invest Disciplined cost management with a focus around €400 million in our organic growth across all segments on integration and synergies by 2020. A host of measures with considerable combined poThe operational integration of Chemtura was completed tential lie behind this figure. They include plant optimization and in 2017. We now aim to achieve cost synergies of €100 million expansion at the networked aromatics production site in Leverkuby 2020. sen as well as increases in capacity for high-performance plastics. The planned projects are intended to generate an ­aver­age return on capital employed (ROCE) of 20%. Investments: Profitable Organic Growth by 2020 Advanced Specialty Performance Engineering Segment Intermediates Additives Chemicals Materials Volume ~ €150 million €50 –100 million €50 –100 million €50 –100 million Focus on brownfield Investment in technology Investment in a­ pplication Expansion of low capital ­investments to strengthen and process upgrades technology and intense downstream Instruments “Verbund” platform and and product development ­customer solutions assets to further improve reinforce cost advantage product mix Total capex of ~ €400 million with expected average ROCE of 20% LANXESS Annual Report 2017 The Success Story Continues 09 Achieving an even more balanced portfolio LANXESS 2021: LEADING Even after the acquisition of Chemtura, reducing economic POSITIONS, MORE STABLE AND dependency on individual sectors or closely correlated markets is WITH A STRONGER CASH FLOW still an important element of our strategy. For instance, we intend to increase our presence in attractive customer industries with In our target scenario, LANXESS will be a stable specialty innovative product applications. Products that help to overcome chemical group with a strong cash flow and with a more balanced major challenges to society, as described in the Sustainable portfolio from 2021. We have strengthened our regional presDevelopment Goals, for example, will play a key role here. In ence in North America and Asia and reduced our dependency regional terms, too, we aim to achieve an even better balance in on individual regional developments. With regard to customer our portfolio by increasing the sales share of the growth markets markets, we have reduced our dependency on individual indusof Asia and North America. We have defined clear criteria for tries and instead improved our position in growth sectors and development of our portfolio: In the future, we will only operate attractive markets where we already operate. All our businesses businesses or include them in our portfolio if we can achieve have attained a leading position in their markets or have prospects leading market positions and sustainably generate attractive of doing so in the foreseeable future. margins with them. Digital transformation launched Since the spring of 2017, we have also been supporting our growth with the newly created dLX Group function for ­digitalization. Across functions, countries and all business units, it works on various initiatives to actively shape the digital future of our Group. Our Aims: Higher Profitability and Stability 2013 2016 Until 2021 How we started again What we have achieved What we aim for EBITDA pre margin (average margin over a 8–10% 10–14% 14–18% business cycle) Margin volatility HIGH MEDIUM LOW 2–3% pts Underlying growth: Sustainable growth > GDP growth targeted LANXESS Annual Report 2017 10 Strategy The improved positioning is also likely to be reflected in the In times of change, LANXESS is well placed to achieve its fi­ nancial figures of LANXESS. To this end, we set new medium­growth targets. By following our clear strategic guidelines, we term financial targets in 2017. From fiscal year 2021, our average aim to evolve into an even stronger company that is sustainable operating margin – measured by EBITDA pre exceptionals – is in every respect, and we can do this: with a diversified, stable expected to be between 14% and 18% over a business cycle. The platform, increased profitability and, not least, a corporate culture earnings margin of each year is expected to fluctuate around the based on commitment and enthusiasm. We firmly believe that average by a maximum of two to three percentage points. In terms we can create even better value in this way in the future – for our of volume, LANXESS is expected to steadily grow faster than global shareholders, customers, employees and society. economic output. A sound investment-grade rating will remain a strict goal of our conservative financing policy. Accordingly, we also intend to use our increased earning power to substantially reduce our net financial debt. Strategic Guidelines 01 Raw material supplies Our value chains originate 06 from liquid global raw 02 material markets. Growth Sustainable products Higher resilience and sites in a challenging market We are leveraging environment long-term growth We manufacture our potential in Asia and products at competitive the U.S. and sustainable chemical sites. Higher profitability as a result of quality, service and 05 03 competitiveness Sales markets Competitiveness We focus on mid-sized Our costs are competitive markets worldwide. across the value chain. Stable growth in attractive markets 04 Value chains We strengthen efficient and integrated value chains. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 100% of the product portfolio is analyzed on the basis of sustainability aspects 12 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Audited disclosures of the LANXESS Group that are included in the 2017 separate non-financial ­consolidated report. Good for Business, Good for Society In an increasingly volatile political and economic environment, values-based, responsible and reliable business conduct is more important than ever before. LANXESS has always had a keen sense of its corporate responsibility. Our clear strategic guidelines, our values and our governance structures constitute a sound foundation for making our profitable growth sustainable in every way in the years ahead. We see it as our corporate responsibility to create lasting value custom synthesis of active substances and precursors in the field of for all stakeholders and therefore to very consciously address the plant protection, we are helping to make modern agriculture more impact of our actions. Our company is future-proof if our strategy productive and sustainable, thus ensuring that an ever-growing globbalances the demands of the economy, ecology and society. We al population is supplied with food. Furthermore, our water-treatment encourage dialog with our stakeholders in order to identify, assess products help to guar­antee water supply at all levels worldwide. and actively manage all aspects of our actions, both positive and Within the context of the LANXESS education initiative, we are negative. Added value for society is a guiding principle as we work particularly promoting scientific education of children, young people to create lasting value for our company. and young adults around our production facilities. Three tools help us to understand where and to what extent On a quantitative level, in 2017, we calculated all reliably added value for society is created or diminished by our activities. quantifiable positive and negative direct impacts of our activities They enable us to pay even more attention to the impact on society (“gate-to-gate”) for the first time in an impact analysis in the form as a whole in our decision-making and to make the best possible of gross value added after impact. Using this method, the strategic use of human, natural and financial resources in the interest of challenges facing the chemical industry can be addressed in a sustainable development. targeted, efficient way. This involves generating consistent growth On a qualitative level, we analyze the social contribution of our in a resource-efficient manner, avoiding harmful emissions into products in an annual evaluation of the sustainability profile of our the air, soil and water and ensuring the safe handling of chemical product range. In addition, in the reporting year, we performed a products along the value chain while delivering a long-term in­ detailed analysis of how much our corporate activities and initiatives crease in social added value through the use of industrial products. are helping to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Detailed information on all three tools can be found on the of the U.N.’s Agenda 2030. For instance, we are paving the way for LANXESS website in the Corporate Responsibility, Societal more climate-friendly mobility with our technical high-performance Added Value section. plastics for the automobile industry. With our proven expertise in LANXESS Annual Report 2017 CR Management 13 ACTIVE STAKEHOLDER DIALOG SYSTEMATICALLY PRIORITIZING ✓ ­SUSTAINABILITY The stakeholders of relevance to LANXESS are the groups, institutions and people with whom we are linked directly or indiIdentifying the main effects of our business operations and rectly through our business activities and who therefore have a taking our stakeholders’ concerns into account in our strategy justified interest in what we do. Our most important stakeholder forms the basis of our sustainability management. Against this groups are customers, employees, capital market participants, background, we again performed a materiality analysis that comsuppliers, the media, neighbors of our sites and representatives plied with the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) of politics, public authorities and non-governmental organizations in the reporting year. This is an important tool that enables us to (NGOs). We engage in intensive dialog with all of these groups systematically prioritize the various areas of activity and deploy with a view to encouraging mutual understanding and build trust resources as effectively as possible. The materiality analysis is through an open and constructive exchange of views and con­ based on four principles: sustainability context, materiality, comstantly identifying the issues that they consider to be significant pleteness and stakeholder inclusiveness. in terms of our corporate responsibility. In 2016, a team of sustainability experts from various segYou will find an overview of the key issues and dialog forums ments started laying the foundations for an extensive overhaul of the relevant stakeholder groups as well as specific activities in of our key issues and deriving core aspects from our strategic the reporting year on the LANXESS website in the Corporate guidelines (see page 10). The results were finalized in our in-house Responsibility, Stakeholder Dialogue section. evaluation in 2017. As a result of our materiality analysis, we defined seven key sustainability issues that were confirmed by the Board of Management and the Corporate Responsibility Committee. The issue of “good corporate governance” constitutes the framework in which our overall business activities are carried out. Process of Materiality at LANXESS Selection Process Evaluation Process Approval and Reporting Objective Identify relevant Prioritize material Reporting of material topics sustainability topics topics ›› LANXESS strategic imperatives as basis ›› Clear criteria for the evaluation: ›› Testing and validation ›› (Potential) impact on value creation ›› Definition of ­reporting c­ ontents ›› Derivation of key sustainability topics ability considering… ›› Short-term importance  Final approval by Board of ›› market & sustainability trends ›› Perceived stakeholder interest/concern ­Management and CR ­Committee Methodology ›› regulatory & political environment ›› risk management  Evaluation by management and all ›› stakeholder relevance members of Board of M ­ anagement ›› topics on which LANXESS has high impact  P  re-selection of topics by core team of sustainability experts Result Longlist of relevant topics Final set of material topics Reporting in Annual Report 2017 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 14 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Material Topics o r p o r a t e G o ve r n a n od C ce Go Valuing Resilient Customer Sourcing Relations Safe and Business-Driven Sustainable Innovation Material Sites topics Climate Sustainable Action and Energy Product Efficiency Portfolio Energized Employees and Performing Teams We have formulated specific targets for all key issues. Their The results of our materiality analysis are particularly recommon aim is to generate added value for our stakeholders flected in a correspondingly adapted structure of our external through our operating activities while improving the quality of life reporting on corporate responsibility. for present and future generations. Consequently, one element of the variable compensation for the first and second management levels below the Board of Management is the extent to which certain targets are attained. LANXESS Sustainability Targets Area Target Indicator Target Status Quo 2017 Page Date Good Corporate Governance Good corporate governance is the foundation ensuring that LANXESS creates sustainable value in alignment with stakeholder expectations. At LANXESS this is expressed in a value-based performance and safety culture, effective risk management processes and our commitment to recognized governing ­principles such as the UN global compact. Anti-corruption No corruption cases Number of participants in compliContinuous Over 2,000 employees took part in 22 ance training in the reporting compliance training. year There was a low single-digit number of cases of passive corruption. Human rights No human rights violations Percentage of the procurement Continuous TfS-audited suppliers account for 21 spend placed with TfS-audited 70% (previous year: 60%) of our suppliers relevant procurement spend. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 CR Management 15 Area Target Indicator Target Status Quo 2017 Page ✓ Date Resilient Sourcing Our value chains start from a diverse, sustainable raw material portfolio. We engage with our suppliers and relevant stakeholders to improve the working and environmental conditions in the global supply chains. Suppliers’ sustainability Continuous increase in the Percentage of the procurement Continuous TfS-audited suppliers account 34 standards percentage of TfS-audited spend placed with TfS-audited for 70% (previous year: 60%) of suppliers suppliers our relevant procurement spend. The relevant procurement spend includes all suppliers from which we buy goods or services amounting to more than €20,000 each year. Safe and Sustainable Sites We manufacture sustainable products at competitive and sustainable chemical sites. Continuous process improvements and investments are fundamental for our sustained success. We care about the community. Global standards and Integration of all locations Degree of coverage in relation Continuous Our matrix certificate covered 49 18 processes (except Rustenburg) in the to sites certifiable companies with 81 sites global matrix certificate in 23 countries. This is e ­ quivalent to coverage of 84% (incl. C ­ hemtura). Global process safety Continuous reduction in Number of reportable Continuous Eight incidents relating to plant 35 incidents relating to plant and incidents relating to plant and process safety process safety and process safety Continuous reduction in Number of reportable Continuous One environmental incident 35 environmental incidents environmental incidents Continuous reduction in Number of reportable transport Continuous One transport incident 36 transport incidents incidents Climate Action and Energy Efficiency Climate action based on efficient energy use is the right thing to do for society and also a key to delivering financial performance in the long-term. Emissions1) Reduction in specific Scope 1 Specific Scope 1 CO2e emissions End of 2025 The acquisition of Chemtura led 40 CO2e emissions by 25% for to an increase in specific Scope 1 the LANXESS Group emissions. Reduction in specific Scope 2 Specific Scope 2 CO2e emissions End of 2025 Specific Scope 2 emissions 40 CO2e emissions by 25% for increased slightly compared to the the LANXESS Group previous year. Reduction in emissions of Emissions of volatile organic End of 2025 Specific VOC emissions were 41 volatile organic compounds compounds (NMVOC) maintained at a stable, low level. (NMVOC) by 25% An improvement can therefore be reported compared to the base year 2015. Energy consumption1) Reduction in specific energy Specific energy consumption End of 2025 The acquisition of Chemtura led 42 consumption by 25% for the to a year-on-year increase in both LANXESS Group absolute and specific energy consumption. There has been progress since the base year 2015. 1) Basis: Dec. 31, 2015 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 16 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Area Target Indicator Target Status Quo 2017 Page Date Energized Employees and Performing Teams We create a motivating, energetic and health-preserving working environment for all employees, striving for high engagement and impact. We nurture and promote a value-based, performance-orientated culture. We aim to be an attractive employer and to develop peoples’ full potential throughout their professional life. Employee retention High retention in all regions Turnover resulting from voluntary 2018 onward Turnover resulting from voluntary 25 resignations resignations continued to fall to 2.34%. Training Hire rate of at least 80% on compleHire rate of apprentices in 2018 onward The number of apprentices 24 tion of apprenticeship Germany ­increased by around 20% ­compared to 2016. 80% of apprentices were hired. Occupational safety Continuous reduction of reportable LTIFR By end of The LTIFR was 1.7 and thus consid32 accidents by >50% (as against 2025 erably below the figure from 2016. LTIFR 2.0 in 2016) Diversity Increase proportion of women in Proportion of women in senior By end of 18.28% women 27 senior and middle management and middle management 2020 to 20% At least one female Board of One woman on the Board of June 30, Not yet achieved 27 ­Management member Management 2022 Increase proportion of women on Proportion of women on first level June 30, 11.6% women 27 first level below Board of Managebelow Board of Management 2022 ment to 15% Increase proportion of women Proportion of women on second June 30, 23.9% women 27 on second level below Board of level below Board of Management 2022 Management to 25% Sustainable Product Portfolio Our products are manufactured and marketed so that they do not pose a risk to human or the environment. We systematically evaluate the sustainability of our entire portfolio. Sustainability criteria are applied in the development of products and applications. Analysis of the product 100% of the portfolio analyzed in Sales share of analyzed products Continuous The entire product portfolio was 44 portfolio in terms of terms of sustainability in the entire portfolio systematically analyzed in terms of sustainability sustainability. Business-Driven Innovation We drive process, product, application and business model oriented innovation for and together with our customers and suppliers. We help our customers to make their business sustainable. Long-term, continuous Develop innovative products on Number of product-based Continuous 238 projects (previous year: 176) 44 f., 72 product, application and the basis of the needs and expectaprojects aimed to develop new products and process development tions of our customers applications or improve existing ones. Continuous enhancement of our Number of process-based Continuous 122 projects (previous year: 94) 44 f., 72 production processes in order projects concerned process technology to maintain competitiveness and issues with a view to reducing costs, achieve our climate and energy improving efficiency or increasing efficiency targets capacity. Valuing Customer Relations We value long-term customer relations, build on trust and knowing, understanding and solving the customers challenges. Long-term customer Increase customer satisfaction Customer retention index 2019 The anonymized online survey 45 relationship and retention ­c arried out by the business units every two years gave a value of 75.4 in the 2017/2018 period and is thus on a par with the last survey cycle. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 CR Management 17 ✓ GOOD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Risk Committee ✓ The Corporate Risk Committee examines and monitors the Only appropriate values, operational guidelines and organizaGroup’s risk profile as well as regularly analyzes the key oppor­ tional structures – summed up as good corporate governance – tunities, risks and corresponding preventive measures relating enable our employees to act responsibly in their day-to-day work to sustainability. Our opportunity and risk management system is and thus turn a relatively abstract concept into a specific corpodescribed in detail in the combined management report starting rate success factor. At LANXESS, good corporate governance on page 63 of this Annual Report. is embodied by a values-based and safety-conscious corporate culture, effective management systems and a commitment to Corporate Responsibility (CR) Committee internationally recognized principles of responsible management The members of this committee represent all LANXESS busisuch as the U.N. Global Compact. ness units and ensure that all LANXESS’s CR activities within the Group are in line with our strategy. As an interdisciplinary Committees and functions competence center, the committee advises both the Board of As part of our Group strategy, sustainability is regularly the Management and the business units on all matters relating to subject of decision-making processes in the Board of Managesustainability. It is also responsible for collecting and maintaining ment. We have established various committees below Board of reliable data that comply with current market standards for use Management and Supervisory Board level to ensure compliance in our external CR communications. with and the ongoing optimization of our strategy as well as our rules and standards. HSEQ Committee As one of the leading senior committee of LANXESS the Compliance organization HSEQ Committee ensures worldwide compliance with uniformThe global compliance organization is the central point of ly high quality management, safety, environmental, energy and contact for all employees on compliance-related issues. It also climate protection standards. It has responsibility for initiating works with the organizational units to develop measures intended and monitoring the global implementation of all necessary HSEQ to counter illegal or unethical conduct by LANXESS employees guidelines, strategies and programs as well as for defining our at an early stage and to prevent improprieties. Our compliance HSEQ objectives and monitoring their achievement. It also defines management system is described in detail in the Corporate Gover­­ the global strategy for our integrated quality and environmental nance Report starting on page 51 of this Annual Report. management system and our energy management system. Responsibilities at Board Level Supervisory Board Matthias Zachert Michael Pontzen Rainer van Roessel Hubert Fink CEO CFO Board Board Compliance Organization Corporate Risk Committee CR1) Committee HSEQ2) Committee Group Compliance ­O fficers and Senior executives Representatives from business Senior executives local C ­ ompliance Officers units and Group functions ›› Administering the CMS 3) ›› Reviewing and monitoring ›› Interdisciplinary ­competence ›› Defining the global ›› Supporting the organization overall risk profile center, advising the Board HSEQ2) guidelines, strategies regarding compliance ›› Analyzing material risks and of Management on matters and programs ›› Developing preventive opportunities incl. sustainabil­relating to sustainability ›› Setting and monitoring the activities ity topics HSEQ2) goals Continuous development of the sustainability strategy as part of the Corporate Strategy 1) Corporate Responsibility 2) Health, Safety, Environment and Quality 3) Compliance Management System LANXESS Annual Report 2017 18 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Integrated management system independently. Our Rustenburg site in South Africa, which is a At LANXESS, a central management system provides the chrome ore mine, cannot be assigned to LANXESS’s other chemi­ necessary global structures in all business processes to e ­ nsure cal industry businesses in the matrix certificate. We are therefore re­sponsible commercial practices. Worldwide, we apply the seeking separate ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certification for this ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 international standards for quality site in 2018. and environmental management and ISO 50001 for energy As of December 31, 2017, our matrix certificate covered ✓ management. 49 certifiable companies (companies with employees and in Confirmation of our compliance with ISO 9001 and which LANXESS has a holding of more than 50%, as well as ISO 14001 takes the form of a global matrix certificate. This certi­ ­ARLANXEO­companies) with a total of 81 sites in 23 countries. ficate brings with it a number of advantages: Excluding Chemtura, this equates to coverage of 98% in relation to production sites and national headquarters. Taking into account ›› A high degree of process standardization the changed Group portfolio, coverage has fallen to 84%. We ›› Uniform company directives and operating procedures plan to successively integrate the new sites into the LANXESS ›› Transparent, efficient and effective procedures and controls management system over a three-year timescale. Once this inte›› Substantially reduced external effort for maintaining and opgration process is complete, we will again be very close to fulfilling timizing the management system, for integrating other man­ our aim of covering all certifiable sites in our matrix certificate. agement systems (e.g. ISO 50001, sustainability standards) In addition, since 2012, we have successively obtained and for integrating new locations or business entities ISO 50001 certification for energy management for LANXESS AG and all Group companies in Germany. As of December 31, 2017, External, independent experts regularly audit the progress our certification coverage for energy management in Germany of integrating new sites into our management system and the stood at 100% in relation to headcount. The purchased former performance of our management system worldwide. We sucChemtura site in Bergkamen holds its own certificate. In the Neth✓ cessfully completed the audit once again in 2017. No new sites erlands, companies must carry out energy audits and implement were included in the matrix certificate in the reporting year. We cross-company efficiency measures as part of an energy policy now intend to complete the inclusion of our production site in agreement. Our subsidiary LANXESS N.V. in Zwijndrecht, Belgium, Joo Koon (Singapore), originally planned for 2017, by mid-2018. was certified and included in the matrix certificate in the reporting With the Clean and Disinfect specialties business acquired in the year. In Great Britain, energy audits will be required for all sites in previous year, we took over three production sites – in Memphis the future due to the following the acquisition of Chemtura. They and North Kingstown, U.S., and Sudbury, Great Britain – as of must be conducted by the end of 2018. August 31, 2016. All these sites already had ISO 9001 and/or Additionally, LANXESS operates other specific management ISO 14001 certification. Integration of the Memphis and Sudbury systems and has further certifications, such as EMAS, RC14001 sites into the LANXESS management system will take place in (RC = Responsible Care®), OHSAS 18001 and KTA 1401 (­German 2018, and will be completed with inclusion in our matrix certificate Nuclear Safety Standards Commission). The status of our certifi✓ in 2019. We have now sold the Kingstown site. With just a few cates can be viewed at any time in the Corporate Responsibility exceptions, the sites gained with the acquisition of ­Chemtura are section of our website. already certified according to ISO 9001, and mostly also according to ISO 14001. These sites will initially maintain their certifications LANXESS Annual Report 2017 CR Management 19 ✓ ✓ Operational guidelines independently of legal requirements. By signing the Responsible Care® Global Charter, we have documented our commitment Commitment to international standards and frameworks to the visions and ethical principles of this initiative launched by The U.N. Global Compact is the world’s biggest and most the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). Our important initiative for responsible corporate governance. On corporate directives ensure that the principles of the charter are the basis of ten universal principles, it pursues the vision of an integrated into our management principles and corporate strategy. inclusive and sustainable global economy that benefits all people, Among the internationally recognized principles of business communities and markets. As a signatory, we acknowledge these activity to which we are committed are the employment standards principles to be an inalienable right. We again renewed our comof the International Labour Organization, an agency of the United mitment to the U.N. Global Compact for the 2017 reporting year. Nations. These are aimed at ensuring compliance with globally Responsible Care® is the name of the chemical industry’s recognized social standards and thereby improving the employinitiative to achieve progress in safety and environmental protection ment and living conditions of all people. The Ten Principles of the U.N. Global Compact Area Human rights Labor Environment Anti-corruption 1 Businesses should support 3 Businesses should uphold 7 Businesses should support 10 Businesses should work and respect the protection the freedom of association a precautionary approach to against corruption in all its of internationally proclaimed and the effective recognienvironmental challenges. forms, including extortion human rights. tion of the right to collective and bribery. 8 Businesses should underbargaining. 2 Businesses should make take initiatives to promote sure they are not complicit 4 Businesses should uphold greater environmental in human rights abuses. the elimination of all forms responsibility. Principle of forced and compulsory 9 Businesses should encourlabor. age the development and 5 Businesses should uphold diffusion of environmentally the effective abolition of friendly technologies. child labor. 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 20 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Company guidelines and regulations Clear Rules Provide Guidance Cor­ Principles of responsible business operations po­­rate and sustainable development Policy Code of conduct applicable throughout the Com­pliance Code Group requiring compliance with valid laws and international principles Detailed Group-wide regulations Group directives concerning specific areas of compliance Standard operating procedures, Regulations defined at process instructions operational level The principles of responsible business operations and sus­ of these LANXESS directives, more detailed regulations that also ✓ tainable development are expressed in our Corporate Policy, take account of local requirements are defined at the operational which defines our general corporate philosophy and the conduct level in standard operating procedures and process instructions, ­ex­pected of every single employee in relation to our stakeholders etc. The applicable directives, standard operating procedures and in a total of eleven guidelines. guidelines are accessible to all employees. Employees are also The “Code of conduct – Code for integrity and compliance at regularly informed of new and updated regulations relevant to them. LANXESS,” which is applicable throughout the Group, requires all We expect our suppliers to commit to our values and rules, our employees – across all organizational units, regions and hier­ especially the U.N. Global Compact, the ILO Labor Standards and archy levels – to behave lawfully and with integrity. Through correct the upholding and promotion of fundamental rights of ­employees, and proper conduct, each employee is required to contribute to and to establish adequate systems for ensuring legally compliant and preventing harm to LANXESS and increasing the company’s value responsible behavior. The LANXESS Supplier Code of C ­ onduct is over the long term. The code covers issues such as human rights, part of our communication with suppliers. When selecting suppliers, anticompetitive behavior, anti-corruption, data protection, occupa­ we insist that they recognize the principles set out in the code or tional, product and plant safety, and environmental protection. have established their own comparable rules and management Other Group directives, such as the HSE directives and the systems in line with the U.N. Global Compact. In addition, we proguideline on incentives, define the specific application of regula­ mote responsible action in the supply chain with our involvement tions in the individual areas of compliance covered by the code and in the Together for Sustainability initiative, which we operate jointly are binding on all employees throughout the Group. On the basis with 20 other international chemical companies (see page 34). LANXESS Annual Report 2017 CR Management 21 ✓ ✓ Values and culture such as occupational safety. If there are suspected human rights LANXESS’s identity is based on five central values: respect, violations, the Integrity Line and Compliance Helpdesk offer our ownership, trust, professionalism and integrity. These values apply employees and external third parties various ways to notify the always and everywhere – and to all employees. We seek to foster compliance organization – also anonymously if they wish. For the a corporate culture in which responsible and morally irreproachtime being, the Resource Line is also still available to the former able actions and striving for performance do not contradict but Chemtura companies. complement each other. We have no reports or knowledge of any systematic discrimination against LANXESS employees. This includes discrimination Human rights on the basis of race, skin color, age, gender, sexual orientation, In line with our values and operational guidelines, we are comorigin, religion, disability, trade union membership or political mitted in all our markets and supply chains to promoting respect for opinion. In individual cases, misconduct by employees in respect human rights at all times and systematically preventing child and of colleagues or third parties was reported. We will not tolerate forced labor, for example. At LANXESS, human rights and ethical verified misconduct and it will result in appropriate disciplinary principles apply without restriction, even if they are not stipulated measures up to and including dismissal. in the legislation of individual countries. Our target is formulated All acquisitions of companies or interests in companies are with corresponding clarity: in all areas over which LANXESS has subject to a careful due diligence process to ensure that human control, there should be no breaches of human rights. rights are also respected by the target company. Significant supThe respective site management, supported by our global pliers of goods and services are regularly the subject of supplier compliance organization and local compliance officers, is ­directly assessments in the context of TfS audits that include aspects responsible for ensuring the observance of human rights at all such as compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct. The times. At Group level, human rights are subject to regular evalua­ audits also cover compliance with human rights, including with tion as part of our risk management system. In 2016 and 2017, we regard to child labor and forced labor. In fiscal 2017, we received performed a risk assessment that specifically addressed human no reports or other indications of human rights violations by rights in a total of six national companies (Brazil, China, G ­ ermany, our suppliers. The same applies to child labor and forced labor. India, South Africa and the U.S.). This confirmed that there is a high We have also established the requisite processes in our level of awareness for the subject and that ­functioning mechanisms sales activities to ensure that we fulfill our responsibility. These ✓ are in place to prevent human rights violations. Furthermore, all particu­larly include our processes for central product m ­ onitoring organizational units at LANXESS and their business activities and trade compliance, especially regulations to prevent dual use. are subject to regular internal and external audits. It goes without ­Furthermore, we systematically examine the impacts of our products saying that these activities also include monitoring respect for on the society in the context of our portfolio analysis. human rights and – if necessary – the introduction of suitable measures to guarantee this. In fiscal year 2017, internal audits were performed in 50% of our country organizations worldwide. Our Code of Conduct includes unambiguous instructions regarding the respect of human rights. The code, which every new employee receives with their employment contract, is also an aspect of general training measures. In addition, we hold training sessions geared towards specific selected human rights issues LANXESS Annual Report 2017 22 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Anti-corruption All donations require approval from a member of the Board ✓ By signing the U.N. Global Compact, we have undertaken of Management after prior consultation with the compliance to actively counter all forms of corruption. Here too, our target organization. is no incidents. Prevention of corruption is part of our general To enhance our employees’ awareness of these rules of compliance management system. Organizational measures and conduct, the issue of corruption is regularly covered by compliregulations for setting up the compliance management system as ance training. In addition, we hold specific corruption training well as responsibilities for implementation, support and continuous aimed at exposed professional groups and countries. In total, over monitoring of the system are defined in a guideline applicable 2,000 employees took part in the compliance training sessions in throughout the Group. The respective site management, supported the reporting year. If there are indications of compliance violations, here too by our global compliance organization and local country our employees and external third parties can contact the complicompliance officers, is responsible for preventing instances of ance organization via the established reporting channels – also corruption at all times. anonymously if they wish. A Group-wide directive provides our employees with clear The Corporate Audit function examines and monitors impleguidance regarding incentives. Our employees are prohibited, mentation of our measures to prevent corruption. It applies various either directly or in connection with their professional duties, from analytical approaches and scopes here: offering personal advantages to the employees of other companies – in particular when initiating, awarding or handling an order or ›› Assessment of the risk of exposure to corruption as part of assignment. Our employees are likewise prohibited from accepting annual audit planning, and general monitoring of the internal such advantages or requesting them for themselves. Exceptions control system: all business units may be made for customary occasional or promotional gifts that ›› Transaction monitoring to ensure compliance with company are symbolic in nature and of low value. If an employee is offered regulations with an influence on the prevention of corruption such gifts, they must immediately notify their supervisor or the in the standard SAP system: at least 80% of all transactions compliance organization. (LANXESS subsidiaries excluding Chemtura) LANXESS may not grant advantages of any kind to public servants or other officials in Germany or abroad. When commisIn fiscal year 2017, we received no reports or other indisioning service providers who have contact with officials on behalf cations of cases of active corruption by LANXESS employees. of LANXESS, employees must likewise ensure compliance with Verified cases of corruption of LANXESS employees (passive the prohibition on corruption. As a basic principle, we do not pro­corruption) lead to appropriate disciplinary action up to dismissals vide financial support to political groupings or parties. LANXESS and ­consideration of further legal action. In fiscal year 2017, we is involved in large industrial associations, which we regard as recorded a low single-­digit number of cases of passive corruption, ­fundamental to representing our interests. We disclose contriwhich had no further significant effects for LANXESS. butions and spending on political activities transparently; details can be found at www.lanxess.com, Corporate Responsibility, Stakeholder Dialog at any time. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Employees 23 EMPLOYEES A focus on recruiting talent As part of our long-term, value-based corporate policy and LANXESS aims to be a company whose success is driven against the backdrop of demographic change, we are continuing by the personal commitment of each and every employee – fully to invest in well-qualified young talents – both apprentices and in keeping with our corporate claim of “Energizing Chemistry.” university graduates – and in experienced specialists and manTo make our values tangible and feasible in our everyday busiagers. Our global talent management activities are consistently ness, we have incorporated them in six operating principles – our aligned to the different strategies of our business units and their ­“Formula X”: seek solutions, keep it simple, take ownership, act specific demands in terms of employee qualifications. as a team, think new and act fast. A total of 824 new employees joined the company worldwide Our global HR activities are geared towards enabling our in fiscal year 2017. We hired 227 new employees in Germany. Our employees to apply these operating principles successfully. This focus was on the recruitment of specialists from various disciplines. makes them a key strategic success factor, especially in phase Our dialog-oriented HR marketing activities are geared of change. To support the wide-ranging change processes at ­towards target groups – pupils, apprentices, students, university LANXESS on a global basis across all business units and service graduates and people with professional experience – and convey functions, we set up an extensive HR transformation project in the an authentic picture of LANXESS as an employer. A core event second half of 2017. Redefinition of our HR strategy to support in 2017 was the summer school at the DWI Institute of RWTH our long-term corporate goals, organizational realignment of the Aachen University. HR function and standardized and optimized processes through Our international graduate trainee program is a key tool for digital tools are the focal points here. attracting young talent in Germany. Particularly highly qualified In operational terms, integration of Chemtura’s employees into master’s degree graduates are prepared for challenging spethe global LANXESS organization and further expansion of our cialist and managerial roles and gain experience abroad during talent management into a transparent, global approach were the the graduate trainee program itself. The programs are focused main elements of our HR work in the reporting year. A further focal on marketing as well as controlling & finance. 13 new graduate point in Germany was continuation of our wide-ranging “Xcare” trainees (eight women and five men) started their careers at demographic program. LANXESS in 2017. Interns who show outstanding performance have the opportunity to progress further as part of the “eXclusive” talent program. New Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male <30 13.5 37 17 53 19 51 9 17 23 75 30–49 21.5 55 30 102 19 65 10 27 15 84 >50 3 14 1 24 12 17 0 4 1 5 Total 38 106 48 179 50 133 19 48 39 164 in % <30 20.69 16.91 9.29 8.76 44.71 29.14 15.79 10.41 20.18 18.62 30–49 5.33 3.39 4.49 3.50 9.74 8.15 4.78 3.81 3.18 4.68 >50 1.90 1.22 0.20 0.79 4.31 1.97 0.00 1.24 2.45 1.51 Total 6.07 3.54 3.53 2.73 9.69 7.25 6.38 4.02 6.23 6.48 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 24 Corporate Responsibility ✓ Developing skilled workers within our own ranks Hire rate of apprentices and students on combined We have always given priority to training young people as a work and bachelor’s degree courses at LANXESS in % means of safeguarding the company’s future and as an element of our social responsibility. Vocational training is the foundation of 100 our strategy to develop our own skilled workers for our German 79 75 80 81 80 80 sites. To manage our training centrally, we have established a department in Leverkusen that is based in the Career Manage60 ment division and indirectly reports to the Head of HR Services 40 in Germany. It supports the scientific, technical and commercial apprentices as well as our students on combined work and study 20 courses. 206 apprentices started their training in eight technical, scien­ 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 tific and commercial careers at LANXESS Deutschland GmbH on September 1, 2017. This represents a significant increase of around 20% on the previous year. The proportion of female With our annual “XOnce” program, we enable school leavers career starters was approx. 14% in the reporting year (previous who have not yet met specific academic or personal requirements year: 15%). In total, around 4,300 young people applied for the for starting an apprenticeship straightaway to qualify for a technical apprenticeships we provided. or scientific apprenticeship – regardless of whether this is conducted Taking the new intake into account, there are now (as of externally or at LANXESS itself. Eleven young people took part in December 31, 2017) 583 apprentices at LANXESS. The prothe XOnce program in 2017, including two refugees from Syria. portion of female apprentices across all years is approx. 12%. We invested a total of around €20 million in vocational training Fostering development worldwide of young talents in 2017. Only by constantly investing in training our employees and teaching them clear, globally binding values and standards can Trainees by career path we as a company successfully use the opportunities of changing in % markets now and in the future. Wide-ranging management and 9 HR development tools enable and motivate our employees to Scientific (chemical technician, laboratory technician, tanner, act on the basis of values, address issues in new ways, put their including 1 student on a combined 20 ideas into practice quickly and devise solutions as part of a team. work and study course) With the global roll-out of management training completed in Technical (e.g. industrial mechanics, electricians, including 4 students on 71 2017, we achieved our aim of establishing our management princombined vocational training and study courses) ciples worldwide and transferring them to management practice. Commercial (management assistants, A total of 629 managers and employees who are expected to take business IT specialists etc., including on a management role in the next two years have been trained 15 students on combined vocational training and study courses) worldwide in 29,808 hours. In addition, we conducted a survey among our managers worldwide about our corporate culture so that we can understand how much the values and operating ✓ Training remains a key pillar of our HR policy for the years principles are already actively lived out as the basis of our new ahead. Against a backdrop of demographic change and our culture and where action is still required. 1,880 managers took constant need for qualified new talents, we plan to hire approx. part in the survey at the beginning of 2017, a participation rate of 200 apprentices in each of the coming years. In addition, our 78%. The results are highly encouraging. For instance, 99% of stated aim is to take on at least 80% of our apprentices after the managers confirmed that the values and operating principles they have successfully completed their training. We reached have already been communicated in their department. Our goal this target again in the reporting year with a hire rate of 80% for 2018 is to further establish our values model and the operating (previous year: 81%). principles derived from it in all departments. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Employees 25 ✓ Management training for current and future managers Employee commitment – (Total training hours) a key success factor 35,000 29,808 Committed employees are key to strong company perfor30,000 mance, successful change and, ultimately, lasting corporate success. 25,000 Accordingly, we aim to put even more emphasis on encouraging 20,384 commitment of our employees in the future through leadership skills, 20,000 performance management and our intended corporate c­ ulture. 15,000 Organizational responsibility for leadership and performance man10,000 agement lies with the Global Talent Management department, which 4,952 reports directly to the Head of Human Resources. Global Talent 5,000 2,240 Management works closely with the Corporate Culture unit, which 2014 2015 2016 2017 is also assigned to the HR department. In 2017, we conducted a structured survey in China on the topic of commitment. 1,328 employees took part in it, equating to A key tool for implementing these management principles is a response rate of 82%. In collaboration with the business units the Performance Dialog. With the Performance Dialog, we support and functional units, the results of the survey were evaluated and our managers and their employees in gaining a better comparaindividual action plans were drawn up for specific departments. tive view of each other’s expectations regarding tasks, goals and In China, we also invite our employees to develop and lead their responsibilities, giving each other continuous feedback and thus own in-house training sessions – with great success. This not only improving the way we collaborate for the long term. Following a reduces costs but, with an average of 4.87 (previous year: 4.89) successful pilot project in senior management, we rolled out the out of a maximum possible 5 points, this type of training is actually Performance Dialog at all management levels in the reporting rated more highly than training led by external providers. year. By the end of 2017, around 2,000 managerial staff members We regard the turnover resulting from voluntary resignations ✓ worldwide had attended training courses on relevant aspects – as a key indicator of our employees’ commitment. This figure conincluding supportive IT tool, the “Talent Database.” The informatinued to fall in the reporting year and is now 2.34% (previous year: tion contained in this database forms the basis of our new talent 2.45%). In Germany, the rate was 0.7% (previous year: 1.03%). management approach including global succession planning. 360° feedback is a key element and driver of a lived-out Development of turnover over time in % feedback culture. That is why, in 2017, we piloted the new version Turnover resulting total of the internal 360° feedback tool based on our culture. By the Turnover resulting voluntary resignations end of 2015, we had introduced a further tool for supporting 10.77 11.0 our feedback culture worldwide: team feedback workshops for 10.0 disciplinary, cross-interface and project teams. 8.40 9.0 Promoting life-long learning of our employees was again 8.0 an important part of our HR development in 2017. In France, for 6.06 7.0 5.86 example, 12,570.5 (previous year: 8,137) hours were invested 6.0 4.62 training courses for skills development. A total of 148 employees 5.0 (57 women and 91 men) signed up for the 16 training modules 4.0 3.29 2.92 2.40 2.45 2.34 in 12 subject areas available in Germany. The average take-up 3.0 rate for the training courses was 78%. 2.0 To make the learning opportunities for our employees even 1.0 more extensive and flexible, digital learning formats will be a fixed component of our training portfolio in the future. For instance, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 in 2017, we provided our employees with 7,406 digital learning formats (2,447 in English, 2,291 in German and 2,668 in other languages) to improve their IT skills. We emphasized the importance of safety and quality to LANXESS in 2017 with a newly devised basic training course for new facility managers. It was successfully piloted in Germany with 13 participants from eleven facilities, and will be incorporated in our training portfolio in 2018. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 26 Corporate Responsibility ✓ The percentage of employees who left our company of their own accord within three years of being hired stood at an average of 0.91% worldwide in the reporting year. Turnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations in % EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male <30 6.90 3.66 3.28 1.82 18.82 4.57 1.75 0.00 8.77 15.89 30–49 2.73 1.17 1.50 0.69 5.13 4.76 1.91 1.55 6.68 4.40 >50 2.54 0.96 0.20 0.23 5.39 3.48 0.00 0.00 4.91 2.71 Total 3.12 1.27 1.25 0.58 6.40 4.14 1.68 0.92 6.94 6.01 Earlyturnover Resulting from Voluntary Resignations by Age Group, Gender and Region in % EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male <30 6.13 3.20 0.55 0.17 14.12 4.00 1.75 0.00 7.02 9.68 30–49 0.74 0.55 0.45 0.10 2.05 2.01 0.00 0.71 1.91 1.89 >50 0.00 0.26 0.00 0.03 1.08 0.23 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total 1.12 0.64 0.29 0.08 2.52 1.36 0.34 0.42 2.71 2.89 Total Turnover (including Reduction Programs) by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male <30 (8.5) (15) (6) (15) (9) (16) (9) (5) (12) (72) 30–49 (23) (59) (14) (31) (19) (73) (17) (110) (42.51) (103) >50 (10) (59) (21) (132) (29) (87) (2) (55) (6) (26) Total (41.5) (133) (41) (178) (57) (176) (28) (170) (60.51) (201) in % <30 13.03 6.86 3.28 2.48 21.18 9.14 15.79 3.06 10.53 17.88 30–49 5.70 3.63 2.10 1.06 9.74 9.15 8.12 15.54 9.01 5.74 >50 6.35 5.14 4.13 4.35 10.42 10.10 6.35 17.00 14.72 7.84 Total 6.63 4.45 3.02 2.72 11.05 9.60 9.40 14.23 9.66 7.94 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Employees 27 Success through diversity Ratio of women in senior and middle management (LANXESS voluntary pledge: 20% by 2020) Our global alignment is a key strategic advantage. LANXESS in % currently employs people from 79 (previous year: 70) countries across the world. Our Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) project is aimed 20 18.3 at enhancing diversity at LANXESS and using its positive effects 16.3 15.3 15.6 to benefit our company and our employees. It helps us to become 15 more innovative and efficient and to attract and retain promising talents. This project is focused on the dimensions of age, gender 10 and nationality. Our D&I Dashboard provides detailed analysis of data pertaining to these three dimensions and enables us to see 5 what progress is being made at country, regional and global level so we can define appropriate strategic measures. In the reporting 2014 2015 2016 2017 year, we again extended the range of available data. An important task in 2017 was again to anchor our D&I ­concept within our value culture and leadership principles and In accordance with the law on the equal representation of to add specific details. In addition, our new leadership programs women and men in management positions in the private and also address the benefits of team diversity. public sectors, in Germany we are required to define targets for International assignments are a key component of our systhe proportion of women on the first two management levels betematic HR development process. At year end 2017, a total of low the Board of Management and to specify when these targets 72 employees (previous year: 76 employees) – around 1.68% are to be met. Against the backdrop of LANXESS’s restructuring (previous year: 2.3%) of our specialists and managers – were program, the Board of Management of LANXESS AG resolved working as expatriates outside their home countries. The focus to retain the existing proportion of women as the initial target for continued to be in the EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. Assignthe first and second management levels through June 30, 2017. ments in the Americas region increased once again. In addition At the time this resolution was adopted in 2015, the proportion to achieving a focused global transfer of knowledge by sending of women on the first and second management levels below the experts and managers abroad, our goal is still to develop local Board of Management was 9.8% and 20.5% respectively. As a management with the necessary expertise and international comresult of the measures instigated by LANXESS to promote ­women petencies at our international sites and to transfer challenging in management positions, we exceeded these targets by the cuttasks to suitable­employees. At sites outside Germany, 82.8% off date with figures of 11.6% and 23.9% respectively. On this (previous year: 82.2%) of our management functions are currently basis, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board has filled by local employees. approved the new targets with an implementation deadline of June Our D&I activities are also making an important contribution 30, 2022: For the first level below the Board of Management, the to reaching the goal we set ourselves in 2012, in connection with proportion of women is to be 15%, while the target for the second the voluntary undertaking by the DAX 30 companies, of raising level is 25%. In addition, at least one woman is to be appointed to the proportion of women in middle and upper management to the LANXESS Board of Management in the same period. 20% worldwide by 2020. The figure currently stands at 18.28%. A current example of how we are promoting the ­professional development of women in the LANXESS Group is the “­Breaking the Stereotypes” initiative launched by our Indian ­n ational ­c ompany in 2017. Through awareness and dialog-based ­measures, it aims to eliminate unjustified prejudices towards women and enable our female employees to counter them ­confidently. Two events at our Thane site were attended by a total of 84 employees in the reporting year. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 28 Corporate Responsibility Overcoming demographic challenges At the end of 2015, aware that the steps taken up to that The regions of key economic importance for LANXESS – point might not be sufficient to adequately counter demographic ­Europe (especially Germany) and China – are particularly affected risk, we launched a range of new initiatives and thus intensified by the problem of aging demographics. As a result, the competition our work in all areas of activity. All benefits with respect to work for qualified young talents is intensifying. This is particularly true in and family, health and retirement provision apply to the core workthe case of scientific and technical career paths, where declining force. Individual benefits may vary regionally and be adjusted applicant numbers mean we now have to invest considerably more locally to our employees’ needs. Our core workforce comprises effort to fill positions with suitable staff. all employees with a permanent full-time or part-time position. In order to address these challenges, we have developed As of Decem­ber 31, 2017, they made up 94.5% (previous year: a comprehensive demographic program called “Xcare.” This 93.4%) of our total workforce worldwide. program, which applies to our German companies, aims to find answers to the challenges posed by a steady rise in the average age of our workforce, coupled with a shortage of skilled young people. The measures brought together within the “Xcare” program encompass five areas of activity: ›› People and health ›› Work and training ›› Time and organization ›› Career and family life ›› Savings and retirement provision Employees by Age Group, Gender and Region EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Age group Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male <30 66 218 188 611 43 208 56 154 114 390 30–49 417 1,643 667 2,922 206 891 213 656 479 1,826 >50 173 1,213 526 3,124 308 986 32 308 45 348 Total 656 3,074 1,380 6,656 557 2,085 301 1,118 638 2,564 LANXESS Employee Structure by Employment Type, Gender and Region (Also Including Employees on Fixed-Term Contracts)1) EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific (excluding Germany) Employment Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male type Permanent ­contract, full-time 530 2,899 1,004.5 6,488 544 2,084 299 1,117 630 2,560 Permanent ­contract, part-time 126 175 375 168 13 1 2 1 8 4 Temporary ­contract, full-time 28 47 130 648.5 15 9 34 62 26 40 Temporary ­contract, ­part-time 3 1 11 20.5 1 2 15 16 3 1 Total 687 3,122 1,520.5 7,325 573 2,096 350 1,196 667 2,605 1) In  fiscal year 2017, we employed a total of 120 temporary staff members (16 women and 104 men) at our German companies – LANXESS GmbH, Saltigo GmbH and IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Employees 29 People and health sites outside Germany. For instance, all permanent employees in Our occupational health management is based on raising all Argentina can have a health checkup every two years. In Croatia, employees’ awareness of their own health and motivating them they are available every 18 months. Full-time employees in Singato act on their own initiative and adopt healthy behaviors in their pore can have a health checkup once a year, while those in Hong professional and private lives. Kong can have one at two-yearly intervals. In Poland, all employees For instance, in 2017, the occupational health management are entitled to a monthly budget for medical purposes. team focused on the topic of skin with various activities in the context of its healthy living events. As part of this, our employees Ratio of Disabled Employees at German Companies were given the opportunity to undergo individual skin screening. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 More than 1,200 people took advantage of this offering. We hope Ratio in % 5.4 5.4 5.5 5.6 5.9 to replicate this success in 2018 with a specific topic. In the context of the “health toolkit,” we are giving our business units the opportunity to analyze specific health problems in The issue of occupational safety is addressed by our “Xact” their unit and thus understand them more fully. This is resulting global program (see page 30). in unit-specific preventive measures as well as adjustments to procedures and production processes if these are believed to have Work and training a positive effect on employees’ health. At the facilities where the In the mid-term, illness and retirement – both regular and “health toolkit” has already been used, we have achieved reduced early (mainly for non-managerial employees) – will mean that health risk factors as well as a general improvement in the working many vacancies require filling, especially in career paths such environment and lower rates of absenteeism. as chemical production technician, fitter and engineer. Over the Where preventive measures in the context of health mancoming three to five years, it is our aim to establish a company-wide agement are no longer applicable, we ensure with our workplace HR and succession planning program for the aforementioned key reintegration program that employees with long-term illnesses positions in particular and to review these on an annual basis. In in particular can stay in their posts after their recovery. We have this connection, the Board of Management approved 45 addisuccessfully deployed this scheme at all German sites for a number tional demography positions in the aforementioned career paths of years. In 2017, 40% (previous year: 40%) of the employees for 2017, and 91% of them have been filled. We will be creating invited to participate again accepted the offer of an individual further new posts in key positions in 2018 in order to counter consultation with the respective site workplace reintegration team. demographic change. In health management at our international sites, we focused on Some of our measures to increase the proportion of women in stress management in the reporting year. Wide-ranging country-­ our workforce are part of the “Xcare” program. They include emspecific awareness and training measures took into account the ployer branding activities targeting women and the implemen­tation fact that the way stress is perceived differs greatly in each culture. of objective selection procedures involving systematic multiple Our employees were given options such as lunch meetings with review. Other measures are aimed at promoting regular contact external speakers, seminars on attentiveness, meditation courses between managers and female employees on parental leave and or in-house medical examinations specifically geared towards stress discussing their plans for returning to work at an early stage. To symptoms. We also offer employee health checkups at numerous ensure more thorough monitoring in the future of the proportion of women in our business units and Group functions, this was made a fixed aspect of regular reporting to the Board of Management at the beginning of fiscal year 2017. Areas with a below-average proportion of women will be supported by the development of suitable measures including objective hiring practices. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 30 Corporate Responsibility Time and organization Against the backdrop of demographic change, caregiving is an We use flexible worktime models to make life easier in parimportant issue in Germany. Caregiver leave is at the heart of the ticular for employees with families but also for older employees, LANXESS caregiving program. This allows employees to ­reduce retain their expertise within the company and make our company their working time to a greater extent than their salary during the more attractive to prospective employees. For example, in Jancare phase and to make up the shortfall when they return to work. To uary 2017, we began piloting the Flexi 95 model for managerial date, 74 employees (previous year: 60 employees) in Germany have employees, which facilitates intelligent part-time working at senior taken advantage of caregiver leave and other job release options. management levels. Managers reduce their working time to 95%, initially for two years, with a corresponding adjustment in their pay. Savings and retirement provision As a result, they are entitled to 13 additional vacation days each In 2017, we continued the long-term account for non-mana­ year. These might be used, for instance, to look after their children gerial employees as regulated by the agreement with the employee when schools or daycare centers are closed. At the same time, the representatives and the collective agreement. The participation rate model aims to strengthen our managers’ awareness of part-time remained very good at the high level of around 97% (previous year: options for their employees and to increase general appreciation 97%). A total of 57.3% (previous year: 63.8%) of our ­employees of this worktime model. 35 employees took part in the project in worldwide benefit from unfunded company pension plans. the first year. In view of the positive response, we intend to extend this model to further employee groups in the future. Xact: Global initiative for greater safety ✓ With the aim of enabling flexible working hours for all emOur global safety initiative “Xact” is aimed at gradually lifting ployee groups, we are also currently developing part-time models the safety culture of LANXESS to a higher level. Starting with sefor production employees. nior management, all employees are to work together to improve safety throughout the company. This is driven by our firm belief Career and family life that every industrial accident is avoidable. We have set ourselves Balancing work and family life is important to a steadily growthe target by 2025 of reducing the number of accidents by more ing number of employees. A total of 6.3% (previous year: 6.8%) of than half compared to 2016. our employees in Germany aged between 20 and 40 made use Six “Xact” safety regulations, the central principles of safe of the option to take parental leave. Of this figure, 58.7% (previworking at LANXESS, address the main areas in which every ous year: 50%) were fathers. 92% (previous year: 96%) of the employee – whether they are employed in production or adminemployees who ended a parental leave period in 2017 returned istration and irrespective of their function or position in the hier­ to a job at LANXESS. archy – can actively contribute to their own safety and that of Our “Xkids” daycare center in Leverkusen offers around their colleagues. They are derived from the Xact “guidelines and 50 places – all of which are full – for children aged between principles” – the global key pillars for the alignment of our safety six months and six years in two preschool groups and one group culture. We revised these guidelines and principles in 2017 in the for infants and toddlers. We also offer our employees places in context of a global workshop. By way of preparation, the Xact team daycare centers in Cologne, emergency childcare places and set up within the Production, Technology, Safety & Environment a nationwide agency service for childcare staff and provision. (PTSE) Group function conducted interviews with employees Statutory maternity leave is a matter of course in Germany, across all hierarchy levels in order to gage opinion on the future and similar models are in place in other European Union countries. direction of the initiative. However, it is by no means standard practice around the world. For that reason, we investigate whether we can introduce or expand country-specific models for our employees at sites outside Europe. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Employees 31 ✓ ✓ In the future, Xact will be focused on constantly developing whether individual employees feel involved in safety activities – as a positive safety culture and concentrating more fully on conwe would like – and whether they receive positive feedback for duct-based safety. This is also reflected in the priority projects working safely. In 2017, for the first time, the Pulse Check survey undertaken in 2017. For instance, we instigated a project at our asked how much improvement our employees had noticed recently site in Liyang, China, to stabilize work processes, strengthen manin terms of safety in their day-to-day work. The gratifying result: agerial responsibility and achieve even greater awareness of safety Some 90% of employees stated that they had experienced positive issues among employees. This was done in close cooperation with changes in their environment, with almost 60% even noting very the German sister facility in Uerdingen. We marked the “World positive changes. We regard this as a clear indication that we are Day for Health and Safety at Work” on April 28, 2017, under the heading in the right direction with Xact. slogan “We believe that every accident is avoidable.” All over the We are also seeking to achieve an improved mutual underworld, we organized petitions and held accompanying events at standing of occupational safety with our providers of technical our sites to convey this belief to our employees. services, for example, and are therefore integrating them into our In matters of safety, we generally attach great importance safety culture. Here, we apply the principle of “select, train, support to active and continuous communication. One important tool is and evaluate.” Among other things, our partners must provide the Pulse Check survey, which we conduct each year among all verification of their own safety management system and that their LANXESS employees. This gives them the opportunity to des­cribe employees who work for us have received certain safety training. their personal experience of key safety aspects at LANXESS. Independent of this, we give employees of our partner companies Among other things, the anonymous survey seeks to establish individual safety briefings as a matter of course. Guidelines and Principles Personal commitment ›› We take ownership of safety for ourselves and others. ›› We demonstrate safety leadership by acting as role models. Prevention ›› We commit to achieving a sustainable incidentand injury-free mindset. ›› We learn from and share our experiences to prevent incidents in the future. ›› We provide effective training to our employees and contractors. Proactive initiative ›› We positively reinforce safe behavior. ›› We maintain safety alertness in all of our daily activities. Performance ›› We actively participate in HSE activities. ›› We create value by identifying hazards and mitigating risks. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 32 Corporate Responsibility LANXESS uses the recordable incident rate (RIR, the number Rewarding performance transparently of injuries per 200,000 working hours that are reportable as per and fairly OSHA rules) and the lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR, known LANXESS offers its employees worldwide transparent, as MAQ in Germany and describing the number of lost time inmarket-­rate compensation, which also includes a bonus system juries for every million hours worked) as indicators for evaluating linked to the company’s long-term success. Overall, 81.2% (preoccupational safety. The LTIFR was 1.7 in 2017, lower than the vious year: 91.9%) of our employees worldwide receive variable level of 2.0 recorded in 2016. compensation. The sharp fall in the figure compared with last year This positive development is due not least to a range of is due to the acquisitions in fiscal year 2017. As the remunerasafety projects, especially in Germany, which made it possible tion structures had not yet been fully integrated in the LANXESS to reduce the number of lost time injuries. As in the previous ­remuneration structures as of the reporting date, the proportion of years, there were no fatal accidents in 2017. The RIR, which also employees who receive variable remuneration is temporarily lower. includes injuries that do not result in lost time, was 0.8 in 2017, The fixed salaries of managerial staff – and of non-­managerial up year-on-year from 0.7. The substantial reduction in the LTIFR staff in most countries – are supplemented by a performance-based shows that the measures implemented in recent years to improve variable compensation component known as the Annual­Perforoccupational safety at LANXESS are taking effect. mance Payment (APP), which is paid to employees in countries that participate in this program. This bonus payment is linked to the attainment of the Group’s defined EBITDA target. Additional ✓ Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees individual targets are set for top management, including in the Resulting in Absence from Work (LTIFR) areas of safety and sustainability. In 2017, our employees around 4.0 the world shared in the company’s success in 2016 with a payout 3.5 3.2 totaling around €109 million. 3.0 During the course of the year, supervisors are also able 2.5 2.3 2.2 to reward outstanding employee performance quickly and 2.0 2.0 1.7 ­unbureaucratically with an Individual Performance Payment (IPP). In fiscal year 2017, payments of around €12 million worldwide 1.5 (around €8 million in Germany) were made solely for outstanding 1.0 individual performance. Around 68% (previous year: 77.9%) of our 0.5 employees around the world are currently eligible for IPP, which 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 also provides them with a prompt assessment of their performance and career prospects. The sharp fall in the figure compared with last year is again due to the acquisitions in fiscal year 2017. Work-Related Injuries to LANXESS Employees That are In the context of the LANXESS stock program that we o ­ ffered Reportable in Accordance with OSHA Regulations (RIR) again in fiscal year 2017, all Group employees in Germany were given­the opportunity to buy LANXESS shares at a 30% discount. 1.5 The shares were purchased at an average price of €67.17 on 1.1 the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. The participation rate was 61%. 1.0 0.9 At the reporting date, our employees and Board of Management 0.8 0.8 0.7 ­members held around 1% of LANXESS shares through stock plans. 0.5 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Employees 33 In addition, we offer a long-term incentive program for Addressing global developments in m ­ anagers in Germany and similar programs in the U.S., Canada, ­partnership India and the Netherlands. The Long-Term Stock Performance Plan Close cooperation between employee representatives and (LTSP) 2014–2017 consists of four tranches, one commencing management, including trade unions and employers’ associations, each year, and compares the performance of LANXESS stock in line with the principle of active codetermination, is practiced against the MSCI World Chemicals Index over a four-year period. globally at LANXESS. This means that we also comply with InterSince participants make a personal investment and there is the national Labour Organization (ILO) standards and the U.N. Global chance that the stock will increase in value, this program is an Compact in respecting our employees’ freedom of association and attractive long-term incentive and a means of ­enhancing emvalid collective agreements. Worldwide, 64.9% (previous year: ployee loyalty. The participation rate for all eligible employees in 66.9%) of our employees are covered by collective agreements; the current program was 97.9% in 2017 (previous year: 99.5%). in Germany the figure is 91.8% (previous year: 91.7%). We regularly seek to engage in dialog with employee Recognizing, rewarding and using ­representative bodies in Germany, in Europe and around the world, good ideas inform them of our corporate goals and involve these bodies in Our idea management system fosters the development and organizational changes at an early stage. In the reporting period, implementation of suggestions for improvements to ensure that in view of the acquisitions of Chemours and Chemtura, managewe continually receive proposals for enhancing cost-effectiveness, ment and the employee representatives worked together to devise occupational safety and environmental protection. Lots more good solutions for successful integration and implemented them. As ideas were implemented in 2017. well as the annual European forum, which brings together the works councils in Europe, there was a meeting in 2017 of the Executive Committee, which comprises employee and ­employer representatives from Belgium, France, the Netherlands and Ger2,262 many. The EU works council of Chemtura was integrated in the European Forum. Outside Europe, too, we give high priority to fair dealings with employee representatives and trade unions. In South Africa, for instance, we comply with International Labour Organization (ILO) New ideas in 2017 standards with respect to our employees’ freedom of association. This includes regular dialog between local management and trade union representatives as well as binding collective agreements on compensation and working conditions. Idea Management 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 No. of new ideas 3,085 2,807 2,027 2,442 2,262 TMQ1) 417 373 274 318 295 Savings (€ million) 2.4 2.52 2.56 2.26 1.58 Bonuses (€ million) 1.0 1.0 0.95 0.8 0.65 1) TMQ: rate per thousand employees LANXESS Annual Report 2017 34 Corporate Responsibility ✓ RESILIENT SOURCING As the assessment and audit results are shared within the ✓ ­initiative, we once again had access to a substantially larger At LANXESS, raw and other materials, plant and services number of sustainability assessments (more than 8,000) and must satisfy globally uniform safety and environmental protection audit reports (around 900) at the end of 2017. Suppliers whose requirements. The Global Procurement & Logistics (GPL) Group ­sustainability-related activities have been assessed by TfS currently function, the head of which reports directly to Board of Manageaccount for 70% (previous year: 60%) of our relevant procurement ment member Dr. Hubert Fink, is responsible for procurement of spend. The relevant procurement spend includes all suppliers from these items. In close coordination with our business units, GPL which we buy goods or services amounting to more than €20,000 organizes Group-wide procurement, sets corresponding guideeach year. We aim to keep on increasing the percentage of the lines and initiates measures to promote purchasing synergies and procurement spend placed with TfS-audited suppliers. sustainable operations of our suppliers. Like any other TfS member, LANXESS is expected to be In the reporting year, our procurement transactions involved ­actively involved in the initiative. Accordingly, we again made an around 18,000 suppliers. Across the LANXESS Group, a global active contribution to increasing the number of audited suppliers in procurement directive defines how our employees should behave the reporting year. GPL continued to carry out targeted examination toward suppliers and their employees. In addition, we have speciof the supplier portfolio in all key procurement markets, setting goals fied standardized procedures relating to procurement more fully in for the strategic purchasers to secure the sustainable supplier chain. a process description. Based on the principles of the U.N. Global As a result, with more than 50 audits, we significantly exceeded the Compact, the International Labour Organization (ILO), Responsible TfS-internal target of performing a total of 22 audits in 2017. It is Care® and other corporate responsibility codes, we expect our also pleasing that our suppliers with a sustainability assessment are suppliers to comply with all applicable national and other laws and consequently well above the sector average. In addition, through regulations in order to safeguard the environment, ensure health joint efforts, we achieved an improvement on the previous result and safety in the workplace and deploy appropriate labor and hiring in re-audits of suppliers in almost 70% of cases. practices. These provisions of our Supplier Code of Conduct are For 2018, we are planning an in-depth, extensive training key criteria in our selection and evaluation of suppliers. campaign for our purchasers. This is associated with the aim of Raw materials in particular are subject to stringent monitoring giving the purchasing organization, enlarged as a result of the recent to ensure safe processing in our production facilities. For example, acquisitions, further training on the issue of sustainability across the the procurement of any raw material is dependent on the submisboard. However, key topics relating to assessment of sustainability sion by the supplier of a current material safety data sheet. Our prorisks and helping suppliers to improve their a­ ssessment results are curement department clarifies which of the REACH requirements also to be addressed. must be satisfied in the case of raw materials from non-European suppliers. In close dialog with the respective producers and importers, we are actively seeking to ensure that ­materials procured by LANXESS that were not previously registered will be registered. As a founder of the Together for Sustainability (TfS) initiative, we aim to promote sustainability, enhance supply chain transparency and thus further minimize procurement risks. This initiative, supported by 20 international chemical companies with a cumulative procurement volume of more than €220 billion, aims to implement and enhance a global audit program to assess and continuously improve sustainability activities along the chemical industry supply chain. It focuses on human rights, the prevention of child labor, working standards, occupational safety, environmental protection and business integrity. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Value Creation Chain 35 ✓ SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE SITES Thanks to our electronic Incident Reporting System (IRS), we ✓ are able to record accidents and incidents worldwide using stand­ Today, more than ever before, sustainable conduct by the ardized procedures. We document accidents involving ­people, chemical industry means taking responsibility for products and transport accidents, near accidents, safety-relevant incidents, production processes. Globally, we are seeing a convergence of thefts, environmental incidents and instances of damage. Each environmental and production standards at a high level. What were incident is carefully analyzed to draw conclusions as to how we once competitive advantages in the area of sustainability will soon be can avoid comparable incidents in the future. fundamental requirements worldwide for companies producing and All measures contribute towards our target of continuously selling chemical products. However, we would be failing to live up to reducing the number of incidents relating to inadequate plant our commitment to quality if we sought merely to fulfill ­standards – and process safety. even if those standards are more stringent than they were in the In 2017, a few significant reportable incidents occurred. No past. Instead, we are committed to making our production safe and people were injured in any incident. For further information please sustainable in every respect and therefore consistently competitive. refer to GRI Content Index in the PDF version on page 194. Our PTSE Group function, the head of which reports directly to Board of Management member Dr. Hubert Fink, is responsible Global dangerous goods and transport for this. PTSE develops and updates company-wide standards safety management that ensure responsible handling of chemicals at LANXESS. They Through our global dangerous goods and transport safety define requirements and govern responsibilities for health and management system, we ensure the minimization or total avoidenvironmental protection, the handling of chemicals, plant safety ance of hazardous situations. We have a dedicated department and workplace safety precautions. Through the ongoing training to centrally coordinate, monitor and review the implementation of our employees and regular auditing of our health, safety and of relevant dangerous goods and transport safety regulations and environmental management, we ensure that the requirements are internal company guidelines. systematically and sustainably implemented in our processes. The central classification of our products ensures uniform interpretation of international, regional and local dangerous goods Uniform standards in production regulations while at the same time respecting regional and local LANXESS operates a total of 75 production sites and is specifics. Classification determines, among other things, the form represented in 25 countries (sites in which it holds an interest of of encapsulation (packaging and tanks), marking and labeling, more than 50% and ARLANXEO sites as of December 31, 2017). permitted modes of transport and transport routes and the meaThe diversity of the company’s product portfolio necessitates the sures that emergency services must take in the event of a transport use of many different chemical and technical processes. Uniform incident. The corresponding classification data are archived in standards for planning, engineering and operating ­facilities are LANXESS’s safety data system for chemicals. In recent years, we applied to ensure a high level of process, plant and occupational have successively integrated growing numbers of countries and safety. LANXESS Group companies into this system, and we rigorously Handling chemical substances and working with technical continued this process in 2017 by integrating the Indian sites. We equipment fundamentally involve health and safety risks. Wherever also aim to integrate the as yet unconnected sites in Argentina, in the world we operate, we systematically identify these risks and Australia, Japan and Russia as well as the former Chemtura sites the hazard potential – both for existing and new facilities – and into the system in the medium term. minimize them by implementing defined preventive and protective In the reporting year, deficiencies in load securing of bulk measures. To ensure compliance with LANXESS directives and goods in freight containers were increasingly identified in interlocal regulations for the safe operation of facilities, experts on-site nal and external checks. As an immediate countermeasure, we conduct audits based on targeted spot checks that are carried initiated numerous training sessions in all regions, which were out with a frequency appropriate to the relevant risk profile. At also attended by representatives of external shipment service each facility across the globe, compliance with the safety stanproviders. In addition, we plan to introduce a load securing standards must be certified regularly. A total of 37 production facilities dard for LANXESS in 2018. (previous year: 43), 17 of them in Germany (previous year: 17), were audited in the context of HSE (Health, Safety, Environment) compliance checks in 2017. The result of the audits in the reporting year showed further improvements against previous years. In addition, we performed gap analyses at 19 plants acquired from Chemtura and Chemours in order to identify differences in relation to LANXESS HSEQ standards. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 36 Corporate Responsibility ✓ ✓ The overall number of major transportation incidents at In 2016, as part of our ongoing efforts to improve our water LANXESS is decreasing. Measures such as vehicle inspections, management, we conducted a comprehensive risk analysis based GPS tracking, a night-time driving ban and driver training sessions on the geographical location of our sites. In addition to water have proved to be effective and are bringing us closer to our target extraction, we considered other physical and regulatory indicaof continuously reducing transportation incidents. Nevertheless, an tors as well as reputational risks. Analysis of LANXESS’s sites on accident involving a fuel tanker occurred on November 3 around the basis of the Water Risk Map from the World Wide Fund for 150 kilometers from our Indian site in Nagda. Five metric tons of Nature (WWF) shows that most of our sites are located outside toluene were released. The driver sustained minor injuries. water-stressed areas. We carried out individual risk evaluations at the few sites in water-stressed areas in 2017. To conduct the Storage management analysis, we used an internationally recognized risk evaluation Following the acquisition of Chemtura, we have around tool – the Water Risk Filter from the WWF. 480 warehouses worldwide, operation of which is split roughly The assessment was performed in 17 categories – including 50:50 between us and external service providers. We select waredependence on water for transportation processes, the degree houses – both our own and those operated by external service of pollution of water and the impact on biodiversity – and was ­providers – according to logistics, safety and security, environcompared with water consumption at the site. Apart from the mental ­protection and cost-effectiveness aspects. We apply a Jinshan (China) site, all examined locations were classified as globally standardized warehouse concept that takes into account “limited risk.” In view of the assessment “some risk,” we are curthe substances stored and meets fire protection and occupational rently exploring development scenarios and the resultant options health and safety requirements. for Jinshan. To be prepared for future developments, we will now be repeating the survey every six months and adding further sites. Environmental responsibility The medium-term aim is for all sites to be assessed in this way. As LANXESS sees it, conserving natural resources – for ex✓ ample, through the most efficient possible use of raw materials and Water Consumption in million cubic meters in cubic meters per energies – and identifying further potential for reducing emissions metric ton of product and waste are an ongoing mission and an inherent part of our Cooling water (absolute) Process water (absolute) In relation to volumes sold (total water consumption) ecological responsibility to which we must apply our expertise. While taking account of local requirements, we equip all new 800 60 production sites with state-of-the-art technology that is also in 46.6 45.8 42.8 600 39.0 45 line with environmental standards. 37.7 400 30 Responsible use of water resources 243.8 236.4 225.2 212.81) 208.6 Access to clean water is not only crucial to the health and 200 15 52.9 54.2 53.1 51.81) 60.9 nutrition of a constantly growing world population, it is also an important economic factor. This is why the various facets of the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1) Figure restated issue of water are also illustrated in detail in the context of the Sustainable Development Goals. Focal points here are wastewater reduction, water efficiency and water management. Careful use of Production Wastewater in million cubic meters in cubic meters per this scarce resource is therefore securing our future – particularly metric ton of product at sites in water-stressed areas. In these areas, there are problems Absolute In relation to volume sold with water availability, quality and/or access. At our sites, all wastewater and surface water discharges 80 6.0 5.1 5.0 5.0 4.9 4.8 are subject to legal and permitting requirements. We use both 60 4.5 technical (wastewater treatment) and organizational (monitoring) measures to comply with these requirements. Before the author35.8 40 32.3 31.4 31.8 32.4 3.0 ities issue an operating permit, an assessment is carried out on the potential economic, social and environmental impact of water 20 1.5 extraction on the surrounding area. At all LANXESS sites, this takes place under approved conditions. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Value Creation Chain 37 ✓ ✓ Compared with the previous year, water consumption inCompared with the previous year, the total amount of waste creased in 2017. This is chiefly attributable to a higher volume generated increased considerably. This is primarily attributable of process water, which was added by the new Chemtura sites. to the first-time inclusion of the new Chemtura production sites. In contrast, the amount of cooling water was further reduced as This increase was due in particular to wastewater at our El Dorado in the previous year. Overall, water consumption again increased site in the U.S., which had to be declared as waste. Not including at a lower rate than production in 2017, so specific water conChemtura, both our absolute and specific waste generation consumption was further reduced in a continuation of the positive tinue to decrease. The new sites also have a significant influence trend of recent years. on the percentage distribution of disposal methods. The positive trend of recent years was not continued for wastewater. The acquisition of Chemtura led to an expansion and Waste for Disposal change in the product portfolio and production processes. This in % resulted in an increase in the volume of wastewater both in abso9.9 lute terms and in the specific value per metric ton of product sold. 5.8 2.2 Sustainable waste management 4.6 Landfilled waste The company aims to employ a consistent material flow manIncinerated waste with agement process – from the use of raw materials to the manufacture energy recovery of the final product – so as to deploy resources as efficiently as Incinerated waste without energy recovery 77.5 possible and minimize the amount of waste we produce. Where it is impossible to prevent waste, we try to use or sell it as secondary Material recovery Waste disposal by other means raw materials or energy sources. In order to minimize the amount of waste requiring disposal, we make various efforts to continuously improve the yields achieved in our production processes. The handling of plastic pellets is an excellent example of how Total Waste we are continuously optimizing our material flow management. in thousand metric tons in kilograms of waste per These plastic pellets may be inadvertently released into the m ­ arine metric ton of product environment at various stages of the value chain. They themselves Absolute Absolut In relation to volumes sold do not react chemically but may have an undesired impact on 181.0 3,200 180 ­account of their small size and volume. The central aim of the ­Society of the Plastics Industry’s international program Operation 2,400 135 Clean Sweep (OCS) is to prevent plastic particles from entering the marine environment. By joining this program in 2016, we made a 1,600 1,293.4 90 commitment to train relevant employees, to implement and continue 43.7 47.1 45.0 44.1 800 45 measures to prevent the release of pellets at our facilities and to 278.1 298.7 292.4 299.01) require our business partners to also take active steps to prevent pellet emissions. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1) Figure restated In previous years, our most strongly affected business unit – High Performance Materials – developed and introduced a self-­ assessment process to identify the sources and circumstances of possible pellet emissions at our plants and to define corresponding countermeasures. In 2017, this process was extended to plants of other business units in which release of polymer particles is p ­ ossible, albeit to a lesser extent. Our goal is to systematically integrate the OCS program’s requirements into LANXESS’s management system and to implement them across the company. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 38 Corporate Responsibility ✓ ✓ Systematic recording of key performance has a holding of more than 50%. As LANXESS has an interest of indicators exactly 50% in ARLANXEO and the latter continues to be reflected We use an electronic data capture system for the systematic in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements and is fully global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas consolidated, the environmental and safety data pertaining to of safety and environmental protection. This system enables us to the ARLANXEO sites will continue to be included in our key data define a broad range of HSE performance data for each business for this period. Data on the acquired Chemtura sites is taken into unit and site worldwide. These provide a valid basis for strateaccount for the period from April 21, 2017, to the reporting date. gic decision-making and for internal and external reporting. The PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsdata also map the progress we are making toward achieving our gesellschaft audited our HSE indicators since 2012 and the globally applicable sustainability targets (see table on page 14). ­necessary data recording processes with “limited assurance.” Data is gathered only at production sites in which the company Environmental and Safety Performance Data* 2015 2016 2017 Safety Occupational injuries to LANXESS employees resulting in at least one day’s absence 2.2 2.0 1.7 (per million hours worked) (MAQ1)) Volume sold2) in thousand metric tons/year 6,496 6,781a) 7,145 Energy in petajoules (10 joules) (G4-EN3) 15 3) 48.3 48.4 52.2 Direct energy sources Non-renewable 12.2 12.6 14.9 Renewable 0 0 0 Indirect energy sources4) Non-renewable 33.9 33.8 35.3 Other direct energy sources From biomass 2.2 2.0 2.0 Water in million cubic meters Total water consumption (G4-EN8) 278.3 264.6 269.5 Surface water 107.0 92.1 82.9 Groundwater 6.8 6.8 8.8 Rainwater 0.3 0.4 0.4 Wastewater 1.2 1.0 1.2 Other water sources 163.0 164.3 176.2 Cooling water in total water consumption5) 225.2 212.8 a) 208.6 Process water in total water consumption 53.1 51.8 a) 60.9 Atmospheric emissions in thousand metric tons Total greenhouse gas emissions CO²e (G4-EN15, G4-EN16) 4,641a) 4,818 a) 5,273 Direct (Scope 1)6) 1,643 1,741 1,975 Indirect (Scope 2)7) 2,998a) 3,077a) 3,298 Ozone-depleting substances (G4-EN20) 0.00113 0.00182 0.00989 NOX , SOX and other emissions (G4-EN21) NO X8) 2.8 2.6 2.7 SO²9) 1.0 1.1 1.0 CO 2.2 2.0 2.2 NH³ 0.1 0.1 0.1 NMVOC10) 5.4 4.7 4.9 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Value Creation Chain 39 ✓ Environmental and Safety Performance Data* 2015 2016 2017 Wastewater in million cubic meters Total wastewater discharge (G4-EN22) 257.0 245.2a) 244.4 Cooling water (uncontaminated, without treatment) 5) 225.2 212.8a) 208.6 Production wastewater (with treatment) 31.8 32.4 35.8 Emissions in wastewater (after treatment) in thousand metric tons Total nitrogen 0.51a) 0.54 0.55 Total organic carbon (TOC) 1.5a) 1.7a) 1.8 Heavy metals11) 0.0059 0.0049 0.0054 Waste in thousand metric tons Total weight of waste (G4-EN23) 292.4 299.0 a) 1,293.4 Incineration with energy recovery 84.0 81.2 75.4 Incineration without energy recovery 30.3 31.1 27.8 Landfilling 93.4 112.1 128.5 Material recovery 59.7 53.1 60.0 Other forms of disposal 25.0 21.5a) 1,001.7 Type of waste Hazardous 188.4 196.7a) 573.1 Non-hazardous 104 102.3 720.3 Explanations concerning our environmental and safety performance data * The aggregate data refer to all LANXESS production sites in which the company holds an interest of more than 50%. As LANXESS has an interest of exactly 50% in ARLANXEO, the latter continues to be reflected in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements and will be fully consolidated from 2016 to 2018, the environmental data pertaining to the ARLANXEO sites will also continue to be included in our key data for this period. The new production sites due to the acquisition of Chemtura Corporation were included in the environmental data from April 21, 2017. This LTIFR took account of all Chemtura Corporation events from April 21, 2017. 2015/2016/2017: Some of the data are based on estimates and projections. 1) LTIFR: accident rate per million hours worked resulting in one workday or more lost following the day of the accident, calculated for all employees (including temporary workers) at all sites 2) Volume sold of goods manufactured by LANXESS and sold internally to another LANXESS company or externally (excluding commercial products) 3) The energy volumes given were calculated on the basis of simplified assumptions and typical substance values. They do not include other forms of imported energy (e.g. the energy contained in raw materials). 4) Indirect energy sources are shown in the form of a balance sheet. The volume of energy sold is subtracted from the volume of energy purchased. 5) Equivalent to circulating cooling water 6) The emission factors used for fossil fuels are based on calculations by the U.S. EPA (AP-42 from 1998) and on the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories (2006). In accordance with the GHG Protocol (2004), the factors for calculating CO²e are based on the global warming potential (time horizon: 100 years) defined in the IPCC Second Assessment Report (SAR 1995). All Scope 1 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO²e. In accordance with the GHG Protocol, the CO² emissions from the combustion of biomass are shown separately and are not included in the Scope 1 emissions. The following emissions were produced during the reporting period: 2013: 223 kt CO2, 2014: 217 kt CO2, 2015: 236 kt CO2, 2016: 212 kt CO2, 2017: 215 kt CO2 7) All Scope 2 greenhouse gases are calculated as CO²e. The conversion factors used were provided by the energy producers for 2008 or 2009. Where these were not available, factors from the IEA (International Energy Agency) for 2013 were used for fiscal year 2015, factors from 2014 were used for fiscal year 2016 and factors from 2015 were used for fiscal year 2017. The Scope 2 CO²e emissions are calculated using the market-based method in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Using the location-based method, Scope 2 CO²e emissions for 2017 amounted to 4,176 kt. 8) Nitrogen oxide (NOX) calculated as NO (excluding N O – nitrous oxide) ² ² 9) Sulfur dioxide (SO²) + SO³ calculated as SO² 10) Total VOC (volatile organic compounds) excluding methane and acetone 11) Heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, chromium, copper, mercury, nickel, lead, tin, zinc) a) Values restated due to supplementary notifications or change in calculation method LANXESS Annual Report 2017 40 Corporate Responsibility ✓ CLIMATE ACTION AND Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1) ✓ ENERGY EFFICIENCY in thousand metric tons of CO ² equivalents in CO² equivalents, metric tons per metric Scope 1 (absolute) ton of product Scope 1 in relation to volumes sold With the Paris Agreement, which entered into force in Novem­ ber 2016, the international community committed itself to the 6,000 0.42 goal of limiting global warming to less than two degrees Celsius 5,000 0.35 0.29 0.29 above pre-industrial levels. This goal is achievable only if global 0.28 4,000 0.26 0.28 greenhouse gas emissions are radically reduced in the decades 0.25 ahead. All the signatory nations have correspondingly set them3,000 0.21 1,837 1,845 1,975 selves ambitious reduction targets. Germany’s Climate Action Plan 1,643 1,741 2,000 0.14 2050, also launched in November 2016, has an interim target of 1,000 0.07 cutting greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% through 2030 compared with the base year in 1990. Industry is expected to 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 contribute with a reduction of between 49% and 51%. In common with many other European chemical companies, Because of the increased production volumes in 2017, abLANXESS had already made an express commitment before solute Scope 1 emissions also increased. The new Chemtura the Paris Conference to protect the climate and fulfill the obligasites’ contribution to this increase was roughly double the contritions that it entails. Since our company was established, we have bution from the sites from 2016. Our specific Scope 1 emissions been working continually to reduce climate gas emissions – and increased accordingly. with considerable success. In the past ten years, we have cut our Scope 1 emissions worldwide by more than half. Our sites in Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2) Germany have already satisfied the national reduction requirement in thousand metric tons of CO ² equivalents in CO² equivalents, metric tons per metric ton of product set for 2030. Scope 2 (absolute) Nevertheless, we are continuing to work hard across the Scope 2 in relation to volumes sold Group to cut our CO2 emissions. In 2016, we set new long-term 8,000 0.56 targets for CO2 and VOC emissions and for energy consumption. 7,000 0.461) 0.46 0.49 By 2025, we aim to cut our specific CO2 and VOC emissions by 1) 0.451) 0.43 1) 0.43 25% (base year: 2015). We also aim to reduce specific energy 6,000 0.42 consumption by 25% through 2025. 5,000 0.35 One of the most important measures at the moment is the 4,000 3,298 0.28 creation of a shared steam plant in the port of Antwerp (Belgium), 2,9981) 3,0771) 2,715 1) 2,7191) 3,000 0.21 which we will be using with other chemical companies based there. The first pipes were laid at the beginning of February 2017. 2,000 0.14 After scheduled completion in 2018, the pipeline, over five kilo1,000 0.07 meters in length, will help us to reduce our energy costs and save around 10,000 metric tons a year in CO2 emissions. Across all 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1) Figure restated participating companies, CO2 emissions will be cut by as much as 100,000 metric tons per year. In Europe, 17 facilities and sites (including 5 of ARLANXEO) In 2017, we calculated the balance of our Scope 2 emissions are subject to the European Emissions Trading System. Tradin the same way as the energy balance for the first time. In this ing in CO2 emission rights – or allowances – is a cost-effective calculation, the steam (waste heat) generated from process heat way of reducing harmful CO2 emissions. Since all our facilities at the sites in Leverkusen and Uerdingen, Germany, and Baytown, that are eligible for emissions trading are at the cutting edge of U.S., is in large part deducted from the amount of steam used technology and compete on the international market, we expect for production and offset on the basis of the Scope 2 emissions. to receive an adequate number of free allowances up to the Despite the balancing, specific Scope 2 emissions increased end of the third trading period in 2020 to cover our anticipated slightly compared to 2016. This increase is partly attributable CO2 emissions. to the increase production volume and the associated rise in the energy requirement. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Value Creation Chain 41 ✓ Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) Specific VOC emissions were maintained at a stable, low in thousand metric tons of CO² equivalents level in the reporting year. In absolute terms, there was a small Scope 3 (absolute) increase as a result of the change in the portfolio. With regard to the attainment of the 2025 target, however, an improvement 40,000 was achieved in both specific and absolute terms compared to 30,000 27,0541) 26,6181) 26,582 the base year 2015. 20,000 Systematic energy management 10,000 A high level of energy efficiency improves not only our emissions footprint but also our cost position and thus ultimately the 2015 2016 2017 competitiveness of LANXESS. In Germany, we have established 1) Figure restarted an energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001. Our certification was reconfirmed in 2017. Outside Germany, we We determined our Scope 3 emissions again for 2017. We continue to pursue our strategy of regional and local certification. further improved the level of detail in the method; the years 2015 Since the end of 2017, our German sites in Leverkusen, the and 2016 were adjusted accordingly. The Chemtura sites were Uerdingen district of Krefeld and Dormagen have been part of the successfully integrated into the calculation. ­Energy Efficiency Networks initiative set up by the German ­federal ✓ For more than a decade, we have been participating in the government and leading industrial associations. Each ­Energy international climate protection initiative CDP (formerly the Carbon ­Efficiency Network comprises 8 to 15 companies. At the outset, an Disclosure Project), each year sharing data and information on experienced energy consultant in each company ­devises possibili­ climate protection and the reduction of emissions. In the assessties for increasing energy efficiency. Based on this analysis, each ment for 2017, we again achieved the highest score. LANXESS company formulates an individual savings target and underpins it therefore continues to be listed in the “Climate A List” of the CDP. with measures. In addition, the overall network sets an efficiency With this list, the CDP recognizes efforts by companies to reduce target for the duration of its work. An important element of the emissions, decrease climate risks and make progress towards a initiative is regular sharing of experience and ideas between the low-emission economy. As part of the “Climate A List” LANXESS is companies involved. At national level, the networks are expected among the top 5% of more than 6,300 companies examined by the to contribute to a saving of 75 petajoules of primary energy and initiative in 2017. These gratifying results gave us encouragement a reduction of 5 million metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions. to continue systematically pursuing our climate protection strategy. Along with its partners, the “Netzwerk@CHEMPARK” network in which our sites are involved has set a target of contributing Other atmospheric emissions 100 gigawatt hours. At our international sites, we are also carrying out a wide range VOC Emissions of activities to reduce our energy consumption. For ­example, at in metric tons in VOC, kilograms our Little Rock (U.S.) site, we will be saving around 250,000 cubic per metric ton of product Absolute meters of natural gas per year in the future by using a new automatIn relation to volumes sold ed fire-tube boiler. Further steps to reduce energy consumption 12.0 1.2 are already being planned at the site, such as replacement of the 1.04 10.0 0.90 1.0 aging cooling tower with a smaller, more efficient liquid cooler and 0.83 the installation of motion-controlled lighting throughout the plant. 8.0 6.6 0.8 0.69 0.69 5.7 5.4 6.0 4.7 4.9 0.6 4.0 0.4 2.0 0.2 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 42 Corporate Responsibility ✓ ✓ Energy Consumption (Balance Sheet) Our absolute energy consumption increased considerably in in petajoule in gigajoule per metric ton of product 2017, which is primarily attributable to the new contribution from Absolute Chemtura. Despite the higher sales volumes in the reporting year, In relation to volumes sold the positive development of specific energy consumption from 90 9.0 recent years did not continue. There was progress with regard 7.46 7.46 7.44 7.30 to the current target for 2025. 75 7.14 7.5 60 52.2 6.0 47.5 47.3 48.3 48.4 45 4.5 30 3.0 15 1.5 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption by Region in petajoule/in % 18.1% 38.1% 61.9% 81.9% 35.8% North America Germany 10.0 PJ 16.4 PJ 31.5% 17.9% 64.2% 44.1% 10.1% EMEA 72.0% 24.3% (excluding Germany) Latin America 12.6 PJ Asia-Pacific 4.8 PJ 8.4 PJ  irect energy sources D  irect energy sources (biomass) D Indirect energy sources Sustainable logistics carriage by road to an absolute minimum. Europe in particular ✓ We select our transport solutions worldwide on a casehas a good infrastructure for this kind of transport. However, the by-­­case basis, applying the principles of safety, punctuality and increased use of rail means that combined transport is even an cost-effectiveness. We also take into account the CO2 emissions option for long-distance connections to China. resulting from our transports. We are focusing especially on further In Germany, we continue to use the TÜV SÜD-approved expanding our use of ships as the most efficient means of transEco Plus solution offered by logistics provider DB Schenker Rail port. In addition, to handle our transportation requirements, we for transporting our products by rail. The electricity required for are increasingly using relatively low-emission combined transport transport is obtained from renewable energy sources. This enables solutions in which most of the distance is covered by rail, inland us to reduce the CO2 emissions from our German rail transport vessel or maritime vessel, thus keeping pre-carriage and onward operations by almost 75% compared with the standard solution. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Value Creation Chain 43 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCT PORTFOLIO Management of chemical control regulations Compliance with global chemical control regulations is essen­ LANXESS is committed to the Responsible Care® Global tial to for the marketability and safe handling of our chemicals and Charter, a comprehensive product stewardship initiative launched products along the value chain. by the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) LANXESS has an electronic safety data system to ensure comthat was the key factor in the development of the Global Product pliance with both mandatory and voluntary control requirements. Strategy (GPS). This aims to provide basic information and risk Material safety data sheets in 43 languages inform our customers assessments for substances so that the harmful impact of chemiworldwide about substance data and the safety measures that are cals on human health and the environment can be minimized and necessary when using the relevant chemicals. We regularly adapt products can be manufactured and distributed in such a way as to our electronic safety data system to reflect changes to the GHS prevent injury to people and damage to the environment. In line (Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of with the aforementioned commitment, our product stewardship Chemicals) in various countries. The GHS is a system under the covers the safe handling of chemical substances and products umbrella of the United Nations that aims to harmonize existing throughout their life cycle – from research and development, classification and labeling systems used in various sectors such procurement and production, through storage and transportation as transportation and consumer, employee and environmental to marketing, downstream processing and disposal. protection. We observe regional variations in the implementation The Product Safety Management at LANXESS Directive of the GHS such as the European Union’s CLP (Classification, steers the Group-wide observance of product stewardship and Labelling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures) regulation. secures the participation of everyone involved. This applies in We expressly support the goal of the E.U. REACH regulation particular to those substances in our product portfolio that are to ensure a high level of protection for human health and the classified as hazardous. Our Central Product Surveillance Directive environment. We have so far pre-registered or registered all the systematically governs worldwide tracking of our products and substances that are relevant for LANXESS with the European their use in respect of potential health and environmental impacts. Chemicals Agency (ECHA) by the stipulated deadlines. By the The information acquired is used by our product developers and third deadline on May 31, 2018, all approx. 1,000 substances we product safety experts in their evaluations. Our Development of produce in or import into Europe in amounts exceeding one metric New or Changed Products, Processes and Applications Directive ton will have been registered in line with the REACH process. stipulates that development ideas themselves be analyzed sysRegistration involves the systematic evaluation of all essential tematically in terms of their potential economic, environmental information concerning our substances and their uses. In doing and social impact. In this way, we ensure that non-sustainable this, we consider the entire product life cycle and specify safe products, processes or applications do not find their way into our conditions of use. Within the context of a voluntary commitment development work. made by the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) in In the case of consumer applications in particular – such 1997 to record and assess substances, we go beyond the legal as additives for use in food or animal feed, for food and drinking requirements to determine a meaningful basic data set for our water contact or for use in cosmetic, pharmaceutical or medical intermediates as well, in line with the REACH regulation. products – we are keen that our products comply with national and Similar chemical control regulations to those in the E.U. now international standards, certificates and quality hallmarks. In this apply in many other countries, and they are continuing to grow way, we actively support our customers, for example, in the certifiin number. Before manufacturing or exporting our products in a cation of their materials for drinking water contact applications or given country, we examine their marketability in accordance with in the downstream processing of our products into certified goods the chemicals legislation in force there. We register our s­ ubstances for end users. Through intensive sharing of information with our and products in line with local requirements and support the customers and suppliers, we achieve greater transparency and substance analysis programs of the responsible authorities by safety across the entire product lifecycle. supplying all available information and collecting new data if necessary. Our experience of the REACH process helps us here. At present, we face stricter requirements, particularly in the Republic of Korea, Taiwan, Turkey and the U.S. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 44 Corporate Responsibility Comprehensive analysis of our product portfolio Across the LANXESS Group, we are applying the findings based on sustainability criteria of this analysis to further improve the sustainability performance Effective sustainability requires that we have as precise of our product portfolio. Our now deeper understanding of our a picture as possible of the impact of our business activities – pro­ducts’ properties may also provide important impetus for inboth positive and negative. The dedicated evaluation system we novation. It also shows where action is still needed. This inforhave developed provides us with a strategic management tool mation may be used to develop specific improvement ­processes for system­atically evaluating and improving the sustainability or to c ­ reate acceptance for certain issues in our dialog with performance of our product portfolio from an economic, envistakeholders. ronmental and social perspective. The continuously optimized system analyzes the impact and benefits of our products on the basis of criteria that we regard as relevant to our company and BUSINESS-DRIVEN INNOVATION to society as a whole. By developing innovative new processes and products, Criteria for Our Product Portfolio Analysis LANXESS plays a key role in enhancing the company’s competiImpact on Support for development goals tiveness. At the same time, we help our customers to make their society Societal acceptance business more sustainable. In doing so, we frequently advance Safety in end use product-focused and application-oriented innovations with our Ecological Raw material efficiency in production impact Energy efficiency in production customers and suppliers. Emissions and waste balance sheet in production The Leather business unit provides an excellent example Water risks of successful optimization of our product portfolio in terms of Impact on the environment during use Economic Registration, evaluation and approval ­sustainability with its Sustainable Leather Management program. impact Profitability In this program, Leather offers its customers in the leather industry Demand trend a whole range of innovative technologies and products across the entire value chain in order to support the manufacture of sustainable, environmentally sound leather – without compromising on As part of our strategy process, we apply these criteria each quality. The most recent innovations include water-based dyes year in evaluating our entire product portfolio, with subsequent for leather finishing. The Levaderm WB range is solvent-free, review of the results by an internal committee of experts. This non-inflammable and not based on heavy metals such as lead, process has revealed which of our products satisfy the sustainmercury or arsenic. ability requirements we have defined and can help us to deliver In addition, the Leather business unit has developed an innosolutions for key sustainability challenges. vative technology for reclaiming by-products in leather manufacture in cooperation with the research institute Invite GmbH. The modular pilot system was designed in such a way that retanning Evaluation Processes agents of the X-Biomer brand for the production of leather can be Cost optimization manufactured from shavings and waste cuttings that used to be mainly disposed of and from vegetable biomass. This enables a Evaluation of product portfolio tannery to produce some of the retanning agents it needs on-site in a fully automatic and largely independent way. This constitutes a major step towards sustainable production concepts. The pilot Review by expert committee system is to be tested at the Heller-Leder GmbH & Co. KG tannery in Lower Saxony, another project partner. The research project was launched in 2016 with an investment volume of around €5 million. Products which satisfy or exceed Products which do not fully satisfy our sustainability requirements our sustainability requirements Almost half of its funding comes from the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). The pioneering climate and environmental protection technology was recognized with the Benchmarking and Stakeholder dialog, specific German Innovation Prize for Climate and Environment in February best-practice analyses action plans or termination of 2018. The Group won the award in the “Environmentally Friendly production Products” category. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Value Creation Chain 45 LANXESS has again demonstrated its extensive experience in and biotechnology as well as chemistry and software. By investing water treatment with a host of product innovations. For instance, once again, we will gain a better insight into the high-tech start-up by developing optimized membrane elements in the Lewabrane scene in Germany. This contribution will help us to gain access to RO ULP series and the Lewatit ion exchanger, we enable our new technologies and find cooperation partners. customers to make efficient and sustainable use of the scarce Further information on research and development can be resource of water. Use of the new membrane elements, which found in the combined management report starting on ­page 71 need a 40% lower operating pressure than standard elements, of this Annual Report. means that lower quantities of cleaning chemicals can be used and longer cleaning intervals can be established on a long-term basis. Both the energy and operating costs of our customers are reduced VALUING CUSTOMER RELATIONS as a result. The new Lewatit TP 107 selective ion exchanger was developed specifically for municipal drinking water treatment Customer satisfaction and loyalty are among our main but also delivers key advantages in the industrial sphere, e.g. in measures of success. Our central inquiry management system wastewater treatment in the leather and galvanizing industries. provides customers with information about our products, their apCompared with conventional products, it has an extremely high plications and their potential risks as well as product certificates. usable capacity for trace impurities of drinking water, groundwater Critical feedback from customers gives us valuable pointers for and wastewater. In addition, the hazardous substance chromate further improving our products and processes. Based on a central is removed more efficiently. The two technologies complement CRM system and a uniform complaints management platform, each other and are used successfully in tandem by our customers. each of our business units has its own complaints management LANXESS has also added product variants highly reinforced process aligned to its markets and customers. with glass fibers to the high-tech plastics of the Durethan brand. Regular customer surveys conducted by an external service These were developed in 2017 by the High Performance ­Materials provider deliver vital information about the loyalty of our custombusiness unit, and are particularly suitable for applications in ­electric ers, their expectations and how they perceive our products and mobility. The innovative new material is highly flame-­resistant services compared with those of our competitors. Over a twoand ­especially creepage-resistant. As it additionally combines year cycle, each business unit carries out an anonymous online ­outstanding mechanical properties with impressive processing survey. In the 2017/2018 survey, the customer retention index capabilities, it is ideally suited to use in high-­performance batteries was 75.4 and thus on a par with the previous year. On the basis and the drive train of electric vehicles, for example. In this way, we of the results of the customer satisfaction analysis, we will take are also supporting resource-efficient lightweight construction in targeted measures in the business units in order to further increase the field of electric mobility. customers’ satisfaction. This should be reflected in a significantly With an improvement to the product line for high-­purity higher customer retention index in the next survey cycle. ­p olyurethane prepolymers, known as low-free products, the ­Urethane Systems business unit has reaffirmed its global ­technology leader­ship. Use of the new products with very low residual monomer contents reduces exposure of workers to potentially carcinogenic substances. In addition, the product line boasts improved p­ rocessing capabilities and product quality, making it suitable for the most demanding applications, e.g. in the tire and caster industry and the adhesives sector. On top of our own research and development activities, we invested a seven-digit sum in the High-Tech Gründerfonds (HTGF) III fund in the reporting year. It was launched on May 31, 2017, with a fund volume of €245 million in first closing. Like its two predecessors, the newly launched fund is intended to support promising technology start-ups and to bring new products to the market. The fund has been set up to provide support in a wide range of areas: robotics, Internet of Things (IoT), energy, medicine LANXESS Annual Report 2017 46 Corporate Responsibility CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Social Activities by Type of Investment1) in % As a company, we draw numerous benefits from society – well-trained employees, satisfied customers, legal and political 24 stability and a functioning infrastructure. We therefore believe 71 Charitable gifts it is only right that we take responsibility for the development Commercial initiatives of the social environment in which we operate. We aim to be a Community investment 5 sound and reliable partner for people around our sites. Our social commitment is based on our corporate expertise and targets and is therefore focused on four areas of activity: education, climate protection, water and culture. Our targets are identical in all areas: 1) Number of projects: 113 ›› Mobilizing resources and people for social engagement ›› Enabling positive impacts on the company, the environment We initially evaluate our projects as to whether they are purely and society charitable (“charitable gifts”), whether we are investing in the social environment where our sites are located (“community investment”) As a company, we aim to make a positive contribution or in corporate objectives such as image, sales and earnings with to ­improving living conditions, education, training and equal social motives (“commercial initiative”). ­opportunities as well as health and safety. We also strive to a­ ttract talents, engage in extensive dialog with our stakeholders, ­positively Enabling positive impacts on the company, influence employee motivation and continuously improve our the environment and society reputation. In total, more than 233,000 people (previous year: around 200,000) benefited from our projects. As well as the absolute Mobilizing resources and people for number of beneficiaries, we also measure the societal impact of our social engagement activities via a system of performance indicators. For all projects, In the reporting year, EMEA was the regional focal point of we conduct an impact analysis, taking into account impacts in the our activities. Overall, we provided a sum of around €1.3 million vicinity of the site as well as positive environmental impacts and for our projects in 2017 (previous year: around €1.5 million). effects on our business. Specific feedback from beneficiaries of our projects is a key factor here. We regard these indicators as Social Activities by Topic1) important benchmarks for the impact-oriented management of in % our measures. 7 4 4 Dimensions of the Impact of evaluated Activities and Projects in % Education 1001) 9 Culture Impact on the community Climate Protection e.g. quality of life, well-being or skills 81 Water 76 Other Impact on the environment Direct environmental effects or impact 42 on attitude toward the environment Impact on our business 1) Number of projects: 113 e.g. attractiveness as an employer, improved 90 stakeholder relations and perception 1) Number of projects: 113 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Corporate Citizenship 47 Education Water LANXESS sees commitment to education as a crucial part of Clean water is in short supply in many regions of the world. a sustainable corporate policy. As a specialty chemicals group, we Our products are used all over the world to save, clean and transneed well-trained employees in order to ensure growth and value port water. One focus of our social engagement is enhancing creation. Along with investment in training for our own employees, awareness worldwide of the causes and consequences of water we also support young scientists in schools and universities. scarcity – for both drinking and industrial uses. In the reporting Within the context of the LANXESS education initiative, year, LANXESS invited representatives from politics, science, enviwe have established projects at many sites to get young people ronmental organizations and businesses to a round-table meeting inte­rested in science at an early stage. We promote this through in order to discuss water supply. Along with a holistic assessment financial support to schools and collaborations in the area of sciof the challenges, solutions were also discussed in depth. entific teaching. For instance, LANXESS supports a wide range of As part of our societal activities, we encourage people to use projects from climate monitoring to crystal growing in schools in water more responsibly, and we run local projects to help deliver the area of its German locations with funding of almost €70,000. a clean drinking water supply and a lasting improvement in quality We have also put on laboratory days at high schools for the first of life for the population. In India, for example, a water filtration time. Based on the positive response, this commitment is to be plant was installed in a school near the Jhagadia site. Provision of continued in 2018. the schoolchildren and the local population with water is ensured LANXESS has initiated a particular commitment at its site in by this investment of around €30,000. For the third successive the Uerdingen district of Krefeld to mark 90 years of iron oxide year, we held a research competition entitled “Clean water for a production there. The “Better learning” initiative provides prize better life.” The aim is to promote and support highly talented money totaling €50,000 for projects by educational and youth young people and raise awareness of water problems among institutions that help to improve learning conditions or support the public and schoolchildren. Students from universities all over for young people. China took part this year. At our new site at El Dorado in the U.S. state of Arkansas (formerly Chemtura), hands-on approaches to teaching the MINT Culture subjects stand to receive a total of US$250,000 in the next five We are convinced that successful scientific work and, years. As well as promoting scientific education, we enable children ­ ltimately, social progress can only flourish in a culture of thought, u and young people from socially disadvantaged families to particiresearch and critical evaluation. As part of our cultural ­commitment, pate in leisure and educational activities with a further US$10,000. we therefore sponsor both literary and musical talents. In the Since its launch, the LANXESS education initiative has ­literary field, we have been the main partner to lit.Cologne since reached hundreds of thousands of children and young people 2010. With around 200 events, Europe’s biggest literary ­festival worldwide. attracts more than 100,000 visitors. The second mainstay of our ­cultural commitment is support for musical training. We support Climate protection the Ozawa International Chamber Music Academy, which enables Climate protection is a long-term challenge and is hugely talented young musicians from across Asia to receive a top-­quality important to the future of our company. Our aim is to set the course ­musical e ­ ducation. LANXESS has also been a partner of the for sustainable development and climate-conscious conduct, ­Kölner P ­ hilharmonie in Cologne, one of Europe’s leading cultural including in the communities in which we operate. In India, we ­institutions. We have supported the contemporary m ­ usic festival have helped the local authorities to buy and maintain solar lights “Acht Brücken” (Eight Bridges) for several years; the opening event, in the district around the LANXESS Nagda site. As well as making involving several performances, was held outside and inside the the access routes safer, the new lighting saves energy. To ensure LANXESS Group’s headquarters for the first time. long-term preservation of the ecological balance at the Nagda Further information on our corporate citizenship activities site, we also work to maintain and develop the municipal garden. can be found on LANXESS website in section Corporate At our Brazilian sites, we are committed to increasing awareness ­Responsibility under Corporate Citizenship. of climate-related and environmental issues through the “Green Cycle” competition, in which we help participants to implement projects focused on sustainable development. 44 projects have already been successfully launched since the beginning of 2010. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 LANXESS ON THE CAPITAL MARKET € 70.67 year high of share (June 2017) LANXESS on the Capital Market 49 LANXESS on the Capital Market The LANXESS share reached a new high in June 2017, exceeding the €70 mark for the first time. After an extremely successful previous year with growth of 46%, the share’s movement was largely in a sideways direction over 2017 as a whole. LANXESS’s strong development is also being rewarded on the bond market: The rating agency S&P raised its outlook for our rating to stable. The German equity market continued the previous year’s to 949 points, while the more comprehensive and international positive development in 2017. The DAX closed at 12,918 points MSCI World Chemicals Index performed even more positively. on December 29 with strong annual growth of 12.5%. The The closing price of the year as a whole was 359 points, up MDAX, in which the LANXESS share is listed, performed even 27.7% compared to the previous year. better, seeing out 2017 at 26,201 points. This equates to growth Our share reached a historic high of €70.67 on June 9, of 18.1% compared to the previous year. LANXESS’s industry exceeding the €70 mark for the first time. Over the remainbenchmark indices, the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM and der of the year, the price remained between €60 and €70 in the MSCI World Chemicals Index, likewise posted considerable a sideways movement and climbed 6.3% to a closing price of gains. The Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM climbed 10.7% €66.29 in 2017. LANXESS Stock at a Glance 2014 2015 2016 2017 Capital stock/no. of shares1) €/no. of shares 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 91,522,936 Market capitalization1) € billion 3.52 3.91 5.71 6.07 High/low for the period1) € 56.75/36.24 56.50/33.53 63.53/32.90 70.67/59.89 Closing price € 38.46 42.68 62.35 66.29 Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and ­amortization of intangible assets2) € 2.22 2.03 2.69 4.14 Dividend per share € 0.50 0.60 0.70 0.803) 1) End of year: December 31, 2014; December 31, 2015; December 31, 2016; December 31, 2017 2) E  arnings per share pre exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets: earnings per share disregarding exceptional charges and income, amortization of intangible assets and attributable tax effects as well as non-recurring earnings effects of the U.S. tax reform. 3) Dividend proposal to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 15, 2018 Capital Market Information DIVIDEND POLICY Class No-par shares ISIN DE0005470405 LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. We continue WKN (German secu547040 to aim to increase the dividend if possible but at least to maintain it rities identification at a stable level. At the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 15, number) Selective indices MDAX, Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM, 2018, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board will proMSCI Germany Standard, MSCI Germany Mid Cap, pose a dividend of €0.80. Dow Jones Sustainability Index World and Europe, FTSE4Good Investment grade Standard & Poor’s: BBB– (stable) Moody’s: ratings Baa3 (stable) SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE Scope: BBB (stable) The majority of LANXESS’s stockholders are institutional investors whose strategy is oriented toward growth or value. As of December 31, 2017, these investors increased slightly as a proportion of the shareholders to around 92% (previous year: 90%). The remaining share of around 8% of LANXESS stock is owned by private investors. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 50 LANXESS on the Capital Market In 2017, as in the past, many of our institutional investors An important indicator for corporate bonds, apart from the were based in the U.S., Germany and Great Britain. The proporabsolute change in price, is the relative valuation of the risk specific tion of U.S. shareholders recently rose to about 39% (previous to the issuer in comparison with a reference interest rate. This credit year: 32%). As of the reporting date, some 22% (previous year: risk premium is expressed in what is known as the credit spread. 28%) of LANXESS stock was held in Germany, while institutional investors from Great Britain continued to account for around 16%. LANXESS Eurobond Spreads vs. The proportion of institutional investors from the rest of Corporates Index in the BBB range1) Basis points ­Europe fell slightly year-on-year to around 13% (previous year: 15%). In contrast, the proportion in the other regions increased to 100 around 11% (previous year: 9%). An overview of the institutional 80 investors that have issued mandatory notices reporting ownership 60 of at least 3% of LANXESS’s outstanding shares is published in 40 the Investor Relations section of our website. 20 0 BONDS –20 Jan. 1, 2017 Dec. 31,2017 Sustainably increasing the enterprise value and safeguardLANXESS Eurobond 2018 LANXESS Eurobond 2022 ing liquidity and creditworthiness are key financial management LANXESS Eurobond 2026 BBB Corporates, 5 years LANXESS Eurobond 2021 objectives. LANXESS issued no new bonds in fiscal year 2017. A corporate bond from the acquired Chemtura Corporation with a 1) The LANXESS hybrid bond that matures in 2076 is not included in the overview volume of US$450 million and a coupon of 5.75% was also repaid prematurely. Significant steps were therefore taken to reduce debt. The development of our credit spreads underscores the fact There are currently four LANXESS bonds and one hybrid that we retain very competitive access to capital market financing. bond on the market. All existing LANXESS eurobonds are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Their term sheets are available in the Investor Overview of LANXESS’s Main Bonds Relations section of our website. ISIN/WKN Volume Duration Coupon XS0629645531 €500 May 23, 2011 – 4.125% million May 23, 2018 RATINGS XS0855167523 €500 November 21, 2012 – 2.625% million November 21, 2022 LANXESS’s creditworthiness is regularly evaluated by the XS1501363425 €500 October 7, 2016 – 0.250% million October 7, 2021 rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service. XS1501367921 €500 October 7, 2016 – 1.000% It is our strategic corporate goal to retain an investment-grade million October 7, 2026 rating. Due to the improved debt data and good operating performance, the rating agency S&P raised its outlook for the LANXESS rating from negative to stable. An overview of the development of LANXESS Hybrid Bonds (Subordinated)1) LANXESS ratings and rating outlooks since 2013 can be found in ISIN/WKN Volume Duration the management report on page 88. In January 2018, the EuropeXS1405763019 €500 December 6, 2016 – December 6, 2076 an rating agency Scope performed an assessment of LANXESS million for the first time. Scope Ratings rates LANXESS as BBB and has Coupon Redemption options issued a stable outlook. 4.500% until the first reFirst option on June 6, 2023, and thereafter Detailed information, publications for download and contact demption option; subsequent annually; additional redemption rights in details are always available on our LANXESS website in the adjustment of interest rate as defined special circumstances section Investor Relations. described in prospectus 1) S  implified description; see prospectus for full conditions of the bond and the associated risks LANXESS Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of LANXESS are committed to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate governance and control. They place high value on the standards of good corporate governance with a view to strengthening the trust of investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board herein suggestions of the German Corporate Governance Code. The report on corporate governance at LANXESS pursuant to Section current declaration of compliance of December 8, 2017, and the 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code. Further inforprevious declarations are published on the LANXESS website mation about corporate governance can be found in the Board under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance. It additionally of Management’s declaration on corporate governance pursuant forms part of the declaration on corporate governance pursuant to to Sections 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code. Sections 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code, which This is published in conjunction with the Corporate Governance is also published there. Reasons were given for non-compliance Report on the LANXESS website under Investor Relations/ with one of the recommendations of the German Corporate GoverCorporate Governance. nance Code valid when the current declaration of compliance was The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of issued. In addition, two suggestions were not fully implemented. LANXESS are committed to the principles of transparent and responsible corporate governance and control. They place high value on the standards of good corporate governance, with a view CORPORATE CONSTITUTION to strengthening the trust of investors, customers, employees and the public in LANXESS. LANXESS AG is a stock corporation established under the laws of Germany. One of the fundamental principles of German stock corporation law is the two-tier management system with the IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GERMAN governing bodies of management board and supervisory board. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE This system is characterized by a clear separation between the management board as the body that manages a company and the As LANXESS is a stock corporation listed on the German supervisory board as the body that advises and oversees managestock exchange, corporate governance at the company is aligned ment. Concurrent membership on both boards is strictly prohibited. with Germany’s securities and capital market legislation, regulaThe management board and the supervisory board work closely totions pertaining to codetermination and the German Corporate gether in a relationship of mutual trust for the benefit of the company. Governance Code. The latter makes recommendations and suggestions concerning corporate governance. There is no obligation Board of Management to comply with this code. Pursuant to Section 161 of the German The Board of Management of LANXESS AG currently has five Stock Corporation Act, the Board of Management and Supervisory members. Information about the members of the Board of ManBoard of LANXESS make an annual declaration of compliance, agement is available on the LANXESS website under Investor in the past and going forward, with the recommendations and Relations/Corporate Governance/Board of Management. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 53 The Board of Management is appointed to manage and represtatements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial sent the company. It is responsible for conducting business in the statements of the LANXESS Group. Moreover, it resolves on the company’s interests with the goal of creating sustainable value. The Board of ­Management’s proposal for the appropriation of the principal tasks of the Board of Management include defining the ­distributable profit and on the Supervisory Board’s report to the company’s goals and strategic alignment, managing and overseeing Annual ­Stockholders’ ­Meeting. The Supervisory Board reaches the operating units, setting human resources policy, arranging the its decisions with a ­majority of the votes cast unless a different company’s financing, and establishing an effective risk management majority is stipulated by law. In the event of a tie, the Chairman system. The Board of Management has a duty to ensure compliance of the Supervisory Board has two votes in a second ballot on the with legislation, regulatory requirements and the company’s internal resolution, even if this also results in a tie. The German Codetermidirectives. It is also responsible for preparing the quarterly and halfnation Act contains special requirements concerning resolutions. year financial statements, the financial statements of LANXESS AG, The Chairman of the Supervisory Board coordinates the work in the the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and Supervisory Board, chairs its meetings and represents the concerns the management report for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. of the body externally. Supervisory Board resolutions are usually The Chairman coordinates the work of the Board of Manageadopted at regularly held meetings. An overview of the attendance ment. As a rule, Board of Management decisions are adopted with of Supervisory Board members at meetings of the Supervisory a simple majority. In the event of a tie, the Chairman has the casting Board and its committees in fiscal year 2017 can be found on the vote. Resolutions of the Board of Management are generally passed LANXESS website under Investor Relations/Corporate Goverat regularly held meetings. The rules of procedure for the Board of nance/Supervisory Board. Management that are enacted by the Supervisory Board contain The Supervisory Board has issued its own rules of procedure, further regulations concerning the form of cooperation within the which, in addition to defining the tasks and responsibilities of the Board of Management, the allocation of duties and the matters Supervisory Board and the personal qualifications of its members, requiring resolution by the full Board of Management. The Board establishes the processes for convening, preparing and chairing of Management has not formed any committees. In deciding the meetings as well as the procedures for voting. composition of the Board of Management, the Supervisory Board The Report of the Supervisory Board details the Supervisory gives consideration to professional suitability, leadership qualities Board’s work. and diversity in line with its regulations. It has defined an age limit for members of the Board of Management. Goals for composition and skills profile of By way of implementing the law on the equal representation of the Supervisory Board women and men in management positions in the private and public According to Paragraph 5.4.1 of the German Corporate Govsectors, which came into force on May 1, 2015, the Supervisory ernance Code, the Supervisory Board should state specific goals Board has set a new a target for the proportion of women on the for its composition and devise a skills profile for the entire body. Board of Management of LANXESS AG for the period starting The state of achievement of the goals and completion of the skills after June 30, 2017. Accordingly, at least one woman should be profile should be published in the Corporate Governance Report. appointed to the Board of Management by June 30, 2022. At the same time, the Corporate Governance Report should provide information about what the Supervisory Board regards as the Supervisory Board appropriate number of independent Supervisory Board members The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG is composed of twelve representing stockholders. members, with equal numbers of stockholder representatives and The members of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG employee representatives, in accordance with the provisions of the are expected to possess the necessary expertise, skills and proGerman Codetermination Act of 1976. The stockholder represenfessional experience to perform their duties. They autonomously tatives are elected by the Annual Stockholders Meeting, whereas undertake the necessary training required for their tasks and the employee representatives are elected in accordance with the are supported in their efforts by the company. In addition to provisions of the Codetermination Act and its electoral regulations. the requirements applicable to each individual member of the Supervisory Board members normally serve for a five-year term. ­Supervisory Board such as integrity, commitment, professionalInformation about the members of the Supervisory Board is ism and independence, the entire Supervisory Board should be available on the LANXESS website under Investor Relations/ composed in such a way to ensure that the Board of Management Corporate Governance/Supervisory Board. receives qualified supervision by and advice from the Supervisory The Supervisory Board’s role is to advise the Board of ManBoard. The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG has devised a agement in its management of the company and to monitor skills profile which stipulates that in-depth specialist knowledge its conduct of the business. The Supervisory Board discusses and experience in the fields of the chemical industry, particularly ­business performance, planning and strategy at regular interinternational industrial chemistry, management of major internavals. Its responsibilities also include appointing the members tional companies, corporate governance/compliance, corporate of the Board of ­Management as well as reviewing the financial strategies, large-scale investments/M&A, production, marketing LANXESS Annual Report 2017 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and sale of chemical products, key sales markets of LANXESS, 30% women and 30% men when refilling Supervisory Board research and development, procurement of raw materials, energy positions that become vacant from January 1, 2016. Existing and services, HR management/codetermination, capital markets/ appointments – including those of substitute members – can run investor relations, corporate financing, accounting and auditing, until they end regularly. Two of the twelve members currently risk management and IT/digitalization should be represented. In its serving on the LANXESS AG Supervisory Board are women, which current composition, the Supervisory Board fulfills these goals and represents a proportion of around 16%. Future new appointments completes the skills profile. The members of the Supervisory Board will be made in accordance with the legal stipulations. possess the professional and personal qualifications regarded as essential. They are all familiar with the sector in which LANXESS Composition and work of the operates and possess the knowledge, skills and experience that Supervisory Board committees are crucial to the company. The Supervisory Board has a Presidial Committee, an Audit The Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG should ensure Committee, a Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3, of the provision of impartial advice and supervision to the Board the German Codetermination Act and a Nominations Committee of Management. All current stockholder representatives on the formed from among its members. The composition of the SuperSupervisory Board are independent. The Supervisory Board also visory Board committees is shown on the LANXESS website assumes the independence of the employee representatives on under Investor Relations/Corporate Governance/­Supervisory the Supervisory Board and that their ability to act independently Board. is not affected by their status as employees of the company or The Presidial Committee discusses key issues and prepares members of labor unions. No member of the Supervisory Board has the meetings and resolutions of the Supervisory Board. In ­addition, a personal or business relationship with the company, its ­executive it makes decisions on transactions requiring approval that are bodies, a controlling shareholder or any enterprise ­affiliated with a already included in the company’s annual planning. The Presidial controlling shareholder that may cause a material and not merely Committee may also resolve on the exercise of participation rights temporary conflict of interest. No former member of the Board of pursuant to Section 32 of the German Codetermination Act and Management of LANXESS AG is a member of the Supervisory on transactions requiring approval that cannot be deferred. It Board. The Supervisory Board also aims for all future members consults regularly about long-term succession planning for the of the Supervisory Board to be independent and free of conflicts Board of Management. Furthermore, the Committee also prepares of interest. the personnel decisions to be made by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has defined an age limit for its memThe Audit Committee supports the Supervisory Board in bers, which is contained in the rules of procedure for the Supervisory overseeing the conduct of the business and deals with matBoard. Supervisory Board members shall not continue to serve after ters relating to the supervision of accounting, the accounting the end of the Stockholders’ Meeting following their 80th birthday. process, effectiveness of the internal control system, the risk This also takes into account the maximum length of membership of management system and the internal auditing system, as well the Supervisory Board of generally not more than three full terms of as auditing, including the independence of the auditor and the office (15 years) that has been specified by the Supervisory Board. work additionally performed by the auditor, and compliance. In general, the Supervisory Board should be guided by the It prepares the Supervisory Board’s resolutions concerning the principles of diversity in its composition. On the basis of their annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the consolidated various personal and professional backgrounds, the members of financial statements of the LANXESS Group and recommends an the Supervisory Board contribute a broad spectrum of experience auditor whom the Supervisory Board then proposes to the Annual and skills. The global reach of LANXESS AG has been reflected in Stockholders’ Meeting for appointment. Dr. Janssen, the Chairman the composition of the Supervisory Board thus far and will remain of the Audit Committee, is an independent financial expert and a factor in selecting candidates to be proposed to the Annual has specialist knowledge and experience in the field of accounting Stockholders’ Meeting for election to the Supervisory Board. acquired through his professional activities. In many cases, the experience and skills of the members of the The Committee pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3, of the Supervisory Board have been acquired while working abroad for German Codetermination Act performs the tasks described in a long period or in an international field. Three members of the Section 31, Paragraph 3, of the German Codetermination Act. Supervisory Board are not German citizens. The Nominations Committee solely comprises stockholder Diversity applies equally to gender. In accordance with the law representatives and proposes candidates for the Supervisory on the equal representation of women and men in management Board to nominate for election as new members of the Superpositions in the private and public sectors, codetermined stock visory Board by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting. corporations like LANXESS AG are required to appoint at least The respective committee chairmen report regularly to the Supervisory Board on the work of the committees. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 55 STOCKHOLDERS AND RISK MANAGEMENT STOCKHOLDERS’ MEETINGS AND COMPLIANCE The stockholders of LANXESS AG exercise their rights at the Key characteristics of the risk management system and inAnnual Stockholders’ Meeting, where they can vote on the resoternal control system as well as information on compliance can lutions submitted. The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting resolves on be found in the combined management report for LANXESS AG all matters reserved for its decision by law, with binding effect on and the LANXESS Group. the stockholders and the company. Each share confers one vote. The items resolved on by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting include appropriation of the distributable profit, ratification of the ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING actions taken by the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board, appointment of the auditors and election LANXESS AG prepares its consolidated financial statements of the stockholder representatives to the Supervisory Board. The and interim financial statements in line with the International Annual Stockholders’ Meeting also resolves on amendments to the ­Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as applicable in the ­European articles of association, measures affecting the company’s capital Union. The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG are preand the approval of intercompany agreements. Each year there pared in accordance with the provisions of the German Commeris an Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at which the Board of Mancial Code. After being adopted and approved by the Supervisory agement and Supervisory Board give an account of the last fiscal Board, the annual financial statements and consolidated financial year. The German Stock Corporation Act requires the convening statements of LANXESS AG as well as the combined manageof an Extraordinary Stockholders’ Meeting in certain situations. ment report are published within 90 days after the end of the fiscal All stockholders who register in time and prove their eligiyear. The company’s accounting for fiscal year 2017 was audited bility to attend the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting and exercise by the auditor PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprütheir voting rights shall be allowed to participate in the Annual fungsgesellschaft (“PwC”), elected by 2017 Annual Stockholders' Stockholders’ Meeting. Stockholders may exercise their voting Meeting. The 2017 half-year financial report was also reviewed by rights at the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting in person, through PwC. PwC was appointed following an external tender procedure. a proxy of their own choosing or through a company-nominated Mr. Jörg Sechser has been the responsible auditor since 2017. The proxy who acts according to their instructions. audits are conducted in line with German auditing regulations and in compliance with the German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institute of Public COMPENSATION REPORT ­Auditors in Germany (IDW). The statutory requirements and rotation obligations in Sections 319 and 319a of the German Commercial The compensation report, which describes the compensation Code are fulfilled. The auditor has agreed to immediately inform system and the amount of compensation paid to the members of the Supervisory Board of any possible reasons for disqualification the Board of Management and Supervisory Board for their service or conflicts that may arise, as well as any material findings or events in fiscal year 2017, is part of the combined management report in the course of the audit. for LANXESS AG and the LANXESS Group. REPORTABLE SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS Members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board and persons closely related to them are required to disclose transactions in shares or debt securities of LANXESS AG or associated financial instruments if the total volume of such transactions in any given calendar year equals or exceeds €5,000. Reportable securities transactions are published on the LANXESS website. The total number of shares of LANXESS AG held by members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board as of December 31, 2017, was less than 1% of all shares issued by the company. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OFFICES HELD BY BOARD OF ­MANAGEMENT MEMBERS Offices held by serving Board of Management members (as of January 31, 2018) Member of the Board of External offices Offices within the LANXESS Group Management Matthias Zachert Chairman of the Board of • Member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG • Chairman of the Executive Board Management of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH •C  hairman of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO Holding B.V. Dr. Hubert Fink Member of the Board of • Member of the Executive Board of Management LANXESS Deutschland GmbH • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Saltigo GmbH Michael Pontzen Chief Financial Officer • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. • Member of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO Holding B.V. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions Korea Inc. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions US Inc. Dr. Rainier van Roessel Member of the Board of • Member of the Supervisory Board of • Member of the Executive Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Management and Labor CURRENTA Geschäftsführungs-GmbH, Leverkusen • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS S.A. de C.V. Relations Director • E xecutive member of the Board of Administration of LANXESS N.V. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Hong Kong Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Corp. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Chemical (China) Co. Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS India Private Ltd. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS K.K. • Chairman of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Pte. Ltd. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Thai Co., Ltd. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions Japan K.K. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions Korea Inc. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions US Inc. Stephen C. Forsyth Member of the Board of • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Solutions US Inc. Management • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Canada Co./Cie • Member of Board of Directors of LANXESS Laurel de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. • Member of the Board of Directors of Chemtura Corporation Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. • Member of the Board of Directors of Crompton Servicios, S.A. de C.V. • Member of the Board of Directors of Great Lakes Chemical Corporation • Member of the Board of Directors of Assured Insurance Company • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Holding Company US Inc. • Member of the Board of Directors of LANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc. • Member of the Board of Directors of Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc. • Member of the Board of Directors of The LANXESS Foundation Inc. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 57 LANXESS AG SUPERVISORY BOARD Serving members Dr. Rolf Stomberg (Chairman) • Chairman of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG • Former Chief Executive of the Shipping, Refining and Marketing Division of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, Great Britain • Former member of the Board of Directors of The British Petroleum Co. p.l.c., London, Great Britain Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) (Chairman) • Biesterfeld  AG, Hamburg1) • HOYER GmbH, Hamburg Werner Czaplik • Chairman of the LANXESS Central Works Council and of the LANXESS Group Works Council • Member of the LANXESS Works Council at the Leverkusen site Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets •C  hairman of the LANXESS Group Managerial Employees’ Committee and Chairman of the LANXESS Managerial Employees’ Committee; manager of a ­production facility in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH Further offices: • LANXESS  Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) Dr. Heike Hanagarth • Management consultant • Former member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Bahn AG, Berlin Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • aichele GROUP GmbH & Co. KG, Bretten (Advisory Board) • Gilde Buy Out Partners BV, Utrecht, Netherlands Dr. Friedrich Janssen • Former member of the Board of Management of E.ON Ruhrgas AG, Essen Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • National-Bank AG, Essen1) • Hoberg & Driesch GmbH, Düsseldorf (Chairman of the Advisory Committee) Thomas Meiers • Secretary to the Board of Directors of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union (IG BCE), Hanover • Previously District Secretary of IG BCE, Cologne Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • INEOS Deutschland Holding GmbH, Cologne1) • INEOS Köln GmbH, Cologne1) Lawrence A. Rosen • Former member of the Board of Management of Deutsche Post AG, Bonn Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • Qiagen N.V., Venlo, Netherlands LANXESS Annual Report 2017 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Serving members Ralf Sikorski • Member of the Executive Committee of the German Mining, Chemical and Energy Industrial Union, Hanover Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) (Vice Chairman) • RAG AG, Herne1) • RAG Deutsche Steinkohle AG, Herne1) • RWE AG, Essen1) • RWE Power AG, Cologne and Essen1) (Vice Chairman) • RWE Generation AG, Essen1) • KSBG – Kommunale Beteiligungsgesellschaft GmbH & Co. KG, Essen1) (Vice Chairman) • KSBG – Kommunale Verwaltungsgesellschaft GmbH, Essen1) (Vice Chairman) Manuela Strauch • Chairwoman of the LANXESS Works Council at the Uerdingen site • Member of the LANXESS Central Works Council Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) Ifraim Tairi • Chairman of the LANXESS Works Council at the Dormagen site • Member of the LANXESS Central Works Council Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH, Dormagen1) Theo H. Walthie • S elf-employed consultant • Former Global Business Group President for the Hydrocarbons & Energy Business of the Dow Chemical Company Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • NBE Therapeutics AG, Basel, Switzerland (President of the Board of Administration) Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber • S elf-employed consultant • Former Chairman of the Management Board of ALTANA AG Further offices: • LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne1) • ALTANA AG, Wesel1) • Grillo Werke AG, Duisburg1) • ARDEX GmbH, Witten (Chairman of the Advisory Committee) • Cabot Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, U.S. 1) Statutory supervisory boards The information about offices held refers to memberships of other supervisory boards and comparable supervisory bodies of companies in Germany and abroad (as of January 31, 2018). LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Report of the Supervisory Board 59 Report of the Supervisory Board DEAR STOCKHOLDERS, We are looking back on an extremely successful year for of the full Supervisory Board and its committees. If the law, articles LANXESS. of association or other provisions required the Supervisory Board All segments increased their earnings. This was shown to approve the actions of the Board of Management, we discussed particularly clearly in the New LANXESS businesses. This is these actions in detail and adopted resolutions on them. the term given to the businesses we manage outside of our joint The Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Board of venture ­A RLANXEO. The Group posted a significant EBITDA Management were in regular contact outside of the Supervisory increase of 30% to €1.29 billion. Board’s meetings. We discussed the company’s current situation The change in the portfolio that LANXESS made in 2017 and material transactions. contributed to this increase. By acquiring Chemtura Corp., the Group took a meaningful step towards its diversification and the significant improvement of its portfolio. At the same time, PRINCIPAL TOPICS DISCUSSED BY THE necessary restructuring measures were initiated at operating SUPERVISORY BOARD level, and LANXESS successfully jettisoned smaller business areas that were not part of the Group’s core business. The Supervisory Board met a total of six times in fiscal year 2018 will be another year characterized by growth. The Board 2017. We regularly discussed the sales and earnings performance of Management has resolved promising investments in organic of the Group and its segments, as well as the financial position. growth and is simultaneously pursuing further portfolio optimization. ­Additionally, the Board of Management kept us updated about the The Group will continue to make progress in its transformation while overall state of the economy, the situation in the chemical industry, acting on solid financial foundations. the performance of LANXESS stock, investment and acquisition During the reporting year, the Supervisory Board duly and plans and sustainability issues. The Supervisory Board addressed fully performed the tasks and duties incumbent upon it under the the following important issues: law, the articles of association and the rules of procedure for the The focus of the Supervisory Board meeting held on March Supervisory Board. It advised the Board of Management regularly 14, 2017, was the review of the annual financial statements and on the management of the company and monitored its work. In consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2016 and the particular, it dealt with matters relating to the company’s realignment proposal for use of the distributable profit. The Supervisory Board following the acquisition of Chemtura, its strategic development also discussed and passed motions for resolution by the Annuand measures to increase competitiveness. al Stockholders’ Meeting and reviewed corporate governance The Supervisory Board was directly involved in all decisions matters. The Board of Management then presented the internal of fundamental importance for the company. The Board of Mancontrol, risk management and auditing systems, and we satisfied agement informed us regularly in written and oral reports about ourselves of their efficacy. It also informed us of the establishment business performance, the situation of the Group, including the risk of the dLX Group function, which is to deal with digitalization issues situation and risk management, strategic development, compliance, in the LANXESS Group. Lastly, the Supervisory Board decided management development and current issues. On the basis of these upon the variable compensation for the Board of Management reports, we discussed significant business transactions in detail. We members for fiscal year 2016 on the basis of the identified target thoroughly examined the reports and the resolutions proposed by attainment. We introduced an age limit for both the Supervisory the Board of Management and discussed them at length in meetings Board and the Board of Management. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At the meeting held on May 10, 2017, the Board of ManageAt its meeting on December 8, 2017, the Supervisory Board ment gave us detailed information about the steps taken to acquire reviewed in full and approved the corporate planning for 2018 Chemtura and the upcoming integration of the new business. At proposed by the Board of Management. It also discussed the this meeting, we also set the new target for the proportion of womcompany’s strategic alignment – including sustainability aspects en on the Board of Management, according to which the LANXESS – and capital expenditure policy. As in previous years, current deAG Board of Management is to have at least one female member velopments in corporate governance were a topic on the agenda by June 30, 2022. We also adjusted the rules of procedure for the of the December meeting. After reviewing compliance with the Supervisory Board on the basis of the amendments to the German recommendations and suggestions of the GCGC, we resolved Corporate Governance Code (GCGC). The Board of Management to issue a declaration of compliance. In addition, the Board of additionally made a full report on environmental protection and Management reported on the LANXESS Group’s financing poloccupational and plant safety, which was subsequently discussed icy. Lastly, the Supervisory Board defined the conditions for the by the full Supervisory Board. The Board of Management also Board of Management’s variable compensation components for informed us of the status of the Group-wide Manufacturing Excelfiscal year 2018. lence initiative. Another key topic at this meeting was a Board of All members of the Supervisory Board and its committees Management personnel matter. The Supervisory Board resolved performed their duties diligently and conscientiously. The averto appoint Mr. Stephen C. Forsyth as a member of the Board of age attendance at meetings of the Supervisory Board and its Management for the period from June 1, 2017, to May 31, 2018. ­committees was 97%. No member of the Supervisory Board An accordingly adjusted allocation of Board of Management duties attended half or less than half of the meetings of the S ­ upervisory was resolved at the same time. Board and the committees of which he or she is a member. An The meeting on May 26, 2017, served to prepare the Annual overview of the attendance of individual Supervisory Board memStockholders’ Meeting. bers at meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees At the meeting held on August 9, 2017, the Board of Managecan be found on the company’s website. The stockholder ment gave us an overview of the progress made in integrating the representatives and ­employee representatives to the Supervisory acquired Chemtura business. It also reported on the measures to Board worked together in a spirit of trust. They regularly held improve occupational safety and their results. We again dealt with a separate meetings at which they prepared the meetings of the full Board of Management personnel matter and resolved to reappoint Supervisory Board. The members of the Board of Management Mr. Michael Pontzen as a member of the Board of Management of attended the Supervisory Board meetings unless the Chairman LANXESS AG with effect from April 1, 2018, to March 31, 2023. of the Supervisory Board determined otherwise. At the meeting held on November 9, 2017, the Board of Management first gave us a report on LANXESS’ activities in the areas of research and development. In addition, we discussed two acquisition projects with the Board of Management, namely the now completed acquisitions of the phosphorous additives business from Solvay in the U.S. and of IMD Solutions GmbH, a manufacturer of natural preservatives. The Supervisory Board then defined a skills profile for the entire body pursuant to Paragraph 5.4.1 GCGC. Finally, we approved the reappointment of Dr. Hubert Fink as a member of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG with effect from October 1, 2018, to September 30, 2023. As a further personnel measure, we resolved to continue a Long-Term Stock Performance Plan as a variable compensation component for the members of the Board of Management. The new plan applies to the period from 2018 to 2021. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Report of the Supervisory Board 61 WORK OF THE COMMITTEES The Nominations Committee convened twice in 2017 to deal with succession planning for the stockholder representatives. The The Supervisory Board has four committees: the Audit ComCommittee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3, of the mittee, the Presidial Committee, the Nominations Committee and German Codetermination Act did not need to convene. the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3, of the The chairmen of the committees each reported on the German Codetermination Act. The committees are tasked with ­meetings and the work of the committees at the meetings of preparing the topics and resolutions to be discussed at meetings of the full Supervisory Board. the full Supervisory Board. They also, at times, exercise decision-­ making powers conferred on them by the Supervisory Board. The Audit Committee met four times during the year. It dealt in CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND particular with the annual financial statements of LANXESS AG, the ­DECLARATION OF COMPLIANCE consolidated financial statements and the combined management report for fiscal year 2016, the quarterly reports issued during fiscal In the year under review, the Supervisory Board discussed the year 2017, and the condensed consolidated financial statements GCGC. The joint declarations of compliance made by the Board and interim management report included in the 2017 half-year of Management and Supervisory Board pursuant to ­Section 161 financial report. It also reviewed the company’s risk management of the German Stock Corporation Act can be viewed by stockand internal control systems. Another focus of the committee’s holders at any time on the company’s website. As expressed work was the evaluation of the financial and accounting effects of in the declarations, LANXESS AG complies with the GCGC’s the Chemtura acquisition. The Audit Committee also dealt with the recommendations and suggestions except in a few justified cases. concept for approving non-audit services. Other topics discussed No conflicts of interest on the part of Supervisory Board members were the significant findings by the internal audit ­department, became known last year. Further information about corporate corporate planning, compliance and the determination of the governance can be found in the Corporate ­Governance Report principal areas of focus for the audit of the 2017 financial stateand in the Board of Management’s declaration pursuant to Section ments. In addition, the committee reviewed the investment policy 289f of the German Commercial Code. for the German pension assets, the new obligations to report on non-financial matters as a result of the German act implementing the European Union’s CSR Directive, various tax issues and their ANNUAL AND CONSOLIDATED effects on LANXESS, the Group rating and the audit of OTC derivFINANCIAL STATEMENTS ative contracts pursuant to Section 20 of the German Securities Trading Act. The external auditor reported on the auditing activities The annual financial statements prepared by the Board of at two of the four Audit Committee meetings. Management of LANXESS AG in accordance with the rules of the The Presidial Committee convened five times during the German Commercial Code, the consolidated financial statements reporting year to prepare the meetings of the Supervisory Board prepared in accordance with the International Financial ­Reporting and the decisions to be reached by the full Supervisory Board Standards (IFRS) and the combined management report for at its meetings concerning human resources measures in the ­fiscal year 2017 were audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH company’s Board of Management. The Presidial Committee also Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, the auditor approved Mr. Zachert’s assumption of a Supervisory Board post appointed by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2017, at Siemens AG. and engaged by the Supervisory Board. The auditor issued an unqualified opinion in each case. The auditor carried out the audit in accordance with Section 317 of the German Commercial Code and Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on specific requirements regarding statutory audit of public-interest entities and repealing Commission Decision 2005/909/EC according to a selection procedure implemented by the company. The auditor responsible for the audit was Mr. Jörg Sechser. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Supervisory Board convinced itself of the independence were prepared by the Board of Management. The Supervisory of the auditor and the persons acting on the auditor’s behalf. Board endorsed the Board of Manage­ment’s proposal for use The audit reports and the documents relating to the financial of the distributable profit after close examination and extensive statements were discussed at length with the Board of Management deliberations that carefully weighed the best interests of the and the auditor at the Audit Committee meeting held on March 12, company and the stockholders. 2018. They were also discussed in detail on the basis of the required The composition of the Supervisory Board did not change documents and notes at the Supervisory Board’s financial statein the past fiscal year. ments meeting held on March 13, 2018. The responsible auditor The Supervisory Board thanks the members of the Board of was present for the discussions concerning the financial statements Management, all of the Group’s employees around the world and of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the the employee representatives for their commitment and work in LANXESS Group. He reported on the scope, focus areas and sigfiscal year 2017. nificant findings of the audits and went into particular detail on the key audit matters. He was also available to the Audit Committee and full Supervisory Board to provide additional information. Cologne, March 13, 2018 Based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee as The Supervisory Board well as on its own review and in-depth discussions about the financial statements of LANXESS AG, the consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, the combined management report and the proposal for appropriation of the profit, the ­Supervisory Board endorsed the auditor’s conclusions and had no objections to raise. The Supervisory Board has approved the annual ­financial statements of LANXESS AG and the conDr. Rolf Stomberg solidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group, which Chairman LANXESS Annual Report 2017 COMBINED MANAGEMENT REPORT 64 Fundamentals of the Group 64 Group Structure 64 Business Activities 67 Strategy 68 Value Management and Control System 70 Business Processes and Employees 72 Economic Report 72 Legal Environment 73 Business Conditions 73 Key Events Influencing the Company’s Business 74 Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 75 Business Performance of the LANXESS Group 79 Business Trends by Region 80 Segment Information 84 Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals) 84 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 90 Management’s Summary of Business Development and the Fiscal Year 91 Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview 92 Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of LANXESS AG 94 Compensation Report 101 Report Pursuant to Sections 289a, Paragraph 1, and 315a, Paragraph 1, of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 103 Report Pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 104 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 64 Combined Management Report GROUP STRUCTURE Principal Direct Subsidiaries of ARLANXEO Holding B.V. Company Name and Domicile Function Segment Legal structure ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd., Production LANXESS AG is the parent company of the LANXESS Singapore and sales ARLANXEO Group and functions largely as a management holding c­ ompany.­ ARLANXEO USA LLC, Production Pittsburgh, U.S. and sales ARLANXEO LANXESS Deutschland GmbH is a wholly owned subsidiary of ARLANXEO Brasil S.A., Production LANXESS AG and in turn controls the other subsidiaries and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and sales ARLANXEO affiliates in Germany and elsewhere. ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A., Sales Granges-Paccot, Swiss ­organization ARLANXEO The following are the principal companies wholly owned by ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V., Production LANXESS AG directly or indirectly: Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands and sales ARLANXEO ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH, Production Principal Direct or Indirect Subsidiaries of Dormagen, Germany and sales ARLANXEO LANXESS AG ARLANXEO High Performance Elastomers, Changzhou, China Production ARLANXEO Company Name and Domicile Function Segments Advanced Intermediates/ Performance Chemicals/ LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Production High Performance Materials/ Cologne, Germany and sales Engineering Materials Management and control organization Advanced Intermediates/ LANXESS AG has a two-tier management structure consisting LANXESS Solutions US Inc., Production Specialty Additives/ of the Board of Management, which manages the company, and Middlebury, U.S. and sales Engineering Materials the Supervisory Board, which oversees the Board of Management Advanced Intermediates/ Specialty Additives/ with the support of an Audit Committee formed from among its LANXESS Corporation, Production Performance Chemicals/ members to advise on financial matters. The Board of Management ­Pittsburgh, U.S. and sales Engineering Materials shapes Group strategy and manages resource allocation, infraSaltigo GmbH, Production Leverkusen, Germany and sales Advanced Intermediates structure and organization. As the Group management company, LANXESS N.V., Production Advanced Intermediates/ LANXESS AG is responsible for financing and for communication Antwerp, Belgium and sales Engineering Materials with the company’s key stakeholders. Advanced Intermediates/ LANXESS India Private Limited, Production Performance Chemicals/ Thane, India and sales Engineering Materials Great Lakes Chemical BUSINESS ACTIVITIES ­C orporation, Wilmington, U.S. Production Specialty Additives LANXESS Sales Netherlands B.V., Sales Amsterdam, Netherlands ­organization Specialty Additives Business organization and Group portfolio On April 21, 2017, LANXESS successfully closed the acquisition of U.S. company Chemtura. The acquisition, which is In the context of the strategic alliance formed with Saudi the largest in LANXESS’s history, was a further major step in the Aramco for the synthetic rubber business, as explained under Group’s realignment program. LANXESS has significantly ex“Business organization and Group portfolio” in this combined manpanded its own additives business and is now one of the world’s agement report, LANXESS AG holds a 50% interest in ­ARLANXEO leading players in this growing market. In addition to additives, Holding B.V., Maastricht, Netherlands. The following are the prinChemtura’s businesses with urethanes and organometallics have cipal companies wholly owned by this subsidiary: also been integrated into the company. LANXESS has taken over some 2,500 employees at 20 sites in eleven countries. In connection with the acquisition of Chemtura, LANXESS acquired all shares in Chemtura Corporation, Middlebury, U.S., as well as its domestic and foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. As part of the integration of Chemtura into the LANXESS Group, companies acquired have been renamed and merged. As a result of the transactions described above, Group structures have been reorganized. Since the second quarter of 2017, LANXESS has been reporting on five segments: Advanced Intermediates, Specialty Additives, Performance Chemicals, Engineering Materials and ARLANXEO. These segments comprise a total of twelve business units, each of which conducts its own operations and has global profit responsibility. With the exception LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Group Structure 65 Business Activities of the ARLANXEO segment, changes have been made in all unit. The Rhein Chemie business unit, from which Plastic Addisegments. Prior-year figures have been adjusted accordingly tives and Lubricant Additives have been separated out, will now if necessary. encompass only the LANXESS Rubber Additives and Colorant Chemtura’s organometallics business has been integrated Additives operations. The two business units Additives and Rhein into the LANXESS Advanced Industrial Intermediates business Chemie make up the new Specialty Additives segment. The unit in the Advanced Intermediates segment. prior-year figures for this segment have been adjusted accordChemtura’s flame retardant and lubricant additives business ingly and derive from the previous business unit Rhein Chemie has been combined with the LANXESS Plastic Additives and Additives, which has been separated out from the Performance Lubricant Additives operations in the new Additives business Chemicals segment. Reporting Structure after Acquisition of Chemtura NEW NEW Advanced Specialty Performance Engineering ARLANXEO Intermediates Additives Chemicals Materials Advanced Industrial Rhein Chemie High Performance Tire & Specialty Additives Intermediates Additives ­Materials Rubbers Flame Retardants High Performance Organometallics Inorganic Pigments Urethane Systems and Lubricant Additives Elastomers Saltigo Rhein Chemie Leather Material Protection Products Liquid Purification LANXESS business units Technologies Former Chemtura businesses Chemtura’s urethanes business will form the Urethane Systo be included in the consolidated financial statements of the tems business unit, which, together with the High Performance LANXESS Group and will be fully consolidated in the first three Materials business unit, constitutes the Engineering Materials years because LANXESS has the opportunity to determine key segment. The prior-year figures for the Engineering Materials aspects of financial and business policy. From the second quarter segment correspond to those of the former High Performance of 2018, i.e. a year before the end of full consolidation, A ­ RLANXEO Materials segment. will be reflected as a discontinued operation as per IFRS 5. As part of the consolidation of our plant network, we have Details about the scope of consolidation are provided bundled the Group’s international chrome value chain in South in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as of Africa, and we closed production at the Zárate site in Argentina in ­December 31, 2017. the fourth quarter of 2017. In addition, we will bundle production Our business units conduct their own operations, for which of lubricant precursors at our Elmira site in Canada and close the they have global profit responsibility. Group functions support our Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, Netherlands, by November 2018 business units by providing financial, legal, technical and other at the latest. centralized services. To make further progress with the digitalizaAs part of its realignment, on April 1, 2016, the LANXESS tion of our value chains, the use of big data, the development of Group and Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The digital business models and embedding digital expertise among Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, formed a straour employees, we established a new Group function in the retegic alliance for the synthetic rubber business named ARLANXEO porting year, which is to actively shape the digital future of our in which each party holds a 50% interest. The business continues Group. Complementing this global alignment of the business LANXESS Annual Report 2017 66 Combined Management Report units and Group functions, the country organizations ensure the We report our application-oriented process and functional necessary proximity to markets and provide the organizational chemicals operations in the Performance Chemicals segment. infrastructure required. Performance Chemicals  Business units Inorganic Pigments The segments in brief Material Protection Products The business activities that LANXESS combines in its AdLeather vanced Intermediates segment make it one of the world’s leading Liquid Purification Technologies Sites Sydney, Australia suppliers of industrial chemical intermediates and a key player in Porto Feliz, Brazil the custom synthesis and manufacturing of chemical precursors Changzhou, Shanghai, Ningbo, China and specialty active ingredients. Bitterfeld, Dormagen, Krefeld-Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Mannheim, Germany Advanced Intermediates  Branston, Sudbury, Great Britain Filago, Italy Business units Advanced Industrial Intermediates Singapore Saltigo Vilassar de Mar, Spain Sites Bergkamen, Brunsbüttel, Dormagen, Merebank, Newcastle and Rustenburg, Krefeld-Uerdingen, Leverkusen, Germany South Africa Antwerp, Belgium Burgettstown, Memphis, Pittsburgh, U.S. Liyang, China Applications Disinfection Nagda, Jhagadia, India Protection and preservation of wood, Pyeongtaek, Republic of Korea construction materials, coatings and foodstuffs Baytown, Bushy Park, Mapleton, U.S. Color pigments Applications Agrochemicals Products for leather processing and Automotive water treatment Construction Aromas and flavors Pharmaceuticals Tire chemicals We have combined our engineering plastics activities in the Semiconductors and photovoltaics Engineering Materials segment. Engineering Materials Our solutions based on specialty additive chemicals are comBusiness units High Performance Materials bined in the Specialty Additives segment. Urethane Systems Sites Brilon, Hamm-Uentrop and Krefeld-Uerdingen, Germany Specialty Additives Antwerp, Belgium Business units Rhein Chemie Porto Feliz, Rio Claro, Brazil Additives Nantong, Wuxi, China Sites Burzaco, Merlo, Argentina Baxenden, Great Britain Porto Feliz, Rio Claro, Brazil Jhagadia, India Nantong, Qingdao, China Latina, Italy Krefeld-Uerdingen, Leverkusen and Gastonia, Perth Amboy, U.S. Mannheim, Germany Applications Automotive Epierre, France Construction Trafford Park, Great Britain Electrical/electronics and medical equipment Jhagadia, India Mining Latina, Italy Tires and wheels Toyohashi, Japan Oil and gas Elmira, West Hill, Canada Industrial and mechanical goods Altamira, Reynosa, Mexico Ankerweg, Netherlands Lipetsk, Russia Kaohsiung, Taiwan Chardon, East Hanover, El Dorado, Fords, Greensboro, Little Rock, U.S. Applications Polymer additives Phosphorous-based or brominated flame retardants Lubricants LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Business Activities 67 Strategy The ARLANXEO segment contains our synthetic rubber Maintaining growth, enhancing stability and activities. profitability Our strategic measures extend beyond the year 2021. The ARLANXEO  operational integration of Chemtura was successfully completed in 2017. We aim to achieve cost synergies of €100 million by 2020. Business units Tire & Specialty Rubbers We have expanded our “Manufacturing Excellence” initiative to the High Performance Elastomers Sites Leverkusen, Dormagen, Germany former Chemtura production sites to ensure that their processes Zwijndrecht, Belgium and technologies are also optimized further. In addition, we are Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands constantly analyzing and optimizing the cost structures of our own Singapore established businesses. La Wantzenau and Port Jérôme, France In order to further improve the positioning of our existing Sarnia, Canada businesses and leverage future growth potential, we will invest Orange, U.S. Cabo, Duque de Caxias, Triunfo, Brazil around €400 million in our organic growth across all segments by Changzhou, Nantong, China 2020. Even after the acquisition of Chemtura, reducing economic Applications Tires dependency on individual sectors or closely correlated markets is Automotive still an important element of our strategy. For instance, we intend Electrical/electronics and medical equipment to increase our presence in attractive customer industries with innovative product applications. In addition, we are also supporting our growth with the newly created dLX Group function for digitalization across functions, STRATEGY countries and all business units. It works on various initiatives to actively shape the digital future of our Group. The chemical industry is a still-growing industry that is ­accustomed to change. To create value in the increasingly ­complex market environment, LANXESS has permanently continued to Time horizon 2021: leading positions, more evolve. For instance, LANXESS can play an active role in shaping stable and with a stronger cash flow the change in its markets, even in challenging conditions. Our target scenario from 2021: ›› LANXESS is a more stable specialty chemicals group with a stronger cash flow and a more balanced portfolio. We have Realignment implemented strengthened our regional presence in North America and With our realignment program, we have reached key mileAsia. stones in the context of our strategy. A new and more efficient ›› Our businesses have attained a leading position in their marorganizational structure and extensive optimization of our ­business kets. Our dependency on developments in specific regions units and Group functions have not only brought us closer to our and industries is reduced. markets and customers, but also sustainably reduced our cost ­position by around €150 million. As a result of our program to The improved positioning is to be reflected in the financial optimize our production, sales and supply chains, we will ­reduce figures of LANXESS. To this end, we set new medium-term finanour costs by a further €150 million by the end of 2019. In Saudi cial­targets in 2017. From fiscal year 2021, our average operating Aramco, we have found a strong partner for our synthetic ­rubber margin – measured by EBITDA pre exceptionals – is expected to be business, and together we have successfully positioned the between 14% and 18% over a business cycle. At the same time, the new strategic alliance ARLANXEO on the market. ARLANXEO margin in any year is expected to move around the average level by will be reported as a discontinued operation from the second no more than two to three percentage points. In terms of volume, quarter of 2018. We pool LANXESS without ARLANXEO under LANXESS is expected to steadily grow faster than GDP. A sound New LANXESS. investment-grade rating will remain a strict goal of our conservative The acquisition of Chemtura, which we completed sooner financing policy. Accordingly, we also intend to use our increased than expected, marks a major step towards a more balanced, financial strength to substantially reduce our net financial debt. more profitable portfolio. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 68 Combined Management Report VALUE MANAGEMENT AND charges or the proceeds from the sale of assets, certain IT costs, CONTROL SYSTEM restructuring expenses and income from the reversal of provisions established in this connection, and reductions in earnings To achieve our strategic goals, we need indicators that we can resulting from portfolio adjustments or purchase price allocations. use to measure the outcomes of our activities. The most important Grants and subsidies from third parties for the acquisition and indicator of our financial performance – and thus the company’s construction of property, plant and equipment are accounted for key controlling indicator – is EBITDA (earnings before interest, as deferred income using the gross method. In this respect, no income taxes, depreciation and amortization) pre exceptionals. adjustments other than for gross depreciation and amortization We view other financial performance ratios such as return on are made when calculating EBITDA pre exceptionals. capital employed (ROCE), days of sales in inventory (DSI), days Every operational decision or achievement is judged in the of sales outstanding (DSO) and the net financial debt ratio as short and long term by its sustainable impact on EBITDA pre company-specific leading indicators or as a basis for monitoring. exceptionals. As part of the annual budget and planning process, targets are set for this benchmark of our company’s success, which Value Management and Control System are then taken into account in determining employees’ variable income components. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Simple revenue data such as net sales are not among the EBITDA pre ­exceptionals € million 735 808 885 995 1,290 Group’s controlling parameters because they do not permit any EBITDA margin ­direct conclusions about our profitability. Volatile raw material pre exceptionals % 8.9 10.1 11.2 12.9 13.3 ­prices are a hallmark of our industry and their fluctuation throughCapital employed € million 4,969 5,093 5,043 7,479 7,463 out the year impacts our selling prices. This influences sales but, ROCE % 5.8 7.9 8.4 6.9 9.3 Days of sales in other than short-term effects, generally has no impact on the abinventory (DSI) Days 58.0 65.4 67.2 67.2 64.7 solute margins that are significant to our profitability. We therefore Days of sales set sales targets neither for the short nor medium term. outstanding (DSO) Days 47.8 48.0 47.6 51.1 50.7 The earnings margins are calculated from the ratios of the Net financial ­ liabilities € million 1,731 1,336 1,211 2,394 2,252 respective earnings indicators to sales. For example, the EBITDA Net financial margin (pre exceptionals) is calculated as the ratio of EBITDA (pre liabilities after exceptionals) to sales and serves as an indicator of relative earning deduction of time ­deposits power at Group level and for the individual segments. and ­securities available for sale € million 1,731 1,336 1,211 269 2,252 Net financial debt ratio 2.4x 1.7x 1.4x 0.3x 1.7x Company-specific leading indicators Investment ratio % 7.5 7.7 5.5 5.7 5.7 Leading indicators support the timely identification of material changes in the company’s earnings, asset and financial position and the initiation of appropriate measures. Our success is largely reflected by our earning power, hence Our annual budget and planning process delivers key values our control system is focused on steering this metric. for the Group’s earning power and our ability to finance operations from our own funds as the starting point for steering the company. This information is used, for example, to make financing and capital Earning power expenditure decisions. To ensure a timely response to changes in The key indicator for steering the earning power of the market conditions and the competitive environment, we prepare LANXESS Group and the individual segments is EBITDA pre operational forecasts twice each fiscal year as the basis for up­exceptionals. It is calculated from EBIT by adding back depreciadating the full-year budget and the associated key values used to tion of property, plant and equipment, amortization of intangible control the Group. In addition, regular forecasts of the key values assets and excluding exceptional items. The latter are effects for our earning power are prepared. which, by nature or scope, have a particular impact on earnings, but which it would seem inappropriate to include in the assessment of business performance over several reporting periods. Exceptional items may include write-downs, reversals of impairment LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Value Management and Control System 69 Certain parameters used in budgets and forecasts are defined This is known as a market risk premium and is calculated using the centrally and applied uniformly as they have a major influence on long-term excess return generated by a stock investment over an the key values. Strategic raw materials have a crucial role in foreinvestment in risk-free government bonds and adjusted by the casting. The development of procurement prices is significant to beta factor denoting the relative risk of an investment in LANXESS the timely adjustment of selling prices. Even regional differences stock compared with that of the market as a whole. in the availability of raw materials over a specific period of time In fiscal year 2017, ROCE was 9.3% and thus slightly above may become significant. Given the regional diversification of our our weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after adjustment for production sites and customer markets, exchange rate develop­comparability. ROCE of 6.9% in the previous year was n ­ egatively ment also affects the earning power resulting from sales and cost ­affected by the completed acquisition of Chemtura and the trends, with corresponding repercussions for pricing and hedging ­associated need to reserve the corresponding financial resources. strategies. In addition, we draw on continuously updated growth forecasts for our customer industries and the regions where we do business in order to prepare and review sales and capital exCapital employment penditure decisions. To optimize our working capital at the operational level, we use two key performance indicators: DSO (days of sales outstanding) and DSI (days of sales in inventory). These show receivables and Profitability inventories in relation to sales for the previous quarter. In fiscal Return on capital employed (ROCE) has been implemented year 2017, DSI was at 64.7 days (previous year: 67.2 days) and as a profitability ratio at Group level which indicates how efficiently DSO at 50.7 days (previous year: 51.1 days). In this connection, we utilize our capital. This makes it an important criterion in capital receivables in the reporting period should be compared with a expenditure decisions, for example. lower base in the prior year. Expenditures for property, plant and equipment are subject to rigorous capital discipline and are systematically aligned with ROCE = EBIT pre exceptionals the product areas that show the greatest potential for success. We Capital employed prioritize investment projects on the basis of financial indicators Capital employed = Total assets such as pay-back period, net present value and ROCE. The investLess deferred tax assets ment rate is an indicator that describes cash outflows for capital Less interest-free liabilities expenditures divided by sales. Interest-free liabilities comprise provisions (except those for Debt pensions and other post-employment benefits), income tax liabiliNet financial liabilities are the total of current and non-current ties, trade payables and items included under “other non-financial financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest), less liabilities.” In addition, we use a simplified variant of ROCE, called cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. After deduction “business ROCE,” to evaluate the contribution of our business of time deposits and securities available for sale, net financial units. liabilities as of December 31, 2017, amounted to €2,252 million, compared with €269 million at the end of the previous year. The increase results primarily from the financing of the Chemtura Cost of capital purchase price. Borrowing costs are calculated from risk-free interest, i.e. in our The net financial debt ratio, which we use solely at Group case, from the return on a long-term German government bond plus level, is defined as net financial liabilities divided by EBITDA pre a risk premium for industrial companies in the same risk category exceptionals. On the basis of net financial liabilities after deduction as LANXESS. The cost of equity reflects the return expected by of time deposits and securities available for sale, the net financial investors from an investment in LANXESS shares. Equity investors debt ratio as of December 31, 2017, rose to 1.7 from 0.3 at the demand a risk premium because of the ­greater risk involved in previous year’s reporting date. acquiring shares rather than buying risk-free ­government bonds. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 70 Combined Management Report At Group level, we also consider provisions for pensions Procuring chemical raw materials is a high priority at and other post-employment benefits to be components of debt. LANXESS. Our aim is to secure our supplies on the basis of Compared with the end of 2016, they increased by €241 million long-term contracts. The availability of raw materials has always to €1,490 million. Including this additional component of debt, been a crucial factor in facility location decisions. We procure key adjusted for related deferred tax assets and reduced by the reraw materials and utilities in the form of steam and biomass from ceivables relating to pension obligations recognized under other the immediate vicinity at several of our production sites. In this non-current assets, the total net debt ratio in relation to EBITDA way, we not only minimize the costs and environmental impact of pre exceptionals was 2.6, compared with 1.2 at the previous year’s our transportation activities, but also reduce the risk of delivery reporting date. shortfalls caused by transportation issues in particular. Our biggest suppliers of chemical raw materials in 2017 Net Financial Liabilities included BASF, BP, Braskem, Covestro, ExxonMobil, INEOS, € million 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 LyondellBasell, Nova Chemicals, Sabic and Shell Chemicals. Non-current financial ­liabilities 1,649 1,698 1,258 2,734 2,242 Among the most important strategic raw materials by far for Current financial liabilities 668 182 443 78 633 our production operations in 2017 were ammonia, butadiene, Less: cyclohexane, ethylene, isobutylene, Raffinate I and toluene. In Liabilities for accrued all, strategic raw materials accounted for a procurement volume interest (53) (26) (24) (23) (35) of approximately €3.2 billion in fiscal year 2017 (previous year: Cash and cash equivalents (427) (418) (366) (355) (538) Near-cash assets (106) (100) (100) (40) (50) approximately €2.2 billion). This equates to around 80% of our Net financial liabilities 1,731 1,336 1,211 2,394 2,252 total procurement spend for raw materials and goods in 2017, Time deposits and securities which amounted to approximately €4.0 billion (previous year: available for sale 0 0 0 (2,125) 0 €2.9 billion). Our total procurement spend in 2017 was around Net financial liabilities after deduction of time €6.9 billion (previous year: around €5.7 billion). deposits and securities available for sale 1,731 1,336 1,211 269 2,252 Production LANXESS is one of the world’s major producers of specialty chemicals. Our production facilities make anywhere from very BUSINESS PROCESSES small batches of custom-synthesized products to basic, specialty AND EMPLOYEES and fine chemicals as well as polymers in quantities of several ten thousand metric tons. Procurement Our production facilities are organizationally assigned to indiLANXESS uses its centrally managed global procurement vidual business units. The most important production sites are loorganization – Global Procurement & Logistics – to ensure a cated in Leverkusen, Dormagen, the Uerdingen district of Krefeld reliable supply of raw and other materials and services. “Global and ­Bergkamen, G ­ ermany; Antwerp, Belgium; S ­ ittard-Geleen, Categories” closely coordinate with our business units to pool their ­Netherlands; T ­ rafford Park, Great Britain; Latina, Italy; Orange, requirements in the raw materials, technical goods, packaging El Dorado and Perth ­A mboy, U.S.; Sarnia and Elmira, Canada; materials, energy, services and logistics segments. Our worldwide Triunfo and Duque de Caxias, Brazil; Jhagadia, India; Singapore; procurement network facilitates purchasing synergies, so that we and Changzhou and Wuxi, China. For a detailed breakdown of can move efficiently in the market and exploit price advantages. our production sites by segment, please see “The segments in We avoid delivery bottlenecks or reliance on individual suppliers brief” in this combined management report. using strategies like multiple sourcing. As a result, we experienced no delivery shortfalls or bottlenecks in the reporting period that had a material effect on our business development. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Value Management and Control System 71 Business Processes and Employees Sales organization The number of customers in each segment varies widely. We sell our products globally, to several thousand customers The comparatively low sales per customer in the Performance in more than 150 countries across all continents. LANXESS’s Chemicals segment, as well as its broad customer base, reflect the longstanding customer base includes leaders in each of its user way in which its business often involves custom-tailored solutions industries. We have well-established customer relationships in in specialty chemicals. By contrast, the substantially lower numall sales regions. To meet our customers’ needs, we have set up bers of customers in the Engineering Materials and ARLANXEO flexible marketing and sales structures. We manage our sales segments, which nonetheless generate relatively high sales, are throughout the world through 68 companies owned by LANXESS typical of the high-performance plastics and synthetic rubber itself. In countries where we do not yet have our own company, products businesses. No segment can be considered dependent we work with local sales partners. on just a few customers. To keep as close as possible to customers and ensure they receive individual support, each of our business units manages its own sales organization. Another competitive advantage is deResearch and development rived from having 73 of our own production sites in 20 countries. Research and development makes an important contribution Wherever possible, customers are supplied from production sites toward increasing our competitiveness and expanding our product in the same region, yielding advantages in terms of time and costs. portfolio through the development of innovative products and processes as well as the ongoing optimization of existing production processes. We have successfully integrated the research units Sales markets for flame retardants, lubricants, urethanes and organometallics Because of our broad offering, we have business ­relationships purchased as a result of the Chemtura acquisition. with a large number of customers all over the world. These ­customers need an individualized, well-focused approach, which we are able Organizational focus to provide because our sales organizations are ­managed through Our research programs are aligned with the needs of cusbusiness units. tomers in the end markets. We have therefore consolidated our LANXESS serves the following industries in particular: tires, product innovation activities in the respective business units. automotive, chemicals, agrochemicals, construction, electronics, The business units focus their activities on optimizing ­products leather and footwear, plastics, pharmaceuticals, food, water treatand product quality, as well as on developing new p ­ roducts. The ment and furniture. Global Technology & Innovation department within our P ­ roduction, Technology, Safety & Environment Group function supports and Shares of Sales by Industry Sector complements the business units’ research and ­development ­activities, with the focus on process innovation. The emphasis here in % 2017 is on planning new processes and integrating new ­technologies into Tires ~ 20 Automotive ~ 20 our existing production processes with the aim of achieving cost Chemicals ~ 15 and technology leadership. Our main research and ­development Agrochemicals ~ 10 units are at the sites in Leverkusen, the Uerdingen district of Krefeld Construction, electrical/electronics, leather/footwear ~ 15 and ­Dormagen, ­Germany; Naugatuck, U.S.; London, Canada; Others (cumulative share) ~ 20 and Wuxi and C ­ hangzhou, China. We also operate a center for engineering plastics in Hong Kong. At our international research and ­development sites, we test materials such as innovative flame In fiscal year 2017, our top ten customers accounted for about retardants and ­engineering plastics for lightweight automotive 20% (previous year: 20%) of total sales. None of our customers ­engineering applications. ­accounted for more than 10% of Group sales. 60 (previous year: 51) customers accounted for annual sales in excess of €20 million. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 72 Combined Management Report Cost trend and employees Employees Research and development expenses in 2017 totaled As of December 31, 2017, the LANXESS Group had a total €145 million, or 1.5% of sales (previous year: €131 million of 19,029 employees, against 16,721 at the closing date of the or 1.7%). The High Performance Elastomers, Tire & Specialty previous year. The increase was mainly attributable to the acqui­Rubbers, High Performance Materials and Additives business sition of Chemtura in April. units together ­accounted for the largest share of these expenses. In the EMEA region (excluding Germany), the number of emMaterial Protection Products, Liquid Purification Technologies, ployees as of December 31, 2017, was 3,730, up from 3,251 in the Saltigo and Urethane Systems were the business units with the previous year. In Germany, headcount rose from 7,600 to 8,036. highest research intensity as measured by the ratio of research The number of employees in the North America region inand development expenses to sales. creased to 2,642 from 1,418 as of December 31, 2016, while Latin America saw its workforce decline from 1,435 at the end Research and Development Expenses of the previous year to 1,419. At the reporting date, we employed 3,202 people in the Asia-Pacific region, which was 185 more 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 than a year earlier. Research and development expenses (€ million) 186 160 130 131 145 Personnel expenses for the Group in fiscal year 2017 totaled % of sales 2.2 2.0 1.6 1.7 1.5 €1,663 million (previous year: €1,467 million). Wages and salaries, at €1,302 million (previous year: €1,168 million), accounted for the greater part of this figure. Social security contributions amounted At the end of 2017, we employed 711 people – against 589 in to €236 million (previous year: €194 million), while pension plan the previous year – in our research and development laboratories expenses were €111 million (previous year: €92 million) and social worldwide. The year-on-year increase was largely attributable to assistance benefits €14 million (previous year: €13 million). the integration of the Chemtura businesses. Number of Employees in Research and Development LEGAL ENVIRONMENT 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 There were no changes in the legal environment in fiscal year Year end 931 708 585 589 711 % of Group employees 5.4 4.3 3.6 3.5 3.7 2017 that would have had a material impact on the earnings, asset and financial position of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG. Fields of activity and patent strategy Within the context of our global realignment, we are focusing our research and development activities on market-driven projects with a shortto medium-term time horizon. As a result, the total number of projects increased from 270 to 360 in 2017, 238 (previous year: 176) of which aimed to develop new products and applications or improve existing ones. The remaining 122 projects (previous year: 94) concerned process technology issues with a view to reducing costs, improving efficiency or increasing capacity. The results of our activities are protected by patents, where this is possible and expedient. In the course of 2017, we submitted 65 priority applications worldwide. As of December 31, 2017, the full patent portfolio included approximately 1,210 patent families covering around 8,200 property rights. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Business Processes and Employees 73 Legal Environment Business Conditions Key Events Influencing the C ­ ompany’s Business BUSINESS CONDITIONS Evolution of major user industries Global automobile production rose by 2.6% during the reportThe economic environment ing year. This stemmed mainly from a robust trend in Europe and The global economy performed better than expected in 2017, the Asia-Pacific region. The positive trend in Latin America had boosted by low interest rates. While growing populist and proteclittle impact on the global trend as this region has comparatively tionist trends such as emerging trade barriers in the U.S. market less weight than the others. had a dampening effect in some areas, increased oil prices failed Agrochemicals posted global growth of 3.8%, driven by growth to curb growth. in the Americas and Europe. The growth rate in the Asia-Pacific The generally positive environment led to global economic economic area lagged behind that of Europe. growth of 3.1%, with contributions from all regions, particularly The global construction industry grew by 3.2%. Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific. was the main driver here, with EMEA also performing strongly. Global tire production increased by 3.0% in the reporting year, GDP and Chemical Production in 2017 boosted especially by growth in Asia-Pacific. Change vs. prior year Gross Chemical Overall, the development of user industries had a positive in real terms (%) ­domes­tic production influence on the LANXESS Group’s business. Only the general product growth of agrochemicals is not reflected in demand in our sector NAFTA 2.3 1.8 of customized agrochemical production. Latin America 1.0 0.0 EMEA (incl. Germany) 2.4 3.5 Germany 2.6 3.5 Evolution of Major User Industries in 2017 Asia-Pacific 4.8 5.3 Change vs. prior year AutoAgro ­Con­ Tires World 3.1 4.1 in real terms (%) motive chemistruction cals Source for 2017 growth rates: IHS Markit NAFTA (2.4) 9.9 0.7 (1.3) Latin America 19.0 (1.8) (3.6) 13.4 EMEA (incl. Germany) 3.7 4.2 3.6 2.8 One euro was worth US$1.20 at the end of 2017. The U.S. currency Germany (1.4) 4.2 3.8 (1.6) thus fell by 14.3% on the closing price of US$1.05 at the end of Asia-Pacific 3.0 3.3 4.5 3.2 2016. At US$1.13, the average price for the year was up slightly on World 2.6 3.8 3.2 3.0 the previous year’s figure of US$1.11. Due to the regional positioning Source for 2017 growth rates: IHS Markit, LMC of our business, a weaker U.S. dollar generally has a negative effect on our earnings. Centralized hedging activities limit any impact that cannot be neutralized by ensuring that production and sales take place in the same currency area. KEY EVENTS INFLUENCING THE Compared with the previous year, procurement prices for some ­COMPANY’S BUSINESS raw materials rose sharply, particularly for aromatics and olefins, while there were only slight rises for organic and inorganic raw mateThe company’s business was mainly influenced by the rials. We are particularly affected by the prices of petrochemical raw s­ uccessful operational integration of Chemtura and pleasing materials as they have a material impact on our production costs. ­development of existing business. The average price of butadiene for the year increased significantly The acquisition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect specialon the procurement markets, as did the prices of other feedstocks ties business in August 2016 also resulted in a pleasing portfolio such as cyclohexane, isobutylene and toluene. effect on earnings. In our existing business, higher sales volumes were the main growth driver. Higher procurement prices for raw materials and The chemical industry energy were passed on to customers via higher selling prices. Global chemical production was up 4.1%, driven by the Currency effects had an unfavorable effect on earnings. Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 74 Combined Management Report COMPARISON OF FORECAST AND ACTUAL BUSINESS Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 2017 Forecast for 2017 in Annual Report 2016 Actual 2017 Business development: Group EBITDA pre exceptionals • U p slightly on the previous year (€995 million) • €1,290 million • Takes account of the cost savings from realignment and • C ost position reduced in connection with the realignment; contribution from the Clean and Disinfect specialties positive earnings contribution from the Clean and Disinfect business acquired in 2016 specialties business • T he Chemtura acquisition would make an additional • Increase as a result of acquired Chemtura business units contribution to the expected earnings performance and positive performance of existing business • O rganic growth projects will be continued Business development: segments Advanced Intermediates • S table business at development on a par with the • EBITDA pre exceptionals up slightly on the previous year: previous year €335 million (previous year: €326 million) Specialty Additives • Slight improvement in business development1) • E BITDA pre exceptionals of €267 million (previous year: €151 million) • Significant portfolio effects from Chemtura flame retardants and lubricants business • E xisting business almost as expected Performance Chemicals • S light improvement in business development1) • E BITDA pre exceptionals significantly higher than expected: • Positive contribution from the Clean and Disinfect €252 million (previous year: €223 million) specialties business acquired in 2016 • P leasing earnings contribution from the Clean and Disinfect specialties business Engineering Materials • Business with plastics for lightweight construction in the • E BITDA pre exceptionals well up on the previous year: (formerly: High Performance automotive industry and for applications in the electrical €219 million (previous year: €159 million) Materials) and electronics industry is likely to be at the same level • S ignificant contribution from the acquired Chemtura as the previous year urethanes business • E xisting business much better than expected ARLANXEO • Business development remains challenging • E BITDA pre exceptionals better than expected: €385 million • Slight deterioration (previous year: €373 million) • Ongoing price pressure for EPDM rubber, moderate improvement for butyl rubber • Average price of the U.S. dollar on a par with the previous year Raw material prices • Price rises on the procurement markets, particularly • Still volatile and substantially below the prior-year level for petrochemical raw materials • C ontinuation of occasionally highly volatile raw material prices Capital expenditures Cash outflows for capital • €450–500 million • € 547 million expenditures • Increase largely as a result of the acquisition of Chemtura and the associated greater need for investment Prior-year figures in line with the new segment structure 1) Forecast for the old Performance Chemicals segment, i.e. including the former Rhein Chemie Additives business unit, which is now part of the Specialty Additives segment. In the combined management report for fiscal year 2016, we The forecast originally prepared for fiscal year 2017 was predicted that EBITDA pre exceptionals would be slightly higher based on the old Group structure in place at the time with four in 2017 than in the previous year (€995 million). This forecast operating segments. On this basis, the results for existing business did not contain any effects arising from the planned acquisition of exceeded expectations. At minus €168 million, the reconciliation Chemtura. Following successful completion of the transaction on was also better than expected. The acquired Chemtura business April 21, 2017, we forecast EBITDA pre exceptionals of between units helped to ensure that EBITDA pre exceptionals was even €1,225 million and €1,300 million and recently set a more spefurther above the forecast. cific figure of €1,250 million to €1,300 million in our reporting for the third quarter of 2017. The actual result of €1,290 million was at the upper end of this range and exceeded the previous year’s by 29.6%. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Comparison of Forecast and Actual Business 75 Business Performance of the LANXESS Group Despite negative exchange rate effects, the early implemenSales and earnings tation of measures to improve operational competitiveness, which In the reporting period, LANXESS Group sales rose s­ ignificantly resulted in higher capacity utilization, led to earnings expectations by €1,965 million (25.5%) from €7,699 million in the previous year being exceeded. to €9,664 million. This performance was mainly influenced by the We had expected net income of LANXESS AG in the ­reporting sales contributed from the acquired Chemtura businesses. The year to be substantially lower than in the previous year. ­Largely integration of the Chemtura business units and the contribution due to a sharp fall in income from affiliated companies, net ­income made by the Clean and Disinfect specialties business acquired in totaled €23 million compared with €578 million in the prior-year the previous year in the Material Protection Products business unit period, which was influenced by special effects resulting from the led to an increase in sales of 13.6%. In addition, the adjustment establishment of ARLANXEO, a merger and changes in ­commercial of selling prices, driven by raw material prices, and the increase in law concerning the valuation of pension obligations. sales volumes had a positive impact. Higher selling prices led to a 7.9% sales increase and higher volumes to a 5.1% sales increase. By contrast, adverse exchange rate effects in the second half of the BUSINESS PERFORMANCE OF year saw sales decline by 1.1% overall. THE LANXESS GROUP Group Sales ›› Operational integration of the acquired Chemtura b­ usinesses € million successfully completed ›› Acquired Chemtura businesses have significant positive 10,000 9,664 8,300 ­impact on sales and earnings 8,006 7,902 7,699 ›› Sales volumes in all segments up on the previous year 8,000 and 5.1% higher overall 6,000 ›› Substantial improvement of EBITDA pre exceptionals 4,000 by 29.6% to €1,290 million ›› EBITDA margin pre exceptionals at 13.3%, after 12.9% 2,000 in the previous year ›› Net income and earnings per share held back by ­exceptional 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 charges ›› Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets increase from €2.69 Effects on Sales to €4.14 € million 13.6% 9,664 Key Financial Data 5.1% –1.1% 7,699 7.9% € million 2016 2017 Change % Sales 7,699 9,664 25.5 Gross profit 1,754 2,145 22.3 EBITDA pre exceptionals 995 1,290 29.6 EBITDA margin pre ­exceptionals 12.9% 13.3% – EBITDA 945 1,072 13.4 Operating result (EBIT) 2016 Price Volume Currency Portfolio 2017 pre exceptionals 514 695 35.2 Operating result (EBIT) 464 434 (6.5) EBIT margin 6.0% 4.5% – Financial result (125) (109) 12.8 Income before income taxes 339 325 (4.1) Net income 192 87 (54.7) Earnings per share (€) 2.10 0.95 (54.7) Earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets 2.69 4.14 53.9 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 76 Combined Management Report Our Advanced Intermediates segment posted a 13.1% inOrder book status crease in sales. The integration of Chemtura’s organometallics Most of our business is not subject to long-term agreements operations into the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business on fixed volumes or prices. Instead, our business is characterized unit had a particularly positive effect on sales. Higher selling prices by long-standing relationships with customers and revolving masdue to an increase in procurement prices for raw materials and ter agreements. Our activities are focused on demand-driven the positive volume trend boosted sales. By contrast, exchange orders with relatively short lead times which do not provide a rate movements had a slightly negative impact on sales. basis for long-term forward-looking statements about our capacity Sales of our Specialty Additives segment were up by 90.7% utilization or volumes. The business is managed primarily on the on the previous year. This near-doubling of sales is mainly attribbasis of regular Group-wide forecasts of the Group’s operating utable to the integration of Chemtura’s additives business into result. For additional information, please see “Company-specific the new Additives business unit. The rise in sales was also driven leading indicators” in this management report. by higher volumes in our existing additives business. Currency Any disclosure of the Group’s order book status at a given effects had an unfavorable effect on sales. Prices were slightly reporting date therefore would not be indicative of the Group’s above prior-year levels. shortor medium-term earning power. For this reason, no such Sales in our Performance Chemicals segment advanced disclosure is made in this report. by 10.5%. The integration of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business acquired in the previous year into the Material Protection Products business unit had a positive effect on sales. In addition, Gross profit higher volumes and increased selling prices resulted in positive The cost of sales increased by 26.5%, to €7,519 million, sales development. The impact of negative exchange rate effects which was disproportionately large compared with sales. The decreased sales. absolute increase particularly resulted from the integration of Our Engineering Materials segment posted a 29.4% increase the Chemtura business units and of the Clean and Disinfect spein sales. This development was partly the result of the contribution cialties business bought in the previous year. In addition, higher from the newly acquired urethanes business. There was also a posprocurement prices for raw materials and energy as well as higher itive effect on sales for the High Performance Materials business volumes led to higher costs. By contrast, the movement in exunit as a result of higher selling prices and volumes. Exchange change rates, particularly of the U.S. dollar, had a positive effect rates had a slightly negative impact on sales. on our manufacturing costs. Capacity utilization of around 82% ARLANXEO posted a sales increase of 19.2%. This growth was 2 percentage points above the prior-year level. was particularly influenced by the increase in selling prices, Gross profit was €2,145 million, up by €391 million or 22.3% reflecting higher raw material prices, and the rise in volumes. against the previous year. This increase particularly resulted from Exchange rate effects had a negative impact on the developthe acquisition of the new business units from Chemtura and of ment of sales. the Clean and Disinfect specialties business bought in the previous year, as well as higher volumes. By contrast, the change in Sales by Segment exchange rates had a negative impact on our sales. The increase in procurement prices for raw materials and energy was passed Pro­ portion on to the market. The gross profit margin fell accordingly, from of Group 22.8% to 22.2%. Change sales € million 2016 2017 % % Advanced Intermediates 1,742 1,970 13.1 20.4 Specialty Additives 841 1,604 90.7 16.6 Performance Chemicals 1,301 1,438 10.5 14.9 High Performance Materials 1,056 1,366 29.4 14.1 ARLANXEO 2,710 3,230 19.2 33.4 Reconciliation 49 56 14.3 0.6 7,699 9,664 25.5 100.0 Prior-year figures restated in line with the changed segment structure LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Business Performance of the LANXESS Group 77 EBITDA pre exceptionals and The Performance Chemicals segment generated EBITDA pre operating result (EBIT) exceptionals of €252 million, an increase of €29 million or 13.0% on the previous year. Higher volumes, in particular, had a positive EBITDA and EBITDA Margin Pre Exceptionals impact on sales. Higher procurement prices for raw materials stood € million 13.3% against higher selling prices. In addition, the contribution from the 1,290 Clean and Disinfect specialties business acquired in the previous 1,250 12.9% year improved earnings. The impact of negative exchange rate 11.2% 10.1% 995 effects held back earnings. 1,000 8.9% 885 808 EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Engineering Materials seg735 750 ment advanced by €60 million to €219 million, compared with the prior-year level of €159 million. Higher procurement prices for 500 raw materials were passed on to customers by adjusting selling 250 prices. In addition, increased volumes and the contribution from the acquired Urethanes business unit helped to improve earnings. Disadvantageous exchange rate effects had a countervailing effect. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ARLANXEO posted EBITDA pre exceptionals of €385 million compared with €373 million in the previous year. Higher volumes Our operating result before depreciation and amortization had a positive impact on sales. Higher procurement prices for raw (EBITDA) pre exceptionals increased by €295 million, or 29.6%, to materials and energy were passed on to customers by adjusting €1,290 million in fiscal year 2017, after €995 million in the previselling prices. Earnings were diminished by the considerable ous year. Positive overall earnings performance at Group level was volatility of raw material prices and a negative currency effect. predominantly the result of higher volumes, the contribution from the newly acquired Chemtura business, the portfolio contribution EBITDA Pre Exceptionals by Segment from the Clean and Disinfect specialties business acquired in the € million 2016 2017 Change % previous year and the strong operating performance of the other Advanced Intermediates 326 335 2.8 LANXESS business units. In contrast, the exchange rate trend had Specialty Additives 151 267 76.8 a negative impact on earnings. The increase in procurement prices Performance Chemicals 223 252 13.0 for raw materials and energy was successfully passed on to the Engineering Materials 159 219 37.7 market by adjusting selling prices. Selling expenses rose by 22.0% ARLANXEO 373 385 3.2 Reconciliation (237) (168) 29.1 to €953 million, especially due to portfolio effects, a volume-driven 995 1,290 29.6 increase in freight costs and higher freight rates. Research and development costs amounted to €145 million, compared with Prior-year figures restated in line with the changed segment structure €131 million in the previous year, while general administration expenses rose by €79 million to €382 million. The increase in The reconciliation of EBITDA pre exceptionals to the operating the specific functional cost areas was largely attributable to the result (EBIT) was as follows: integration of the Chemtura businesses. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals rose from 12.9% to 13.3%. Reconciliation of EBITDA Pre Exceptionals EBITDA pre exceptionals in our Advanced Intermediates to Operating Result (EBIT) segment amounted to €335 million compared with €326 million € million 2016 2017 Change % in the previous year. Higher volumes in particular resulted in a EBITDA pre exceptionals 995 1,290 29.6 positive earnings contribution. Disadvantageous exchange rate Depreciation and effects had a countervailing effect. Higher procurement prices amortization/reversals of impairment charges (481) (638) (32.6) for raw materials and energy were passed on to customers by Exceptional items in EBITDA (50) (218) < (100) adjusting selling prices. The acquired organometallics business Operating result (EBIT) 464 434 (6.5) had virtually no impact on earnings performance. Our Specialty Additives segment generated EBITDA pre exceptionals of €267 million, up by €116 million year-on-year. Earnings were lifted in particular by the portfolio effect from the ­acquired additives business. Higher volumes also impacted ­earnings positively. Higher procurement prices for raw material and energy resulted in an adjustment to selling prices. In addition, exchange rates had a negative impact on earnings. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 78 Combined Management Report The operating result (EBIT) of the Group totaled €434 million Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income compared with €464 million in the previous year. The decline, € million 2016 2017 Change % which is the result of the exceptional items detailed in the following Operating result (EBIT) 464 434 (6.5) paragraph, was partially offset by a strong earnings performance. Income from investments Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets and property, ­accounted for using plant and equipment amounted to €639 million (previous year: the equity method 0 0 – Net interest expense (63) (85) (34.9) €481 million) and also reflects the scheduled depreciation and Other financial income amortization from our new Chemtura businesses and depreciation and expense (62) (24) 61.3 and amortization arising from the purchase price allocation of Financial result (125) (109) 12.8 Chemtura as well as depreciation and amortization arising from Income before income taxes 339 325 (4.1) the consolidation of the production of lubricant precursors and Income taxes (144) (201) (39.6) the planned discontinuation of production at the Ankerweg site Income after income taxes 195 124 (36.4) in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, in November 2018 at the latest. of which: €51 million of this was unscheduled, including exceptional items attributable to non-controlling interests 3 37 > 100 of €43 million. On the other hand, reversals of impairment charges attributable to ­L ANXESS AG totaling €1 million were recognized. Write-downs for the previous stockholders (net income) 192 87 (54.7) year amounted to €9 million. Other operating result, which is the balance between other operating income and expenses, amounted to minus €231 million compared with minus €75 million in the previous year. A ­ djusted for Financial result exceptional items, it came to €30 million, which was €55 million The financial result came in at minus €109 million in fiscal higher than in the previous year. This increase was largely year 2017, compared with minus €125 million for the previous ­attributable to an improved result of currency hedging transyear. Due to the increased financial liabilities in connection with the actions. The net negative exceptional items of €261 million for acquisition of Chemtura, interest expense increased and ­resulted the reporting year resulted from negative exceptional items of in a net interest position of minus €85 million, compared with €272 million and positive exceptional items of €11 million, with minus €63 million in the prior-year period. As in the previous the latter fully impacting on EBITDA. The negative exceptional year, ­companies a­ ccounted for using the equity method did not items, of which €229 million impacted EBITDA and €43 million generate an earnings contribution. The balance of other financial did not, were mainly connected with the acquisition of Chemtura, income and expenses was minus €24 million, compared with the bundling of the Group’s international chromium value chain minus €62 million in the prior-year period, and was positively in South A ­ frica and the associated ending of production at the influenced in particular by the payout of a dividend by Currenta Zárate site in Argentina as well as expenses relating to the conGmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, for fiscal year 2016. solidation of production of lubricant precursors and the intended discontinuation of production at the Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, Netherlands. €5.3 million of the positive ­exceptional items related Income before income taxes to the sale of the U.S. subsidiary International ­Dioxcide Inc. at Due to the development of the operating result, income before the North Kingstown site in Rhode Island, U.S., of the M ­ aterial income taxes fell by €14 million to €325 million. ­Protection P ­ roducts b ­ usiness unit. In the previous year, net ­negative e ­ xceptional items of €50 million resulted from ­negative ­exceptional items of €56 million and positive exceptional items of Income taxes €6 million. The exceptional items mainly related to the strategic In fiscal year 2017, tax expense amounted to €201 million, realignment of the Group. compared with €144 million the year before. The Group’s tax rate Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” was 61.8%, after 42.5% in the previous year. The increase in the for details about exceptional items. tax rate largely resulted from the U.S. tax reform legislation passed in December 2017, especially the one-off taxation of retained earnings of foreign investments held by our U.S. companies. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Business Performance of the LANXESS Group 79 Business Trends by Region Net income/earnings per share/earnBUSINESS TRENDS BY REGION ings per share pre ­exceptional items and ­amortization of intangible assets Sales by Market Net income totaled €87 million compared with €192 million in 2016 2017 Change the previous year, and was significantly impacted by the exceptional € million % € million % % items described. In 2017, earnings attributable to non-controlling EMEA (excluding interests amounted to €37 million compared with €3 million in Germany) 2,254 29.3 2,720 28.2 20.7 the previous year, and resulted almost exclusively from Saudi Germany 1,292 16.8 1,489 15.4 15.2 North America 1,326 17.2 1,859 19.2 40.2 Aramco’s interest in ARLANXEO. Latin America 788 10.2 898 9.3 14.0 Earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income by Asia-Pacific 2,039 26.5 2,698 27.9 32.3 the weighted average number of LANXESS shares in circulation 7,699 100.0 9,664 100.0 25.5 during the reporting period. Earnings per share were €0.95, below the €2.10 recorded in the previous year. We also calculate earnings per share pre exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets, which is not defined by Sales by Market International Financial Reporting Standards. This value was calcuin % lated from the earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items, EMEA (excluding Germany) 26.5 27.9 amortization of intangible assets and attributable tax effects. The Germany non-recurring earnings effects of the U.S. tax reform passed in North America 10.2 9.3 December 2017 were also taken into account. Earnings per share Latin America 17.2 19.2 Asia-Paciﬁc adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets 16.8 15.4 were €4.14 against €2.69 in the previous year. 29.3 28.2 Reconciliation to Earnings per Share Adjusted for Exceptional Items and Amortization of Intangible Assets 2016 2017 € million 2016 2017 Net income 192 87 The acquisition of Chemtura in April 2017 and, to a limited Exceptional items1) 47 259 extent, the purchase of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect specialAmortization of intangible assets/ ties business in August 2016 resulted in occasionally substantial reversal of impairment charges1) 31 64 portfolio effects in the reporting period. Income taxes1) 2) (24) (31) Net income adjusted for exceptional items and amortization of intangible assets 246 379 Number of shares outstanding 91,522,936 91,522,936 EMEA (excluding Germany) Earnings per share adjusted for Sales in the EMEA region (excluding Germany) rose by ­exceptional items and amortization €466 million, or 20.7%, to €2,720 million. Of this increase, of intangible assets 2.69 4.14 €232 million was attributable to portfolio effects. After adjust1) Excluding items attributable to non-controlling interests 2) Attributable tax effects and non-recurring earnings impacts of the U.S. tax reform. ment for these and for minor currency effects, sales were up by 10.6%. The ARLANXEO and Engineering Materials segments recorded sales growth in the low double-digit percentage range. The remaining segments posted growth rates in the single-­digitpercentage range. Business performance in France, Italy, Turkey and Spain contributed to the positive development in the region. Slightly countervailing was the demand trend among others in some African countries. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 80 Combined Management Report Germany Asia-Pacific In Germany, the Group generated sales of €1,489 million in Sales in the Asia-Pacific region increased by €659 million, or fiscal year 2017, up by €197 million, or 15.2%, on the previous 32.3%, to €2,698 million in fiscal year 2017. Portfolio c­ hanges year. After adjustment for very minor currency effects and appreaccounted for €270 million. After adjustment for these and ciable portfolio effects of €60 million, sales rose by 10.6%. The for ­minor currency effects, sales increased by 21.5%. This Engineering Materials and Advanced Intermediates segments development was mainly driven by the ARLANXEO segment, posted growth in the low double-digit percentage range. Business which posted the largest absolute increase in sales in the high of the other segment rose by high single-digit percentages. double-digit percentage range. The Performance Chemicals, Advanced Intermediates and Engineering Materials also saw their business expand by low double-digit percentages, while North America the Specialty Additives segment achieved only high single-digit Sales in this region came to €1,859 million, up by percentage growth. The main driver of the region’s positive €533 million, or 40.2%, on the previous year. Portfolio changes ­operating performance was increasing sales in China, Singapore, contributed €466 million to this. After adjustment for these and Japan, India and Thailand. for currency effects, sales were up by 7.5%. This was largely ­attributable to business performance in the ARLANXEO, Advanced Intermediates and Engineering Materials segments, whose growth SEGMENT INFORMATION rates were in the high single-digit to low-double-digit percentage range. The Performance Chemicals segment increased its sales ›› Advanced Intermediates: Strong business performance as by only a low single-digit percentage, while the Specialty Additives a result of higher volumes, despite a challenging market segment fell just short of the previous year’s sales figure. ­environment for agrochemicals ›› Specialty Additives: Substantial rise in sales and earnings ­driven by new Additives business of Chemtura and higher Latin America ­volumes in the existing additives business In the Latin America region, sales rose by €110 million, or ›› Performance Chemicals: Portfolio effects arising from the 14.0%, to €898 million. Portfolio changes contributed €27 million Clean and Disinfect specialties business acquired in 2016 as to this. After adjustment for these and for minor currency effects, well as higher volumes led to growth in sales and earnings there was an increase of 11.2%. This development was mainly ›› High Performance Materials: Significant improvement in driven by the ARLANXEO segment, which posted the largest ­earnings as a result of profitable business with plastics for ­absolute increase in sales in the low double-digit percentage range. ­lightweight construction and from the acquired urethanes The Advanced Intermediates and Specialty Additives segments business of Chemtura bolstered this trend with growth rates of just under two digits and ›› ARLANXEO: Positive development of sales and earnings in the high single digits respectively. The Engineering Materials ­despite the ongoing challenging competitive situation in the segment achieved low single-digit growth, while the Performance synthetic rubber business Chemicals segment posted a low single-digit percentage decrease in sales. Business performance in the region was mainly attributSales by Segment able to the rise in sales in Brazil and Mexico. in % 0.6 Advanced Intermediates 0.6 33.4 Specialty Additives Performance Chemicals 35.2 Engineering Materials 14.1 ARLANXEO 13.7 14.9 Reconciliation 16.9 16.6 11.0 22.6 20.4 2016 2017 Prior-year figures restarted in line with the changed segment structure LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Business Trends by Region 81 Segment Information Advanced Intermediates In fiscal year 2017, negative exceptional items in the segment amounted to €7 million. These exceptional items fully imOverview of Key Data pacted EBITDA and were largely connected to the acquisition of Chemtura. In the previous year, positive exceptional items of 2016 2017 € million Margin € million Margin Change €2 million were posted. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA % % % (Pre ­E xceptionals)” for details. Sales 1,742 1,970 13.1 EBITDA pre exceptionals 326 18.7 335 17.0 2.8 EBITDA 328 18.8 328 16.6 0.0 Specialty Additives Operating result (EBIT) pre Overview of Key Data exceptionals 221 12.7 218 11.1 (1.4) Operating result 2016 2017 (EBIT) 223 12.8 211 10.7 (5.4) € million Margin € million Margin Change Cash outflows for % % % capital expenditures 123 146 18.7 Sales 841 1,604 90.7 Depreciation EBITDA pre and amortization 105 1171) 11.4 exceptionals 151 18.0 267 16.6 76.8 Employees EBITDA 151 18.0 192 12.0 27.2 as of Dec. 31 3,335 3,661 9.8 Operating result (EBIT) pre 1) Net of reversals of write-downs of €1 million. exceptionals 123 14.6 167 10.4 35.8 Operating result (EBIT) 123 14.6 56 3.5 (54.5) Our Advanced Intermediates segment recorded sales of Cash outflows for €1,970 million in fiscal year 2017, 13.1% or €228 million more capital expenditures 42 83 97.6 Depreciation than in the previous year. The integration of Chemtura’s organoand amortization 28 136 > 100 metallics operations into the Advanced Industrial Intermediates Employees business unit had a positive effect of 5.8% on sales. Higher selling as of Dec. 31 1,507 2,936 94.8 prices due to an increase in procurement prices for raw materials Prior-year figures in line with the new segment structure and larger volumes raised sales by 4.5% and 3.4% respectively. Exchange rate movements had a slightly negative impact on sales at 0.6%. Our Specialty Additives segment recorded sales of While selling prices in the Saltigo business unit were almost €1,604 million in fiscal year 2017, 90.7% or €763 million more on a par with the previous year, the Advanced Industrial Intermethan in the previous year. The integration of the Chemtura ­additives diates business unit achieved higher selling prices. With demand business into the Additives business unit resulted in an 85.5% remaining good in almost all end markets, the Advanced Industrial effect on sales. Higher volumes in our existing additives business Intermediates business unit increased volumes. Buoyed by strong also added 6.1% to the rise in sales, with contributions from both demand for fine chemicals, the Saltigo business unit posted higher business units. The negative exchange rate trend in both business volumes, particularly in the first half of the year, although these deunits decreased sales in this segment by 1.2%. Both the Additives creased due to ongoing weak demand in the agricultural industry. and the Rhein Chemie business units raised their selling prices Sales in all regions were above prior-year levels. slightly. EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Advanced Intermediates segEBITDA pre exceptionals for the Specialty Additives segment ment was €335 million, €9 million, or 2.8%, above the prior-year was €267 million, €116 million, or 76.8%, above the prior-year level. Higher volumes in particular contributed to this positive level. This strong earnings performance was the result of the trend. Disadvantageous exchange rate effects had a countervailing ­integration of the Chemtura additives business. Higher volumes effect. Higher procurement prices for raw materials and energy also had a positive impact on earnings. Increased procurement were passed on to customers by adjusting selling prices. The prices for raw material and energy resulted in an adjustment to acquired organometallics business made virtually no contribution selling prices. In addition, exchange rates had a negative impact on to earnings. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals was 17.0%, earnings. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals came in at 16.7%, down from 18.7% in the previous year. against 18.0% in the previous year. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 82 Combined Management Report In fiscal year 2017, negative exceptional items in the segment EBITDA pre exceptionals for the Performance Chemicals totaled €111 million, of which €75 million impacted EBITDA and s­ egment advanced by €29 million, or 13.0%, against the previous €36 million did not. These negative exceptional items related year to €252 million. Higher volumes, in particular, had a positive primarily to reductions in earnings arising from the Chemtura impact on sales. However, negative exchange rate effects reduced purchase price allocation and expenses in connection with the conearnings. The contribution of the Clean and Disinfect specialties solidation of production of lubricant precursors and the planned business and the adjustments to selling prices due to higher prodiscontinuation of production at the Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, curement prices for raw materials and energy led to improved the Netherlands, in November 2018 at the latest. No exceptional earnings. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals increased from items were recorded in the segment in the previous year. Please 17.1% to 17.5%. see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” for details. In the reporting year, net negative exceptional items amounted to €68 million, resulting from negative exceptional items of €74 million and positive exceptional items of €6 million. The forPerformance Chemicals mer were connected to the bundling of the Group’s international chromium value chain in South Africa and the closure of the Zárate Overview of Key Data site in Argentina in the fourth quarter of 2017. €68 million of these negative exceptional items impacted EBITDA and €6 million did not. 2016 2017 € million Margin € million Margin Change The positive exceptional items fully impacted EBITDA and largely % % % related to the sale of the U.S. subsidiary International Dioxcide Inc. Sales 1,301 1,438 10.5 at the North Kingstown site in Rhode Island, U.S., of the Material EBITDA pre Protection Products business unit. Negative exceptional items in the exceptionals 223 17.1 252 17.5 13.0 prior year amounted to €3 million and fully impacted EBITDA. Please EBITDA 220 16.9 190 13.2 (13.6) Operating see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” for details. result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 157 12.1 176 12.2 12.1 Operating result (EBIT) 154 11.8 108 7.5 (29.9) Engineering Materials Cash outflows for capital expenditures 76 74 (2.6) Overview of Key Data Depreciation and amortization 66 82 24.2 2016 2017 Employees € million Margin € million Margin Change as of Dec. 31 4,074 3,880 (4.8) % % % Sales 1,056 1,366 29.4 Prior-year figures in line with the new segment structure EBITDA pre exceptionals 159 15.1 219 16.0 37.7 EBITDA 159 15.1 207 15.2 30.2 Sales in the Performance Chemicals segment in fiscal year Operating 2017 rose by €137 million, or 10.5%, to €1,438 million. The inresult (EBIT) pre exceptionals 114 10.8 164 12.0 43.9 tegration of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business acquired Operating result in 2016 into the Material Protection Products business unit had a (EBIT) 114 10.8 151 11.1 32.5 positive effect of 4.9% on sales. Higher volumes also contributed Cash outflows for capital expenditures 46 68 47.8 3.9%. The effect of higher raw material prices was passed on to Depreciation customers. The price effect on sales was 3.2%. By contrast, negative and amortization 45 56 24.4 currency effects decreased sales by 1.5%. Employees Nearly all business units in the segment recorded increased volas of Dec. 31 1,583 1,976 24.8 umes. Volumes in the Inorganic Pigments business unit fell slightly. Prior-year figures in line with the new segment structure Selling prices rose as a result of the development in the Inorganic Pigments and Leather business units. Exchange rate changes had a negative impact on sales in all business units. In the Latin America region, the segment’s sales were below the prior-year level. In all other regions, the segment posted positive business development. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Segment Information 83 Sales in our Engineering Materials segment increased by Sales in our ARLANXEO segment rose by 19.2% year-on-year 29.4% year-on-year in fiscal year 2017, to €1,366 million. The inin fiscal year 2017, to €3,230 million. This growth was brought crease in sales was, on the one hand, the result of the contribution about in particular by the increase in selling prices in response from the newly acquired urethanes business, which added 15.7% to higher raw material prices in both business units, which in to sales. On the other hand, there was a positive price effect of total resulted in a positive price effect of 14.7%. In addition, the 8.0% on sales for the High Performance Materials business unit. increase in sales volumes in both business units had a positive In addition, higher sales volumes in both business units increased effect on segment sales of 5.9%. In contrast, the exchange rate sales by 6.6%. Exchange rates had a negative impact on earnings development of both business units had a negative impact on of 0.9%. Sales in all regions were above prior-year levels. sales of 1.4%. Sales in all regions were above prior-year levels. EBITDA pre exceptionals in the Engineering Materials s­ egment At €385 million, EBITDA pre exceptionals in the ARLANXEO rose by a significant €60 million, or 37.7%, to €219 million. In the segment was up on the prior-year level of €373 million. Earnings High Performance Materials business unit, higher procurement were particularly improved by higher volumes and an improved prices for raw materials were passed on to customers by adjusting portfolio of products sold. The increase in procurement prices for selling prices. In addition, an optimized portfolio of products sold raw materials and energy was passed on to the market. Earnings and increased sales volumes lifted earnings. However, the change were diminished by a persistently challenging competitive situain exchange rates had a negative impact on earnings. Earnings tion for the synthetic rubber business, highly volatile raw material were buoyed by the contribution from the acquired urethanes prices and a negative currency effect. The EBITDA margin pre business. The EBITDA margin pre exceptionals for the segment exceptionals came in at 11.9%, against 13.8% in the previous year. improved from 15.1% to 16.0%. In the reporting year, net positive exceptional items amounted In fiscal year 2017, negative exceptional items in the segment to €1 million, resulting from positive exceptional items of €3 million totaled €13 million, of which €12 million impacted EBITDA and and negative exceptional items of €2 million. These exceptional €1 million did not. The negative exceptional items were mainly the items fully impacted EBITDA and were mainly connected with result of reductions in earnings from the purchase price allocation the realignment of ARLANXEO. In the previous year, net positive for Chemtura. No exceptional items were recorded in the segment exceptional items of €2 million were posted. Please see “Notes in the previous year. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” for details. Exceptionals)” for details. Reconciliation ARLANXEO Overview of Key Data Overview of Key Data € million 2016 2017 Change % 2016 2017 Sales 49 56 14.3 € million Margin € million Margin Change EBITDA pre exceptionals (237) (168) 29.1 % % % EBITDA (288) (231) 19.8 Sales 2,710 3,230 19.2 Operating result (EBIT) EBITDA pre pre exceptionals (254) (188) 26.0 exceptionals 373 13.8 385 11.9 3.2 Operating result (EBIT) (305) (251) 17.7 EBITDA 375 13.8 386 12.0 2.9 Cash outflows for capital Operating expenditures 14 27 92.9 result (EBIT) pre Depreciation and amortization 17 20 17.6 exceptionals 153 5.6 158 4.9 3.3 Employees as of Dec. 31 2,759 3,129 13.4 Operating result (EBIT) 155 5.7 159 4.9 2.6 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 138 149 8.0 EBITDA pre exceptionals for the reconciliation came to Depreciation and amortization 220 227 3.2 minus €168 million, compared with minus €237 million in the Employees previous year. This change was mainly due to an improved result as of Dec. 31 3,463 3,447 (0.5) from hedging currency risks. Initial synergies have already been realized with regard to the increased administration expenses due to the integration of Chemtura. The net negative exceptional items of €63 million reported in the reconciliation resulted from negative exceptional items of €65 million and positive exceptional items of €2 million, and fully impacted EBITDA. The exceptional items LANXESS Annual Report 2017 84 Combined Management Report largely resulted from expenses relating to the strategic realignment EBITDA is calculated from earnings (EBIT) by adding back of the LANXESS Group, particularly the acquisition and integration depreciation and impairments of property, plant and equipment of Chemtura, and from expenses in the context of digitalization as well as amortization and impairments of intangible assets and projects. In the previous year, net negative exceptional items of subtracting reversals of impairment charges on property, plant, €51 million were posted. Please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA equipment and intangible assets. (Pre Exceptionals)” for details. EBIT pre exceptionals and EBITDA pre exceptionals are EBIT and EBITDA before exceptional items. NOTES ON EBIT AND EBITDA (PRE EXCEPTIONALS) STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AND FINANCIAL CONDITION In order to better assess our operational business and to steer earning power at Group level and for the individual segments, Statement of financial position we additionally calculate the earnings indicators EBITDA, and ›› Increase in total assets primarily as a result of the acquisition EBITDA and EBIT pre exceptionals, none of which are defined of Chemtura by International Financial Reporting Standards. These indicators ›› Equity ratio down from 37.7% to 32.8%, largely due to differare viewed as supplementary to the data prepared according to ences from foreign currency translation in other comprehenIFRS; they are not a substitute. sive income Reconciliation to EBIT/EBITDA Structure of the Statement of Financial Position EBIT EBIT EBITDA EBITDA Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Change € million 2016 2017 2016 2017 € million % € million % % EBIT/EBITDA pre exceptionals 514 695 995 1,290 ASSETS Advanced Intermediates 2 (7) 2 (7) Non-current assets 4,519 45.8 6,439 61.9 42.5 Strategic realignment1) 0 (4) 0 (4) Current assets 5,358 54.2 3,957 38.1 (26.1) Other 2 (3) 2 (3) Total assets 9,877 100.0 10,396 100.0 5.3 Specialty Additives 0 (111) 0 (75) EQUITY AND Strategic realignment1) 0 (63) 0 (56) ­LIABILITIES Optimization of the Equity (including production network 2) 0 (48) 0 (19) non-controlling Performance Chemicals (3) (68) (3) (62) interests) 3,728 37.7 3,414 32.8 (8.4) Strategic realignment (3) 0 (3) 0 Non-current ­liabilities 4,516 45.7 4,525 43.5 0.2 Optimization of the Current liabilities 1,633 16.6 2,458 23.6 50.5 production network3) 0 (73) 0 (67) Total equity and liabilities 9,877 100.0 10,396 100.0 5.3 Other 0 5 0 5 Engineering Materials 0 (13) 0 (12) Strategic realignment1) 0 (13) 0 (12) ARLANXEO 2 1 2 1 Strategic realignment 2 1 2 1 Structure of the statement of Reconciliation (51) (63) (51) (63) financial position Strategic realignment (42) (33) (42) (33) As of December 31, 2017, the LANXESS Group’s total asDigitalization and other (9) (30) (9) (30) sets stood at €10,396 million, €519 million or 5.3% more than Total exceptional items (50) (261) (50) (218) at the end of the previous year. This growth was attributable in EBIT/EBITDA 464 434 945 1,072 particular to the acquisition of Chemtura. 1) T  he exceptional items mainly related to the purchase price allocation and integration of Non-current assets increased by €1,920 million to Chemtura. €6,439 million. Intangible assets and property, plant and equip2) T  he exceptional items resulted primarily from expenses in connection with the consolidation of the production of lubricant precursors and the planned discontinuation of ment rose by €1,815 million to €5,828 million here. Particuproduction at the Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, in November 2018 at larly on account of the goodwill resulting from the Chemtura the latest. 3) T  he exceptional items were connected to the bundling of the Group’s international ­acquisition, intangible assets rose to €1,769 million. For further chromium value chain in South Africa and the closure of the Zárate site in Argentina in information, please see the “Companies consolidated” section the fourth quarter of 2017. of the Notes. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Segment Information 85 Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals) Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition a result of the positive sales development. Trade receivables rose Structure of the Statement of Financial Position – Assets again by €228 million, or 21.0%, to €1,316 million. At 50.7, days of € million sales outstanding (DSO) were on a par with the prior-year level of 10,396 9,877 373 51.1 days. Cash and cash equivalents increased by €183 million to 588 €538 million. Near-cash assets rose to €50 million in the reporting Intangible assets and property, 2,446 2,996 year (previous year: €40 million). The ratio of current assets to total plant and equipment 395 Other non-current assets assets was 38.1%, compared with 54.2% on December 31, 2016. 2,517 611 Inventories and receivables Equity fell by €315 million, or 8.4%, to €3,413 million comCash and cash equivalents 506 pared with December 31, 2016. A positive contribution of income Other current assets 5,828 after taxes was more than offset in particular by negative differenc4,013 es resulting from the currency translation of operations outside the euro zone, posted in other comprehensive income. The ratio 2016 2017 of equity to the Group’s total assets was 32.8% as of December 31, 2017, compared with 37.7% as of December 31, 2016. Non-current liabilities as of December 31, 2017, rose by Structure of the Statement of Financial €9 million to €4,525 million. Provisions for pensions and o ­ ther Position – Equity and Liabilities € million post-employment benefits increased by €241 million ­compared 10,396 9,877 with the end of 2016, to €1,490 million. In addition, other non-­ 765 624 current provisions rose from €319 million to €460 million. Both 1,009 1,693 Equity pensions and other post-employment benefits and other non-­ Non-current ﬁnancial liabilities 1,775 Other non-current liabilities 2,281 current p ­ rovisions increased mainly because of the a­ cquisition of Current ﬁnancial liabilities 2,741 Chemtura. The decrease in other non-current financial ­liabilities 2,244 Other current liabilities by €492 million to €2,242 million as of December 31, 2017, mainly resulted from the reclassification of a bond maturing in 3,728 3,413 2018 under current financial liabilities. The ratio of non-current liabilities to total assets was 43.5%, compared with 45.7% as of 2016 2017 December 31, 2016. Current liabilities came to €2,458 million, up by €825 million, Cash outflows for purchases of property, plant and equipor 50.5%, compared with December 31, 2016. The ­aforementioned ment and intangible assets amounted to €547 million, up on reclassification of a bond from non-current to current ­financial the prior-year figure of €439 million. Net of reversals of write­liabilities was a key factor in their increase by €555 million to downs of €1 million (previous year: €0 million), depreciation €633 million. Furthermore, other current provisions increased by rose by €157 million from the prior-year level of €481 million to €119 million to €525 million, and trade payables by €159 million €638 million. The carrying amount of investments accounted for to €1,048 million. The ratio of current liabilities to total assets was using the equity method was €0 million, the same as in the previ23.6% as of December 31, 2017, after 16.6% at the end of 2016. ous year. At €442 million, deferred tax assets were on a par with At €2,252 million, net financial liabilities were down on the the previous year. The ratio of non-current assets to total assets figure as at December 31, 2016, of €2,394 million. After ­deduction rose from 45.8% to 61.9% on December 31, 2017. of time deposits and securities available for sale, net financial Current assets decreased by €1,401 million, or 26.1%, comliabilities as of December 31, 2017, increased to €2,252 million, pared with December 31, 2016, to €3,957 million. This effect was compared with €269 million at the end of the previous year. This mainly attributable to the decrease in current financial assets from was largely due to the purchase price payment for Chemtura. €2,123 million to €7 million. This decrease resulted primarily from maturing time deposits and the sale of securities to finance the Chemtura purchase price. Inventories were up by €251 million, or 17.6%, to €1,680 million, mainly due to portfolio effects. Currency effects had the opposite impact on inventories. Days of sales in inventory (DSI) decreased year-on-year from 67.2 to 64.7 days as LANXESS Annual Report 2017 86 Combined Management Report The Group’s key ratios developed as follows: Ratios in % 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Equity 1) Equity ratio Total assets 27.9 29.8 32.2 37.7 32.8 Non-current assets Non-current asset ratio Total assets 52.7 56.6 57.9 45.8 61.9 Equity1) Asset coverage I Non-current assets 52.9 52.7 55.6 82.5 53.0 Equity1) and non-current liabilities Asset coverage II Non-current assets 137.2 136.7 125.8 182.4 123.3 Current liabilities Funding structure Total liabilities 38.3 32.3 40.0 26.6 35.2 1) Equity includes non-controlling interests. Capital expenditures and 9% in Asia-Pacific. Capital expenditures in Germany mostly In 2017, our capital expenditures for property, plant and comprised our investments to increase capacity and modernize equipment and intangible assets amounted to €560 million, facilities in all segments, especially investments in the Saltigo against €462 million in the previous year. Cash outflows made and Advanced Industrial Intermediates business units. Some of up €547 million of this total (previous year: €439 million). In the the capital expenditures made in the EMEA region (excluding same period, depreciation and amortization totaled €639 million Germany) were used at the site in Antwerp, Belgium, to further (previous year: €481 million), with depreciation and amortization optimize production in the context of realignment to improve being mitigated in the current year by reversals of write-downs of operational competitiveness. A portion of the capital expenditures €1 million (previous year: €0 million). In addition, the figure for in the Asia-Pacific region related to construction of a new plant depreciation and amortization in 2017 included write-downs of for high-performance plastics at the site in Changzhou, China. €51 million (previous year: €9 million). In the reporting year, capital expenditures focused on the following areas: Cash Outflows for Capital Expenditures by Segment ›› Expansion and maintenance of existing facilities, ­construction € million 547 27 of new facilities 439 ›› Measures to increase plant availability Advanced Intermediates 14 149 ›› Projects to improve plant safety, enhance quality and comply Specialty Additives Performance Chemicals 138 68 with environmental protection requirements Engineering Materials 46 74 ARLANXEO 76 83 Around two-thirds of the capital expenditures in 2017 went Reconciliation 42 to maintain existing facilities, while the rest went toward expan123 146 sion or efficiency improvement measures. In regional terms, 42% of our capital expenditures in the re2016 2017 porting period were made in Germany, 25% in the EMEA region Prior-year figures in line with the new segment structure (excluding Germany), 17% in North America, 7% in Latin America LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 87 Capital expenditures in the Advanced Intermediates segCash Flow Statement ment amounted to €156 million (previous year: €136 million). € million 2016 2017 Change At €146 million (previous year: €123 million), cash outflows exIncome before income taxes 339 325 (14) ceeded depreciation and amortization of €117 million (previous Depreciation and amortization/ year: €105 million). These included cash outflows in connection reversals of impairment charges 481 638 157 with the construction of two multi-purpose production lines for Other items (84) (23) 61 Net cash provided by ­ the Saltigo business unit at the Leverkusen site in Germany. Prooperating activities before duction will commence in January 2018. Furthermore, in 2017, change in net working the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit, which is also capital 736 940 204 Change in net working capital (47) (72) (25) part of the Advanced Intermediates segment, began significantNet cash provided ly expanding production capacity at the sites in Leverkusen, the by operating activities 689 868 179 Uerdingen district of Krefeld and Brunsbüttel in Germany. Capital Net cash used in expenditures of €84 million were made in the Specialty Additives investing activities (2,879) (167) 2,712 Net cash provided by segment (previous year: €44 million). Cash outflows made up (used in) financing activities 2,173 (508) (2,681) €83 million of this total (previous year: €42 million). By contrast, Change in cash and cash depreciation and amortization stood at €136 million (previous year: equivalents from business activities (17) 193 210 €28 million). The increase in capital expenditures largely resulted Cash and cash equivalents from the acquisition of Chemtura and the associated greater need as of December 31 355 538 183 for investment, particularly at the El Dorado site in the U.S. In the Free cash flow 250 321 71 Performance Chemicals segment, capital expenditures came to €75 million (previous year: €80 million), €74 million (previous year: €76 million) of which were cash outflows. By contrast, deCash provided by operating activities, before changes in preciation and amortization stood at €82 million (previous year: net working capital, increased by €204 million to €940 million €66 million). This also includes various smaller investment projects in fiscal year 2017. The starting point was income before taxes of the Inorganic Pigments business unit. In the Engineering Materials of €325 million, which was down by €14 million year-on-year. segment, capital expenditures totaled €68 million (previous year: Income before taxes was negatively impacted by depreciation and €47 million), €68 million (previous year: €46 million) of which were amortization of €638 million (net of reversals of write-downs of cash outflows. Depreciation and amortization came to €56 million €1 million), which was up by €157 million on the prior-year level (previous year: €45 million). Some of the capital expenditures in of €481 million. The increase in depreciation and amortization this segment related to production optimization at the Belgian sites resulted primarily from an increased fixed asset portfolio followin the High Performance Materials business unit. In this business ing the acquisition of Chemtura. The other items in the reporting unit, LANXESS is also investing in construction of a new plant for year included tax payments, effects from currency hedging of high-performance plastics of the Durethan and Pocan brands at intercompany loans and cash outflows for variable compensation. the Changzhou site, China. This compounding facility is set to start The change in net working capital against December 31, production in the second quarter of 2019. 2016, resulted in a cash outflow of €72 million compared with In the ARLANXEO segment, capital expenditures totaled €47 million in the previous year. The outflow in the reporting period €150 million (previous year: €138 million), €149 million (previous resulted in particular from the increase in trade receivables and year: €138 million) of which were cash outflows. Depreciation and inventories, while the rise in trade payables had a countervailing amortization came to €227 million (previous year: €220 million). effect. Therefore, the net cash provided by operating activities The major capital expenditures in this segment were made in the totaled €868 million, which was well above the prior-year inflow Tire & Specialty Rubbers business unit. of €689 million. Investing activities resulted in a cash outflow of €167 million in fiscal year 2017, compared with €2,879 million in the prior-year Financial condition period. While the outflow in the previous year largely stemmed ›› Strong cash flow from operating activities from the investment of funds received from the issuance of new ›› Cash flow provided by investing activities influenced by acbonds for financing the acquisition of Chemtura, the returns from quisition of Chemtura and interim investments of liquid assets these investments and the subsequent purchase price payment ›› Liquidity position remains solid had an impact in the reporting year. Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted The statement of cash flows shows inflows and outflows of to €547 million, up on the prior-year figure of €439 million. Interest cash and cash equivalents by type of business operation. and dividends received totaled €56 million in fiscal year 2017, and mainly comprised the payment of a dividend by Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany. At €2 million, cash inflows from LANXESS Annual Report 2017 88 Combined Management Report the sale of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment Principles and objectives of financial were below the prior-year level of €7 million. management Net cash used in financing activities came to €508 million, LANXESS pursues a conservative financial policy characagainst net cash provided by financing activities of €2,173 million terized by the forward-looking management of financial risks. the year before. One significant effect in the fiscal year was the Our aim is to be able to provide sufficient liquidity to our busirepayment of borrowings of €523 million. In the previous year, ness operations at all times, regardless of cyclical fluctuations in the cash inflow for Saudi Aramco’s interest in ARLANXEO and the real economy or financial markets. The debt level is largely the issuance of eurobonds had a major impact on net cash inaligned with the ratio systems of the leading rating agencies for flows. Interest payments and other financial disbursements of investment-grade companies and, along with free cash flow, is the €84 million were up on the previous year’s amount of €73 million. focus of financial management. In addition to liquidity risk, financial An outflow of €67 million was accounted for by the dividend paid management also covers other financial risks, such as interest and to the stockholders of LANXESS AG for fiscal year 2016, after foreign exchange risks. Here too, we aim to mitigate the financial €55 million in the previous year. risks that arise and thereby increase planning reliability, partly by The net increase in cash and cash equivalents from using derivative financial instruments. Detailed information about ­business activities in fiscal year 2017 was €193 million, against the management of these risks is contained in the “Opportunity a ­decrease of €17 million the previous year. After taking into and risk report.” account currency-­related and other changes in cash and cash equivalents of €10 million, cash and cash equivalents at the LANXESS Group ratings closing date a­ mounted to €538 million, against €355 million Access to the capital markets and good relations with German at the previous year’s closing date. Taken together with nearand international commercial banks are essential for achieving our cash assets (short-term investment of liquid assets in money financial management objectives. Accordingly, ongoing dialog and market funds) of €50 million, which were higher than in the communication with banks, investors and rating agencies are of prior year (€40 million), the Group retained a solid liquidity crucial importance. In fiscal year 2017, the rating agencies Stan­position of €588 million as of December 31, 2017, compared dard & Poor’s and Moody’s confirmed their ratings for LANXESS with €395 million at the end of 2016. of BBB– and Baa3, respectively. Standard & Poor’s improved its Free cash flow – the difference between the cash inflows from outlook from “negative” to “stable,” while Moody’s kept its outlook operating activities and the cash used for capital expenditures for at “stable.” In January 2018, the European rating agency Scope property, plant and equipment and intangible assets – increased performed an assessment of LANXESS for the first time. Scope by €71 million to €321 million. Ratings rates LANXESS as BBB and has issued a stable outlook. Development of ­L ANXESS Ratings and Rating Outlook Since 2013 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Standard & Poor’s BBB/negative BBB–/stable BBB–/positive BBB–/negative BBB–/stable June 27, 2013 May 19, 2014 Sept. 24, 2015 Sept. 26, 2016 July 31, 2017 Moody’s Investors Service Baa2/negative Baa3/stable Baa3/stable Baa3/stable Baa3/stable August 14, 2013 June 20, 2014 July 2, 2015 Sept. 26, 2016 Oct. 20, 2017 Financing analysis The existing debt issuance program allows the very flexible In fiscal year 2017, LANXESS retained a balanced financing placement of bonds on the capital market. As of December 31, 2017, structure and a solid liquidity position. A corporate bond from the just under €2.2 billion of the €5 billion financing facility had been acquired Chemtura Corporation with an amount of US$450 million utilized to issue bonds and private placements. The volume of the and a coupon of 5.75% was repaid prior to maturity in July 2017. debt issuance program can be adjusted flexibly in line with future LANXESS did not issue any new bonds in fiscal year 2017. requirements so as to ensure financial headroom. Capital market LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 89 financing is a central component in LANXESS’s financing mix, which Financing Structure is subject to regular review to ensure the adequate diversification Instrument Amount Term Interest Financial of our financing sources and our strategic alignment. € ­million rate % covenant Current financial liabilities increased from €78 million in the Eurobond previous year to €633 million as of December 31, 2017. The rise 2011/2018 (€500 million) 500 May 2018 4.125 no in the fiscal year was largely based on the reclassification of the Eurobond bond that matures in May 2018 in the amount of €500 million from 2016/2021 October non-current to current financial liabilities. We made only limited use (€500 million) 497 2021 0.250 no Eurobond of finance leases, which are reported as financial liabilities in the 2012/2022 November statement of financial position. As of December 31, 2017, the finan(€500 million) 496 2022 2.625 no cial liabilities from finance leases were down slightly on the previous Eurobond 2016/2026 October year at €61 million. The LANXESS Group uses operating leases (€500 million) 493 2026 1.000 no mainly for operational reasons and not as a means of financing. Hybrid bond Minimum non-discounted future payments relating to operating 2016/2076 December (€500 million) 489 2076 4.500 no leases totaled €315 million against €334 million in the previous year. Private placement As of December 31, 2017, LANXESS had no material financing 2012/2022 items off statement of financial position in the form of factoring, (€100 million) 100 April 2022 3.500 no Private placement asset-backed structures or project financing, for example. 2012/2027 The Group’s total financial liabilities, net of accrued interest, (€100 million) 99 April 2027 3.950 no increased from €2,789 million in 2016 to €2,840 million as of Other loans 105 n/a no December 31, 2017. Net financial liabilities – total financial liabiliFinance lease 61 n/a no Total financial ties net of cash, cash equivalents, accrued interest and near-cash ­liabilities 2,840 assets – amounted to €2,252 million in the reporting year, down Cash and ≤3 from €2,394 million as of December 31, 2016. As of December cash equivalents 538 months 31, 2016, moreover, time deposits and securities available for sale ≤3 Near-cash assets 50 months totaling €2,125 million were deducted. Net financial liabilities after Total liquidity 588 deduction of time deposits and securities available for sale amountNet financial ed to €269 million at the end of 2016. There were no corresponding liabilities 2,252 financial assets to deduct as of December 31, 2017. Of the total Time deposits and securities available financial liabilities, almost 100% bear a fixed interest rate over the for sale 0 term of the financing, which is unchanged from the previous year. Net financial Interest rate changes do not have a material effect on LANXESS’s liabilities after deduction of financial condition considering the current financing structure. The time deposits proportion of loans and bonds denominated in euros averaged 97% and securities in the reporting year, down slightly on the prior-year level of 98%. available for sale 2,252 The weighted average interest rate for our financial liabilities was 2.7% at year end 2017, in line with the prior-year figure. The following overview shows LANXESS’s financing structure The other loans related mainly to the use of credit facilities as of December 31, 2017, in detail, including its principal liquidity by subsidiaries in China, which are extended on a regular basis. reserves. No refinancing risks existed at the time these financial statements were prepared. The next bond, which matures in May 2018 and amounts to €500 million, can be redeemed from liquidity and existing credit lines. Refinancing on the capital market is another available option. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 90 Combined Management Report Liquidity analysis MANAGEMENT’S SUMMARY OF In addition to cash and cash equivalents of €538 million and ­BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND near-cash assets of €50 million, LANXESS has additional liquidity THE FISCAL YEAR reserves in the form of undrawn credit facilities. Money market investments are largely made in bilateral instruments at banks In the reporting period, LANXESS Group sales climbed by and money market funds. Around 88% of our cash funds are held 25.5% from €7,699 million in the previous year to €9,664 million. in Group companies in countries with no restrictions on foreign This rise in sales resulted in roughly equal measure from the acexchange and capital transfers. The remaining approximately 12% quired Chemtura business units and the existing business of the are held in companies in regulated capital markets where cash LANXESS Group. The Clean and Disinfect specialties business transfers are restricted. acquired in the previous year also had a pleasing portfolio effect Thanks to our good liquidity position, our solvency was ason sales. Reflecting raw material prices and volumes, higher sales sured at all times in fiscal year 2017. were recorded for existing business in all operating segments, By far the most important of LANXESS’s credit lines is the although they were slightly diminished by adverse exchange rate syndicated credit facility of €1.25 billion with a term until May effects. 2022. The term was extended in May 2017 in the context of a EBITDA pre exceptionals in 2017 increased by €295 million supplementary agreement. Previously, the maturity date was in from €995 million to €1,290 million. This mainly stemmed from a February 2020. contribution from the acquired Chemtura business units as well as The credit facility remains largely undrawn to date. It is improved earnings from existing business, which chiefly benefited ­designed as an operating line of credit and to provide funds for from increased volumes. capital investment, and complies with the market requirements As a result of significant non-recurring exceptional items, net of the European syndicated loan market for investment-grade income and earnings per share fell year-on-year from €192 million companies with a BBB rating. None of our major loan agreements to €87 million and from €2.10 to €0.95 respectively. contains a financial covenant. In total, we had undrawn credit We view the development of earnings as positive overall. ­facilities of around €1.3 billion as of December 31, 2017, compared We upheld our conservative accounting and financing policy with €1.8 billion at the end of the previous year. in 2017 as well. In accordance with the consistency principle, we The total of liquid assets and undrawn credit lines gives us essentially applied the same measurement methods and exercised available liquidity of around €1.9 billion. This is around €2.4 billion the same discretion as in the previous year. The equity ratio fell less than in the previous year. The decrease relates to the comfrom 37.7% to 32.8%, largely due to currency effects in other completed acquisition of Chemtura. Our solvency is safeguarded for prehensive income. Total assets increased from €9,877 million to the short and long term. €10,396 million, largely as a result of the Chemtura acquisition. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Statement of Financial Position and Financial Condition 91 Management’s Summary of ­B usiness Development and the Fiscal Year Key Business Data – Multi-Period Overview Our statement of financial position shows that our liquidity & Poor’s and Moody’s confirmed our ratings of BBB– and Baa3, position remains solid. Additional substantial liquidity reserves in respectively. Standard & Poor’s improved its outlook from “negathe form of undrawn credit lines are also available. Of the total tive” to “stable,” while Moody’s kept its outlook at “stable.” financial liabilities, almost 100% bear a fixed interest rate over the We continue to regard our business situation as positive. With term of the financing, which is unchanged from the previous year. the acquisition of Chemtura, we have strengthened our regional Our financial liabilities are free of financial covenants. presence, particularly in North America, and have taken a major Our net financial liabilities decreased by €142 million to step towards becoming a more stable specialty chemicals group €2,252 million. In fiscal year 2017, the rating agencies Standard with a stronger cash flow and a more balanced portfolio. KEY BUSINESS DATA – MULTI-PERIOD OVERVIEW Indicators € million 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Earnings performance Sales 8,300 8,006 7,902 7,699 9,664 EBITDA pre exceptionals 735 808 885 995 1,290 EBITDA margin pre exceptionals 8.9% 10.1% 11.2% 12.9% 13.3% EBITDA 624 644 833 945 1,072 Operating result (EBIT) pre exceptionals 288 402 422 514 695 Operating result (EBIT) (93) 218 415 464 434 EBIT margin (1.1)% 2.7% 5.3% 6.0% 4.5% Net income (loss) (159) 47 165 192 87 Earnings per share (€) (1.91) 0.53 1.80 2.10 0.95 Financial position Cash flow from operating activities 641 797 692 689 868 Depreciation and amortization/ reversals of impairment charges 717 426 418 481 638 Cash outflows for capital expenditures 624 614 434 439 547 Net financial liabilities 1,731 1,336 1,211 2,394 2,252 Net financial liabilities after deduction of time deposits and securities available for sale 1,731 1,336 1,211 269 2,252 Assets and liabilities Total assets 6,811 7,250 7,219 9,877 10,396 Non-current assets 3,592 4,101 4,180 4,519 6,439 Current assets 3,219 3,149 3,039 5,358 3,957 Net working capital 1,679 1,600 1,526 1,628 1,948 Equity (including non-controlling interests) 1,900 2,161 2,323 3,728 3,413 Pension provisions 943 1,290 1,215 1,249 1,490 Indicators ROCE 5.8% 7.9% 8.4% 6.9% 9.3% Equity ratio 27.9% 29.8% 32.2% 37.7% 32.8% Non-current asset ratio 52.7% 56.6% 57.9% 45.8% 61.9% Asset coverage I 52.9% 52.7% 55.6% 82.5% 53.0% Net working capital/sales 20.2% 20.0% 19.3% 21.1% 20.2% Employees (as of December 31) 17,343 16,584 16,225 16,721 19,029 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 92 Combined Management Report EARNINGS, ASSET AND FINANCIAL The earnings of LANXESS AG are largely determined by profit POSITION OF LANXESS AG or loss transfers from LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, net interest and general administration expenses. LANXESS AG serves primarily as the management holding Sales at LANXESS AG stood at €6 million, which was at the company for the LANXESS Group. The principal management same level as the previous year. They related mainly to services functions for the entire Group are performed by the Board of provided to LANXESS Deutschland GmbH. A balanced result reManagement. The Board of Management shapes Group strategy mained after deducting the cost of sales, which consisted mostly and manages resource allocation, infrastructure and organization. of personnel expenses and appropriate shares of the general adThe Group management company is also responsible for financministration expenses. ing and communication with LANXESS’s key stakeholders. The General administration expenses increased year-on-year by economic performance of LANXESS AG depends principally on €9 million, or 24.3%, to €46 million. They principally comprised the operating business entities in the LANXESS Group and on personnel and other business expenses not directly related to the development of the chemical industry. The balance of income the services provided to Group companies. The operating result and losses from investments in affiliated companies resulting amounted to minus €46 million, compared with minus €43 million from profit or loss transfers and dividends from affiliated compain the previous year. nies is of key importance for the future ability of LANXESS AG to The financial result, which comprises the balance of income pay a dividend. Therefore, especially the statements made in the and losses from investments in affiliated companies, the net interest “Opportunity and risk report” in this management report apply in position, income from other securities and loans included in financial principle to LANXESS AG as well. non-current assets, and other financial income and expense, fell The financial statements of LANXESS AG are prepared in from €710 million to €128 million. This change was primarily due accordance with the German Commercial Code (HGB) and the to the profit transfer of €194 million from LANXESS Deutschland German Stock Corporation Act (AktG). GmbH, which was €568 million lower than in the p ­ revious year. The prior-year figure mainly resulted from the ­effects of ­establishing the strategic alliance for the synthetic rubber business, a merger, Sales and earnings of LANXESS AG and changes in legal provisions governing the valuation of ­pension obligations. The financial result was negatively influenced by the LANXESS AG Income Statement in Accordance €15 million deterioration in the net interest position to minus with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged €65 million. The increased external financing at LANXESS AG € million 2016 2017 Change % in the previous year had a full-year effect for the first time in the Sales 6 6 0.0 reporting period. Cost of sales (6) (6) 0.0 Income taxes resulted in expenses of €59 million. These Gross profit 0 0 – ­comprised tax expenses of €79 million for the reporting period and General administration expenses (37) (46) (24.3) tax income of €20 million for previous years. Net income for fiscal Other operating income 3 1 (66.7) year 2017 was €23 million after €578 million in the previous year. Other operating expenses (9) (1) 88.9 As of December 31, 2017, the company reported a d ­ istributable Operating result (43) (46) (7.0) profit of €116 million taking into account the profit carryforward of Income from investments in €93 million. In the previous year, a distributable profit of €332 million affiliated companies 762 194 (74.5) Income from loans held as was posted. By resolution of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting financial assets 8 9 12.5 of May 26, 2017, a further €175 million was allocated from the Net interest expense (50) (65) (30.0) distributable profit for 2016 to other retained earnings. Other financial income and expenses – net (10) (10) 0.0 Financial result 710 128 (82.0) Income (loss) before income taxes (89) (59) 33.7 Income taxes 578 23 (96.0) Net income 578 23 (96.0) Carryforward to new account 43 93 > 100 Withdrawal from other retained earnings (289) 0 100.0 Distributable profit 332 116 (65.1) LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Earnings, Asset and Financial Position of LANXESS AG 93 Asset and capital structure of LANXESS AG In view of its function as a strategic holding company, the statement of financial position of LANXESS AG is dominated LANXESS AG Statement of Financial Position in Accordance by financial assets and liabilities and by receivables from, and with the German Commercial Code (HGB) – Abridged payables to, subsidiaries. Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Change LANXESS AG had total assets of €5,080 million as of € million % € million % % December 31, 2017, which was €839 million, or 14.2%, below the prior-year figure. Non-current assets were €980 million ASSETS and primarily included the carrying amount of the investment in Financial assets 980 16.6 980 19.3 0.0 LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, which stands at €739 million, and Non-current assets 980 16.6 980 19.3 0.0 loans to subsidiaries of €198 million. The share of non-current Receivables from assets in total assets increased from 16.6% to 19.3%. Current affiliated companies 2,510 42.4 3,849 75.8 53.3 assets decreased by €836 million, or 17.0%, to €4,074 million Other assets 1,985 33.5 51 1.0 (97.4) and accounted for 80.2% of total assets, compared with 82.9% Liquid assets and securities 415 7.0 174 3.4 (58.1) in the previous year. Receivables from subsidiaries accounted Current assets 4,910 82.9 4,074 80.2 (17.0) for 75.8% of total assets and related principally to short-term Prepaid expenses 29 0.5 26 0.5 (10.3) loans, financial transactions and claims to profit or loss transfers. Total assets 5,919 100.0 5,080 100.0 (14.2) Other receivables accounted for 1.0% of total assets compared with 33.5% in the previous year. The prior-year primarily resulted EQUITY AND LIABILITIES from non-available time deposits. The share of bank balances and Equity 2,041 34.5 2,000 39.4 (2.0) securities in total assets decreased from 7.0% to 3.4%. Provisions 130 2.2 124 2.4 (4.6) Equity decreased by €41 million to €2,000 million, largely Bonds 2,700 45.6 2,700 53.2 0.0 due to the dividend payment for fiscal year 2016. This was partly Liabilities to banks 23 0.4 34 0.7 47.8 offset by net income of €23 million. The equity ratio was 39.4%, Payables to affiliated companies 1,021 17.2 220 4.3 (78.5) after 34.5% at the end of 2016. Other liabilities 4 0.1 2 0.0 (50.0) The provisions decreased by €6 million to €124 million and Liabilities 3,748 63.3 2,956 58.2 (21.1) related mainly to commitments to employees and to statutory and Total assets 5,919 100.0 5,080 100.0 (14.2) contractual obligations. Liabilities decreased by €792 million to €2,956 million. This was mainly because of the decline in payables to affiliated companies, which were down by €801 million on the previous year at €220 million. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 94 Combined Management Report COMPENSATION REPORT Annual base salary The fixed compensation comprises the annual base salary Compensation of the Board of Management and compensation in kind, the latter consisting mainly of the tax The structure of the compensation system and the level of value of perquisites, such as the use of a company car. The ancompensation for the members of the Board of Management are nual base salary of the members of the Board of Management is determined by the Supervisory Board, after preparation by the market-oriented and in line with that paid at other comparable Presidial Committee. The appropriateness of the compensation companies. It is paid each month pro-rata as salary. is regularly reviewed. The criteria for determining the appropriateness of the compensation for an individual Board of Management Variable compensation member include, in particular, his duties, his personal performance, The annual performance-related component of variable comthe economic situation, and the success and sustainable growth of pensation is the Annual Performance Payment (APP). It is based on the LANXESS Group. Consideration is also given to compensation corporate business targets such as attainment of specific targets at comparable companies and the company’s overall compensafor EBITDA pre exceptionals. As the importance of ARLANXtion structure, including as well the ratio between the compensaEO to the LANXESS Group has diminished and will continue to tion of the Board of Management and that of LANXESS’s senior decline, reference is made here to EBITDA pre exceptionals of executives and the rest of the workforce, both overall and in terms New LANXESS, i.e. LANXESS excluding ARLANXEO. In the case of time. The compensation structure is also designed to be comof 100% target attainment, the individual APP budget for fiscal petitive in the international market for highly qualified executives year 2017 for Mr. Zachert is 125% and for the other members and provide the motivation to successfully work toward sustainable of the Board of Management 100% of their respective annual corporate development. Two of the three variable components base salaries. The target and threshold values applicable to the are measured according to corporate performance over several payment level are set each year by the Supervisory Board before years, and thus set long-term incentives. the start of a new fiscal year. There is no payment of a minimum The compensation system that was introduced for members amount. For fiscal year 2017, the maximum payment is capped of the Board of Management in 2010 was approved by the Annual at 200% of the individual budget in line with the caps applied for Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May 28, 2010, with a non-managerial and managerial staff. If targets are considerably majority of 99.10% of the capital represented. missed, it is possible that there is no APP payment (0%). In addiThe components of the compensation for members of the tion, the Supervisory Board reserves the right to reduce the APP Board of Management are the annual base salary; the short-term and in the event of serious occupational safety and/or environmental long-term variable components, which are the Annual ­Performance problems. Payment, the Long-Term Stock Performance Plan and the LongThe Long-Term Stock Performance Plan (LTSP) over several Term Performance Bonus; and a retirement pension. The three years is another element of variable compensation. This compensavariable components are linked to LANXESS’s annual performance tion component is based on the performance of LANXESS stock. and to its corporate success over a number of years. The average The LTSP 2014–2017 program set up in 2014 uses the MSCI compensation mix of 34% annual base salary and 66% variable World Chemicals Index as a reference value. The Dow Jones compensation components, assuming 100% target attainment, is STOXX 600 Chemicals SM serves as a reference index for the strongly aligned with the company’s performance and long-term LTSP 2010–2013, in place since 2010, from which exercisable value creation. The present service contracts for members of the rights are still outstanding. The LTSP responds to the call by legBoard of Management set out the annual base salary and caps on islators for a stronger focus on long-term company performance. the amounts for the variable compensation components. They do It is divided into four four-year tranches. The possible payment per not provide for a separate cap on total compensation, even taking tranche is 30% of the individual target income, assuming 100% into account a possible discretionary bonus. target attainment. The condition for participation in the LTSP is a prior personal investment each year in LANXESS shares to a value Compensation Mix for Members of the Board of Management of 5% of the annual base salary. These shares are subject to an in % average vesting period of five years (LTSP 2010–2013) and four 13 years (LTSP 2014–2017). The rights granted by the LTSP may be exercised at the end of these periods. The exercise period is three 34 years in general, but five years for the 2012 and 2013 tranches. Annual base salary 17 For more information, particularly regarding the valuation Annual Performance Payment parameters applied, please see Note [15] to the consolidated fiLong-Term Stock Performance Plan nancial statements. Long-Term Performance Bonus 36 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Compensation Report 95 The personnel expenses in fiscal year 2017 for share-based amount of the LTPB results from the average individual APP target compensation were €935 thousand for Mr. Zachert (previous year: attainment for the two fiscal years. The LTPB for the Board of Man€1,966 thousand), €91 thousand for Dr. Fink (previous year: €293 agement is set by the Supervisory Board and currently amounts thousand), €91 thousand for Mr. Pontzen (previous year: €293 to 45% of fixed annual compensation in the event of average APP thousand) and €441 thousand for Dr. van Roessel (previous year: target attainment of 100%. €879 thousand). Stephen C. Forsyth, appointed to the Board of Management The Long-Term Performance Bonus (LTPB), which is the third on June 1, 2017, receives fixed compensation in the context of his variable component, is likewise aligned with long-term corporate one-year fixed term on the Board of Management, as well as the performance. It rewards target attainment only after two successive APP as performance-related variable compensation. However, he fiscal years. The basis for calculating the LTPB is the individual does not participate in the long-term compensation components APP target attainment for the fiscal years in question. The exact LTSP and LTPB. Compensation of the Board of Management Payments from Fixed compensation Variable compensation LTSP rights Year Annual Compen­ PerforLTPB Payment Total cash Fair base salary sation mance (multifor previous compen­ values € thousand in kind bonus4) year) years sation Total 2017 1,200 73 3,000 1,0802) (41)4) 5,312 737 6,049 Matthias Zachert 2016 1,200 73 2,250 8101) (82)3) 4,251 1,337 5,588 2017 475 53 1,100 5282) (13)4) 2,143 246 2,389 Dr. Hubert Fink 2016 450 53 675 3041) (7)3) 1,475 446 1,921 2017 525 47 1,100 5282) (13)4) 2,187 246 2,433 Michael Pontzen 2016 450 44 675 3041) (20)3) 1,453 446 1,899 2017 650 51 1,300 5852) (19)4) 2,567 355 2,922 Dr. Rainier van Roessel 2016 650 50 975 4391) (38)3) 2,076 368 2,444 Stephen C. Forsyth 2017 263 – 525 – – 788 – 788 (appointed June 1, 2017) 2016 – – – – – – – – 2017 3,113 224 7,025 2,721 (86) 12,997 1,584 14,581 Total 2016 2,750 220 4,575 1,857 (147) 9,255 2,597 11,852 1) Payment of 50% each in 2017 and 2018 2) Payment of 50% each in 2018 and 2019 3) Payment in 2016 and 2017, respectively 4) Payment in 2017 and 2018, respectively The aggregate compensation for the Board of Management the age of 60 or 62 or if the beneficiary is permanently unable to was €14,581 thousand (previous year: €11,852 thousand), comwork. They are paid to surviving dependents in the event of the prising €3,337 thousand (previous year: €2,970 thousand) in beneficiary’s death. non-performance-related components, €9,660 thousand (previThe pension plan for the members of the Board of Management ous year: €6,285 thousand) in performance-related components is a defined contribution plan stipulating a basic contribution to be and €1,584 thousand (previous year: €2,597 thousand) in commade by the company equal to 25% of the annual base salary and ponents with a long-term incentive effect. In the context of the APP. The maximum amount taken into account for calculating the LTSP, a total of 1,740,000 rights were granted to the members of APP contribution is that due on 100% target attainment, irrespective the Board of Management for 2017. In the previous year, a total of the actual target attainment. Moreover, the members of the Board of 1,740,000 rights were granted for 2016 and an additional of Management must themselves pay an amount from deferred 1,350,000 rights each for 2012 and 2013. Regarding the fair compensation amounting to 12.5% of the APP. The members of value per right of the individual tranches on the reporting date, the Board of Management may increase their personal contribution please see Note [15] to the consolidated financial statements. to up to 25% of the APP. From the date of entitlement, up to 30% of the accumulated capital – including the interest thereon – may Retirement pensions be converted to a pension benefit. There are claims arising from On termination of their service contracts, the members of the provisions in place before 2006 that are granted as vested rights Board of Management receive benefits under the company pento individual members of the Board of Management. If the service sion plan. These benefits are paid when the beneficiary reaches contract ends before the beneficiary reaches the age of 60 or 62, the company pays certain additional benefits up to a defined ceiling. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 96 Combined Management Report LANXESS has established provisions for the future claims of present value of the obligations under IFRS and HGB accounting Board of Management members. The service costs recognized rules can be found in the following table for the Board of Manageunder IFRS accounting rules for this purpose, the net expense ment members serving as of December 31, 2017: recognized under HGB accounting rules for this purpose and the Pension Claims IFRS HGB Year Service Costs Present Value of Net Expense Present Value of the Obligations for Pension the Obligations Entitlements € thousand 2017 775 5,613 1,080 4,106 Matthias Zachert 2016 659 4,522 789 3,026 2017 309 3,626 550 2,666 Dr. Hubert Fink 2016 142 3,162 189 2,116 2017 268 2,108 451 1,423 Michael Pontzen 2016 228 1,607 170 972 2017 157 7,030 504 6,082 Dr. Rainier van Roessel 2016 144 6,742 237 5,577 Stephen C. Forsyth 2017 0 0 0 0 (appointed June 1, 2017) 2016 0 0 0 0 2017 1,509 18,377 2,585 14,277 Total 2016 1,173 16,033 1,385 11,691 As of December 31, 2017, obligations to former members of Payments totaling €473 thousand (previous year: the Board of Management totaled €34,828 thousand (­previous €1,244 thousand) were made to former members of the Board year: €34,497 thousand) under IFRS accounting rules and of Management in fiscal year 2017. €27,772 thousand (previous year: €26,041 thousand) under HGB a­ ccounting rules. Other In the past fiscal year, no member of the Board of ManageBenefits associated with and following ment received substantial benefits or assurances of benefits from ­termination of service on the Board of third parties in respect of their duties as members of the Board of ­Management Management. The members of the Board of Management have indemniNo loans were granted to members of the Board of Managefication rights should their service contracts be terminated for ment in fiscal year 2017. defined reasons at the instigation of the company or in the event of a material change of control over the company. The terms Individual compensation in line with the depend on the respective circumstances and include severance ­recommendations of the German Corporate payments amounting to up to twice the annual base salary or, in ­Governance Code the event of a change of control, three times the annual base salary, The following tables list the compensation, additional benefits plus the APP and LTPB assuming 100% target achievement and and allocations (payments) for 2016 and 2017, in line with the compensation pro rata temporis of LTSP rights. On the basis of recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code. agreements existing with Dr. Fink and Mr. Pontzen, the calculation The variable compensation components differ depending on of severance payments to be made in the event of early termination the reference period. The amounts of compensation shown also of their service contracts does not include the LTPB and LTSP include the maximum and minimum attainable compensation. variable compensation components. No additional benefits have been pledged to any member of the Board of Management in the event of termination of their service. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Compensation Report 97 Compensation Granted Matthias Zachert Dr. Hubert Fink Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management Target Target 2017 2017 Target Target 2017 2017 € thousand value 2016 value 2017 (min.) (max.) value 2016 value 2017 (min.) (max.) Annual base salary 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200 450 475 475 475 Compensation in kind 73 73 73 73 53 53 53 53 Total 1,273 1,273 1,273 1,273 503 528 528 528 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 1,500 1,500 0 3,000 450 550 0 1,100 Multi-year variable compensation 1,876 1,277 0 2,700 649 517 0 1,068 LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) 540 – – – 203 23 – 33 LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) – 540 0 1,080 – 248 0 495 LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012) 356 – – – 119 – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) 243 – – – 81 – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2016) 737 – – – 246 – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2017) – 737 0 1,620 – 246 0 540 Total 4,649 4,050 1,273 6,973 1,602 1,595 528 2,696 Service cost 659 775 775 775 142 309 309 309 Total compensation 5,308 4,825 2,048 7,748 1,744 1,904 837 3,005 Compensation Granted Michael Pontzen Dr. Rainier van Roessel Chief Financial Officer Member of the Board of Management Target Target 2017 2017 Target Target 2017 2017 € thousand value 2016 value 2017 (min.) (max.) value 2016 value 2017 (min.) (max.) Annual base salary 450 525 525 525 650 650 650 650 Compensation in kind 44 47 47 47 50 51 51 51 Total 494 572 572 572 700 701 701 701 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 450 550 0 1,100 650 650 0 1,300 Multi-year variable compensation 649 517 0 1,068 661 648 0 1,365 LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) 203 23 – 33 293 – – – LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) – 248 0 495 – 293 0 585 LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012) 119 – – – 3 – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) 81 – – – 10 – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2016) 246 – – – 355 – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2017) – 246 0 540 – 355 0 780 Total 1,593 1,639 572 2,740 2,011 1,999 701 3,366 Service cost 228 268 268 268 144 157 157 157 Total compensation 1,821 1,907 840 3,008 2,155 2,156 858 3,523 Compensation Granted Stephen C. Forsyth Member of the Board of Management Appointed June 1, 2017 Target Target 2017 2017 € thousand value 2016 value 2017 (min.) (max.) Annual base salary – 263 263 263 Compensation in kind – – – – Total – 263 263 263 Annual Performance Payment (APP) – 263 0 525 Multi-year variable compensation LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) – – – – LTPB (tranche 2017–2018) – – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2012) – – – – LTSP 2010–2013 (tranche 2013) – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2016) – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 (tranche 2017) – – – – Total – 526 263 788 Service cost – – – – Total compensation – 526 263 788 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 98 Combined Management Report Allocations Matthias Zachert Dr. Hubert Fink Chairman of the Board of Management Member of the Board of Management € thousand 2016 2017 2016 2017 Annual base salary 1,200 1,200 450 475 Compensation in kind 73 73 53 53 Total 1,273 1,273 503 528 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 2,190 2,970 670 1,091 Multi-year variable compensation 788 935 188 429 LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) (11) (1) LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) 799 (5) 189 (2) LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) 940 431 LTSP 2010–2013 – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 – – – – Total 4,251 5,178 1,361 2,048 Service cost 659 775 142 309 Total compensation 4,910 5,953 1,503 2,357 Allocations Michael Pontzen Dr. Rainier van Roessel Chief Financial Officer Member of the Board of Management € thousand 2016 2017 2016 2017 Annual base salary 450 525 650 650 Compensation in kind 44 47 50 51 Total 494 572 700 701 Annual Performance Payment (APP) 661 1,091 949 1,287 Multi-year variable compensation 260 429 427 506 LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) (3) (6) LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) 263 (2) 433 (3) LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) 431 509 LTSP 2010–2013 – – – – LTSP 2014–2017 – – – – Total 1,415 2,092 2,076 2,494 Service cost 228 268 144 157 Total compensation 1,643 2,360 2,220 2,651 Allocations Stephen C. Forsyth Member of the Board of Management Appointed June 1, 2017 € thousand 2016 2017 Annual base salary – 263 Compensation in kind – – Total – 263 Annual Performance Payment (APP) – 525 Multi-year variable compensation – – LTPB (tranche 2014–2015) – – LTPB (tranche 2015–2016) – – LTPB (tranche 2016–2017) LTSP 2010–2013 – – LTSP 2014–2017 – – Total – 788 Service cost – – Total compensation – 788 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Compensation Report 99 Compensation of the Supervisory Board Payment of the variable compensation depends on how The compensation of the Supervisory Board is governed by LANXESS’s stock performs relative to the Dow Jones STOXX Section 12 of the company’s articles of association. The members 600 ChemicalsSM during a member’s five-year term. The average of the Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG receive fixed compenprice of LANXESS stock and the average level of the index during sation of €80 thousand per year. The Chairman of the Supervisory the 90 trading days prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting Board receives three times, and the Vice Chairman one and a half at which the Supervisory Board members were elected are each times, this amount. Serving as the chair or a member of Supervicompared with the respective average for the 90 trading days sory Board committees is compensated separately in accordance prior to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting at the conclusion of with the German Corporate Governance Code. Supervisory Board which the members’ terms end. The variable compensation is members who belong to a committee receive one half of the only payable if the stock has outperformed the benchmark index. fixed compensation amount in addition. The chair of the Audit The exact amount of the variable compensation depends on the Committee receives a further half. Supervisory Board members extent to which the stock price outperformed the benchmark index who chair a committee other than the Audit Committee receive in the preceding five years. If LANXESS stock has outperformed a further quarter. However, no member may receive in total more the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM by up to ten percentage than three times the fixed compensation amount. points, the variable compensation amounts to €50 thousand for Supervisory Board members are reimbursed for their exthis five-year period; if it has outperformed the index by between penses in addition and also receive an attendance allowance of 10 and 20 percentage points, €100 thousand is paid, and if the €1.5 thousand for each Supervisory Board meeting and each degree of outperformance is greater than this, the compensation committee meeting they attend, with the exception of meetings is €150 thousand. of the Committee formed pursuant to Section 27, Paragraph 3, No variable compensation was paid out in fiscal year 2017. of the German Codetermination Act and meetings of the NomThe expected compensation payable for the current terms of inations Committee. With respect to their membership on the office of Supervisory Board members was valued at €950 thousand supervisory boards of LANXESS Group companies, the members (previous year: €600 thousand) as of December 31, 2017, and of the Supervisory Board are remunerated only for their service recognized as a provision. on the Supervisory Board of LANXESS Deutschland GmbH in None of the members of the Supervisory Board received the amount of €5 thousand each. benefits for services provided personally during the reporting The Supervisory Board members also receive a long-term period. No loans or advances were granted to members of the ­incentive based on the company’s performance during the standard Supervisory Board during the reporting year. term of an individual’s membership on the Supervisory Board (five The following table breaks down the compensation received years). Unlike the fixed compensation component, this variable by each member of the Supervisory Board for their work on the compensation component is not paid every year, but only once Supervisory Board. at the end of the standard term of office. If a Supervisory Board member serves a shorter term, the amount is prorated. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 100 Combined Management Report Compensation of the Supervisory Board Year Fixed Compensation Attendance Fixed Total compensation as committee allowance compensation ­L ANXESS AG member ­L ANXESS €1) ­L ANXESS AG Deutschland GmbH Dr. Rolf Stomberg, 2017 240,000 02) 16,500 5,000 261,500 Chairman 2016 240,000 02) 18,000 5,000 263,000 Ralf Sikorski, 2017 120,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 181,500 Vice Chairman 2016 103,388 40,000 18,000 5,000 166,388 Gisela Seidel 2017 – – – – – (resigned May 31, 2016) 2016 49,836 16,612 7,500 2,077 76,025 2017 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Werner Czaplik 2016 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 2017 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Dr. Hans-Dieter Gerriets 2016 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Dr. Heike Hanagarth 2017 80,000 – 9,000 5,000 94,000 (appointed July 1, 2016) 2016 40,219 – 6,000 2,514 48,733 2017 80,000 80,000 13,500 5,000 178,500 Dr. Friedrich Janssen 2016 80,000 80,000 16,500 5,000 181,500 2017 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 Thomas Meiers 2016 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Claudia Nemat 2017 – – – – – (resigned June 30, 2016) 2016 39,781 19,891 4,500 2,486 66,658 2017 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 Lawrence A. Rosen 2016 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 2017 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 Manuela Strauch 2016 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 Ifraim Tairi 2017 80,000 40,000 16,500 5,000 141,500 (appointed July 1, 2016) 2016 46,776 15,847 9,000 2,924 74,547 2017 80,000 80,000 22,500 5,000 187,500 Theo H. Walthie 2016 80,000 55,847 19,500 5,000 160,347 2017 80,000 40,000 13,500 5,000 138,500 Dr. Matthias L. Wolfgruber 2016 80,000 40,000 15,000 5,000 140,000 2017 1,160,000 480,000 183,000 60,000 1,883,000 Total 2016 1,160,000 468,197 190,500 60,001 1,878,698 1) Figures exclude value-added tax 2) Paid through fixed compensation as per Section 12, Paragraph 2, of the articles of association LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Compensation Report 101 Report Pursuant to Sections 289a, Paragraph 1, and 315a, P ­ aragraph 1, of the German C ­ ommercial Code (HGB) REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS member of the Board of Management or the appointment of a 289A, PARAGRAPH 1, AND 315A, member as Chairman of the Board of Management for cause ­PARAGRAPH 1, OF THE GERMAN (Section 84, Paragraph 3, of the German Stock Corporation ­COMMERCIAL CODE (HGB) Act).  Section 179 of the German Stock Corporation Act proPursuant to Section 289a, Paragraph 1, Sentence 1, Nos. 1 vides that a resolution of the Stockholders’ Meeting is required to 9, and Section 315a, Paragraph 1, Sentence 1, Nos. 1 to 9, for any amendment to the articles of association. Pursuant of the German Commercial Code, we hereby make the following to Section 17, Paragraph 2, of the articles of association, declarations: resolutions of the Stockholders’ Meeting require a simple majority of the votes cast and, if a capital majority is required, a 1. The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €91,522,936 simple majority of the capital stock, unless otherwise required as of December 31, 2017, and is composed of 91,522,936 by law or provided by the articles of association. The articles no-par bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and of association contain no further provisions in this regard. obligations. One vote is granted per share, and profit is disSection 10, Paragraph 9, of the articles of association of tributed per share. The rights and obligations arising from the LANXESS AG authorizes the Supervisory Board to resolve shares are governed by the German Stock Corporation Act. on amendments relating solely to the form of the articles of association. 2. We are not aware of any restrictions affecting voting rights or the transfer of shares. However, shares allocated under 7. The Board of Management of LANXESS AG has been auemployee stock plans are subject to a lock-up period before thorized to issue or repurchase shares as follows: they may be sold. Own shares 3. We received no reports of direct and indirect equity invest The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on ments in the capital of LANXESS AG exceeding 10% of total May 20, 2016, authorized the Board of Management until May voting rights. 19, 2021, to acquire shares in the company representing up to 10% of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose 4. No shares carry special rights granting control authority. permitted by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of the company or by third parties on behalf of 5. Employees hold a direct interest in the capital of LANXESS AG the company or its subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board through employee stock programs. There are no restrictions of Management, such shares may be acquired either on the on directly exercising the control rights arising from these market or via a public tender offer. The Board of Management shares is authorized to use them for any purpose permitted by law, especially the purposes specifically listed in the authorization. 6. Sections 84 and 85 of the German Stock Corporation Act Among other things, it can retire the shares, sell them other and Section 31 of the German Codetermination Act apply than via the stock exchange or an offer to the stockholders, or to the appointment and dismissal of Board of Management transfer them against consideration in kind for the purpose of members. Under the provisions of these sections, Board of acquiring companies, parts of companies or equity interests Management members are appointed by the Supervisory in companies or in order to conclude mergers. The Board of Board for a term not exceeding five years. Such appointment Management is further authorized to offer the shares acquired may be renewed or the term of office may be extended, profor sale to persons who are or were employed by the company vided that the term of each such renewal or extension shall not or an affiliated company (employee shares). exceed five years. Appointments require a majority of at least two-thirds of the Supervisory Board members’ votes. Section  Conditional capital 6, Paragraph 1, of the articles of association states that the  The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on Board of Management must consist of at least two members. May 13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management until The number of members of the Board of Management is deMay 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to termined by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board issue – in one or more installments – warrant bonds and/or conmay appoint a chairman of the Board of Management and vertible bonds, profit-participation rights and/or income bonds a vice chairman of the Board of Management. Alternative or a combination of these instruments (collectively referred members of the Board of Management may be appointed. to as “bonds”) – as either registered or bearer bonds – with a The Supervisory Board may revoke the appointment of a total nominal value of up to €1,000,000,000, with or without LANXESS Annual Report 2017 102 Combined Management Report limited maturity, and to grant option rights to, or impose exerissuing new no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind cise obligations on, the holders or creditors of warrant bonds, up to a total amount of €16,640,534 (Authorized Capital I). profit-participation rights with warrants or income bonds with Stockholders are generally entitled to subscription rights warrants, and/or to grant conversion rights to, or impose conwhen Authorized Capital is utilized. However, pursuant to version obligations on, the holders or creditors of convertible Section 4, Paragraph 2, of LANXESS AG’s articles of assobonds, convertible profit-participation rights or convertible ciation and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, the income bonds in respect of bearer shares of the company Board of Management can exclude these subscription rights representing a total pro rata increase of up to €18,304,587 when, for example, the company’s capital stock is increased in the company’s capital stock on the terms to be defined for against contributions in kind, particularly for the acquisition these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 5, of the artiof companies. Subscription rights can also be excluded if the cles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is thus issue price of the new shares is not significantly lower than the conditionally increased by up to €18,304,587 (Conditional stock market price at the time the issue price is fixed and the Capital). issued shares do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital  The conditional capital increase shall only be i­mplemented stock. to the extent that the holders or creditors of, or persons  In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3, of ­obligated to exercise, warrants or conversion rights p ­ ertaining LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockto bonds issued by the company or a dependent company holders’ Meeting on May 13, 2015, authorized the Board against cash contributions, or issued against cash contributions of Management until May 22, 2018, with the approval of and guaranteed by the company or a dependent company, the Supervisory Board, to increase the company’s capital on or before May 22, 2018, on the basis of the authorization stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par shares granted to the Board of Management by the Annual Stockagainst cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount of holders’ Meeting on May 13, 2015, exercise their warrants or €18,304,587 (Authorized Capital II). Stockholders are genconversion rights or, where they are obligated to do so, fulfill erally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital such obligation, or to the extent that the company elects to is utilized. However, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3, of grant shares in the company in place of all or part of the cash LANXESS AG’s articles of association and with the approval of amount due for payment. The conditional capital increase shall the Supervisory Board, the Board of Management can exclude not be implemented if cash compensation is granted or if the these subscription rights when, for example, the company’s company’s own shares, shares issued out of authorized capital capital stock is increased against contributions in kind, paror shares in another listed company are used to service the ticularly for the acquisition of companies. Subscription rights warrant or conversion rights. can also be excluded if the issue price of the new shares is not  The Board of Management is authorized, with the approval significantly lower than the stock market price at the time the of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights in issue price is fixed and the issued shares do not exceed 10% certain cases which are detailed in the authorization. When of the company’s capital stock. When deciding to exclude deciding on the exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights, stockholders’ subscription rights for Authorized Capital II, the Board of Management will take into consideration that the the Board of Management will take into consideration that issue of shares on the basis of other authorizations granted by the authorizations granted by the Annual Stockholders’ Meetthe Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, 2015, for capital ing of May 13, 2015, for capital measures under exclusion measures under exclusion of the stockholders’ subscription of the stockholders’ subscription may only be used up to a rights may only be used up to a maximum amount of 20% of maximum amount of 20% of the capital stock that exists at the capital stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed. the time the resolution is passed. The shares issued from The Board of Management will be bound by this condition Authorized Capital II under exclusion of subscription rights until a future Annual Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves by way of capital increases against contributions in kind shall to authorize the Board of Management to implement capital not exceed 10% of the capital stock that exists at the time measures under exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights. the resolution is passed. The Board of Management will be bound by this condition until a future Annual Stockholders’ Authorized Capital I, II and III Meeting again resolves to authorize the Board of Management  Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2, of LANXESS AG’s to implement capital measures under exclusion of stockarticles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on holders’ subscription rights. Finally, pursuant to Section 4, May 23, 2013, authorized the Board of Management until Paragraph 4, of LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the May 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2017, authorized to increase the capital stock on one or more occasions by the Board of Management until May 25, 2022, with the apLANXESS Annual Report 2017 Report Pursuant to Sections 289a, Paragraph 1, and 315a, Paragraph 1, of the German Commercial Code (HGB) 103 Report Pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB) proval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the company’s contain a change-of-control clause as well. According to these capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new bearer terms, in the event of a change of control and in connection shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total with certain events that affect its rating, LANXESS AG must amount of €9,152,293 (Authorized Capital III). Stockholders pay bondholders an increased rate of interest if the company are generally entitled to subscription rights when Authorized does not make use of the right of termination that is similarly Capital is utilized. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4, of the available. The company has entered into an agreement with articles of association and with the approval of the Super­ a syndicate of banks concerning a credit facility with a current visory Board, the Board of Management can exclude these volume of €1,250 million. This agreement can be terminated subscription rights. It can exclude fractional amounts from without notice if another company or person takes control of the stockholders’ subscription rights in the event of capital more than 50% of LANXESS AG. Furthermore, according to increases against cash contributions. Subscription rights can agreements between the company and LANXESS Pension also be excluded in the event of capital increases against cash Trust e.V., the company is obligated to make considerable contributions if the issue price of the new bearer shares is payments to LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. in the event of a not significantly lower than the stock market price at the time change of control. the issue price is definitively fixed and the issued shares in  In connection with the conclusion of an agreement with total do not exceed 10% of the company’s capital stock. The Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A. to establish a Board of Management continues to abide by the content of strategic partnership for synthetic rubber in which each party the restrictions to the overall scope of the capital measures holds a 50% interest, it was agreed in the shareholders’ agreewithout subscription rights set out in the invitation to the ment that, in the event of a change of control at one of the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, 2015, at the time shareholders, the other shareholder has the right to acquire of creation of the Authorized Capital II, on which a resolution the shares of the other shareholder at a reduced price. was passed at the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, 2015, including after creation of new Authorized Capital III. 9. The service contracts between the company and the members of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG as well as 8. The service contracts between the company and the membetween the company and members of the first and second bers of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG contain levels of upper management of LANXESS AG contain comprovisions regarding the potential departure of the members pensation agreements applicable in the event of a change of the Board of Management in the context of a change of of control, as such change is more particularly described in control. These are outlined in the compensation report in the respective contracts. this combined management report. Such agreements, albeit with different terms, also exist between the company and members of the first level of upper management. In addition, REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTIONS the terms for placing bonds under the company’s existing debt 289F AND 315D OF THE GERMAN issuance program may contain a change-of-control clause COMMERCIAL CODE (HGB) which gives bondholders the right to redeem the bond should certain events occur that affect its rating. This applies to the The Board of Management and Supervisory Board have issued €500 million eurobond issued by LANXESS Finance B.V. in the corporate governance declaration pursuant to Section 289f and fiscal year 2011 and the €500 million eurobond issued by 315d of the German Commercial Code (HGB). This has been made LANXESS Finance B.V. in fiscal year 2012, both of which available to the stockholders and can be found on the LANXESS were taken over by LANXESS AG in 2015. The terms for website in section Investor Relations under Corporate Governance. two private placements with a volume of €100 million each made by LANXESS Finance B.V. under the debt issuance program in fiscal year 2012 likewise contain corresponding change-of-control clauses. These placements have now also been taken over by LANXESS AG. Equally, the terms of the bonds with a volume of (i) €500 million (maturity 2021) and (ii) €500 million (maturity 2026), respectively, issued by LANXESS AG in fiscal year 2016 under the debt issuance program contain corresponding change-of-control clauses. The terms of the subordinated hybrid bond with a volume of €500 million also issued by LANXESS AG in fiscal year 2016 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 104 Combined Management Report REPORT ON FUTURE PERSPECTIVES, The following table shows the anticipated evolution of our RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES selling markets. In the economic outlook below, we describe our expectaExpected Evolution of Major User Industries in 2018 tions for economic development. Following the report on future perspectives, we discuss the opportunities and risks which may Tires Auto­ Agro­ ConChange vs. prior year motive chemi­strucresult in deviations from our predictions. in real terms (%)1) cals tion Americas 4.0 1.0 5.5 4.0 EMEA (incl. Germany) 3.0 3.0 1.5 2.5 Economic outlook Asia-Pacific 3.0 1.5 3.0 4.5 Fiscal year 2017 was characterized by fundamentally sound World 3.0 2.0 3.0 3.5 economic growth. An escalation of the crisis in the Middle East 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5%. and the situation in East Asia could curb growth of the global Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Global Insight economy in the 2018 reporting year. For the Europe region, we believe that a disorganized Brexit process would negatively affect the economic situation. The economic situation in Europe will be Future perspectives impacted by continuation of the relatively expansive monetary policy. We expect raw material prices to be volatile, with a modExpected earnings position of the erate increase overall. LANXESS Group In fiscal year 2018, we expect moderate growth of 3.0% for The following earnings forecast relates to New LANXESS the global economy, driven mainly by business performance in and covers the Advanced Intermediates, Specialty Additives, Asia-Pacific. China remains among the main drivers of growth. Performance Chemicals and Engineering Materials segments. Due to the recovery of the Latin American economy and the U.S. ARLANXEO will be classified as a discontinued operation from tax reform, we expect stronger growth of gross domestic product April 1, 2018. Accordingly, both the EBITDA pre exceptionals for in the Americas of 2.5% overall. With the growth drivers in EMEA the LANXESS Group reported in the future reporting periods and (including Germany) remaining intact, we expect economic growth also the one subsequently forecast contain no EBITDA contribuof 2.0% based on 2017. tions from ARLANXEO. We expect the global chemical industry production to We anticipate a positive development of our existing business ­expand by 3.5%. in fiscal year 2018. The forecast volume growth of the global economy and the cost-effectiveness measures initiated in the inExpected Growth in 2018  tegration of Chemtura should have a corresponding positive effect on our earnings performance. A persistently weak U.S. dollar will Gross domestic Chemical Change vs. prior year in real product production continue to have a considerably negative impact on our business. terms (%)1) For the Advanced Intermediates segment, we expect business Americas 2.5 3.5 in 2018 to be on a par with the previous year overall. The segment EMEA (incl. Germany) 2.0 1.5 will continue to benefit from wide diversification in end markets. Asia-Pacific 4.5 4.0 Regarding demand from our customers in the agricultural industry, World 3.0 3.5 we still expect a fairly low level, especially in the first half of the year. 1) Rounded to the nearest 0.5%. Our Specialty Additives segment, established in 2017, should Source: LANXESS estimates and IHS Global Insight perform significantly above the prior-year level as a result of the acquired Chemtura businesses and the expected synergies. In particular, we expect a rise in earnings, as the acquired Chemtura businesses are taken into account for a full year for the first time. For our Performance Chemicals segment, we expect business performance to be on a par with the previous year. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 105 For our Engineering Materials segment, which includes Financing measures the business with plastics for lightweight construction in the LANXESS is in a good position due to the long-term nature ­automotive industry and for applications in the electrical and of its financing. The maturity of a €500 million bond in May 2018 ­electronics industry, we are anticipating performance slightly can be covered from liquidity and existing credit lines. Refinancing above the p ­ rior-year level. This growth is based on the ongoing of the bond on the capital market is also conceivable. We will success of business with high-performance plastics as well as continue our efforts aimed at securing long-term funding as part the earnings contribution of the urethanes business gained as a of a conservative financing policy. result of the Chemtura acquisition. In the New LANXESS Reconciliation segment, we anticipate Expected earnings position of LANXESS AG earnings on a par with the previous year. Higher administration In fiscal year 2018, we expect the financial statements of expenses due to the first-time inclusion over a full 12-month cycle LANXESS AG to show substantially higher net income than in are partially compensated for by additional synergies relating to the previous year. Other than by the administration expenses the the Chemtura integration. The segment also includes currency company incurs in performing its tasks as a management holding hedging. company, net income is impacted by the financial result, especially The U.S. dollar will remain the key currency for our businesses. the net interest position and the balance of income and losses Against the background of the expected performance of from investments in affiliated companies. The balance of income the segments of New LANXESS, we anticipate that EBITDA pre and losses from investments in affiliated companies and the corexceptionals for the full year 2018 will be slightly higher compared responding ability of LANXESS AG to pay a dividend will depend with the prior year. The expected cost reductions, synergies from in large measure on the profit transfers and dividends paid by the the acquisition of Chemtura and earnings contributions of the other companies of the LANXESS Group. We will maintain our businesses acquired in 2017 are taken into account here. EBITDA consistent dividend policy and expect LANXESS AG to report a pre exceptionals of New LANXESS totaled around €925 million distributable profit that will enable our stockholders to adequately in fiscal year 2017. participate in the LANXESS Group’s earnings in the coming year. Expected financial position of the LANXESS Group Dividend policy LANXESS follows a consistent dividend policy. For ­future Liquidity situation d ­ ividend proposals, we intend to increase the dividend if LANXESS will continue to pursue a forward-looking and ­possible but at least to maintain it at a stable level. The Board conservative financial policy in the current year. With around of M­ anagement and Supervisory Board of LANXESS AG will €1.9 ­billion in cash and undrawn credit lines as of the end of ­therefore propose to the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 2017, as described under “Financial condition” in this m ­ anagement 15, 2018, that a dividend of €0.80 per share be declared for report, we have a very good liquidity and financing position, which fiscal year 2017. ensures our corporate flexibility to implement the strategy of LANXESS. Summary of the Group’s projected performance We anticipate slightly positive business development in the Capital expenditures current year. As in the past fiscal year, our capital expenditures will be We will be continuing the strategic realignment of the Group primarily directed toward the maintenance of existing production in 2018 with the aim of achieving a more stable and less cyclical facilities as well as efficiency improvements and the expansion of business profile. LANXESS will continue to work on optimizing its existing plants. In 2018, we expect total cash outflows for capital production platform and, as announced, pursue active portfolio expenditures of around €450 million for New LANXESS. In this management as well as projects geared towards organic growth. way, we are still seeking to achieve a balanced investment cycle We assume a slightly positive development of EBITDA pre to ensure our financial headroom. exceptionals for the full year 2018. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 106 Combined Management Report Opportunity and risk report In line with this division of duties, we have assigned responsibility to risk owners for the following: Opportunity and risk management system Our success is significantly dependent on identifying oppor›› Identification and assessment of opportunities and risks tunities and risks in our business activities and actively managing ›› Implementation of control measures (measures taken to exthem. The goal of the management system is to safeguard the ploit or enhance opportunities and to avoid or minimize risks) ­company’s existence for the long term and ensure its ­successful on›› Monitoring the development of opportunities and risks (e.g. going development by identifying opportunities and risks at an early on the basis of performance indicators and, perhaps also, stage and, depending on their nature, appropriately ­considering early warning indicators) these in strategic and operational decisions. Opportunities and ›› Risk mitigation (measures to minimize damage upon occurrisks are understood as possible future developments or events that rence of a risk event) may result in either positive or negative deviations from forecasts ›› Communication of the key opportunities and risks to the or business objectives. management committees of the business units and Group Our management system is based both on internal organizafunctions tional workflows that are managed by way of control and monitoring mechanisms and on early warning systems that are used to closely The Corporate Risk Committee headed by the Chief­ observe changes in external conditions and systematically imple­ inancial Officer is responsible for the structure and implemenF ment the appropriate measures. This approach applies equally to tation of the Group-wide risk management process. It is made up opportunities and risks. of representatives of selected Group functions and analyzes the Like all methods intended for dealing with business risk, this principal opportunities and risks and their development from the system does not offer absolute protection. However, it is intended viewpoint of the entire company. It examines existing measures to prevent business risks from having a material impact on the to counter risks, initiates additional measures as required and company with a sufficient degree of certainty. instigates further analyses of individual opportunities and risks if necessary. Structural basis The Corporate Controlling Group function coordinates the The principles of our opportunity and risk management system Group-wide risk management process for the Corporate Risk are set forth in a Group directive. The management system, which Committee and appoints a Group Risk Management Coordinator uses the COSO model as the enterprise risk management framefor this purpose. This coordinator is responsible for collecting work, comprises many different elements that are incorporated into and aggregating key opportunity and risk information across the business processes through the company’s organizational structure, Group. The short-, mediumand long-term opportunities and its workflows, its planning, reporting and communication systems, risks are identified twice a year in the context of the intrayear and a set of detailed management policies and technical standards. forecasting process and the budget and planning process. The system is based on an integration concept. In other words, The Corporate Development Group function helps with the the early identification of opportunities and risks is an integral part analysis and evaluation of systematically important and strategic of the management system and not the object of a separate orgaopportunities and risks. nizational structure. The management of opportunities and risks is The Corporate Risk Committee has subcommittees made therefore a primary duty of the heads of all business units, as well up of representatives of the business units and Group funcas of those people in Group companies who hold process and tions that deal with specific risk areas in order to enable a fast project responsibility. This is why our opportunity and risk manageand flexible response to changing situations and their impacts. ment is based on clearly defined business processes, the precise ­Accordingly, for example, the Financial Risk Committee, headed assignment of responsibilities, and reporting systems that ensure by the Chief Finance Officer and made up of representatives the timely provision of the information required for decision-making of the Treasury & Investor Relations Group function, manages for the Board of Management and subordinate management levels. transactions ­centrally, particularly for the transfer of financial but also operating risk (hedging transactions or insurance). Roles of key organizational units The duty to report opportunities and risks to the Corporate Our business units conduct their own operations, for which Controlling Group function is based on the anticipated impact on they have global profit responsibility. Group functions and service Group net income or EBITDA pre exceptionals. All opportunities companies support the business units by providing financial, legal, and risks must be reported if their anticipated impact is more technical and other centralized services. Complementing this than €1 million following the implementation of measures. In global alignment of the business units and Group functions, the addition, those risks must be reported which have an anticipated country organizations ensure the required proximity to markets impact that was reduced by more than €10 million through the and the necessary organizational infrastructure. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 107 implementation of measures. These minimum thresholds guarCompliance as an integral component antee that the information gathered about opportunities and risks Risk management also includes preventing illegal conduct by is comprehensive and that the collection of information is not just our employees. To this end, we obtain extensive legal advice conlimited to material risks or risks that could jeopardize the future cerning business transactions and obligate employees by means of the company as a going concern. The Corporate Controlling of our “Code of conduct – Code for integrity and compliance at Group function centrally determines the top opportunities and LANXESS” to observe the law and our internal directives and to risks only after the information has been gathered. act responsibly. The compliance code is part of a comprehensive There is also provision for immediate internal reporting on compliance management system (CMS) that has been structured specific risk issues such as unexpected operational events with in accordance with the principles of an internationally recognized an impact of more than €5 million after the implementation of framework for enterprise risk management (COSO). This CMS is countermeasures. In the reporting year, there was no cause for supported by the compliance organization, which is made up of immediate reporting of this kind. the Group Compliance Officer and a network of local Compliance The reported opportunities and risks are managed by means Officers in the countries in which we have subsidiaries. The obof risk management software and regularly analyzed for the jective of the CMS is to ensure the observance of our compliance Corporate Risk Committee, the Board of Management and the principles. The Compliance function, which includes the global Supervisory Board. This ensures that when new opportunities compliance organization, reports directly and regularly to the and risks arise or when existing ones change substantially, Board of Management. the necessary information can be communicated promptly to the Board of Management and therefore also be specifically (Group) accounting aspects of the internal ­integrated into the general management of the company. control and risk management system The aspects of the internal control and risk management Opportunity and risk assessment system relating to the (Group) accounting process include Opportunity and risk management is integrated into the planthe principles, procedures and measures required to ensure ning and forecasting process and identifies opportunities and the ­effectiveness, efficiency and propriety of the company’s risks as potential deviations from planned or forecast EBITDA pre ­accounting, and compliance with applicable legal regulations. exceptionals or Group net income. To this end, clear organizational, control and monitoring structures Depending on the type of opportunity or risk, different calhave been established. The distinctive features of the chemical culation methods are applied in their assessment. Distribution industry and the risk management tools we regularly use in this opportunities and risks are identified on the basis of sensitivities regard are taken into account. In addition to the (Group) accounting in planning parameters (exchange rates, raw material prices and ­process in its narrower sense, this also includes the aforementioned energy prices). Changes in these variables may result in either ­structured budget and forecasting process, and extensive contract positive or negative deviations from planned or forecast figures. management. However, the effectiveness and reliability of the Event-based opportunities and risks (such as the failure of a internal c­ ontrol and risk management system can be restricted supplier or the occurrence of an insured event) that would only by discretionary decisions, criminal acts, faulty controls or other impact earnings if they actually occurred are evaluated on the circumstances. Thus, even if the system components used are basis of the expected probability of their occurrence and effect applied Group-wide, the correct and timely recording of (Group) on EBITDA pre exceptionals or Group net income. accounting issues cannot be guaranteed with full assurance. The Accounting Group function, which reports to the Chief Significance of the Group-wide planning process Financial Officer, is responsible for the (Group) accounting proCorporate planning is a core element of our opportunity and cess and therefore for preparing the annual financial statements risk management. Events with a high probability of occurrence flow of LANXESS AG and the consolidated financial statements of the directly into the planning process. The processes for corporate LANXESS Group. It is also responsible for ensuring the uniform planning and intrayear forecasting as well as the corresponding preparation of the financial statements of the subsidiaries that are analyses and suggestions for action are steered by the Corporate included in the consolidated financial statements. The Board of Controlling Group function, which works closely in this regard Management prepares the annual financial statements and the with the business units. Certain Board of Management meetings consolidated financial statements, which are then forwarded to are dedicated to discussing and adopting corporate planning the Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee without delay. Upon outcomes, including the associated opportunities and risks. We recommendation by the Audit Committee, the annual financial monitor, and if necessary adjust, the annual budget in any given statements and the consolidated financial statements are adoptfiscal year by regularly updating our expectations for business ed and approved by the Supervisory Board at its financial statedevelopment. ments meeting. The Supervisory Board, and especially its Audit LANXESS Annual Report 2017 108 Combined Management Report Committee, deal with major questions relating to LANXESS’s continual plausibility testing on data is applied end-to-end throughaccounting, opportunity and risk management, the audit mandate out the preparation and consolidation process. and the areas of focus for the auditor’s audit of the annual financial For the consolidated financial statements, all subsidiaries statements. subject to reporting requirements transmit their Group reporting Quarterly statements are prepared for the first and third quardata using the above-mentioned consolidation system. Validaters. The condensed consolidated interim financial statements to tion rules integrated into the system ensure on delivery that the June 30 that are also prepared are reviewed, while the annual data reported by the subsidiaries are consistent. The accounting financial statements and the consolidated financial statements are departments of the subsidiaries are responsible for ensuring the subjected to a full audit by the auditor of the company’s annual correctness of the reported data content, which is also tested by financial statements and consolidated financial statements. the Corporate Accounting Department within the Accounting Our accounting in compliance with the German Commercial Group function. To this end, the department evaluates standardized Code is based on a structured process with appropriate organireports in which the companies explain material facts relevant to zational structures and workflows, including the related working financial reporting. After the process-based controls have been ­instructions. In addition to the segregation of duties, the dual-­ applied, consolidation including currency translation is carried control principle and continual plausibility testing serve as fundaout in the same system, without additional interfaces, utilizing mental monitoring tools during the financial statement preparation both automated and manual procedures. The correctness of the process. On the IT side, the accounting process is supplemented automated consolidation steps and of the master data necessary by an integrated IT system that is based largely on off-the-shelf softfor this purpose is reviewed regularly. Consolidation information ware and is protected by security measures against unauthorized that must be entered manually is posted separately, documented to access. The correctness of the automatically generated postings the extent required and verified downstream. This is supplemented and the master data required for them is regularly reviewed. Manual by validation rules that are integrated into the system. postings are based on a systematic voucher system, documented Regular coordination with other financial Group functions, to the necessary extent and verified downstream. particularly the Treasury & Investor Relations, Tax & Trade ComThe foundation for uniform and IFRS-compliant consolidated pliance and Corporate Controlling Group functions, assists the financial reporting at LANXESS is the Group Financial Statements financial reporting process. A continual exchange of information Guideline. This governs the way the provisions of the International with the operating business units and other Group functions Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) applicable to the Group are makes it possible for the Accounting Group function to identify applied by the subsidiaries as reporting entities. Moreover, the and deal with issues arising outside of accounting processes. guideline also defines the chart of accounts that is binding throughThese include litigation risks, projections for impairment testing out the Group. On the IT side, the guideline is supplemented by and special contractual agreements with suppliers or customers. a uniform, Group-wide delivery and consolidation system that is In addition, third-party service providers are consulted on special based largely on off-the-shelf software and is protected by security issues, particularly relating to the valuation of pensions and other measures against unauthorized access. post-employment benefits. By controlling and monitoring LANXESS’s (Group) accounting process, we ensure that generally accepted accounting practices Monitoring of risk management system and in line with the applicable laws and standards are applied and guar­internal control system (ICS) antee reliable financial reporting. The (Group) accounting-related LANXESS’s Corporate Audit Department within the Legal & internal control system we use is based on generally accepted Compliance Group function oversees whether the internal control standards (COSO model). There were no material changes to this and monitoring system works and whether organizational safesystem during the reporting period. Corresponding standards also guards are being observed. The planning of audits (selection of apply to the single-entity financial statements of the subsidiaries. audit subjects) and the audit methods applied are correspondingly Preparation of the consolidated financial statements is based aligned with risks. To assess the effectiveness of the ICS, an annual on a detailed process that includes specifying a financial statement self-assessment is also carried out in major Group companies, calendar containing deadlines for the delivery of certain data. operating units and Group functions. The Supervisory Board A further component is regular reviews of the correctness and exercises control functions, including regular monitoring of the completeness of the scope of consolidation. The principle of the efficiency of the management systems described above by the segregation of duties as expressed in structured authorization full Supervisory Board and by its Audit Committee. The Audit and approval procedures and the dual-control principle as well as ­C ommittee reviews reports about the Compliance function’s LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 109 activities and findings, the work of the Corporate Audit DepartOn the selling side, equivalent agreements are in place. We also ment, and the status of the risk management and internal control have the option of hedging this risk via derivatives transactions if system. In addition, the early warning system is evaluated by the liquid futures markets are available for hedging raw material and external auditor as part of the audit of the consolidated and annual energy price risks. Further information can be found in the “­Finance” financial statements. section of this opportunity and risk report. Additionally, we are constantly looking for ways to use our resources more efficiently so Opportunities and risks of future development that we can offset higher costs by raising productivity. Unfulfilled Full identification of the LANXESS Group’s opportunities acceptance ­obligations may result in unscheduled costs due to and risks is performed on the basis of a catalog of categories, fines. The volatility of raw material prices, especially for our key raw which are summarized in groups. In the context of our opportunity material butadiene, impacts our ARLANXEO segment in particular. and risk management, this catalog is continuously updated and To guard against possible supply bottlenecks due to factors adapted to current developments. Compared with the previous such as the failure of a supplier or of an upstream operation at a year, the following major changes have occurred: separate groups networked site, we pursue an appropriate inventory strategy and have been formed for security and the environment as well as line up alternative sources of supply. Failures can be caused by IT and security on account of their increased importance. The factors such as inadequate maintenance or insolvencies at the categories in the “corporate strategy” group have been a­ ssigned supplier end. We endeavor to avoid supply bottlenecks or reliance to individual groups in which strategic opportunities and risks on individual suppliers using strategies like multiple sourcing. If may arise. ­Furthermore, the “plant operations and hazards” we were to be forced to utilize alternative sources of supply in the has been renamed as “production and technology,” the “legal, context of c­ ontingency plans, this could result in, for example, higher ­regulatory and political environment” group is now called “legal ­procurement prices or additional transportation costs. and ­country-specific environment and compliance.” Furthermore, the quality of the supplied raw materials Overall, all opportunities and risks are to be assigned to the ­constitutes a risk factor that may negatively affect the quality of our following eight groups: products. Detailed product specifications issued by us define the properties to be fulfilled by suppliers and are checked via ongoing goods-in analyses. Categories  Procurement markets Human resources Human resources We see a clear opportunity in the implementation of our Production and technology Safety and the environment performance culture, with which we aim to establish a corporate IT and security culture based on shared values via wide-ranging measures and in Sales markets which responsible and morally irreproachable actions and striving Finance for performance do not contradict each other. We assume that this Legal and country-specific environment and compliance will lead to increased employee motivation and therefore better performance. By strengthening the corporate culture in this way, Subsequent reporting in respect of the main categories is we aim to achieve greater employee satisfaction and increased generally based on a planning horizon of one year. employee loyalty. In view of enduring changes arising from digitalization and Procurement markets company acquisitions, there is a risk of demotivation and reduced On the procurement side, the principal opportunities and service provision of employees. This risk can be significant if risks lie in the high volatility of raw material and energy prices. An ­employees do not feel sufficiently involved in decisions or do not ­increase or decrease in the price of the materials we use directunderstand new processes and practices. We counter this risk by ly results in higher or lower production costs. If prices decrease, communicating next steps and forthcoming measures as clearly write-downs may have to be recognized on inventories. In addition, and early as possible. This is supplemented by targeted training changes in raw material prices result in higher or lower selling prices measures, particularly in the area of management in the context – ­either i­mmediately or after a delay. We mitigate situations like this of the performance culture described above. by f­ollowing a sensible inventory and procurement policy. Most of the company’s raw material and energy needs are met by long-term supply contracts and contracts containing price escalation clauses. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 110 Combined Management Report The risk of walkouts in connection with negotiations conferences help us to hone in-house skills. In addition, we c ­ oncerning future collective pay agreements or associated ­continue to invest in the next generation of employees, either by with restructuring measures cannot be ruled out. We also face increasing the number of training opportunities in various areas ­increases in our personnel expenses because of future wage in Germany, or through internship programs or our corporate increases. Such an increase in the cost of human resources can trainee program, which is well established in terms of fostering be just as detrimental to earnings as increases in raw material upcoming management ­talents. Externally, we maintain intensive prices, as described above, but in the case of human resources cooperations with research institutes, universities, colleges and we cannot hedge the risk in futures markets or pass it on to our high schools in Germany, as well as with public-sector entities both customers. We counter this risk by fostering open communication in Germany and all other key target markets. At many events and with our employees and their representatives in a culture of active conferences around the world, we have positioned our company labor relations. Particularly with regard to the challenges in the as an attractive employer and continue to seek early contact with working world from globalization and increasing digitalization, highly talented young people. In Germany, where we have the we make continuous use of existing dialog platforms such as largest headcount, we have established a LANXESS program to the European Forum, which brings together the works councils provide both financial and expert support for undergraduate and in Europe. We also actively seek dialog with the representatives postgraduate students. We are also extending our loyalty program of our employees, the trade unions and other interest groups in for particularly outstanding interns. Both these programs focus the other r­ egions in which we operate, particularly c­ oncerning on the natural and engineering sciences. the acquisition and integration of companies. We use legally In terms of demographic change and the associated aging sound and proven employment contracts and are deploy legally of the population, along with a shortage of qualified specialist secure collective agreements. When making acquisitions, we employees, there is also the risk of health-related absence as well give high priority to professional project management, detailed the risk of outdated knowledge or loss of knowledge. We see this ­communication with employees, fair consolidation processes and as a medium-term and long-term risk, which is why we set up the appropriate severance packages. In the event of potential legal extensive demographic program Xcare back in 2011 to counter the action, the HR department monitors the situation very closely in challenges of demographic change in a structured way. A whole coordination with the Legal and Communication departments to host of new initiatives have since been initiated and implemented. enable agreements to be reached at an early stage. For instance, 45 demography positions (for ­chemical p ­ roduction Our employees’ expert knowledge of internal processes and technicians and engineers) have been ­created, ­additional t­ raining issues relating to their areas of specialization is a critical factor courses have been developed and workplace reintegration in the efficiency of our business operations. We take various ­programs have been stepped up (­reintegration after illness). ­approaches to mitigating the risk of losing this expertise. We seek to increase our employees’ loyalty to the company with attractive Production and technology compensation models, challenging jobs and international career A lack of plant availability due to disruptions can make it options. In addition, we deal with structured succession planning ­impossible for us to meet production targets and adequately at annual HR development conferences. To maintain constant ­service demand, resulting in a loss of marginal income. We use a contact with outstanding employees and be able to support ­comprehensive range of measures to counter this scenario. These them in line with their individual needs, we have established a include proactive facility maintenance, systematic ­training of our ­professional ­performance management system worldwide with employees and regular audits to analyze weak points. Systematic the ­Performance Dialog and 360° feedback. safety appraisals and risk assessments also contribute to ­improving The growing lack particularly of skilled employees in our plant and process safety. Implementation and application of the ­markets is a problem for us, primarily in Germany. In ­particular, various measures are subject to global compliance checks. We we see the risk of a shortage of skilled chemical production also ­counter the risk of unplanned production stoppages by ­technicians and chemical laboratory assistants as well as skilled ­manufacturing certain products at various sites worldwide. employees in other fields such as IT. Regular HR development LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 111 Unlocking and exploiting operational opportunities is Regulatory measures may lead to the tightening of safety, an i­mportant aspect of our entrepreneurial activities. We are q ­ uality and environmental regulations and standards in ­different ­committed to using existing products and new solutions to advance ­areas. These may result in higher costs, production bans and ­liability our growth and sustainably strengthen our position in global marrisks. Particularly noteworthy in this regard is the i­mplementation kets. Investing in new plants as well as expanding the capacities of the E.U. Regulation concerning the Registration, Evaluation, and increasing the productivity of existing ones are key elements Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). As well as in these efforts. The anticipated effects are taken into account direct costs that could arise due to additional measures necessary in our planning or are reported as opportunities. In principle, we to comply with these standards, market structures could change to expect investments to yield benefits but they are also coupled with our disadvantage as a result of a shift by suppliers and customers risks. Thus, for example, the success of our investments in Asia to regions outside Europe. Additional requirements imposed by has been substantially impacted by the challenging competitive energy and environmental policy, such as the new emissions situation in the synthetic rubber businesses. The preparatory work trading regulations, new environmental taxes and the ­redistribution for investments that exceed a specified significance threshold of costs associated with the German Renewable Energy Act, could is the responsibility of the relevant business units. After review result in higher costs and in part substantial disadvantages in by an Investment Committee set up for this purpose, the infor­ international competition. With a view to mitigating this risk, we mation is presented to the Board of Management for a decision. engage in active energy management to reduce the consumption By following this procedure, we ensure that investments are in of energy. We are also discussing the economic consequences line with our corporate strategy and satisfy our profitability and of increasing energy prices with the authorities and government security requirements. – either directly or in cooperation with other energy-intensive Sales and earnings effects expected from our investments companies via industry organizations. and from acquisitions completed by the reporting date are already LANXESS was and is responsible for numerous sites at considered in our forecasts. These targeted investments may also which chemicals have been produced for periods that in some generate further operational opportunities because they enable us cases e ­ xceed 140 years. This responsibility also extends to waste to unlock new potential and improve our positioning in key markets. ­disposal facilities. The possibility cannot be ruled out that ground pollution occurred during these periods that has not been identified Safety and the environment to date. We are committed to the Responsible Care® initiative and Although LANXESS applies high technical and safety pursue active environmental management and proactive environstandards to the construction, operation and maintenance of mental protection management. This includes constant monitoring ­production facilities, interruptions in operations, including those and testing of the soil, groundwater and air as well as of various due to external factors, such as natural disasters or terrorism, emissions. We have set up sufficient provisions for necessary cannot be ruled out entirely. These could lead to explosions, the containment or remediation measures in areas with identified release of materials hazardous to health, or accidents in which contamination. Additional information on our environmental propeople, property or the environment are harmed. In addition to visions can be found in Note [15], “Other non-current and current systematically monitoring compliance with quality standards in provisions,” to the consolidated financial statements. order to avoid such stoppages and accidents, we are also insured against the resulting damage to the extent usual in the industry. IT and security Our product portfolio includes substances that are classified Our IT supports our business activities worldwide, including as hazardous to health. In order to prevent possible harm to health, the processes from receiving an order to receiving payment and we systematically test the properties of our products and draw our from placing an order to paying a vendor. It is important that the customers’ attention to the risks associated with their use in the people who use the systems receive correct and meaningful context of our Responsible Care® activities. We also carry product information when they need it. We support this by developing liability insurance that is customary in our industry. a uniform, integrated system architecture and investing in the In line with our forward-looking approach, product monitoring expansion and modernization of IT services worldwide. enables us to identify and evaluate potential hazards ­associated with our product portfolio and initiate suitable measures if applicable. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 112 Combined Management Report The operation and use of IT systems entails risks. For e­ xample, impacted by structural changes in markets, such as the exit of networks or systems may fail, or data and information may be existing competitors or the entry of new ones and the availability compromised or destroyed because of operator and p ­ rogramming of additional capacity, regional shifts, the migration of customers errors or external factors. In particular, we are observing a g ­ rowing to countries with lower costs, and product substitution or market threat to our IT infrastructure resulting from outside attack (­cyber consolidation trends in some sectors. We counter such trends risks). All these can cause serious business ­interruptions and by systematically managing costs and continually adjusting our ­reputational damage. To mitigate such risks, we invest in suitable product portfolio, sharpening its focus and aligning our offerdata protection systems designed to prevent the loss of data and ing with innovative customer segments which will enable us to information. Various security and monitoring tools and access ­operate successfully in the long term. ­restriction and authorization systems are used to ensure the In our ARLANXEO segment, the synthetic rubber businesses ­integrity, confidentiality and availability of data and information continue to face intense competition, partly from new m­ anufacturers and the trouble-free operation of systems. With a view to improving entering the market. In some businesses, this may result in further the security of our IT infrastructure, we e ­ valuate security measures overcapacities and stronger competition on prices. We are pursuing for their suitability in defending against current attack s­ cenarios. a product-specific strategy in these areas based on factors such as Where necessary, these measures are upgraded. Additional product and process differentiation and global positioning. Through ­security s­ ystems are being established worldwide and existing the partnership with Saudi Aramco, we ­intend to achieve a strategic ones adapted to c­ urrent needs as defense against new and specific strengthening of our synthetic rubbers business in this competitive threats. We also regularly train the users of our IT systems on IT environment in the medium term. risks, appropriate conduct and preventive measures. Finance Sales market The Treasury & Investor Relations Group function has the task Our company is inherently exposed to general economic of centrally recording and managing financial opportunities and developments and to political and geopolitical change in the risks. Chief among these are: countries and regions in which we operate. In particular, we see emerging protectionist trends as a medium-term risk to growth Financial Opportunities and Risks and stability. Regional differences in economic performance and the associated demand trends can affect the Group’s pricing and Price Liquidity and Counter­party Capital changes refinancing risks investments sales potential in its various geographical markets, with correCurrencies Availability Customers Investments in sponding positive or negative effects on its earnings. Our global of cash pension assets presence, which we are continuing to expand in growth markets, Interest rates Access to multiBanks enables us to participate in favorable regional developments and, Raw and bilateral materials capital markets at the same time, reduce our dependence on certain regions. Energies This approach is discussed in further detail in the “Strategy” section of this management report. The volatility and cyclicality that are typical of the ­global At regular strategy meetings of the Financial Risk Commitchemical and polymer markets and their dependence on tee chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, there are reports on ­developments in customer industries harbor uncertainties for the outcome of financial risk management, the current risk and our business. As well as the influence of general economic further action. The aim of financial risk management is to identify ­development, the particular dependence of the rubber business in and evaluate risks so that their impact can be controlled and, if our ARLANXEO segment on customers in the tire and automotive necessary, limited. industries can result in sales volatility. Additional and unplanned sales opportunities may arise through access to new markets or the acquisition of new customers. In addition to being subject to these demand-side market influences, our earning power can be LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 113 Price changes Interest rates Currencies Market interest rate movements can cause fluctuations in Since the LANXESS Group undertakes transactions in various the fair value of a financial instrument. They affect both financial currencies, it is exposed to fluctuations in the relative value of these assets and financial liabilities. currencies. Fixed exchange rates were used in our planning for Since the majority of financial liabilities were entered into at fiscal year 2018. The development of the U.S. dollar against the fixed interest rates, changes in interest rates in the coming years euro is of particular relevance. An appreciation of the U.S. dollar will have only a limited impact on the LANXESS Group. compared with the exchange rate used in planning would have In the context of long-term planning, LANXESS regularly a positive effect on our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals (and decides on refinancing to cover the forecast liquidity requirement. vice versa). We have already entered into hedging transactions For subsequent years, we have already entered into hedging transfor 2018, 2019 and 2020 to mitigate the effects of currency actions to mitigate the effects of interest rate fluctuations. fluctuations. Currency risks from potential declines in the value of financial Raw materials/energy instruments due to exchange rate fluctuations (transaction risks) In the course of its business operations, the LANXESS Group arise mainly when receivables and payables are denominated in a is exposed to changes in the market prices for energy and raw currency other than the company’s functional currency. These risks materials. As a rule, these changes are passed on to customers. and the currency risks arising on financial transactions, including Where certain market-price risks for energy and raw materials the interest component, are generally fully hedged through forward cannot be passed on to customers in their entirety, they may be exchange contracts. In the short term, therefore, the appreciation hedged on a case-by-case basis by forward commodity contracts or depreciation of the euro against other major currencies can in order to reduce the volatility of cash flows. LANXESS had only a have no material impact on future cash flows. In addition, translasmall number of forward commodity contracts as of the ­reporting tion risks exist from converting entries in the financial statements date. from local currencies into euros for inclusion in the LANXESS ­consolidated financial statements. Unlike the effects of exchange Liquidity and refinancing rate fluctuations in the case of the transaction risk, the translation We ensure our access to the capital markets and our solvency risk has no impact on the company’s cash flows in local currencies. through a conservative financing policy and a target capital strucIn addition, material assets and liabilities in local currencies are ture that is largely based on the ratio systems used by leading ratsubject to a long-term currency risk which is regularly estimated ing agencies. Our conservative financing policy takes into account and evaluated. However, currency hedging is only undertaken if the risk of a change to our rating and the associated effects on LANXESS is considering withdrawal from certain businesses and financial risk management, even though LANXESS has no direct intends to repatriate the funds released as a result. influence on the assessments by independent rating agencies. The opportunities and risks relating to operating activities are Our main liquidity reserve is a €1.25 billion syndicated credit systematically monitored and analyzed. To this end, both sales and facility, which remained largely undrawn on the reporting date. Its costs are planned in foreign currencies. In the long term, exchange original term was extended in February 2015, and again in May rate fluctuations could adversely affect future cash flows should 2017 to 2022. In addition to credit facilities, the Group has shortthe LANXESS Group not be able to counter them, for example, by term liquidity reserves of €538 million in the form of cash and cash pricing its products in the respective local currencies. This risk is equivalents. Furthermore, as of the reporting date, LANXESS had minimized by partial hedging with derivative financial instruments. investments in money-market funds amounting to €50 million. Hedging is performed in line with principles determined by the Accordingly, the LANXESS Group has a liquidity position based Board of Management and is subject to continuous monitoring. on a broad range of financing instruments. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 114 Combined Management Report Counterparty risks Capital investments Counterparty risks (credit risks) arise from trade relationOpportunities and risks associated with the investment of ships with customers and dealings with banks and other financial pension assets are monitored by the Pension Committee, which partners, especially with regard to the investment business and is made up of the Chief Financial Officer and representatives financial instrument transactions. from the Treasury & Investor Relations, Accounting and Human Customer risks are systematically identified, analyzed and Resources Group functions. managed using both internal and external information sources. Customer portfolios may be insured against credit risks, especially Legal and country-specific environment where the risk profile is elevated. and compliance The objective of receivables management at LANXESS is We actively pursue the strategic optimization of the enterprise. to collect all outstanding payments punctually and in full, and Our efforts include ongoing efficiency enhancement, optimization thus to minimize the risk of default. Continuous monitoring is of opportunities and risks, strengthening of core businesses, active computer-assisted, based on the payment terms agreed with the portfolio management and proactive participation in industry customers. These are generally based on the customary payment consolidation through partnerships, divestments and acquisitions. terms for the business or country. Reminders are sent out at regular Further information can be found in the “Strategy” section of this intervals if payments are overdue. The maximum risk of default management report. on receivables, cash and cash equivalents, near-cash assets, The success of the decisions associated with these efforts is derivatives and other financial assets is reflected in their carrying naturally subject to forecasting risk in respect of predicting future amounts in the statement of financial position (disregarding netting (market) developments and the feasibility of planned measures. arrangements not reflected in the statement of financial position). For example, the entry into or exit from a business segment could Credit risk relating to receivables from customers is covered be based on profitability or growth expectations that prove to be by opening letters of credit in favor of the LANXESS Group for unrealistic over time. We mitigate this risk by carefully and systemsome customers and by agreeing prepayment with contractual atically analyzing the information that is relevant to decision-making partners. In addition, LANXESS has a contractually agreed title and regularly checking developments. During this process, the to goods until the contractual partner has paid the full purchase business units affected and the Board of Management receive price. The vast majority of receivables relate to customers with support from departments with the requisite expertise and, if very high credit standing. necessary, from external consultants. The creditworthiness of the counterparty is a key criterion in When gathering information in the context of acquisitions, the financial policy and credit risk management of the LANXESS it is possible that certain facts required to assess an acquisition Group, especially in the selection of banks and financial partners candidate’s future performance or to determine the purchase price for capital investments and transactions involving financial instruare not available or are not correctly interpreted. We address this ments. LANXESS therefore endeavors to undertake transactions risk by conducting well-structured due diligence analyses and, with banks and other financial counterparties that have at least an where possible, by concluding appropriate residual risk-miniinvestment-grade rating. mizing agreements with the sellers. Insufficient integration of Credit risk management also includes global management acquired companies or businesses can result in the expected of the counterparty risk relating to all existing relationships with value added not being generated. For this reason, we have probanks and financial partners. The LANXESS Group pays particular cesses in place with which full integration of acquired businesses attention to risk diversification to prevent any cluster risks that could is ­assured. If assumptions concerning future developments – such jeopardize its continued existence. Through master agreements, as the r­ ealization of synergies – do not materialize, this might result the market values of open trading positions can be netted if a in a write-down on assets. We monitor this risk by carrying out partner becomes insolvent, thereby further reducing risks. ­impairment testing at least once a year. The risk of the need to carry out impairment of assets is assigned to the finance group. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Report on Future Perspectives, Risks and Opportunities 115 Companies in the LANXESS Group are subject to legal risks Tax matters are subject to a degree of uncertainty in terms and are parties to various litigations. The outcome of ­individual of their assessment by the tax authorities in Germany and other proceedings cannot be predicted with assurance due to the countries. Even if we believe that all circumstances have been ­uncertainties always associated with legal disputes. To the extent reported correctly and in compliance with the law, the possibility necessary in light of the known circumstances in each case, we cannot be ruled out that the tax authorities may come to a different have set up risk provisions for the event that the outcome of such conclusion in individual cases. proceedings is unfavorable to LANXESS. Taking into account existing provisions and insurance, as well as agreements reached Significance of opportunities and risks and result with third parties in respect of liability risks arising from legal of opportunity and risk assessment ­disputes, it is currently estimated that none of these proceedings The opportunities and risks of future development that we will materially affect our planned EBITDA pre exceptionals. identify are categorized and grouped, as described above. The As an approach to avoiding legal risks, LANXESS has es­significance of the opportunities and threats lies in their potential tablished an extensive compliance management system (CMS) impact on planned EBITDA pre exceptionals for New LANXESS. in­corporating a range of preventive organizational measures. Individual categories in which the opportunity or risk may ­produce Among the risks LANXESS has identified are those relating to a deviation of more than 5% from our projected EBITDA pre antitrust legislation and plant safety/environmental protection. ­exceptionals in the planning year are considered to be of medium to Within the framework of the CMS, these issues are assigned as high significance. This also applies to groups in which this ­threshold specific responsibilities to different Group functions that have is exceeded only on a cumulative basis across all the categories established relevant compliance programs. In connection with assigned to each group. risks relating to antitrust legislation, for example, LANXESS has Within the context of opportunity and risk management for the developed a program that combines classroom training and planning year, the raw material prices category was ­considered to be e-learning to ­ensure compliance with competition law. In this of medium to high significance. Based on the scenarios a­ pplied or way, our ­employees and managers are schooled in the particular the assumed probability of occurrence, this category could produce risks pertaining to their areas of business and made aware of their a positive deviation of 11% and a negative deviation of 9% from our significance. This training is performed and documented at regular projected EBITDA pre exceptionals, which is our key controlling intervals. Our employees can also contact designated experts in parameter. the Legal & Compliance Group function if they have any specific In the previous year, the currency and economic ­development questions. Further information can be found in the “Compliance as categories were also considered to be of medium to high an integral component” section of this opportunity and risk report. ­significance. The economic development category is now assigned Any violations of foreign trade regulations may result in to the sales market group. The categories of energy and policy as ­prohibitions and restrictions on LANXESS’s export activities well as product safety in the legal and country-specific environment and the loss of its privileges in respect of export procedures. In and compliance group have been assigned to the new safety and ­individual cases, this may also result in fines, trade sanctions and environment group, which is particularly influenced by the risks in loss of reputation. The LANXESS Group ensures compliance in the energy and environmental policy category. The opportunities foreign trade and export control through the global implementation and risks of the other categories in this group are now of very little and optimization of appropriate and stable control instruments and significance. automated screening processes. By proactively monitoring trade policy developments, timely information is provided to both the operating units and the management organs concerning changes to foreign trade and the associated opportunities and risks, and appropriate recommendations for action are made. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 116 Combined Management Report Even though all other categories or groups apart from the With the acquisition of Chemtura in the reporting year, we raw materials prices category in the procurement markets group significantly expanded our additives business and are now one are of little importance to opportunity and risk reporting for 2018, of the world’s major providers in the growing market for flame possible positive and negative deviations from targets are also set retardant and lubricant additives. Furthermore, with the acquiout below for the categories and groups that were significant in sition of the Chemours Clean and Disinfect specialties business the previous year: completed in the previous year, we also expanded our position in mid-sized and less cyclical markets with a high margin and good Opportunity and Risk Profile1) growth prospects. Reducing economic dependency on individual in % sectors or closely correlated markets is still an important element Raw Currencies Sales Safety Legal and of our strategy. For instance, we intend to increase our presence in material market and the country-specific attractive customer industries with innovative product applications. prices environment environment and compliance In the context of the realignment, we found a strong partner for ARLANXEO last year in Saudi Aramco, with whom share 15% opportunities and risks in the cyclical and intensely competitive 10% market for synthetic rubbers. Our risk exposure during the reporting year improved 5% compared with the previous year due to our broadly diversified product and customer portfolios. Forecast EBITDA pre exceptionals All planning is subject to a certain degree of forecasting risk, which could necessitate flexible adjustments to rapidly changing –5% business conditions over the course of the year. This is particularly true in view of the fact that planning and forecasts in general is –10% somewhat less reliable, for example due to the changes in our –15% procurement and customer markets. The economic ramifications of Brexit continue to represent Opportunities an uncertainty that is difficult to assess. Risks In light of our present financing structures, our sound liquidity 1) Eventand distribution-based opportunities and risks in line with assumed scenarios; position and the headroom created by our realignment and in on account of the interactions between the various categories, particular by the changes to our Group portfolio implemented or the effects of the opportunities and risks may not be added. agreed in the reporting year, we are confident of mastering risks that arise in the future. Summary of overall opportunities and risks Based on an overall evaluation of risk management inforThe chemical industry worldwide remains in a phase of r­ adical mation, the Board of Management at the present time cannot change, which naturally entails economic opportunities and risks. identify any sufficiently likely risks or risk combinations that would However, the global realignment of the LANXESS Group conjeopardize the continued existence of LANXESS. tinued in 2017 gives us the headroom which will enable us to remain effective and competitive even in the evolving operating environment. In addition, the realignment will allow us to leverage strategic and operational opportunities and to make maximum use of growth potential. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 118 Statement of Financial Position 163 Notes to the Income Statement 119 Income Statement 163 (21) Sales 120 Statement of Comprehensive Income 163 (22) Cost of Sales 121 Statement of Changes in Equity 163 (23) Selling Expenses 122 Statement of Cash Flows 163 (24) Research and Development Expenses 163 (25) General Administration Expenses 123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 163 (26) Other Operating Income 123 General Information 164 (27) Other Operating Expenses 123 Structure and Components of the Consolidated 164 (28) Financial Result Financial Statements 164 (29) Income Taxes 123 Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations 166 (30) Earnings and Dividend per Share Applied 166 (31) Personnel Expenses 123 Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory 166 Other Information 126 Consolidation 166 (32) Employees 127 Currency Translation 166 (33) Contingent Liabilities and Other F ­ inancial 128 Accounting Policies and V ­ aluation Principles ­C ommitments 135 Estimation Uncertainties and 167 (34) Related Parties the Exercise of ­Discretion 167 (35) Compensation of the Board of M ­ anagement and the 138 Companies Consolidated Supervisory Board 168 (36) Financial Instruments 144 Notes to the Statement of F ­ inancial Position 176 (37) Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows 144 (1) Intangible Assets 177 (38) Segment Reporting 145 (2) Property, Plant and Equipment 180 (39) Audit Fees 146 (3) Investments Accounted for Using the Equity Method 180 (40) Declaration of Compliance Pursuant to Section 161 146 (4) Investments in Other Affiliated Companies of the Stock Corporation Act 146 (5) Derivative Financial Instruments 180 (41) Utilization of Disclosure Exemptions 147 (6) Other Non-Current and Current ­Financial Assets 181 (42) Events after the Reporting Period 148 (7) Non-Current and Current Income Tax Receivables 148 (8) Other Non-Current Assets 181 Responsibility Statement 148 (9) Inventories 182 Independent Auditor’s Report 148 (10) Trade Receivables 149 (11) Near-Cash Assets 149 (12) Other Current Assets 149 (13) Equity 151 (14) Provisions for Pensions and Other ­Post-­Employment Benefits 157 (15) Other Non-Current and Current ­Provisions 161 (16) Other Non-Current and Current ­Financial Liabilities 162 (17) Non-Current and Current Income Tax Liabilities 162 (18) Other Non-Current and Current ­Liabilities 162 (19) Trade Payables 162 (20) Further Information on Liabilities 118 Consolidated financial statements Statement of Financial Position LANXESS Group € million Note Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 ASSETS Intangible assets (1) 494 1,769 Property, plant and equipment (2) 3,519 4,059 Investments accounted for using the equity method (3) 0 0 Investments in other affiliated companies (4) 12 9 Non-current derivative assets (5) 1 7 Other non-current financial assets (6) 19 20 Non-current income tax receivables (7) 7 20 Deferred taxes (29) 442 442 Other non-current assets (8) 25 113 Non-current assets 4,519 6,439 Inventories (9) 1,429 1,680 Trade receivables (10) 1,088 1,316 Cash and cash equivalents 355 538 Near-cash assets (11) 40 50 Current derivative assets (5) 65 45 Other current financial assets (6) 2,130 7 Current income tax receivables (7) 67 47 Other current assets (12) 184 274 Current assets 5,358 3,957 Total assets 9,877 10,396 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital stock and capital reserves 1,317 1,317 Other reserves 1,257 1,381 Net income 192 87 Other equity components (214) (498) Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 1,176 1,126 Equity (13) 3,728 3,413 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits (14) 1,249 1,490 Other non-current provisions (15) 319 460 Non-current derivative liabilities (5) 7 2 Other non-current financial liabilities (16) 2,734 2,242 Non-current income tax liabilities (17) 31 119 Other non-current liabilities (18) 93 99 Deferred taxes (29) 83 113 Non-current liabilities 4,516 4,525 Other current provisions (15) 406 525 Trade payables (19) 889 1,048 Current derivative liabilities (5) 42 12 Other current financial liabilities (16) 78 633 Current income tax liabilities (17) 44 61 Other current liabilities (18) 174 179 Current liabilities 1,633 2,458 Total equity and liabilities 9,877 10,396 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Statement of Financial ﻿ Position 119 Income Statement Income Statement LANXESS Group € million Note 2016 2017 Sales (21) 7,699 9,664 Cost of sales (22) (5,945) (7,519) Gross profit 1,754 2,145 Selling expenses (23) (781) (953) Research and development expenses (24) (131) (145) General administration expenses (25) (303) (382) Other operating income (26) 147 179 Other operating expenses (27) (222) (410) Operating result (EBIT) 464 434 Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 Interest income 9 8 Interest expense (72) (93) Other financial income and expense (62) (24) Financial result (28) (125) (109) Income before income taxes 339 325 Income taxes (29) (144) (201) Income after income taxes 195 124 of which attributable to non-controlling interests 3 37 of which attributable to L ­ ANXESS AG stockholders (net income) 192 87 Earnings per share (undiluted/diluted) (€) (30) 2.10 0.95 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 120 Consolidated financial statements Statement of Comprehensive Income LANXESS Group € million 2016 2017 Income after income taxes 195 124 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (233) (48) Income taxes 75 13 (158) (35) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss if specific conditions are met Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone 179 (385) Financial instruments 68 42 Income taxes (20) (12) 227 (355) Other comprehensive income, net of income tax 69 (390) Total comprehensive income 264 (266) of which attributable to non-controlling interests 56 (60) of which attributable to L ­ ANXESS AG stockholders 208 (206) LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Statement of Comprehensive ﻿ Income 121 Statement of Changes in Equity Statement of Changes in Equity LANXESS Group Capital Capital Other Net Other equity Equity Equity Equity stock ­reserves reserves income ­components attributable attributable to to nonCurrency Financial LANXESS AG controlling translation instruments stock­holders interests € million adjustment Dec. 31, 2015 91 1,226 1,313 165 (422) (63) 2,310 13 2,323 Allocations to retained earnings 165 (165) 0 0 Transactions with owners (15) 102 2 89 1,107 1,196 Dividend payments (55) (55) 0 (55) Total comprehensive income (151) 192 121 46 208 56 264 Income after income taxes 192 192 3 195 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (151) 121 46 16 53 69 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (222) (222) (11) (233) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone 121 121 58 179 Financial instruments 65 65 3 68 Income taxes on other comprehensive income 71 (19) 52 3 55 Dec. 31, 2016 91 1,226 1,257 192 (199) (15) 2,552 1,176 3,728 Allocations to retained earnings 192 (192) 0 0 Transactions with owners 5 5 13 18 Dividend payments (64) (64) (3) (67) Total comprehensive income (9) 87 (310) 26 (206) (60) (266) Income after income taxes 87 87 37 124 Other comprehensive income, net of income tax (9) (310) 26 (293) (97) (390) Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-employment benefit plans (11) (11) (37) (48) Exchange differences on translation of operations outside the eurozone (310) (310) (75) (385) Financial instruments 38 38 4 42 Income taxes on other comprehensive income 2 (12) (10) 11 1 Dec. 31, 2017 91 1,226 1,381 87 (509) 11 2,287 1,126 3,413 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 122 Consolidated financial statements Statement of Cash Flows LANXESS Group € million Note 2016 2017 Income before income taxes 339 325 Amortization, depreciation, write-downs and reversals of impairment charges of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment 481 638 Losses on disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 0 1 Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 Financial losses 56 39 Income taxes paid (184) (183) Changes in inventories (45) (15) Changes in trade receivables (96) (101) Changes in trade payables 94 44 Changes in other assets and liabilities 44 120 Net cash provided by operating activities (37) 689 868 Cash outflows for purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (439) (547) Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 7 2 Cash outflows for financial assets (2,125) (110) Cash inflows from financial assets 66 2,226 Cash outflows for the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses, less acquired cash and cash equivalents (198) (1,803) Cash inflows from sales of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment – 9 Interest and dividends received 10 56 Cash outflows for external funding of pension obligations (CTAs) (200) – Net cash used in investing activities (37) (2,879) (167) Cash inflows from non-controlling interests 1,194 18 Proceeds from borrowings 1,529 148 Repayments of borrowings (422) (523) Interest paid and other financial disbursements (73) (84) Dividend payments (55) (67) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (37) 2,173 (508) Change in cash and cash equivalents from business activities (17) 193 Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1 366 355 Exchange differences and other changes in cash and cash equivalents 6 (10) Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 (37) 355 538 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Statement of Cash Flows 123 General Information Structure and Components of the Consolidated Financial Statements Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Applied Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements GENERAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS APPLIED LANXESS AG is entered as a stock corporation in the Commercial Register of the Cologne District Court under HRB 53652. The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group Its registered office is at Kennedyplatz 1, 50569 Cologne, as of December 31, 2017, were prepared in accordance with the Germany. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as endorsed The annual financial statements of LANXESS AG and the by the European Union (E.U.) and the corresponding interpretaconsolidated financial statements of the LANXESS AG, to which tions, together with the additional requirements of Section 315e, the auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH WirtschaftsprüParagraph 1, of the German Commercial Code (HGB). fungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, have issued unqualified The mandatory first-time application of the following financial auditor’s reports, are published in the German Federal Gazette reporting standards and interpretations in fiscal year 2017 current(Bundesanzeiger). ly has no impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group: The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group for fiscal year 2017 were prepared by the Board of Management of LANXESS AG and authorized for submission to the Supervisory Standard/Interpretation Board on February 28, 2018. It is the responsibility of the Super­ IAS 12 Income Taxes – The changes include c­ larifications on the recognition of deferred tax assets on visory Board to examine the consolidated financial statements and ­temporary differences from unrealized losses declare whether or not it approves them. IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows – Disclosure Initiative – The changes require enhanced disclosures on the borrowing costs in the statement of financial position for which associated payments were or STRUCTURE AND COMPONENTS will be recognized in the statement of cash flows OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL as cash flows from financing activities STATEMENTS IFRS 12 Annual Improvements to the International F Reporting Standards, 2014–2016 C ­ inancial ­ ycle – application of disclosure of interests in other entities The consolidated financial statements comprise the stateclassified as non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations in accordance with ment of financial position, the income statement and statement IFRS 5 of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the statement of cash flows and the notes, which include the segment information. The consolidated financial statements were prepared in ­euros FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS (€). Amounts are stated in millions of euros (€ million) except AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT where otherwise indicated. Assets and liabilities are classified NOT YET MANDATORY in the statement of financial position as current or non-current. Further details of their maturities are provided in these notes in In fiscal year 2017, the International Accounting Standards certain cases. Board (IASB) and the IFRS Interpretations Committee issued The consolidated financial statements were prepared on the financial reporting standards and interpretations, whose applicabasis of historical acquisition, construction or production costs of tion was not yet mandatory for that year and which the LANXESS the assets. Where different valuation principles are prescribed, Group thus did not yet apply. The application of these standards these are used. They are explained in the section on accounting and interpretations is in some cases contingent upon their enpolicies and valuation principles. dorsement by the E.U. It is therefore possible that the dates for The income statement was prepared using the cost-of-sales mandatory application may ultimately be later than indicated below. method. The fiscal year for these consolidated financial statements is the calendar year. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 124 Consolidated financial statements Financial Instruments ›› The implementation of the new requirements for hedge In July 2014, the IAS published the final version of IFRS 9. a ­ ccounting relates in particular to the separate designaThis contains revised regulations for the classification and meation and measurement of individual components of forward surement of financial assets and liabilities as well as rules on the imrates and the exclusion of individual components of c­ urrency pairment of financial instruments. Beside already incurred losses, ­hedges. Hedging costs in particular are treated separatethe expected credit loss model is used to anticipate and recognize ly. At the time of the changeover on January 1, 2018, these expected future losses. Further, the standard introduces new rules amount to around 0.3% of the nominal values of derivatives on hedge accounting. The new standard was endorsed by the E.U. hedged as of December 31, 2017, in hedge accounting (cash in November 2016 and is to be applied for annual periods beginflow hedges) and will continue to be recognized in other ning on or after January 1, 2018. The LANXESS Group utilizes comprehensive income. No material changes are expected the exemption from retrospective application of the standard and for fiscal year 2018. applies it prospectively from January 1, 2018, for the classification, measurement and impairment of financial instruments. In contrast, As of January 1, 2018, the application of the new IFRS 9 rules the new requirements for hedge accounting will be applied retwill result in an overall negative effect on equity after deferred rospectively. The IASB published further amendments to IFRS 9 taxes of around €1 million. in October 2017. They relate to early repayment options with negative prepayment penalties and are to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Revenue from Contracts with Customers The conversion to the new IFRS 9 requirements is expected The IASB published the new standard IFRS 15 on May 28, to have the following effects: 2014. IFRS 15 primarily supersedes IAS 11 and IAS 18 and introduces a five-step model containing basic principles for revenue ›› The application of the new requirements will have no ­material recognition. These basic principles relate, in particular, to the effects on classification and measurement of financial allocation of revenues to the distinct performance obligations ­assets and liabilities. The change in measurement of the and the associated revenues and rules on the timing of revenue ­equity instruments of €9 million recognized at cost at the recognition. The standard also introduces contract assets and end of the reporting period to fair value measurement will not contract liabilities as line items in the statement of financial position have a material impact on the recognized values. Likewise, for differences between the revenue recognized in accordance no material effects are expected on future recognition. with IFRS 15 and goods and services invoiced. The standard also ›› The implementation of the new rules on the impairment of contains further rules on specific issues and requires additional financial instruments requires the estimation of expected disclosures in the notes on the type, level, timing and uncertainties credit losses based on historical losses and future loss exrelating to revenues from contracts with customers. As a result pectations. The change primarily relates to trade receivables, of the amendment to IFRS 15 published in September 2015, the contract assets according to IFRS 15 and external loans. date of initial application has been postponed from January 1, As of December 31, 2017, there were expected credit loss2017, to annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. es of approximately 1.3% or around €17 million on trade In April 2016, the IASB published further clarifications relating ­receivables. As of January 1, 2018, these are increased by to simplifications for first-time application, the identification of around 0.1% of the carrying amount of the trade receivables performance obligations, the definition of principal versus agent, as of December 31, 2017, due to the introduction of the and recognition of license revenues. While the E.U. endorsed the new requirements and the inclusion of contract assets. On standard in September 2016, the clarifications were endorsed in the basis of historically low loss rates, no material change is October 2017. ­expected for fiscal year 2018. The application of the new rules from January 1, 2018, is expected to have the following effects compared to the current recognition of revenue: LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory 125 ›› One business model used by the LANXESS Group is the ›› All segments use a business model where the sale of manufacture of products on the basis of long-term sales products includes organizing freight services. Under contracts with a contractually defined minimum purchase IFRS 15, recognition of revenue over time or at a point in requirement. Based on current contractual terms, under time is based on the transfer of control to the customer. At IFRS 15 in the future the expected total revenue from sale ­L ANXESS, the IFRS 15 criteria regarding the transfer of of the minimum amount must be estimated for the full term ­control to be assessed for this purpose primarily lead to a of the contract and allocated among the individual deliver­periodic shift in the timing of revenue recognition to the comies. The changes will result in a periodic shift in the timing pletion of the freight service due to the agreed delivery conof revenues and recognition as contract assets or liabilities. ditions. In this respect, the freight service is not to be treatBy contrast, under the present method, revenue is recoged as a separate performance obligation. Compared to fiscal nized on the basis of the agreed selling price. At the time year 2017, this results in lower trade receivables of approxiof the changeover on January 1, 2018, this results in conmately 2.1% of the 2017 consolidated sales and contrastingly tract assets of approximately 0.2% and contract liabilities increased inventories of approximately 2.1% of the 2017 conof ­approximately 0.1% of the 2017 consolidated sales. This solidated production costs at the time of the changeover on ­primarily ­relates to the Advanced Intermediates, Specialty January 1, 2018. This is primarily a changeover effect at the Additives and ARLANXEO segments. Due to the reversal of time of initial application, as a periodic shift in the timing of the contract assets and liabilities over the sometimes multirevenues of a similar amount is expected on future reportyear terms of the contracts concerned, no material effects ing dates. Therefore no material effects are expected on the are expected on the consolidated sales for fiscal year 2018. ­consolidated sales for fiscal year 2018. ›› Another business model used by the LANXESS Group is the manufacture of customer-specific products on the basis As of January 1, 2018, the application of the new IFRS 15 of long-term supply agreements with a contractually derules will result in an overall negative effect on equity after deferred fined minimum purchase requirement. Based on the rules taxes of around €16 million. of IFRS 15, the LANXESS Group has no alternative use for the products manufactured under these contracts. Moreover, it has a contractually enforceable right to payment Leases for the m ­ inimum amount under the purchase requirement. On January 13, 2016, the IASB published the new standard Under the present contractual terms, in the future the revIFRS 16, which supersedes IAS 17. Under IFRS 16, lessees will enue from the sale of the minimum amount will have to be recognize all leases as a right-of-use asset and a lease liability recognized over the production period and thus earlier than in the statement of financial position on the basis of the present at present. Contract assets will be recognized for the corvalue of the lease payments. Depreciation and amortization on responding receivables until the products are delivered. At the capitalized right-of-use asset and interest expense for compresent, revenue is recognized as of the delivery date. At the pounding the lease liabilities are recorded in the income statetime of the changeover on January 1, 2018, this results in ment. For lessees, the distinction between operating and finance contract assets of approximately 0.4% of the 2017 consolileases is abolished. The new standard also contains options for dated sales and contrastingly reduced inventories of approxithe treatment of short-term leases and leases of low value. If mately 0.4% of the 2017 consolidated production costs. This these options are applied, the costs of these leases are expensed ­concerns the Advanced Intermediates segment. This is priimmediately. There are no significant changes for lessors. The marily a changeover effect at the time of initial application, as new standard is to be applied for annual periods beginning on or in subsequent periods revenue will also be recognized in the after January 1, 2019. Earlier application is permitted if IFRS 15 production period and thus earlier. In this respect, no mateis applied. The standard was endorsed by the E.U. in October rial effects are expected on the consolidated sales for fiscal 2017. The LANXESS Group will apply the new standard from year 2018. January 1, 2019. In fiscal year 2016, the LANXESS Group set up a preliminary project on the introduction of IFRS 16. Initial analyses of the impact have been performed at Group level. The system solution was selected in fiscal year 2017. The contract will be accepted and LANXESS Annual Report 2017 126 Consolidated financial statements the system implemented in fiscal year 2018. If IFRS 16 had been applicable as of January 1, 2018, it would have been necessary to present the future lease payments relating to operating leases contained in Note [33] as discounted financial lease payments in the statement of financial position. No decisions have yet been taken on whether to exercise any options. The following financial reporting standards and interpretations currently have no impact, or no material impact, on the LANXESS Group: Standard/Interpretation Date of Mandatory Endorsed ­publication for LANXESS by the E.U. as of fiscal year IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts Jan. 30, 2014 − no IFRS 10, IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture – Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sept. 11, 2014 − no IFRS 2 Share-based Payment – Amendments to IFRS 2 – Classification and Measurement June, 20, 2016 2018 yes IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts – Applying IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” with IFRS 4 “Insurance Contracts” Sept. 12, 2016 2018 yes Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2014–2016 Cycle Dec. 08, 2016 2018 yes IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Dec. 08, 2016 2018 no IAS 40 Investment Property – Amendments to IAS 40 – Transfers of Investment Property Dec. 08, 2016 2018 no IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts May 18, 2017 2021 no IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments June 07, 2017 2019 no IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures – Amendments to IAS 28 – Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures Oct. 12, 2017 2019 no Various IAS and IFRS Annual Improvements to the International Financial Reporting Standards, 2015–2017 Cycle Dec. 12, 2017 2019 no CONSOLIDATION existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the company and thus exert a significant influence The financial statements of the consolidated companies over the variable returns. The ability to control another company were prepared using uniform accounting policies and valuation generally derives from direct or indirect ownership of a majority of principles. the voting rights. In the case of structured entities, control normally If the fiscal year of a consolidated company does not end on derives from contractual agreements. A company is consolidated December 31, interim financial statements are prepared for the as of the date from which LANXESS AG is able to exercise control purpose of consolidation. and deconsolidated when this is no longer the case. Intra-Group profits or losses, sales, income and expenses as Interests in associates in which the LANXESS Group exerts well as receivables and payables between consolidated companies a significant influence, generally through an ownership interest are eliminated. between 20% and 50%, and interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. Entities that are in aggregate immaterial to the Group’s Scope of consolidation earnings, asset and financial position are not consolidated, but The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS are included in the consolidated financial statements at cost of Group include LANXESS AG and all subsidiaries under the conacquisition. trol of LANXESS AG. Control exists if LANXESS AG is exposed Changes in the scope of consolidation are stated in the to v­ ariable returns from the relationship with a company and has ­section headed “Companies consolidated,” which also contains power over the company. Power means that LANXESS AG has a list of companies. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations Issued but not yet Mandatory 127 Consolidation Currency Translation Fully consolidated companies Joint operations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquiJoint operations are arrangements in which the parties that sition method. The cost of a business combination is stated as exercise joint control have rights to the assets and obligations for the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of acquisition, of the the liabilities relating to the arrangement. LANXESS accounts assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed, and any equity for its share of the joint assets and joint liabilities of such joint instruments issued in exchange for control of the acquiree. It also operations and its share of the revenues and expenses, including contains the fair value of assets and liabilities resulting from conits share of jointly incurred expenses. tingent consideration contracts. For the first-time consolidation, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identified in the course of the acquisition are Transactions with owners measured at fair value as of the acquisition date. Transactions with non-controlling interests, which do not For each business combination, there is an option to include result in a loss of control, are treated as transactions between any shares not acquired either at their fair value or at the pro rata shareholders of the LANXESS Group. Changes in ownership share of the fair value of the acquiree’s net assets. They are reportinterests are accounted for by adjusting the carrying amounts of ed in the statement of financial position as equity attributable to the controlling and non-controlling interests. Differences between non-controlling interests. the adjustment to the carrying amount of the non-controlling Acquisition-related costs – except those incurred to issue debt interests and the fair value of the consideration paid or received or equity securities – are recognized in profit or loss. are recognized immediately in other reserves and thus assigned Goodwill is measured as of the acquisition date as the excess to the equity attributable to the stockholders of LANXESS AG. of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests and the fair value of any previously held equity interest over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Negative goodwill is CURRENCY TRANSLATION recognized in the income statement. In the financial statements of the individual consolidated companies that form the basis for the consolidated financial stateInvestments accounted for using ments of the LANXESS Group, all foreign-currency assets and the equity method liabilities are translated at closing rates, irrespective of whether The cost of acquisition of an entity accounted for using the eqthey are hedged. Forward contracts serving as economic hedges uity method is adjusted annually by the percentage of any change against fluctuations in exchange rates are reflected at fair value. in its equity corresponding to LANXESS’s percentage interest in Exchange differences resulting from currency translation are the entity. If any decline in value exceeds the carrying amount of reflected in profit or loss in the net exchange result within other the entity, write-downs are recognized on the associated non-curfinancial income and expense. rent assets. If the carrying amount of the entity and the associated The financial statements of each foreign entity are valued on assets are reduced to zero, liabilities would be recognized if the the basis of the currency of the primary economic environment in owner has entered into a legal or substantive obligation, e.g. to which the entity operates (functional currency concept). By far the offset pro rata losses, or has made payments for the entity. majority of foreign companies are financially, economically and Differences arising from the first-time accounting for investorganizationally autonomous and their functional currencies are ments using the equity method are determined according to the therefore the respective local currencies. The assets and liabilities same principles as for consolidated subsidiaries. Any goodwill is of these companies are translated at closing rates, while income included in the carrying amount of the entity. and expense items are translated at average rates for the year. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 128 Consolidated financial statements Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is rereporting period is allocated to the respective functional areas. Any corded in the currency of the acquired entity and translated at further decline in value is recognized by means of a write-down. the closing rate, irrespective of the date on which it arose. Write-downs are reversed in the following year if the reasons for Equity is translated at historical rates, while income, expensthem no longer exist, provided that this does not cause the carrying es and other changes during the year are translated at average amount of the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which rates. The differences between the resulting amounts and those they would have been carried if the write-downs had not been obtained by translating at closing rates are reported separately recognized or their current recoverable amount. The lower of these in other comprehensive income as exchange differences on two amounts is recognized. Goodwill is not amortized, but subject translation of operations outside the eurozone. to an impairment test performed annually or more often if events If a company is deconsolidated, the relevant exchange or a change in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Any ­differences are reversed and recognized in profit or loss. impairment charges are recognized in other operating expenses. The principal exchange rates used for currency translation Impairment charges on goodwill are not reversed. in the LANXESS Group were: The costs incurred for in-house software development at the application development stage are capitalized and amortized over the expected useful life of the software from the date it is Exchange Rates completed. Closing rate, Dec. 31 Average rate Emissions rights are recognized at cost. Rights allocated free €1 2016 2017 2016 2017 of charge by the German Emissions Trading Authority (DEHSt) or Argentina ARS 16.70 22.63 16.33 18.74 comparable authorities in other European countries are capitalized Brazil BRL 3.44 3.97 3.86 3.61 at a value of zero. China CNY 7.32 7.80 7.35 7.63 Great Britain GBP 0.86 0.89 0.82 0.88 India INR 71.60 76.60 74.34 73.51 Japan JPY 123.40 135.01 120.29 126.67 Property, plant and equipment Canada CAD 1.42 1.50 1.47 1.46 Property, plant and equipment is carried at the cost of acSingapore SGD 1.52 1.60 1.53 1.56 quisition or construction less ordinary, usage-based depreciSouth Africa ZAR 14.46 14.81 16.27 15.04 ation. Write-downs are recognized for any reduction in value U.S. USD 1.05 1.20 1.11 1.13 that goes beyond ordinary depreciation. In compliance with IAS 36, impairment charges are measured by comparing the carrying amount with the discounted cash flows expected to be generated by the assets in the future. Where it is not possible ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND to allocate future cash flows to specific assets, the impairment ­VALUATION PRINCIPLES charge is assessed on the basis of the discounted cash flows for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. WriteThe accounting policies and valuation principles are the same downs are reversed accordingly if the reasons no longer apply, as those used in the previous fiscal year and have been consisprovided that this does not cause the carrying amount of the tently applied. However, certain changes have resulted from the assets to exceed either the amortized cost at which they would mandatory first-time application in fiscal year 2017 of new or have been recognized if they had not been written down or their amended financial reporting standards and interpretations. These current recoverable amount. changes are explained in the section headed “Financial reporting The cost of self-constructed property, plant and equipment standards and interpretations applied.” comprises the direct costs, as well as an appropriate share of the necessary material and manufacturing overheads. It also includes the shares of depreciation as well as of expenses for Intangible assets company pension plans and discretionary employee benefits Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible that are attributable to production. assets such as software, concessions, industrial property rights, Where an obligation exists to shut down or dismantle assets similar rights and assets, and licenses to such rights and assets. at the end of their useful life or to restore a site to its original Acquired intangible assets with a definite useful life are recognized condition, the present value of the obligation is capitalized along at cost and amortized over their respective useful lives using the with the cost of acquisition or construction and a provision in straight-line method. The amortization for intangible assets other the same amount is recognized. than goodwill is between 3 and 20 years. Amortization in the LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Currency Translation 129 Accounting Policies and V ­ aluation Principles If the construction phase of property, plant or equipment the minimum lease payments, whichever is lower. The minimum extends over a long period, the directly attributable borrowing lease payments are divided into financing costs and the portion costs incurred up to the date of completion are capitalized as representing repayment of the principal. In the case of leasing part of the cost of acquisition or construction. contracts that do not include the transfer of substantially all risks Expenses for current maintenance and repairs are and rewards incidental to ownership (operating leases), the lessee ­recognized directly in profit or loss. Subsequent acquisition recognizes the lease payments as expense. or construction costs are capitalized if they will result in future Property, plant and equipment also includes assets that economic benefits and can be reliably determined. LANXESS leases or rents out to third parties under agreements Expenses for general overhauls of major large-scale plants other than finance leases. However, if the lessee is to be regarded are recognized separately at the cost of the overhaul as part of as the economic owner of the assets, a receivable is recognized the related assets and depreciated over the period between one in the amount of the discounted future lease or rental payments. general overhaul and the next using the straight-line method. Leasing arrangements may be embedded in other conWhere assets comprise material components with differtracts. Where IFRS stipulates separation of the embedded leasing ent purposes, different properties, or different useful lives, the ­arrangement, the components of the contract are recognized and components are capitalized individually and depreciated over measured separately. their useful lives. When property, plant or equipment is sold, the difference between the net proceeds and the carrying amount is recogFinancial instruments nized as a gain or loss in other operating income or expenses. Financial instruments are contracts that give rise to a financial Assets are depreciated using straight-line method based asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument in general on the following useful lives: of another entity. These include primary financial instruments, such as trade receivables or payables and other financial assets or liabilities, as well as derivative financial instruments, which are Useful Lives  used to hedge risks arising from changes in currency exchange Buildings 20 to 50 years rates, raw material prices or interest rates. Outdoor infrastructure 10 to 20 years Financial instruments are recognized as soon as the LANXESS Plant installations 6 to 20 years Group becomes the contracting party to them. ­Financial assets Machinery and equipment 6 to 12 years Laboratory and research facilities 3 to 5 years are derecognized when the contractual rights to receive payments Storage tanks and pipelines 10 to 20 years expire or the financial assets are transferred together with all sigVehicles 5 to 8 years nificant risks and rewards. Financial liabilities are derecognized Computer equipment 3 to 5 years when the contractual obligations are met or canceled, or when Furniture and fixtures 4 to 10 years they expire. In the case of regular-way purchases and sales, the settlement date is the relevant date for first-time recognition or derecognition of financial assets in the financial statements. Leases Trade receivables and other financial receivables are initially In accordance with IAS 17, leased assets where substantialrecognized at fair value and subsequently accounted for at amorly all risks and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred tized cost using the effective interest method. Where write-downs ­(finance leases) are capitalized at the lower of their fair value and are necessary as a result of impairment testing, they are recognized the present value of the minimum lease payments at the date of using separate accounts. commencement. They are depreciated over their useful lives. If Investments in affiliates and equity instruments included in subsequent transfer of title to the leased asset is uncertain, it is non-current assets are classified as available-for-sale financial depreciated over the shorter of its estimated useful life and the assets and recognized at fair value, except where their fair value lease term. cannot be reliably determined, in which case they are recognized The future lease payments are recorded as financial liabilities. at amortized cost. Where objective evidence exists that such Liabilities under finance leases are recognized at the fair value of assets may be impaired, an impairment charge is recognized on the leased asset at commencement date or the present value of the basis of an impairment test. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 130 Consolidated financial statements Investments in companies accounted for using the ­equity Contracts concluded for the purpose of receiving or delivmethod are recognized at the amounts corresponding to ering non-financial items based on expected purchases, sales LANXESS’s shares in their equity in accordance with IAS 28. or utilization and held for this purpose are recognized not as Financial assets held for trading are recognized at fair value. financial derivatives but as pending transactions. If the contracts Any gain or loss arising from subsequent measurement is reflected contain embedded derivatives, the derivatives are accounted for in the income statement. separately from the host contract, provided that the economAll other primary financial assets are classified as available ic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative are not for sale and recognized at fair value except if they are allocable to closely related to those of the host contract. loans and receivables. Any gain or loss resulting from subsequent measurement, with the exception of write-downs and of gains and losses from currency translation, is recognized in other compreDetermination of fair value hensive income until the asset is derecognized. The principal methods and assumptions used in measuring Primary financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair ­value the fair value of financial instruments are outlined below: less any transaction costs. In subsequent periods, they are meaTrade receivables, other receivables and cash and cash equivsured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. alents are generally due within one year. Their carrying amount is LANXESS does not utilize the option of designating non-­ therefore their fair value. Receivables due in more than one year are derivative financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit discounted using current interest rates to determine their fair value. or loss upon initial recognition. The fair value of securities is determined from their market price on the closing date, disregarding transaction costs. The fair value of loans and liabilities to banks is calculated Derivative financial instruments from discounted future interest payments and capital repayment and hedging transactions amounts. The LANXESS Group recognizes derivative financial instruThe bonds are traded in an active, liquid market. Their fair ments as assets or liabilities at their fair value on the closing date. values are the prices determined and published by the market. Changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss. Where forIf no liquid market price is available for a bond, its fair value is eign currency derivatives or forward commodity contracts used to determined on the basis of observable inputs, using a risk-related hedge future cash flows from pending business or forecast transdiscount rate. actions qualify for hedge accounting under the relevant financial The fair value of trade payables and other primary financial reporting standard, changes in the value of such instruments are liabilities due within one year is normally their carrying amount. recognized separately in other comprehensive income until the The fair value of other liabilities is determined by discounting to underlying transactions are realized. The amounts recognized present value where feasible. here are subsequently reclassified to other operating income The fair values of receivables and liabilities relating to finance or cost of sales, as appropriate, when the hedged transaction is leases are the present values of the net lease payments calculated recognized in profit or loss. Any portion of the change in value using the market rate for comparable lease agreements. of such derivatives deemed to be ineffective with regard to the The derivative financial instruments used by LANXESS are hedged risk is recognized directly in profit or loss. Changes in primarily traded in an active, liquid market. The fair values as the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge long-term of the end of the reporting period pertain principally to forward liabilities with variable interest rates – provided such derivatives exchange contracts and, to a small extent, to forward commodity qualify for cash flow hedge accounting – are recognized in other contracts. They are derived from their trading or listed prices using comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to profit or the “forward method.” Where no market price is available, values loss as interest income or expense at the same time as the income are determined using recognized capital market pricing methods from the hedged transaction is recognized in profit or loss. based on observable market data. In determining the fair values, adjustments for LANXESS’s own credit risk and counterparty credit risk are made on the basis of the respective net positions. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Accounting Policies and V­ aluation Principles 131 Inventories Cash and cash equivalents Inventories encompass assets held for sale in the ordinary Cash and cash equivalents comprise checks, cash and course of business (finished goods and merchandise), assets in b ­ alances with banks. Securities with maturities of up to three the process of being manufactured for sale (work in process) months from the date of acquisition are recognized in cash and and assets used in the production process (raw materials and cash equivalents due to their high liquidity. supplies). They are valued by the weighted-average method and recognized at the lower of cost and their respective net realizable value, which is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course Non-current assets and liabilities of business less the estimated remaining production costs and held for sale selling expenses. Material assets are recognized as held for sale if they can be The cost of production comprises the direct cost of materials, sold in their current condition and a sale is highly probable. Such direct manufacturing expenses and appropriate allocations of fixed assets may be individual non-current assets, groups of assets and variable material and manufacturing overheads at normal (disposal groups) or complete business entities. A disposal group capacity utilization, when attributable to production. may also include liabilities if these are to be divested together with It also includes expenses for company pension plans, social the assets as part of the transaction. services and voluntary social benefits that can be allocated to Assets classified as held for sale are no longer depreciated. production. Administrative costs are included where they are They are recognized at the lower of fair value less costs to sell attributable to production. and the carrying amount. Borrowing costs incurred in the course of production are not included in the acquisition or production cost of inventories as the products are not manufactured within long-term production Provisions processes. Provisions are recognized and measured in accordance with Given the production and distribution circumstances of the IAS 37 and, where appropriate, IAS 19 and IFRS 2, using the best LANXESS Group, work in process and finished goods are grouped estimates of the amounts of the obligations. Non-current portions together. of material provisions due in more than one year are discounted to present value if the extent and timing of the obligation can be assessed with reasonable certainty. The change in the provision resulting from approaching the due date (interest effect) is ­expensed in the other financial result. If the projected obligation declines as a result of a change in the estimate, the provision is reversed by the corresponding amount and the effect is recognized in the income or expense item(s) in which the provision was originally recorded. Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits are established for defined benefit pension plans. The provision is measured according to the actuarial present value of the obligation, calculated using the projected unit credit method. This takes into account not only the known pensions and pension entitlements as of the closing date, but also expected future salary and benefit increases. Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability are fully recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. They are not reclassified to profit or loss in a subsequent period. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 132 Consolidated financial statements Personnel-related provisions mainly include those for annual Liabilities bonus payments, payments under multi-year compensation proOther current liabilities are recognized at repayment or grams and other personnel costs. s­ ettlement amounts. Other non-current liabilities are recognized The stock-based employee compensation programs (Longat amortized cost. Term Stock Performance Plan – LTSP) provide for cash settlement. Subsidies received from third parties for the acquisition or Provisions are established for the obligations entered into under ­construction of property, plant and equipment are reflected in such programs on the basis of the proportionate fair value of the other liabilities and released to the respective functional area of rights allocated to employees. The fair value is determined using the income statement over the underlying period or expected the Monte Carlo method, in which future returns are simulated and useful life of the assets to which they relate. the expected payment is calculated from the value of the rights based on a two-dimensional standard distribution of returns. The fair value of the rights is reflected in a pro rata provision during Sales and other revenues the vesting period. Revenues are recognized as soon as delivery has been made The stock-based compensation program for members of the or the service rendered and are reported net of sales taxes and Supervisory Board provides for variable cash settlement, provided deductions. This is normally the case when the significant risks that LANXESS stock has outperformed a defined index during and rewards associated with ownership of the goods pass to the their term of office. Provisions are established for the expected purchaser. It must also be sufficiently probable that the economic obligations. benefits will be obtained and the costs incurred must be reliably Restructuring provisions are established if there is a legal or determinable. constructive obligation on the basis of a detailed restructuring plan Customer rebates are reflected in the period in which the revadopted by authorized management, and the employees affected enues are realized. Revenues such as license fees, rental income, or their representatives have been informed. Such provisions coninterest income or dividends that are attributable to a subsequent tain the expenses that are directly attributable to the restructuring fiscal year are accrued. and that are necessary to implement these measures and do not relate to the future operating business. The LANXESS Group also records provisions for current or Research and development costs pending legal proceedings where the resulting expenses can be According to IAS 38, research costs cannot be capitalized, reasonably estimated. These provisions include all estimated fees whereas development costs must be capitalized if, and only if, and legal costs and the cost of potential settlements. However, ­specific narrowly defined conditions are fulfilled. Development litigation expenses are only included if it is assumed that they will costs must be capitalized if it is sufficiently certain that the have to be borne by LANXESS. The amounts of such provisions ­development activity will generate future economic benefits which are based upon information and cost estimates provided by the will also cover the associated development costs. However, since Group’s legal advisers. The provisions are regularly reviewed the development and optimization of products and processes together with the Group’s legal advisers and adjusted if necessary. frequently involves uncertainty with regard to the ability to realize future economic benefits, the conditions for capitalization of development costs are generally not met. Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are potential obligations to third parties or existing commitments, the extent of which cannot be reasonably Income taxes estimated or which are unlikely to lead to an outflow of resources. This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in They are not recognized in the statement of financial position the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are unless they have been entered into in connection with a business computed on the basis of local tax rates. combination. Income tax receivables and liabilities relate to both the ­respective fiscal year and previous years. They are assessed on the basis of the applicable legislation, taking into account present legal practice judgments and prevailing opinion. Uncertain income tax items are recognized at their expected value provided that payment or reimbursement is considered probable. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Accounting Policies and V­ aluation Principles 133 In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are calculated for The cash flows from operating activities are calculated using temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets or the indirect method. This involves eliminating the translation liabilities in the statement of financial position and the tax base and effects and the effects of changes in the scope of consolidation for differences arising from consolidation measures or ­realizable from the changes recognized in the items on the statement of tax loss carryforwards. The calculations are based on tax planfinancial position. Therefore, the cash flows calculated by the ning calculations and customary and realizable tax strategies. indirect method cannot be directly derived from the statement Deferred taxes are calculated at the rates which are expected to of financial position. apply in the individual countries at the time of realization, taking Disbursements for the acquisition of property, plant and into account the period for which deferred taxes may be used and equipment are included in the cash flows for investing activities any constraints on the utilization of loss carryforwards. These are after deducting any third-party subsidies. Investments involving based on the statutory regulations in force, or already enacted in finance leases, along with capitalized borrowing costs, are not relation to future periods, as of the closing date. included. Comparison therefore should not be made between The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at these items and the capital expenditures shown in the schedule each closing date and only the amount likely to be realizable due of changes in property, plant and equipment. to future taxable income is recognized. Deferred tax assets from Payments relating to operating leases are included in cash loss carryforwards are recognized if it is probable that the carryflows from operating activities. Disbursements made under forwards can be utilized. finance leases where LANXESS is the lessee are recognized as Deferred tax assets and liabilities are netted if they relate to cash outflows for financing activities, while cash inflows under income taxes levied by the same tax authorities. finance leases where LANXESS is the lessor are recognized as cash inflows from investing activities. Cash flows relating to the financing of pension obligations Business acquisitions and divestments where future pension payments will be made directly out of Business acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition external plan assets are allocated to cash flows for operatmethod. At the time of initial control, the acquired assets and ing ­activities. Cash flows relating to the financing of pension liabilities are measured at fair value. The incidental acquisition ­obligations where LANXESS only has a claim to reimbursement costs associated with the business acquisition are recognized as of future pension payments (CTA) are allocated to cash flows expense of the period in which they are incurred. for investing activities. Divestments of shares of subsidiaries resulting in the loss Purchase prices paid or received in connection with acquiof control are recognized through profit or loss. In the case of sitions or divestments of subsidiaries or other business entities successive share disposals without loss of control, the decline in are included in the investing cash flows after deducting cash the majority share is recognized outside profit or loss and results and cash equivalents acquired or divested. in an increase in non-controlling interests in equity. If significant Interest and dividends received are also included in investinfluence continues to be exerted after loss of control, an interest ing cash flows, while interest and dividends paid are reflected in an associate or an investment accounted for using the equity in financing cash flows. method is recognized. As soon as there is no longer a significant influence on financial and business policy, the remaining interest is classified as a financial asset and recognized at fair value outside Global impairment testing procedure profit or loss. and impact In the LANXESS Group, the impairment testing of non-current assets starts with an analysis to determine whether impairment Statement of cash flows charges need to be recognized or previously recognized impairThe statement of cash flows shows how cash inflows and ment charges reversed. If there are indications that this is the case, outflows during the year affected the cash and cash equivalents the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit is compared with of the LANXESS Group. Cash flows are classified by operating, its recoverable amount. In the LANXESS Group these analyses investing and financing activities in accordance with IAS 7. The are performed at least once a year. liquidity reported in the statement of cash flows comprises cash and cash equivalents. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 134 Consolidated financial statements For impairment testing of assets, the LANXESS Group defines Determination of the recoverable amount based on the fair its business units as cash-generating units, as in the previous year value less costs of disposal generally relies on a forecast of ­future with the exception of further subdivisions of cash-generating units net cash flows. This is based on the planning approved by the in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates (Advanced Industrial management of LANXESS AG, which contains estimates of exIntermediates and Antioxidants & Accelerators), Tire & Specialty pected market conditions and other factors such as future raw Rubbers (Butyl Rubber and Performance Butadiene Rubbers) and material prices, energy costs, functional costs, exchange rates and High Performance Elastomers (High Performance Elastomers and capital expenditures. The interactions between these factors are Keltan Elastomers) business units. reflected in the expected net cash flows. The estimates are based If there is reason to suspect impairment of non-current assets on management’s past experience, taking account of internal and below the level of the cash-generating units, impairment testing is external economic and industry-specific sources of information. performed at this level and impairment charges or reversals of imCapacity expansions, reorganization projects and the resulting pairment charges are recognized in profit or loss where necessary. synergies, provided these can also be used by a third party, are Cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated are reflected in future net cash flows through estimates. Determination tested annually for impairment – or more frequently if events or of the value in use is based on a corresponding forecast of future changes in circumstances indicate a possible impairment. The carnet cash flows. However, cash inflows and outflows relating to rying amount of each cash-generating unit, including the goodwill expansion projects that have not yet commenced, restructuring allocated to it, is compared with its recoverable amount. For the imthat is planned but has not yet been approved, and the associated pairment test on goodwill in the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business synergies are not taken into account. Group functional area costs unit, as in the previous year, the Butyl Rubber and ­Performance are included if a potential acquirer would have to bear them. The Butadiene Rubbers cash-generating units were tested as a group forecasts used to calculate the fair value less costs of disposal of cash-generating units. Moreover, the Advanced Industrial Interand to determine the value in use cover a five-year period. The mediates and Antioxidants & Accelerators cash-generating units perpetual annuity calculation is generally based on the last year form a group for the purpose of the impairment test on goodwill in the planning period and does not reflect growth rates. Where in the Advanced Industrial Intermediates business unit, as in the necessary, adjustments are made to reflect the so-called steady previous year. state of the perpetual annuity. Future net cash flows are discounted The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value using the weighted average cost of capital, which is derived acless costs of disposal and the value in use. If the carrying amount cording to IAS 36 from capital market models, taking into account of a cash-generating unit exceeds the recoverable amount, an the capital structure and business risks specific to the chemical impairment charge is recognized in certain circumstances. The fair industry, and is extrapolated from external market information. value less costs of disposal – which represents the best estimate of If a decline in value is determined, an impairment charge is the potential sale proceeds at the time of the respective impairment first recognized for any goodwill assigned to the respective cash-­ test – is the amount obtainable from the sale of a cash-generating generating unit. Any remaining impairment amount is a­ llocated unit in an arm’s-length transaction between knowledgeable, willing among the other non-current assets of the cash-generating unit parties, less the costs of disposal. The value in use is defined as in proportion to the carrying amounts on which the impairment the present value of future cash flows based on the continuing use test was based. The recoverable amount of any non-current assets of the asset and its retirement at the end of its useful life. The first below the level of the cash-generating unit is assessed and the loss step in assessing whether to recognize or reverse an impairment is allocated, but only up to the recoverable amount of these assets. charge is to determine the fair value less costs of disposal. If this is Any further impairment charge that would have been allocated lower or higher than the carrying amount of the cash-generating to these assets is allocated proportionately to the other assets in unit, the value in use is then determined. The fair value less costs of the cash-generating unit. disposal is generally calculated using a net present value method which is allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy (see under “Fair value measurement” in Note [36]). LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Accounting Policies and V ­ aluation Principles 135 Estimation Uncertainties and the Exercise of Discretion Impairment charges are fully recognized in the income stateManagement’s assumptions and estimates used for the ment under other operating expenses and reflected in the segment i­mpairment test conducted on assets in fiscal year 2017 could reporting in the expenses of the respective segments. differ from the actual values in subsequent periods, necessitating If the impairment test on the cash-generating units indicates subsequent valuation adjustments. Management’s expectations a need to reverse impairment charges recognized on assets in of future net cash flows therefore have an indirect impact on the previous years because the reasons for the impairment no longer valuation of goodwill and other assets. The annual impairment tests exist or have changed, the impairment charge is reversed only up are based on a discount rate after taxes of 7.2% (previous year: to the amount that would have existed after depreciation or amor5.8%), while the impairment tests as of the closing date are based tization if the impairment had not been recognized. Impairment on a discount rate after taxes of 7.0% (previous year: 6.4%). The charges on goodwill are not reversed. Reversals of impairment impairment tests of the cash-generating units showed no need charges are fully recognized in the income statement under other for the recognition of impairment charges in fiscal year 2016 and operating income and reflected in the segment reporting in the 2017. No need for reversals of impairment charges recognized for income of the respective segments. assets in previous years was identified in fiscal year 2016 or 2017. The results of the global impairment tests in fiscal year 2016 The fair value less costs of disposal was calculated using net and 2017 are outlined in the following section. present value methods which are allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The annual impairment test for the principal goodwill items ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTIES AND is performed on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal. The THE EXERCISE OF DISCRETION goodwill items are carried in local currency. As of December 31, 2017, the goodwill acquired in the reThe preparation of consolidated financial statements in accorporting year through the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group dance with IFRS entails the selection of accounting policies and ­Chemtura, Middlebury, U.S., amounted to €611 million after valuation principles and the use of forward-looking assumptions ­currency effects. The flame retardant and lubricant additives and estimates that may affect the measurement of assets and ­business has been combined with the LANXESS Plastic Additives liabilities, income and expenses, and contingent liabilities. and Lubricant Additives operations (previous year: Rhein Chemie All assumptions and estimates used in the consolidated Additives business unit) in the new Additives business unit and ­financial statements are based on management’s expectations. allocated to the Specialty Additives segment. The acquisition inInformation that could alter these estimates is reviewed continucreased the goodwill of the Additives business unit as of ­December ally and may result in adjustments to the carrying amounts of the 31, 2017, by €470 million to €482 million. The Urethane Systems respective assets and liabilities. business unit was established for the former Chemtura urethanes Assumptions and estimates that could materially impact the business and allocated to the Engineering Materials segment. The measurement of the LANXESS Group’s assets and liabilities are acquisition resulted in goodwill of €141 million as of December explained below. 31, 2017. The former Chemtura business with organometallics At least once a year, the LANXESS Group conducts impairhas been integrated into the LANXESS Advanced Industrial Interment tests on its individual cash-generating units or groups of mediates business unit in the Advanced Intermediates segment. cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated. The fair ­value less costs of disposal was calculated using a net ­Impairment tests are also conducted if there is an indication of present ­value method which is allocated to Level 3 of the fair a possible impairment (for further information see the section value hierarchy. headed “Global impairment testing procedure and impact”). LANXESS Annual Report 2017 136 Consolidated financial statements On December 18, 2017, the LANXESS Group acquired Average annual sales growth of 4% was planned for the Additives goodwill of €20 million from the acquisition of all shares in the cash-generating unit, 5% for the Urethane Systems cash-generbiotech startup IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund, Germany. ating unit, and 5% (previous year: 5%) for the Material Protection The acquired goodwill was allocated to the Material Protection Products cash-generating unit. The five-year planning period Products business unit in the Performance Chemicals segment for the group of cash-generating units that comprises the Tire and tested for impairment as of the reporting date. As a result of & Specialty Rubber business unit assumes average annual sales the acquired goodwill and contrary currency effects, the goodwill growth of 3% (previous year: 5%). Average annual sales growth of the Material Protection Products business unit increased to of 2% (previous year: 2%) was planned for the High Performance €133 million (previous year: €125 million). The fair value less Materials cash-generating unit. No growth rates are reflected in costs of disposal was calculated using a net present value method the perpetual annuity calculation. In the current fiscal year, lower which is allocated to Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. EBITDA values than in the last planning period were assumed In the previous year, the LANXESS Group acquired goodwill for the steady state for the Saltigo, Leather, High Performance of €93 million through the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect Materials and Liquid Purification Technologies business units in specialties business of U.S. chemical company Chemours. The the perpetual annuity calculation. Higher EBITDA values than in newly acquired goodwill was allocated to the Material Protection the last planning period were assumed for the steady state for the Products business unit in the Performance Chemicals segment. Material Protection Products and Keltan Elastomers cash-generFurther significant goodwill of €66 million (previous year: ating units in the perpetual annuity calculation. In the previous €76 million) relates to the Tire & Specialty Rubbers business year, lower EBITDA values than in the last planning period were unit. The change in goodwill compared to the previous year is assumed for the steady state for the Leather, Keltan Elastomers attributable to currency effects. The High Performance Materials and Butyl Rubber cash-generating units in the perpetual annuity business unit includes goodwill of €18 million (previous year: calculation. €18 million). The goodwill of the Rhein Chemie Additives business The impairment test performed on goodwill items in fiscal unit of €21 million stated in the previous year was transferred to year 2016 and 2017 did not indicate any need for recognition of the Additives business unit and the Rhein Chemie business unit. impairment charges. Neither a one-percentage-point increase Information on calculating the net cash flows can be found in the discount rate nor a 10% reduction in expected future net in this chapter and the previous chapter. The Additives business cash flows would have led to the recognition of an impairment unit and the Rhein Chemie business unit (formerly Rhein Chemie charge on goodwill items. Additives business unit) are dependent on various processing The recognition and measurement of provisions are also industries. The Material Protection Products business unit is deaffected by assumptions as to the probability of utilization, timpendent on the development of various industries, and the Tire & ing, the underlying discount rate and the absolute level of risk. Specialty Rubbers business unit is dependent in large part on marFor the 2017 consolidated financial statements, the LANXESS ket developments in the tire and automotive industries. The High Group performed sensitivity analyses on provisions, as required Performance Materials business unit and the Urethane Systems by the IFRS. These involved calculating the impact of isolated business unit are influenced primarily by market development in the variations in the parameters used, especially the forecast probaautomotive industry and various other industries. The estimates of bility of ­occurrence, discount rate and absolute level of risk. The future market developments on which detailed planning is based outcome of these sensitivity analyses shows that variations in the are dependent on the respective customer industries and draw assumptions described above would not have a material impact on on management’s past experience, taking account of internal and the level of other provisions reported in the consolidated financial external economic and industry-specific sources of information. statements of the LANXESS Group. For further information on the sensitivity analyses relating to provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits, see Note [14]. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Estimation Uncertainties and the Exercise of Discretion 137 Defined benefit pension plans also necessitate actuarial In the context of business acquisitions, the application of the computations and measurements. The section on provisions for acquisition method requires certain estimates and assessments pensions and other post-employment benefits contains informaas of the acquisition date. This relates in particular to the determition on the assumptions on which the actuarial calculations and nation of the fair value, the estimation of useful lives of acquired estimates were based (see Note [14]). intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, and the deterFurther, the LANXESS Group is affected by legal disputes. As mination of the fair values of assumed liabilities. The ­measurement an international chemicals group, LANXESS is exposed to adminis essentially based on future cash inflows and outflows. Deviations istrative or court proceedings in the normal course of business and between the actual cash inflows and outflows and those assumed may be again in the future. Administrative and court proceedings at the acquisition date can significantly influence future net income. generally involve complex technical and/or legal issues and are As a rule, the purchase price allocation is performed in consultation therefore subject to a number of imponderables. The outcomes with external experts. In the case of lower-value acquisitions, the of any current or future proceedings cannot be predicted with purchase price allocation is mostly based on own estimates and certainty. It is therefore possible that legal judgments could give measurements. The estimates and measurements are based on rise to expenses that are not covered, or not fully covered, by knowledge available on and immediately after the acquisition date. recognized provisions or equivalent insurance and that could They can be adjusted within one year of the date of acquisition to materially affect the business operations, revenues, earnings or reflect new information and findings. cash flows of the LANXESS Group. Other significant estimates and discretion are used to assess The establishment of provisions for environmental protection the useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipand remediation measures also involves uncertainty and requires ment, the capitalization of development costs, the probability of calculations and estimates of future costs. Information about this collecting receivables and other assets, the valuation of inventocan be found in the section headed “Other non-current and current ries and the ability to realize tax claims and deferred tax assets provisions” (see Note [15]). recognized for temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards. There is also uncertainty surrounding the assessment of certain tax situations by the tax authorities. Although the LANXESS Group believes it has presented all tax-relevant information ­correctly and in compliance with the law, it is possible that the tax authorities may occasionally reach different conclusions. Provisions have been established where changes in tax assessments are probable. In addition, charges from tax risks from previous years are not considered to be likely. In the event of unfavorable developments, LANXESS could be faced with additional charges in the low-double-digit millions of euros. The calculations are principally based on experience of the outcome of previous tax audits and their impact on the subsequent periods and the applicable ­legislation, taking into account present legal practice and prevailing opinion. In addition, the last-minute passage of the U.S. tax reform legislation has caused uncertainties in individual areas, especially with regard to the “one-time” taxation of the retained earnings of foreign subsidiaries held by U.S. subsidiaries. This could result in deviations from the current estimates in the future. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 138 Consolidated financial statements COMPANIES CONSOLIDATED The consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group include the parent company LANXESS AG and all domestic and foreign affiliates. EMEA Germany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific Total (excl. Germany) Fully consolidated companies (incl. parent company) Jan. 1, 2017 24 9 7 5 18 63 Additions 16 7 7 3 13 46 Retirements (1) (1) Mergers (4) (1) (5) Dec. 31, 2017 40 12 13 8 30 103 Consolidated associates and jointly controlled entities Jan. 1, 2017 2 2 Additions 1 1 Retirements 0 Mergers 0 Dec. 31, 2017 0 2 1 0 0 3 Non-consolidated companies Jan. 1, 2017 1 2 2 3 2 10 Additions 1 1 1 3 Retirements 0 Mergers (1) (1) Dec. 31, 2017 2 3 1 4 2 12 Total Jan. 1, 2017 25 13 9 8 20 75 Additions 17 8 8 4 13 50 Retirements (1) (1) Mergers (4) (1) (1) (6) Dec. 31, 2017 42 17 15 12 32 118 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Companies Consolidated 139 The U.S. chemicals group Chemtura was acquired on Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain, and Rhein Chemie April 21, 2017. LANXESS thereby acquired all shares in C ­ hemtura (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China, are production companies Corporation, Middlebury, U.S., as well as its domestic and foreign in which LANXESS has a stake of 52% and 90%, respectively. subsidiaries and affiliates. As a result of the integration of Chemtura These companies are fully consolidated because LANXESS holds into the LANXESS Group, companies acquired have been merged the majority of the voting rights and therefore exercises control. in Germany and renamed worldwide. The non-controlling interests in these companies have a negligible Furthermore, IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund, influence on the activities and cash flows of the LANXESS Group. Germany, was acquired in the reporting period. In addition, ARLANXEO-TRSC (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., ­ARLANXEO Branch Offices B.V., Maastricht, Netherlands, was Nantong, China, is a producer of nitrile rubber. LANXESS’s share newly established and fully consolidated. International D ­ ioxcide in its capital is 50%. This company is fully consolidated because Inc., North Kingstown, U.S., was sold in 2017, and LANXESS LANXESS can determine key aspects of its financial and business Elastomers Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China, was policy. merged into LANXESS Chemical, China Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China. DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm, Germany, is included in the In the previous year, the LANXESS Group and Aramco consolidated financial statements as a joint operation in accorOverseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, dance with IFRS 11 on a pro rata basis because the partners a subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, formed a strategic alliance for the exercise joint control and purchase most of its output between synthetic rubber business named ARLANXEO, in which each them. LANXESS’s share in its capital is 50%. The purpose of the party holds a 50% interest. ARLANXEO is still included in the company is to produce polybutylene terephthalate base resins consolidated financial statements of the LANXESS Group and and blends for the joint owners and their affiliated companies. is fully consolidated because the casting vote of the chairman of This business relationship does not involve any material risks. the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO, who is appointed Rubicon LLC, Salt Lake City, U.S., is included in the consoli­ by LANXESS, gives LANXESS the opportunity to determine key dated financial statements as a joint operation in accordance aspects of its financial and business policy. ARLANXEO will be with IFRS 11 on a pro rata basis because the partners exercise classified as a discontinued operation one year before the end of joint control and purchase all of its output. LANXESS’s share in full consolidation, i.e. from April 1, 2018. its capital is 50%. The purpose of the company is primarily to Among the non-consolidated companies, LANXESS A ­ dditives produce aniline, diphenylamines, methylene diphenyl isocyanates Inc., Wilmington, U.S., became LANXESS Solutions US Inc., and polyols for the joint owners and their affiliated companies. ­W ilmington, U.S., and was placed into the fully consolidated This business relationship does not involve any material risks for company Chemtura Corporation, Wilmington, U.S. The latter LANXESS. was renamed LANXESS Solutions US Inc., Wilmington, U.S. In Further, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, is addition, Siebte LXS GmbH, Cologne, Germany, was founded. an associate accounted for in the consolidated financial statements The structured entities Dirlem (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, using the equity method (see Note [3]). LANXESS’s share in its South Africa, and Rustenburg Chrome Employees Empowerment capital is 40%. Given its ability to contribute to material aspects of Trust, Modderfontein, South Africa, were also consolidated in the financial and business policy decisions, LANXESS is able to exert EMEA (excluding Germany) region in previous years. The purpose a significant influence. Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG principally of these structured entities was to ensure employee participation provides site services in the areas of energy, infrastructure and in the company in accordance with South Africa’s Black Economic logistics for LANXESS’s production sites in Germany. In view of its Empowerment legislation. LANXESS exercised control because status as a personally liable partner, LANXESS may be required to the principal business activities were defined by LANXESS when inject further capital in the future. Transactions with this company the structured entities were established. Because the conditions are outlined in Note [34]. for control were no longer met, significant influence was no lonCash transfers from companies in Argentina, Brazil, China, ger exerted on the business activities in fiscal year 2017. The India, Russia, South Africa, Republic of Korea and Taiwan are subcompanies are therefore no longer included in the consolidated ject to restrictions as a result of regulated capital markets. These financial statements. affect approximately 13% (previous year: 20%) of the LANXESS Group’s cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 140 Consolidated financial statements Non-consolidated companies are accounted for at cost. These Since the acquisition date, the new business has contributed companies are immaterial to the LANXESS Group’s earnings, asset sales of €994 million and negatively influenced the earnings of and financial position, since together they account for less than the LANXESS Group by €112 million, primarily due to exceptional 0.1% of Group sales and less than 0.1% of equity. items. Group earnings were also negatively impacted by effects resulting from the purchase price allocation. If the business had been already acquired as of January 1, 2017, the contribution to Acquisitions LANXESS Group sales would have increased by an additional The U.S. chemicals group Chemtura was acquired on April 21, amount of approximately €455 million, while the contribution to 2017, and included in the consolidated financial statements as of net income would have changed only slightly. Earnings effects this date. In connection with the acquisition of ­Chemtura, LANXESS resulting from the revaluation of assets and liabilities were included acquired all shares in Chemtura Corporation, ­Middlebury, U.S., retroactively from January 1, 2017. Intra-group results between as well as its domestic and foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. The Chemtura and LANXESS were eliminated. Intangible assets of purchase price of around €2.0 billion was paid using funds from €769 million were established in the context of the purchase price corporate bonds successfully placed in the previous year as well allocation, comprising €536 million for customer relationships, as existing liquidity. LANXESS has thus expanded its own additives €105 million for trademarks and €128 million in other intangible portfolio and is becoming one of the world’s major providers in assets. this growing market. Chemtura’s flame retardant and lubricant The goodwill of €683 million resulting from the acquisition additives business has been combined with the LANXESS Plastic mainly reflects additional business opportunities arising primarily Additives and Lubricant Additives operations in the new Additives with new customers in the European and North American markets. business unit. Chemtura’s business with organometallics has been The goodwill also includes an improvement in the cost structure integrated into the LANXESS Advanced Industrial Intermediates and the procurement of raw materials, as well as higher capacity business unit in the Advanced Intermediates segment. ­Chemtura’s utilization in production. €525 million of the goodwill is allocated to urethanes business will now be run as the Urethane Systems busithe Additives business unit and €158 million to Urethane Systems. ness unit, which, together with the High Performance Materials The goodwill is not tax-deductible. business unit, constitutes the Engineering Materials segment. €38 million of the total purchase price of €2,014 million is The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination attributable to payment obligations of transferred employees. in accordance with IFRS 3. For the purchase price allocation, The employees’ entitlements result from Chemtura’s share-based the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the compensation programs and are based on the price paid per business acquired were recognized at fair value. The purchase ­Chemtura share as part of the acquisition. The outstanding payprice allocation was performed on the basis of the information ment ­obligations of €14 million as of the reporting date on Deavailable on and immediately after the acquisition date. IFRS percember 31, 2017, are shown under personnel-related provisions mits adjustment of the purchase price allocation within one year and have a term until 2020. The gross amount of trade receivafter the acquisition date on the basis of new knowledge and ables due is €221 million, of which €2 million is expected to be information. This can especially affect items based on assumptions uncollectible. Other non-current liabilities total €326 million and and e­ stimates. These are primarily provisions, contingent liabilities include contingent liabilities of a single-digit million euro amount. and deferred taxes. Changes in other items also cannot be ruled In connection with this acquisition, transaction costs of out, but there are currently no indications of this. €2 million were recognized in other operating expenses during the reporting period. The majority of the transaction costs, ­classified as exceptional items, was incurred in the previous year. For more information, please see “Notes on EBIT and EBITDA (Pre Exceptionals)” in the management report. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Companies Consolidated 141 The following table shows the effects of the acquisition on consideration in the purchase price allocation. As part of the the Group’s financial position: ­purchase agreement, a c­ ontingent consideration with a fair value of €11 million was agreed with the sellers as of December 31, 2017. The ­contingent c­ onsideration whose payment is regarded as highly Additions from Acquisition likely is ­re­cognized under other financial liabilities as of the end of Fair values at 2017. No material transaction costs were incurred in connection € million first-time consolidation with the transaction. The goodwill is not tax-deductible. Intangible assets 769 Property, plant and equipment 847 The company was included in the consolidated financial Inventories 349 ­statements for the first time as of December 31, 2017. The followTrade receivables 219 ing table shows the effects of the acquisition on the Group’s assets: Cash and cash equivalents 215 Other assets 246 Total assets 2,645 Additions from Acquisition Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 217 Fair values at € million first-time consolidation Other non-current liabilities 339 Trade payables 169 Intangible assets 15 Other current financial liabilities 461 Property, plant and equipment 0 Other current liabilities 128 Inventories 0 Total liabilities 1,314 Other assets 1 Net acquired assets (excl. goodwill) 1,331 Cash and cash equivalents 1 Cost of acquisition 2,014 Total assets 17 Goodwill 683 Non-current liabilities 7 Current liabilities 0 Total liabilities 7 Net acquired assets (excl. equity) 10 On December 18, 2017, LANXESS acquired all shares in the Cost of acquisition 30 Goodwill 20 biotech startup IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund, Germany, and thus expanded its expertise in biotechnology. At its laboratory in Dortmund, IMD Natural Solutions develops natural active ingredients for the beverages, food and consumer goods industries. Divestments The core product is currently in the registration phase. The first On October 31, 2017, LANXESS sold its U.S. subsidiary market launch is scheduled for 2018 in the U.S. The company International Dioxcide Inc., North Kingstown, U.S., to the ­Canadian was allocated to the Material Protection Products business unit Superior Plus Corporation, Toronto, Canada. LANXESS had taken in the Performance Chemicals segment. over the chlorine dioxide business as part of the acquisition of the The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination clean and disinfect specialties business from the U.S. chemical in accordance with IFRS 3. For the purchase price allocation, company Chemours last year and integrated it into the Material the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the Protection Products business unit in the Performance Chemicals business acquired were recognized at fair value. The purchase segment. Net assets of €4 million were disposed of in this sale. price allocation was performed on the basis of the information These net assets primarily comprise inventories of €2 million, trade available on and immediately after the acquisition date. IFRS receivables of €5 million and trade payables of €4 million. Propermits adjustment of the purchase price allocation within one ceeds of €5 million from the sale of this company were ­recognized year after the acquisition date on the basis of new knowledge in other operating income. and information. This can basically impact all items taken into LANXESS Annual Report 2017 142 Consolidated financial statements Other information on Company Name and Domicile companies consolidated Interest held The following table lists the affiliated companies in accord­ in % ance with Section 313, Paragraph 2, of the German Commercial Fully consolidated companies Code: LANXESS Limited, Newbury, Great Britain 100 LANXESS Manufacturing Netherlands B.V., Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 Company Name and Domicile LANXESS N.V., Antwerp, Belgium 100 LANXESS S.A.S., Courbevoie, France 100 Interest held LANXESS S.r.l., Milan, Italy 100 in % LANXESS Sales Netherlands B.V., Fully consolidated companies Amsterdam, ­Netherlands 100 LANXESS Services Switzerland GmbH, Frauenfeld, Germany Switzerland 100 LANXESS AG, Cologne – LANXESS Solutions Belgium N.V., Antwerp, Belgium 100 ARLANXEO Deutschland GmbH, Dormagen 100 LANXESS Solutions Italy S.r.L., Latina, Italy 100 Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon 100 LANXESS Solutions UK Ltd., Manchester, Great Britain 100 IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin 100 LANXESS Switzerland GmbH, Frauenfeld, Switzerland 100 IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund 100 LANXESS Urethanes UK Ltd., LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne 100 Baxenden NR Accrington, Great Britain 100 LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl 100 OOO LANXESS, Moscow, Russia 100 LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne 100 OOO LANXESS Lipetsk, Lipetsk, Russia 100 LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen 100 Sybron Chemical Industries Nederland B.V., LANXESS OMS Holding GmbH, Bergkamen 100 Ede, ­Netherlands 100 Sybron Chemicals International Holdings Ltd., LANXESS Organometallics GmbH, Bergkamen 100 Newbury, Great Britain 100 Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen 100 North America EMEA (excluding Germany) ARLANXEO Canada Inc., Sarnia, Canada 100 Anderol B.V., Venlo, Netherlands 100 ARLANXEO U.S.A. Holdings Corp., Pittsburgh, U.S. 100 Antec International Ltd., Sudbury, Suffolk, Great Britain 100 ARLANXEO U.S.A. LLC, Pittsburgh, U.S. 100 ARLANXEO Belgium N.V., Zwijndrecht, Belgium 100 Assured Insurance Company, Montpelier, U.S. 100 ARLANXEO Branch Offices B.V., Maastricht, Netherlands 100 Great Lakes Chemical Corporation, Wilmington, ARLANXEO Elastomères France S.A.S., Lillebonne, France 100 New Castle, U.S. 100 ARLANXEO Emulsion Rubber France S.A.S., LANXESS Canada Co./Cie, Elmira, Canada 100 La Wantzenau, France 100 LANXESS Corporation, Pittsburgh, U.S. 100 ARLANXEO Holding B.V., Maastricht, Netherlands 50 LANXESS Holding Company US Inc., Wilmington, ARLANXEO Netherlands B.V., Sittard-Geleen, Netherlands 100 New Castle, U.S. 100 ARLANXEO Switzerland S.A., Granges-Paccot, LANXESS Laurel US LLC, Wilmington, New Castle, U.S. 100 Switzerland 100 LANXESS Services US LLC, Wilmington, Chemours Jersey Ltd., St Helier, Jersey 100 New Castle, U.S. 100 Chemtura France S.A.S., Fitz James, France 100 LANXESS Solutions US Inc., Wilmington, Europigments, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 52 New Castle, U.S. 100 Great Lakes Chemical, Netherlands, B.V., LANXESS Sybron Chemicals Inc., Birmingham, U.S. 100 Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 Sybron Chemical Holdings Inc., Birmingham, U.S. 100 Great Lakes Holding S.A.S., Fitz James, France 100 LANXESS (Pty) Ltd., Modderfontein, South Africa 100 Latin America LANXESS Central Eastern Europe s.r.o., Bratislava, Slovakia 100 ARLANXEO Brasil S.A., Duque de Caxias, Brazil 100 LANXESS CISA (Pty) Ltd., Newcastle, South Africa 100 Chemtura Corporation Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V., LANXESS Chemicals, S.L., Barcelona, Spain 100 Atizapan de Zaragoza, Mexico 100 LANXESS Chrome Mining (Pty) Ltd., LANXESS Indústria de Poliuretanos e Lubrificantes Ltda., Modderfontein, South Africa 74 Rio Claro, Brazil 100 LANXESS Epierre SAS, Epierre, France 100 LANXESS Indústria de Produtos Quimicos e Plásticos LANXESS Holding Switzerland AG, Frauenfeld, Ltda., São Paulo, Brazil 100 Switzerland 100 LANXESS S.A. de C.V., Mexico City, Mexico 100 LANXESS Holding UK Unlimited, Manchester, Great Britain 100 LANXESS S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina 100 LANXESS Investments Netherlands B.V., LANXESS Laurel de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Reynosa, Mexico 100 Amsterdam, Netherlands 100 Rhein Chemie Uruguay S.A., Colonia, Uruguay 100 LANXESS Kimya Ticaret Limited Şirketi, Istanbul, Turkey 100 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Companies Consolidated 143 Company Name and Domicile Company Name and Domicile Interest held Interest held in % in % Fully consolidated companies Non-consolidated immaterial subsidiaries Asia-Pacific Germany ARLANXEO High Performance Elastomers, LANXESS Middle East GmbH, Cologne 100 (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China 100 LANXESS Digital GmbH, Berlin 100 ARLANXEO Singapore Pte. Ltd, Singapore, Singapore 100 Siebte LXS GmbH, Cologne 100 ARLANXEO-TSRC, (Nantong) Chemical Industrial Co., Ltd., Nantong, China 50 EMEA (excluding Germany) Chemtura Chemicals Nanjing Co. Ltd., Nanjing, China 100 Gulf Stabilizers Industries Sales FZCO, Dubai, UAE 52 Chemtura China Holding Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 W. Hawley & Son Ltd., Newbury, Great Britain 100 Chemtura Shanghai Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Changzhou, China 100 North America LANXESS (Liyang) Polyols Co., Ltd., Liyang, China 100 LANXESS Energy LLC, Wilmington, New Castle, U.S. 100 LANXESS (Ningbo) Pigments Co., Ltd., Ningbo City, China 100 LANXESS (Wuxi) High Performance Composite Materials Latin America Company Limited, Wuxi, China 100 Comercial Andinas Ltda., Santiago de Chile, Chile 100 LANXESS Additives Hong Kong Ltd., Crompton Servicios, S.A. de C.V., Hong Kong, Hong Kong 100 Atizapan de Zaragoza, Mexico 100 LANXESS Additives Taiwan Ltd., Kaohsiung, Taiwan 100 Petroflex Trading S.A., Montevideo, Uruguay 100 LANXESS Advanced Materials (Nantong) Co. Ltd., ­Nantong, China 100 Asia-Pacific LANXESS Chemical (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS Thai Co., Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand 100 LANXESS Electronic Materials L.L.C., Gyeonggi-do, PCTS Specialty Chemicals Malaysia (M) Sdn. Bhd., Republic of Korea 100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 100 LANXESS Hong Kong Limited, Hong Kong, Hong Kong 100 LANXESS India Private Ltd., Thane, India 100 LANXESS K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 Other non-consolidated immaterial companies LANXESS Korea Limited, Seoul, Republic of Korea 100 LANXESS Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore 100 Latin America LANXESS Pty Ltd., Granville, Australia 100 Hidrax Ltda., Taboão da Serra, Brazil 100 LANXESS Shanghai Pigments Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd., West Gosford, Australia 100 LANXESS Solutions India Private Ltd., New Delhi, India 100 LANXESS Solutions Japan K.K., Tokyo, Japan 100 LANXESS Solutions Korea Inc., Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea 100 LANXESS Solutions Singapore Pte. Ltd., Singapore, Singapore 100 LANXESS Specialty Chemicals Co., Ltd., Shanghai, China 100 LANXESS Taiwan Ltd., Kaohsiung, Taiwan 100 Rhein Chemie (Qingdao) Co., Ltd., Qingdao, China 90 Jointly controlled entity Germany DuBay Polymer GmbH, Hamm 50 North America Rubicon LLC, Salt Lake City, U.S. 50 Associate accounted for using the equity method Germany Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen 40 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 144 Consolidated financial statements NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF F ­ INANCIAL POSITION 1 | Intangible Assets Changes in intangible assets were as follows: Changes in Intangible Assets in 2016 Acquired Other Advance Total goodwill intangible assets payments € million Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2015 148 368 36 552 Acquisitions 93 94 – 187 Capital expenditures – 10 15 25 Disposals – (7) 0 (7) Reclassifications – 15 (15) 0 Exchange differences 20 7 0 27 Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2016 261 487 36 784 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2015 (12) (240) 0 (252) Amortization and write-downs in 2016 – (33) 0 (33) of which write-downs – 0 0 0 Reversals of impairment charges – – – 0 Disposals – 4 0 4 Reclassifications – 0 0 0 Exchange differences (1) (8) – (9) Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2016 (13) (277) 0 (290) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2016 248 210 36 494 Changes in Intangible Assets in 2017 Acquired Other Advance Total goodwill intangible assets payments € million Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2016 261 487 36 784 Acquisitions 703 784 – 1,487 Capital expenditures – 17 22 39 Disposals – (9) 0 (9) Reclassifications – 9 (9) 0 Exchange differences (98) (92) 0 (190) Cost of acquisition or generation, Dec. 31, 2017 866 1,196 49 2,111 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2016 (13) (277) 0 (290) Amortization and write-downs in 2017 – (75) 0 (75) of which write-downs – (9) 0 (9) Reversals of impairment charges – – – 0 Disposals – 7 0 7 Reclassifications – 0 0 0 Exchange differences 2 14 – 16 Accumulated amortization and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2017 (11) (331) 0 (342) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2017 855 865 49 1,769 The changes due to acquisitions in fiscal year 2017 relate to the acquisitions of the U.S. chemicals company Chemtura and of the biotech startup IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, based in Dortmund. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Statement of F ­ inancial Position 145 2 | Property, Plant and Equipment Changes in property, plant and equipment were as follows: Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2016  Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under € million machinery equipment construction Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2015 1,821 7,478 336 311 9,946 Acquisitions 4 11 0 1 16 Capital expenditures 25 129 21 262 437 Disposals (10) (138) (22) 0 (170) Reclassifications 30 165 16 (211) 0 Exchange differences 30 110 7 14 161 Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2016 1,900 7,755 358 377 10,390 Accumulated depreciation and ­w rite-downs, Dec. 31, 2015 (979) (5,268) (250) (2) (6,499) Depreciation and write-downs in 2016 (61) (353) (34) 0 (448) of which write-downs (2) (6) (1) 0 (9) Reversals of impairment charges 0 0 0 – 0 Disposals 7 137 22 0 166 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 Exchange differences (13) (72) (4) (1) (90) Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2016 (1,046) (5,556) (266) (3) (6,871) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2016 854 2,199 92 374 3,519 Changes in Property, Plant and Equipment in 2017  Land and Technical Other fixtures, Advance payments Total buildings equipment and fittings and and assets under machinery equipment construction € million Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2016 1,900 7,755 358 377 10,390 Acquisitions 204 586 8 49 847 Capital expenditures 18 148 19 336 521 Disposals (12) (78) (17) (4) (111) Reclassifications 38 193 17 (248) 0 Exchange differences (99) (311) (13) (20) (443) Cost of acquisition or construction, Dec. 31, 2017 2,049 8,293 372 490 11,204 Accumulated depreciation and ­w rite-downs, Dec. 31, 2016 (1,046) (5,556) (266) (3) (6,871) Depreciation and write-downs in 2017 (81) (443) (39) (1) (564) of which write-downs (12) (28) (1) (1) (42) Reversals of impairment charges 0 1 – – 1 Disposals 11 80 17 2 110 Reclassifications 0 0 0 0 0 Exchange differences 26 145 8 0 179 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs, Dec. 31, 2017 (1,090) (5,773) (280) (2) (7,145) Carrying amounts, Dec. 31, 2017 959 2,520 92 488 4,059 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 146 Consolidated financial statements The changes due to acquisitions in fiscal year 2017 relate to Data from the Statement of Financial Position the acquisitions of the U.S. chemicals company Chemtura and Dec. 31, Dec. 31, of the biotech startup IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, based in € million 2016 2017 Dortmund. Non-current assets 739 810 Write-downs were recognized on land and buildings, technical Current assets 582 462 equipment and machinery, and other fixtures, fittings and equipTotal assets 1,321 1,272 ment due to reorganization and other value-decreasing events. Non-current liabilities 1,106 1,076 The reversals of impairment charges in fiscal year 2017 reCurrent liabilities 307 315 lated to impairment charges recognized in previous years on Total liabilities 1,413 1,391 individual assets. Equity (92) (119) Adjustment of LANXESS’s interest Capitalized property, plant and equipment includes assets and equity valuation 45 62 with the following gross and net values held under finance leases: Pro rata loss not recognized in consolidated financial statements 47 57 Assets Held Under Finance Leases Investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 Gross Net Gross Net carrying ­c arrying carrying ­c arrying € million amount amount amount amount The carrying amount of the investment in Currenta GmbH & Buildings 4 2 4 3 Co. OHG was unchanged from the previous year at €0 million. As Technical equipment and machinery 88 56 86 47 of the reporting date, a share of the accounting loss amounting Fittings and equipment 19 10 16 8 to €57 million (previous year: €47 million) was not recognized. 111 68 106 58 The change resulted from the loss-increasing profit transfer of €45 million, the loss-reducing income of €24 million and the loss-reducing gains of €11 million recognized in other compreDirectly attributable borrowing costs of €3 million (previous hensive income, which are not subsequently reclassified to profit year: €2 million) were capitalized. An annual average cost of debt or loss. In the previous year, the unrecognized loss declined by for the LANXESS Group of 2.7% (previous year: 3.5%) was used €7 million due to income of €32 million and primarily the losses for capitalization. of €23 million recognized in other comprehensive income. 3 | I nvestments Accounted for Using 4 | Investments in Other Affiliated the Equity Method Companies As in the previous year, Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, This item contains interests in other affiliated companies ­Leverkusen, Germany, was accounted for using the equity method. totaling €9 million (previous year: €12 million). The following tables show the main items of the income stateAs of December 31, 2017, all other investments classified ments, statements of comprehensive income and statements of as available-for-sale financial assets – apart from the shares in financial position of that company: BioAmber Inc., Minneapolis, U.S. – comprised unlisted equity instruments. Since the fair values of these instruments at the closData from the Income Statement and ing date could not be reliably determined, they were recognized Statement of Comprehensive Income  at cost. There are currently no plans to sell these investments. € million 2016 2017 Sales 1,212 1,304 Operating result (EBIT) 110 105 5 | Derivative Financial Instruments Income after income taxes 81 61 Other comprehensive income, The derivative financial instruments held by the LANXESS net of income tax (57) 28 Group comprise forward exchange, forward commodity and Total comprehensive income 24 89 forward interest rate contracts as well as embedded derivatives separated from contracts not designated as hedging instruments. They are capitalized in the consolidated financial statements for fiscal year 2017 at a total fair value of €52 million (previous year: €66 million). Instruments with a negative fair value totaling €14 million (previous year: €49 million) are recognized as liabilities. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Statement of F ­ inancial Position 147 Derivative Financial Instruments 2019 (previous year: unrealized losses of €12 million in fiscal year 2017 and €2 million in fiscal year 2018). Dec. 31, 2016 Notional Positive Negative € million amount fair values fair values Forward commodity contracts Current forward As in the previous year, the unrealized gains recognized in exchange contracts 2,725 65 (42) other comprehensive income in fiscal year 2017 for forward comCurrent forward commodity 4 0 – modity transactions that qualify for hedge accounting amounted contracts Non-current forward to €0 million. Hedging was on the basis of forward commodity exchange contracts 121 1 (7) contracts. The notional amount of the forward commodity conNon-current forward tracts held for hedging purposes was €4 million (previous year: tax contracts – – – Long-term embedded €4 million) and, as in the previous year, they had a positive fair derivatives not designated value of €0 million on December 31, 2017. The contracts were as hedging instruments – – – due within one year and the hedged cash flows will be realized 2,850 66 (49) within the next year. Forward interest rate contracts Derivative Financial Instruments The unrealized gains recognized in other comprehensive inDec. 31, 2017 come in fiscal year 2017 for forward interest rate transactions that Notional Positive Negative qualify for hedge accounting amounted to €0 million. The forward € million amount fair values fair values interest rate contracts held for hedging purposes had a positive Current forward 2,581 45 (12) fair value of €0 million on December 31, 2017. The hedged cash exchange contracts Current forward commodity flows will be realized within the next six years. contracts 4 0 – Information on long-term embedded derivatives not Non-current forward ­designated as hedging instruments and the maturity structure exchange contracts 241 5 (2) Non-current forward of derivative assets and liabilities is given in Note [36]. tax contracts 500 0 – Long-term embedded derivatives not designated as hedging instruments – 2 – 6 | Other Non-Current and Current 3,326 52 (14) ­Financial Assets Other Financial Assets Cash flow hedges As of December 31, 2017, the unrealized gains recognized in Dec. 31, 2016 other comprehensive income in fiscal year 2017 or earlier periods € million Non-current Current Total from currency hedging contracts that qualify for hedge accounting Available-for-sale amounted to €17 million (previous year: €14 million losses). In financial assets 1 176 177 fiscal year 2017, €4 million was reclassified from equity to p ­ rofit Other financial receivables 18 1,954 1,972 19 2,130 2,149 or loss due to the realization of the hedged transactions and ­recognized as a gain (previous year: €36 million loss). Currency hedging contracts concluded to hedge future sales in foreign currencies had a total notional amount of €824 million (previous Other Financial Assets year: €452 million). As of December 31, 2017, these contracts Dec. 31, 2017 had positive fair values of €27 million (previous year: €7 million) € million Non-current Current Total and negative fair values of €3 million (previous year: €26 million). Available-for-sale Contracts with a total notional amount of €583 million (previous financial assets 1 1 2 year: €357 million) were due within one year. The hedged cash Other financial receivables 19 6 25 flows will be realized within the next three years. 20 7 27 The LANXESS Group expects that, of the unrealized gains on currency hedges recognized in other comprehensive income as of the reporting date, €15 million will be reclassified from equity to profit or loss in fiscal year 2018 and €2 million in fiscal year LANXESS Annual Report 2017 148 Consolidated financial statements The other non-current financial receivables mainly comprise The year-on-year increase in inventories mainly results from loans granted to site service providers. The decrease in availablethe acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. for-sale financial assets and current financial receivables mainly Inventories of €258 million (previous year: €210 million) are relates to the repayment of liquidity invested in the previous year. reflected at net realizable value. In fiscal year 2017, this was used in particular for the acquisition of The changes in write-downs of inventories were as follows: the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. Write-downs of other financial assets amounted to €0 million, as in the previous year. Write-Downs of Inventories € million 2016 2017 7|N  on-Current and Current January 1 (107) (104) Additions charged as expenses (49) (50) Income Tax Receivables Reversals/utilization 53 53 Changes in scope of consolidation (1) 4 The increase in non-current income tax receivables to December 31 (104) (97) €20 million (previous year: €7 million) mainly results from uncertain tax items relating to the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. The current income tax receivables of €47 million (previous 10 | Trade Receivables year: €67 million) mainly include tax prepayments and receivables relating to disputed tax issues where reimbursement is considered All trade receivables – totaling €1,316 million (previous year: probable. €1,088 million) – are due within one year. Of the trade receivables, €3 million (previous year: €3 million) pertained to investments accounted for using the equity method and €1,313 million 8 | Other Non-Current Assets ­(previous year: €1,085 million) pertained to other customers. The ­year-on-year increase mainly results from the acquisition of the The other non-current assets amounting to €113 million U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. (previous year: €25 million) mainly include receivables relating On the reporting date, trade receivables were stated after to pension obligations, periodic accruals and other reimbursewrite-downs of €17 million (previous year: €17 million) on gross ment claims. The year-on-year increase mainly results from the receivables of €18 million (previous year: €19 million). acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. The changes in write-downs of trade receivables were as Other non-current assets are carried at amortized cost less follows: any write-downs. No write-downs were made in 2016 or 2017. Write-Downs of Trade Receivables 9 | Inventories € million 2016 2017 January 1 (16) (17) Additions charged as expenses (4) (6) The inventories of the LANXESS Group comprised: Reversals/utilization 4 5 Exchange differences (1) 1 Inventories  December 31 (17) (17) Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million 2016 2017 Raw materials and supplies 275 382 Work in process, finished goods and ­merchandise 1,154 1,298 1,429 1,680 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Statement of F­ inancial Position 149 The maturity structure of past-due trade receivables was Authorized capital as follows: As of December 31, 2017, the company’s authorized capital comprised the following: Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 2, of LANXESS AG’s articles Maturity Structure of Past-Due Trade Receivables of association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 23, 2013, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, authorized the Board of Management until May 22, 2018, with the € million 2016 2017 approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the capital stock on Carrying amount 1,088 1,316 one or more occasions by issuing new no-par shares against cash of which neither impaired nor past due 954 1,165 of which unimpaired but past due by or contributions in kind up to a total amount of €16,640,534 (Auup to 30 days 109 128 thorized Capital I). In addition, pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 3, between 31 and 60 days 12 15 of LANXESS AG’s articles of association, the Annual Stockholders’ between 61 and 90 days 4 3 Meeting on May 13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management more than 90 days 7 4 until May 22, 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the company’s capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new no-par shares against cash or contributions in kind up With regard to trade receivables that were neither impaired to a total amount of €18,304,587 (Authorized Capital II). Finally, nor past due, there were no indications as of the closing date that pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 4, of LANXESS AG’s articles of the respective debtors would not meet their payment obligations. association, the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting on May 26, 2017, authorized the Board of Management until May 25, 2022, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to increase the company’s 11 | Near-Cash Assets capital stock on one or more occasions by issuing new bearer shares against cash or contributions in kind up to a total amount The near-cash assets of €50 million (previous year: of €9,152,293 (Authorized Capital III). Stockholders are generally €40 million) comprise units of money market funds that can be entitled to subscription rights when Authorized Capital I, II and sold at any time and are expected to be realized within twelve III are utilized. However, these rights can be excluded in certain months after the closing date. cases which are defined in Section 4, Paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, of the articles of association of LANXESS AG. When deciding to exclude stockholders’ subscription rights for Authorized Capi12 | Other Current Assets tal II, the Board of Management will take into consideration that the authorizations granted by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting Other receivables and other assets totaling €274 million of May 13, 2015, for capital measures under exclusion of the (previous year: €184 million) are stated at amortized cost less stockholders’ subscription may only be used up to a maximum any write-downs, which amounted to €1 million in the reportamount of 20% of the capital stock that exists at the time the ing period (previous year: €1 million). They principally comprise resolution is passed. The shares issued from Authorized Capital II miscellaneous claims for tax refunds amounting to €206 million under exclusion of subscription rights by way of capital increases (previous year: €145 million), mainly pertaining to sales taxes, and against contributions in kind shall not exceed 10% of the capital other reimbursement claims from goods and service transactions stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed. The Board totaling €52 million (previous year: €30 million). The year-on-year of Management remains bound by these conditions even after increase mainly results from the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals the creation of the new Authorized Capital III. Authorized Capital group Chemtura. I, II and III have not yet been utilized. Conditional capital 13 | Equity As of December 31, 2017, the company’s conditional capital comprised the following: Capital stock The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on The capital stock of LANXESS AG amounted to €91,522,936 May 13, 2015, authorized the Board of Management until May 22, as of December 31, 2017, and is composed of 91,522,936 no-par 2018, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, to issue – in one bearer shares. All shares carry the same rights and obligations. or more installments – warrant bonds and/or convertible bonds, One vote is granted per share, and profit is distributed per share. profit-participation rights and/or income bonds or a combination LANXESS Annual Report 2017 150 Consolidated financial statements of these instruments (collectively referred to as “bonds”) – as They also contain remeasurements of the net defined benefit either registered or bearer bonds – with a total nominal value ­liability from post-employment benefit plans and the related tax of up to €1,000,000,000, with or without limited maturity, and effects. to grant option rights to, or impose exercise obligations on, the holders or creditors of these bonds in respect of bearer shares Other equity components of the company representing a total pro rata increase of up to The other equity components mainly comprise exchange €18,304,587 in the company’s capital stock on the terms to be differences from the translation of operations outside the eurodefined for these bonds. Pursuant to Section 4, Paragraph 5, of zone and remeasurements of derivatives for purposes of cash the articles of association, the capital stock of LANXESS AG is flow hedge accounting. thus conditionally increased by up to €18,304,587 (Conditional ­Capital). The Board of Management is authorized, with the apNon-controlling interests proval of the Supervisory Board, to exclude subscription rights in Since April 1, 2016, non-controlling interests mainly include the certain cases, which are set out in further detail in the authorizainterest held by Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The tion. When deciding on the exclusion of stockholders’ subscription Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, in ARLANXEO. rights, the Board of Management will take into consideration that This global subgroup, whose parent company is ARLANXEO the issue of shares on the basis of other authorizations granted Holding B.V., Maastricht, Netherlands, is presented in full in the by the Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of May 13, 2015, for capital following tables as the individual companies are not material for measures under exclusion of the stockholders’ subscription rights the LANXESS Group. may only be used up to a maximum amount of 20% of the capital stock that exists at the time the resolution is passed. The Board of Data on the ARLANXEO Subgroup Management will be bound by this condition until a future Annual Stockholders’ Meeting again resolves to authorize the Board of Interest Held and Proportional Voting Rights Management to implement capital measures under exclusion of stockholders’ subscription rights. The authorization to issue bonds % 2016 2017 has not yet been utilized. Interest held 50 50 Proportional voting rights 50 50 Share buyback and retirement The Annual Stockholders’ Meeting of LANXESS AG on May 20, 2016, authorized the Board of Management until May 19, Data from Income Statement and 2021, to acquire shares in the company representing up to 10% Statement of Comprehensive Income of the capital stock and to utilize them for any purpose permitted by law. This authorization may also be utilized by subsidiaries of € million 2016 2017 Sales 2,087 3,244 the company or by third parties on behalf of the company or its Income after income taxes 6 78 subsidiaries. At the discretion of the Board of Management, such Other comprehensive income, shares may be acquired either on the market or via a public tender net of income tax 105 (193) offer. The Board of Management is authorized to use them for any Total comprehensive income 111 (115) purpose permitted by law, especially the purposes specifically Income after income taxes attributable to non-controlling interests 3 39 listed in the authorization. So far, no shares in the company have been purchased on the basis of this authorization. Capital reserves Data from Statement of Financial Position The capital reserves of LANXESS AG are unchanged from Dec. 31, Dec. 31, the previous year at €1,225,652,280. € million 2016 2017 Non-current assets 2,070 1,845 Other reserves Current assets 1,369 1,392 The €124 million increase in other reserves to €1,381 million Total assets 3,439 3,237 Non-current liabilities 347 365 is attributable to the increase in retained earnings from €1,098 Current liabilities 760 624 million to €1,222 million. Total liabilities 1,107 989 Retained earnings comprise prior years’ undistributed income Equity attributable to non-controlling interests 1,170 1,127 of companies included in the consolidated financial statements. Dividend attributable to non-controlling interests – 3 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Statement of F­ inancial Position 151 Data from Statement of Cash Flows Multi-employer plans The pension plan in Germany financed through Bayer-Pen€ million 2016 2017 sionskasse is also accounted for in the consolidated financial Net cash provided by operating activities 204 375 statements as a defined contribution plan. The above amounts Net cash used in investing activities (115) (139) include contributions of €26 million (previous year: €26 million) Net cash used in financing activities (63) (48) Change in cash and cash equivalents to Bayer-Pensionskasse. Contributions of about the same amount from business activities 26 188 are expected for the following fiscal year. Bayer-Pensionskasse is a legally independent private insurance company and is therefore subject to the German Insurance The other shareholder, Aramco Overseas Holding Coöperatief Supervision Act. Since the obligations of the participating entities U.A., The Hague, Netherlands, has protective rights in respect of, are not confined to payment of the contributions for the respective among other things, decisions on changes in the business model, fiscal year, Bayer-Pensionskasse constitutes a defined benefit equity, shareholder rights and the payment of a dividend. multi-employer plan and therefore would generally have to be accounted for pro rata as a defined benefit plan. Capital management Bayer-Pensionskasse is financed not on the principle of The main purpose of capital management in the LANXESS coverage for individual benefit entitlements, but on the actuarial Group is to maintain the long-term viability of the business equivalence principle, based on totals for the whole plan. This ­operations and achieve an attractive return on capital compared means that the sum of existing plan assets and the present value of with the chemical industry average. LANXESS’s financial policy future contributions must be at least equal to the present value of defines an additional condition for capital management, which is the future benefits payable under the plan. The LANXESS Group to maintain an investment-grade rating. To achieve this goal, the is therefore exposed to the actuarial risks of the other entities Group has to meet indicators set by the rating agencies. Most ­participating in Bayer-Pensionskasse. Thus no consistent or reliable of these are derived from the statement of financial position, the basis exists for allocating the benefit obligation, plan assets and income statement or the statement of cash flows. Details can be costs that would enable LANXESS to account for Bayer-Pensions­ found in the section headed “Value management and control kasse as a defined benefit plan in accordance with IAS 19. As system” in the combined management report for fiscal year 2017. contributions are based on future coverage of the total obligation, Capital management in the LANXESS Group entails decisions all participating entities pay contributions at the same rates based by the relevant internal bodies on the capital structure shown on the employee income levels on which social security contribuon the statement of financial position, the appropriateness of the tions are payable. Bayer-Pensionskasse is therefore accounted for company’s equity, the use of the distributable profit, the amount as a defined contribution plan and not as a defined benefit plan. of the dividend, the financing of capital expenditures, and thus on There are no minimum funding requirements, nor is there any issuances or repayments of debt. The articles of association of information that could be used to estimate the future contributions LANXESS AG do not contain any specific capital requirements. on the basis of current under-or overfunding. The statutes do not provide for the sharing of any surplus or shortfall in the event that Bayer-Pensionskasse is wound up or LANXESS ceases to 14 | P rovisions for Pensions and Other participate. Post-Employment Benefits LANXESS’s share of the total contributions to Bayer-Pensions­ kasse was unchanged from the previous year at approximately Most employees in the LANXESS Group are entitled to retire16%. Bayer-Pensionskasse has been closed to new members ment benefits on the basis of contractual agreements or statutory since January 1, 2005. regulations. These are provided through defined contribution or defined benefit plans. Defined benefit plans The global post-employment benefit obligations are calculated Defined contribution plans at regular intervals – at least every three years – by an independent In the case of defined contribution plans, the company pays actuary using the projected unit credit method. Comprehensive contributions into separate pension funds. These contributions are actuarial valuations are generally undertaken annually for all major included in the functional cost items as expenses for the respecpost-employment benefit plans. tive year, and thus in the operating result. Once the contributions Contractually based defined benefit pension plans exist have been paid, the company has no further payment obligations. ­primarily in Germany, Canada, Brazil, the U.S. and Great Britain. Payments to defined contribution plans in fiscal year 2017 totaled €50 million (previous year: €49 million). LANXESS Annual Report 2017 152 Consolidated financial statements The defined benefit pension obligations in Germany mainly The other post-employment benefit obligations primarily relate relate to lifelong benefits payable in the event of death or ­disability­ to the reimbursement of retirees’ healthcare costs in North and or when the employee reaches retirement age. Benefits are deSouth America. The other post-employment benefit obligations termined on the basis of the total annual pension increments in Germany comprise other long-term benefits payable to emearned during the period of employment and vary according to ployees and benefits payable upon termination of employment. employees’ individual salaries. Additional pension entitlements These are mainly early-retirement benefits and collectively agreed exist that are related to salary components set aside by employees salary components granted in the form of pension benefits. They and are payable when they reach retirement age. Alongside direct are included in pension provisions as they are by nature pension commitments, the pension adjustment obligation assumed by entitlements. Bayer-Pensionskasse is accounted for in a separate defined benefit Financing of the defined benefit pension obligations is plan in accordance with Section 16 of the German Occupational achieved both internally through provisions and externally through Pensions Improvement Act (BetrAVG). A new pension plan was legally independent pension funds. The pension obligations in agreed for employees joining from fiscal year 2017 in the form Germany are partly covered on a voluntary basis via LANXESS of a congruently defined benefit scheme which is funded on the Pension Trust e.V., Leverkusen, Germany. The allocation of funds to basis of life insurance policies. The employer’s obligation is fulfilled the LANXESS Pension Trust e.V. is dependent on future decisions by the payment of the contribution to the covering life insurance by the company. In Canada, Brazil, the U.S. and Great Britain, it is policies. The covering life insurance policies are carried as plan mandatory to primarily finance pension obligations through penassets via a CTA. sion funds. Allocations to pension funds in Canada, Brazil, the U.S. In Canada, the U.S. and Great Britain, the defined benefit and Great Britain are determined by the regulatory environments obligations comprise, in particular, lifelong pension benefits, which and the need to comply with funding regulations. Contributions are are payable in the event of disability or death or when the employee paid mainly by the employer. The investment strategy is determined reaches retirement age. The level of these benefits is determined principally by the LANXESS Corporate Pension Committee and is from the total annual pension increments earned during the period designed to protect the capital, optimally manage risks, take into of employment, depending on the employee’s individual salary account changes in pension obligations and ensure the timely and the actual date of retirement. The existing defined benefit availability of pension assets. At the regional level, the strategy is pension plans are closed to new members. In some of the closed generally directly coordinated and monitored by representatives pension plans, no new pension entitlements are accrued and the of LANXESS via the relevant committees of the pension funds or employees are transferred to a defined contribution plan. of LANXESS Pension Trust e.V., taking regulatory requirements In Brazil, the defined benefit obligations comprise lifelong into account. In Brazil, the investment of plan assets forms an benefits, principally in the event of death or disability or when integral part of the pension fund’s overall investment strategy and the employee reaches retirement age. The benefits are calcuis basically managed and supervised by the pension fund. On the lated according to the total annual pension increments earned basis of local regulations, the pension assets in Great Britain are during the period of employment and also depend on individual managed by external trustees in close coordination with LANXESS. salary, the number of years for which statutory social insurance Minimum funding requirements may have to be met for contributions have been paid, and comparable statutory pension ­defined benefit obligations in both Brazil and Canada. These benefits. The principal defined benefit pension plans are closed depend on the local regulatory framework and are reflected in to new members. additional pension provisions. Funding surpluses from defined Only limited defined benefit pension obligations exist on the benefit plans are recognized as receivables relating to pension basis of statutory regulations. These principally comprise obligaobligations to the extent that they can be used to reduce future tions to make a lump-sum payment if employment is terminated. contributions, taking into account the asset ceiling. Defined benefit The amount of this payment mainly depends on years of service pension plans with asset ceilings exist primarily in the U.S. and and final salary. Great Britain. The respective calculations are based on actuarial valuations. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Statement of F ­ inancial Position 153 In the reporting year, total expenses of €86 million (previous Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income year: €74 million) for defined benefit plans were recognized in Pension plans Other profit or loss and are split between the operating result and the post­employment financial result as follows: benefit plans € million 2016 2017 2016 2017 Return on plan assets excluding Expenses for Defined Benefit Plans amounts included in interest (5) 23 0 2 Pension plans Other Actuarial gains/losses from post­employment ­changes in demographic benefit plans assumptions (1) 2 0 1 2016 2017 2016 2017 Actuarial gains/losses from € million changes in financial ­assumptions (247) (37) (5) (4) Operating result Actuarial gains/losses from Current service cost 35 46 6 7 ­experience adjustments (17) (19) 1 0 Past service cost 1 1 0 – Changes in effects of the Gains/losses from settlements – – – – asset ceiling 41 (3) – (2) Administration expenses/taxes 0 2 0 0 Changes in effects of minimum Actuarial gains/losses from funding requirements 0 (11) – – changes in financial ­assumptions – – 0 0 Amounts recognized in other Financial result comprehensive income (229) (45) (4) (3) Net interest 28 25 4 5 Amounts recognized in profit or loss 64 74 10 12 The change in the net defined benefit liability for post-­ employment benefit plans is shown in the following table: Administration expenses in the operating result contain ­expenses from the investment of assets that are not directly Changes in Net Defined Benefit Liability ­attributable to the earning of income on plan assets. The costs of managing the plan assets that are directly attributable to Pension plans Other post­employment the earning of income on plan assets are recognized in other benefit plans ­comprehensive income. 2016 2017 2016 2017 € million The actuarial gains and losses relate to other non-current Net defined benefit liability, employee benefits or termination benefits that are included in January 1 1,091 1,129 124 120 pension provisions because they are by nature retirement benefits. Amounts recognized in profit or loss 64 74 10 12 The net interest is the balance of the interest expense from Amounts recognized in other compounding the defined benefit obligation, the interest expense comprehensive income 229 45 4 3 from changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum Employer contributions (234) (25) 0 0 funding requirements, and interest income from plan assets. Benefits paid (27) (32) (23) (23) The table shows the amounts recognized in other compreBusiness combinations 1 76 0 78 Other addition – 1 – – hensive income rather than profit or loss in the reporting year: Exchange differences 5 (12) 5 (13) Net defined benefit liability, December 31 1,129 1,256 120 177 Amounts recognized in the statement of financial position Receivables from pension obligations 0 (57) – – Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 1,129 1,313 120 177 Net defined benefit liability, December 31 1,129 1,256 120 177 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 154 Consolidated financial statements The expected cash outflows for employer contributions The other post-employment benefit obligations comprise and benefit payments in fiscal year 2018 are €26 million and €142 million (previous year: €67 million) for the reimbursement €62 million, respectively, based on year-end 2017 exchange rates. of health care costs and €50 million (previous year: €60 million) In the previous year, the expected cash outflows for employer for miscellaneous other benefit commitments. contributions and benefit payments in fiscal year 2017 were Actuarial gains and losses from changes in demographic €26 million and €51 million, respectively, based on exchange assumptions in the reporting year mainly resulted mainly in the rates at year end 2016. U.S. due to the application of the newly published and adopted The components of the reconciliation of the net recognized MP2017 mortality improvement tables, which assume lower future liability are explained in the following tables, which show the mortality improvement than in 2016. More up-to-date mortality development of the defined benefit obligation, the external plan tables were also used in Switzerland. The actuarial gains and assets and the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum funding losses from changes in demographic assumptions in the previous requirements and explain the major changes. year mainly resulted from changes in the law on early retirement The defined benefit obligation developed as follows: in Belgium. Remeasurements of the defined benefit liability due to changes in actuarial gains and losses resulting from changes in financial Changes in Defined Benefit Obligation assumptions are mainly attributable to changes in the discount Pension plans Other rates for defined benefit obligations in the main countries of post­employment benefit plans ­relevance for LANXESS. 2016 2017 2016 2017 In the reporting year, the past service cost for pension obliga€ million Defined benefit obligation tions related to early-retirement agreements, to improvements to Defined benefit obligation, existing benefit entitlements for employees taking early retirement, January 1 2,017 2,422 131 127 and to severance agreements. Current service cost 35 46 6 7 The effects shown under business combinations in the r­eportInterest expense 90 100 4 6 ing year result from the acquisition of the U.S. chemical ­company Actuarial gains/losses from changes in demographic Chemtura on April 21, 2017, and include benefit obligations for assumptions 1 (2) 0 (1) employees in Germany, Canada, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Great ­Britain, Actuarial gains/losses from the U.S., Switzerland and the Republic of Korea. In the previous changes in financial assumptions 247 37 5 4 year, the effects shown under business combinations included Actuarial gains/losses from experience adjustments 17 19 (1) 0 the acquisition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business Past service cost 1 1 0 – of the U.S. chemical company Chemours, which was closed on Employee contributions 2 2 – 0 August 31, 2016, and benefit obligations for employees in India Benefits paid (82) (116) (23) (24) and Switzerland. Business combinations 2 724 0 87 The exchange differences pertaining to defined benefit Other additions 0 1 – – ­obligations mainly resulted from changes in the exchange rates Administration expenses/taxes (1) 0 0 0 for the Canadian dollar, the Brazilian real, the U.S. dollar and the Exchange differences 93 (130) 5 (14) Defined benefit obligation, British pound. December 31 2,422 3,104 127 192 Of the defined benefit obligation for pensions, Germany a­ ccounts for 50% (previous year: 60%), Canada for 16% (previous year: 20%), Brazil for 11% (previous year: 15%), Great Britain for 10% (previous year: 0%) and the U.S. for 8% (previous year: 1%). LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Statement of F ­ inancial Position 155 The change in external plan assets is shown in the following The exchange differences pertaining to defined benefit table: o ­ bligations mainly resulted from changes in the exchange rates for the Canadian dollar, the Brazilian real, the U.S. dollar and the British pound. Changes in External Plan Assets Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling and minimum fundPension plans Other ing requirements are shown in the following table: post­employment benefit plans € million 2016 2017 2016 2017 Changes in Effects of Asset Ceilings and Minimum Funding Plan assets at fair value Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans Plan assets, January 1 970 1,304 7 7 Effects of the Minimum funding Interest income 67 75 0 1 asset ceiling requirements Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in interest (5) 23 0 2 € million 2016 2017 2016 2017 Employer contributions 234 25 0 0 January 1 33 0 11 11 Employee contributions 2 2 – 0 Additions from Benefits paid (55) (84) 0 (1) business combinations – 16 – – Business combinations 1 650 0 23 Interest expense 5 0 0 0 Costs of managing plan assets/ Additions (deductions) (41) 5 0 11 taxes (1) (2) 0 0 Exchange differences 3 (2) 0 (1) Exchange differences 91 (119) 0 (3) December 31 0 19 11 21 Plan assets, December 31 1,304 1,874 7 29 Changes in the effects of the asset ceiling mainly relate to the Of the plan assets, Canada accounts for 25% (previous year: British defined benefit pension plans of €5 million and the North 34%), Germany for 24% (previous year: 33%), Great Britain for American defined benefit obligations for other post-employment 20% (previous year: 0%), Brazil for 15% (previous year: 26%) and benefits of €14 million. In the previous year, the changes in the the U.S. for 11% (previous year: 1%). effects of the asset ceiling related to Brazilian defined benefit Employer contributions are used both for external funding plans. Changes in minimum funding requirements resulted from of pension obligations where LANXESS is eligible for reimburseCanadian defined benefit pension plans. ments of pension payments and for external funding of pension The fair value of plan assets comprises: obligations where subsequent pension payments will be made directly out of external plan assets. Breakdown of Plan Assets as of December 31 The latter type of obligations totaled €25 million (previous year: €34 million). External funding where LANXESS can assert € million 2016 2017 reimbursement claims mainly pertains to LANXESS Pension Trust Cash and cash equivalents 17 10 of which quoted in an active market 17 10 e.V. No additional funding was provided to LANXESS Pension Equity instruments 190 376 Trust e.V. in the reporting year. In the previous year, payments of of which quoted in an active market 131 372 €200 million were made. Government bonds 393 750 The effects shown under business combinations in the reportof which quoted in an active market 393 750 ing year result from the acquisition of the U.S. chemical company Corporate bonds 232 536 Chemtura on April 21, 2017, and include plan assets for employees of which quoted in an active market 197 514 in Germany, Canada, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Great Britain, the U.S., Investment funds 375 69 of which quoted in an active market 329 30 Switzerland and the Republic of Korea. In the previous year, the Real estate 32 33 effects shown under business combinations included the acquiof which quoted in an active market 0 12 sition of the Clean and Disinfect specialties business of the U.S. 68 Insurance contracts 81 chemical company Chemours, which was closed on August 31, of which quoted in an active market 1 6 2016, and plan assets for employees in India and Switzerland. Other 4 48 of which quoted in an active market 4 48 1,311 1,903 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 156 Consolidated financial statements The plan assets do not include any real estate used by the The Heubeck mortality tables 2005 G form the biometric company. Financial instruments owned by the company account basis for the computation of pension obligations in Germany. for approximately 2% (previous year: 3%) of the plan assets. Index Current national biometric assumptions are used to compute products could conceivably include LANXESS securities. benefit obligations at other Group companies. The following weighted discount rates were used to calculate A change in the principal valuation parameters would result in the defined benefit obligation and determine the pension expense: the following percentage changes in the defined benefit obligation: Discount Rates as of December 31 Sensitivities of Defined Benefit Obligations as of December 31 Pension plans Other Pension plans Other post­employment post­employment benefit plans benefit plans in % 2016 2017 2016 2017 in % 2016 2017 2016 2017 Discount rate 3.78 3.15 3.22 3.22 Discount rate Germany 2.00 2.00 0.20 0.22 +0.5%-pt. (7.9) (7.6) (3.5) (4.1) Canada 3.50 3.00 3.50 3.25 – 0.5%-pt. 9.0 8.7 3.8 4.5 Brazil 12.25 9.50 12.25 9.50 Expected salary increases U.S. 4.25 3.75 4.00 3.50 +0.25%-pt. 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 Great Britain – 2.50 – – – 0.25%-pt. (0.5) (0.3) (0.2) (0.2) Expected benefit increases +0.25%-pt. 4.5 3.6 – – – 0.25%-pt. (4.3) (3.4) – – The following weighted valuation assumptions were used for Mortality the other parameters: – 10% 2.7 2.1 0.8 0.6 Expected increases in medical costs Valuation Assumptions as of December 31 +1%-pt. – – 3.7 4.4 – 1%-pt. – – (3.5) (4.0) Pension plans Other post­employment benefit plans 2016 2017 2016 2017 The sensitivity of the mortality rates was calculated for the in % Expected salary increases 3.3 2.6 3.5 2.9 countries with significant pension obligations. A reduction in morExpected benefit increases 2.0 1.8 – – tality increases the individual life expectancy of insurees. A 10% Expected increases reduction would increase the average life expectancy of employees in medical costs – – 6.6 6.1 of retirement age in the countries of importance for LANXESS Expected long-term increases by about one year. in medical costs – – 5.2 4.7 Sensitivity is calculated by altering one parameter while leaving all the others unchanged. The method used is the same as for the actuarial valuation of benefit obligations. However, ­sensitivity The assumptions are weighted on the basis of the defined calculations depend on interest rate effects and the absolute b ­ enefit obligation at year end. The discount rates used for ­Germany, change in the parameter. Moreover, it is unlikely in practice that Canada, the U.S. and Great Britain are derived from high-­quality only one parameter would change, so the change in a parameter fixed-interest corporate bonds with the same ­maturities. In Brazil, could correlate with other assumptions. Where the expected however, there is no liquid market for such bonds so the disdevelopment of the parameter used in the sensitivity calculation count rate is based on those for government bonds with the same was based on a different variation in the parameter, the stated ­maturities. This method of deriving the discount rates is unchanged change in the benefit obligation was approximated using the from the previous year in the principal countries. straight-line method. The long-term cost increase for medical care is expected to take place within 10 years (previous year: 15 years). LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Statement of F ­ inancial Position 157 The weighted average duration of defined benefit pension Funded Status as of December 31 obligations was 17 years (previous year: 17 years). This figure Pension plans Other was based on weighted average durations of 20 years (previous post­employment year: 21 years) for Germany, 13 years (previous year: 13 years) benefit plans for Canada, 10 years (previous year: 9 years) for Brazil, 10 years € million 2016 2017 2016 2017 (previous year: 11 years) for the U.S. and 20 years (previous year: Funded status Defined benefit obligation for 0 years) for Great Britain. The weighted average duration of the funded plans 1,949 2,510 11 19 defined benefit obligations for other post-employment benefits External plan assets (1,304) (1,874) (7) (29) was 10 years (previous year: 9 years). Underfunding of funded plans 645 636 4 (10) The funded status is reported in the following table as the Defined benefit obligation for unfunded plans 473 594 116 173 underfunding or overfunding of the defined benefit obligation after Funded status, December 31 1,118 1,230 120 163 deduction of plan assets, without taking into account changes in the effects of the asset ceiling or minimum funding requirements. 15 | Other Non-Current and Current ­Provisions As of December 31, 2017, the LANXESS Group had other current provisions of €525 million (previous year: €406 million) and other non-current provisions of €460 million (previous year: €319 million). The maturity structure of other provisions is shown in the following table: Other Provisions Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 € million Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Up to 1 year 1–5 years Over 5 years Total Personnel 197 76 41 314 264 76 41 381 Environmental protection 22 30 76 128 32 64 131 227 Trade-related commitments 90 9 – 99 80 6 – 86 Restructuring 15 12 4 31 37 36 7 80 Miscellaneous 82 35 36 153 112 40 59 211 406 162 157 725 525 222 238 985 The total of other provisions increased from €725 million to €985 million in the reporting year. The changes in other provisions were as follows: Changes in Other Provisions in 2017 Jan. 1, 2017 Acqui­­Additions Interest Utilization Reversals Exchange Dec. 31, 2017 € million si­tions effect differences Personnel 314 75 261 2 (237) (18) (16) 381 Environmental protection 128 117 19 3 (16) (9) (15) 227 Trade-related commitments 99 1 42 0 (33) (22) (1) 86 Restructuring 31 0 70 0 (6) (5) (10) 80 Miscellaneous 153 83 52 2 (39) (29) (11) 211 725 276 444 7 (331) (83) (53) 985 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 158 Consolidated financial statements Personnel-related provisions If LANXESS stock outperforms the index, a payment of at Personnel-related provisions include particularly provisions least €0.75 per right is made. For each percentage point by which established for annual performance-related compensation and the stock outperforms the index, €0.125 is paid in addition. The multi-year compensation programs. maximum possible payment per right, however, is €2.00. Obligations arising from the stock-based compensation are Multi-year compensation programs valued on the basis of the following principal parameters: Stock-based compensation Principal Parameters as of December 31 LANXESS AG offers a stock-based compensation program to members of the Management Board and top-level ­managers. in % 2016 2017 The program provides for cash settlement. The two present LongExpected share price volatility 29.0 27.0 Term Stock Performance Plans (LTSP) were introduced in fiscal Expected dividend payment 2.0 2.0 Expected volatility of year 2010 and 2014. Under the LTSP 2010–2013 program inDow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM 18.0 18.0 troduced in fiscal year 2010, rights were granted for the years Correlation between LANXESS stock and 2010–2013. Awards are based on the performance of LANXESS Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM 65.0 67.0 stock relative to the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM Index. Expected volatility of MSCI World Chemicals Index 13.0 13.0 The LTSP 2014–2017 program introduced in fiscal year 2014 is Correlation between LANXESS stock and largely identical with the LTSP 2010–2013. The main difference MSCI World Chemicals Index 57.0 60.0 is that awards are based on the performance of LANXESS stock relative to the MSCI World Chemicals Index. The total term of all tranches in both programs is generally seven years. In fiscal year 2016, the exercise periods for the 2012 and 2013 tranches of The relevant risk-free interest rate in the reporting year was the LTSP 2010–2013 compensation program were extended by minus 0.34% (previous year: minus 0.65%). two years each, so the full term of these two tranches is now nine The expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility years. The base price of the stock and the benchmark index for the of LANXESS stock and the Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM LTSP programs are calculated using a volume-weighted average Index or the MSCI World Chemicals Index in the past four years. of the closing prices on the first ten trading days in January of the year of issue of the tranche. The date of issue of the rights granted and still outstanding and the rights from the outstanding tranches is February 1 each year. Participation in the programs is conditional upon each manager making a personal investment in LANXESS stock, depending on his/her base salary. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Statement of F ­ inancial Position 159 The following table provides information on the tranches outstanding as of December 31, 2017: Long-Term Stock Performance Plan  LTSP 2010 – 2013 LTSP 2014 – 2017 Tranche 2011 Tranche 2012 Tranche 2013 Tranche 2014 Tranche 2015 Tranche 2016 Tranche 2017 Duration 7 Years 9 Years 9 Years 7 Years 7 Years 7 Years 7 Years Vesting period 4 Years 4 Years 4 Years 4 Years 4 Years 4 Years 4 Years Lock-up period for personal investment shares Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2017 Jan. 31, 2018 Jan. 31, 2019 Jan. 31, 2020 Jan. 31, 2021 Initial L ­ ANXESS share price €55.60 €44.54 €63.25 €47.41 €35.04 €38.39 €64.84 Initial Dow Jones STOXX 600 Chemicals SM price 564.17 points 533.45 points 665.98 points − − − − Initial MSCI World Chemicals Index price − − − 238.07 points 254.06 points 233.45 points 276.04 points Fair value per right as of December 31, 2016 €0.10 €0.44 €0.30 €1.55 €1.86 €1.53 − Fair value per right as of December 31, 2017 €0.00 €0.35 €0.21 €1.49 €1.89 €1.48 €0.67 Change in number of outstanding rights Outstanding rights as of January 1, 2017 5,974,245 7,833,164 8,730,804 9,387,806 10,196,102 11,407,872 − Rights granted − 528,399 432,652 – – – 11,720,269 Rights exercised − − − − − − − Rights compensated 451,412 413,934 407,549 391,960 371,696 429,515 123,145 Rights forfeited 29,122 32,904 37,103 74,638 118,316 140,782 128,985 Outstanding rights as of December 31, 2017 5,493,711 7,914,725 8,718,804 8,921,208 9,706,090 10,837,575 11,468,139 LANXESS shares were trading at €66.29 at year end 2017. removing hazardous substances from the soil or groundwater on The Dow Jones STOXX 600 ChemicalsSM benchmark index stood its property or neighboring areas, or rendering them h ­ armless, at 949.33 points, while the MSCI World Chemicals Index was without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused 331.74 points. the presence of the contaminants, and often regardless of ­whether Due to the performance of the LANXESS share relative to the the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the benchmark and to the granting, settlement and forfeiture of rights, time they occurred. As many of LANXESS’s production sites have a net expense in fiscal year 2017 was €11 million (previous year: long history of industrial use, it is not always possible to accurately €22 million). A provision of €40 million existed as of December 31, predict the effects such situations may have on the LANXESS 2017 (previous year: €30 million). In the current fiscal year, as Group in the future. in the prior year, the rights exercisable as of the closing date had Since LANXESS is a chemical company, the possibility no intrinsic value. therefore cannot be excluded that soil or groundwater contamination may have occurred at its locations in the past. Claims in Environmental provisions this regard could be brought by government agencies, private The Group’s activities are subject to extensive legal requireorganizations or individuals. Such claims would then relate to ments in the jurisdictions in which it does business. Compliance the remediation of sites or areas of land owned by the LANXESS with environmental laws may require LANXESS to remove or mitGroup where products were manufactured by third parties under igate the effects of the release or disposal of chemical substances contract manufacturing agreements or where waste from proat various sites. Under some of these laws, a current or previous duction ­facilities ­operated by the LANXESS Group was treated, site owner or plant operator may be held liable for the costs of stored or disposed of. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 160 Consolidated financial statements Potential liabilities exist with respect to various sites under It is difficult to estimate the future costs of environmental legislation such as the U.S. environment law commonly known protection and remediation because of many uncertainties conas “Superfund.” At locations in the U.S., numerous companies, cerning the legal requirements and the information available about including LANXESS, have been notified that the U.S. authorities conditions in the various countries and at specific sites. Subject to or private individuals consider such companies to be potentially these factors, but taking into consideration experience gained to responsible parties under Superfund or related laws. At some sites, date with matters of a similar nature, we believe our provisions to LANXESS may be the sole responsible party. Remediation meabe adequate based upon currently available information. However, sures have already been initiated at most of the sites concerned. the possibility that additional costs could be incurred beyond the The existing provisions for environmental remediation costs amounts accrued cannot be excluded. LANXESS nevertheless relate primarily to the rehabilitation of contaminated sites, re-­ estimates that such additional costs, should they occur, would not cultivation of landfills, and redevelopment and water protection materially impact the Group’s earnings, asset and financial position. measures. The provisions for environmental remediation costs are stated at the present value of the expected commitments where Provisions for trade-related commitments environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable, the costs The provisions mainly relate to energy and waste disposal can be reasonably estimated and no future economic benefit services that have not been billed. They also comprise provisions is expected to arise from these measures. Costs are ­estimated for impending losses and onerous contracts. based on significant factors such as previous experience in s­ imilar cases, environmental assessments, current cost levels and new Provisions for restructuring circumstances affecting costs, our understanding of current enProvisions for restructuring totaled €80 million (previous vironmental laws and regulations, the number of other potentialyear: €31 million) on December 31, 2017, comprising €23 million ly responsible parties at each site and the identity and financial ­( previous year: €12 million) for human resources measures, position of such parties in light of the joint and several nature of €23 million (previous year: €14 million) for environmental prothe liability, and the remediation methods likely to be employed. tection measures and €34 million (previous year: €5 million) for demolitions necessary for fulfilling environmental obligations and other expenses. Miscellaneous provisions The miscellaneous provisions principally comprise provisions for onerous contracts and for other obligations. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Statement of F ­ inancial Position 161 16 | Other Non-Current and Current ­Financial Liabilities The following tables show the structure and maturities of other financial liabilities: Other Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2016 Current Non-current € million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 > 2021 Total Bonds – 499 – – 496 1,676 2,671 Liabilities to banks 44 – – – – – 0 Liabilities under finance leases 9 8 7 6 6 34 61 Other primary financial liabilities 25 0 0 0 0 2 2 78 507 7 6 502 1,712 2,734 Other Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2017 Current Non-current € million 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 > 2022 Total Bonds 500 – – 497 596 1,081 2,174 Liabilities to banks 89 – – – – – 0 Liabilities under finance leases 9 8 7 6 6 25 52 Other primary financial liabilities 35 0 0 0 0 16 16 633 8 7 503 602 1,122 2,242 In the LANXESS Group, the following bonds were outstanding The weighted average interest rate for the LANXESS Group’s on December 31, 2017: financial liabilities denominated in euros and other currencies at year end was 2.7% (previous year: 2.7%). Liabilities under lease agreements are recognized if the leased Bonds  assets are capitalized under property, plant and equipment as Issuance Nominal Carrying Interest Maturity the economic property of the Group (finance leases). Lease payamount amount rate € million € million % ments totaling €79 million (previous year: €92 million), including May 2011 500 500 4.125 May 2018 €18 million (previous year: €22 million) in interest, are to be made April 2012 100 100 3.500 April 2022 to the respective lessors in future years. April 2012 100 99 3.950 April 2027 Other primary financial liabilities include accrued interest of November November €35 million (previous year: €23 million) on financial liabilities, of 2012 500 496 2.625 2022 October October which €34 million (previous year: €23 million) relates to bonds. 2016 500 497 0.250 2021 Information on the fair values of financial liabilities and the October October contractually agreed payments, especially interest payments, is 2016 500 493 1.000 2026 December December given in Note [36]. 2016 500 489 4.500 2076 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 162 Consolidated financial statements 17 | Non-Current and Current Other Current Liabilities Income Tax Liabilities Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million 2016 2017 The non-current and current income tax liabilities comprised: Other tax liabilities 38 70 Payroll liabilities 38 24 Social security liabilities 26 23 Income Tax Liabilities Miscellaneous liabilities 72 62 174 179 Dec. 31, 2016 € million Non-current Current Total Provisions 31 39 70 Payables – 5 5 Other tax liabilities include not only Group companies’ own 31 44 75 tax liabilities, but also taxes withheld for payment to the authorities on behalf of third parties. Social security liabilities include, in particular, social insurance contributions that had not been paid by the closing date. Income Tax Liabilities The miscellaneous liabilities principally comprise accruals for Dec. 31, 2017 outstanding invoices relating to the reporting period. The liabilities € million Non-current Current Total to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, were less Provisions 119 51 170 than €1 million as of December 31, 2017, as in the previous year. Payables – 10 10 119 61 180 19 | Trade Payables The increase in provisions for income tax liabilities resultTrade accounts are payable mainly to third parties. As in the ed p ­ rimarily from the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group previous year, the entire amount totaling €1,048 million (previChemtura. ous year: €889 million) is due within one year. The year-on-year increase mainly results from the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. 18 | Other Non-Current and Current Trade payables of €108 million (previous year: €131 million) ­Liabilities relate to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity method, and its affiliated At year end the other non-current liabilities comprised: companies, while trade payables of €940 million (previous year: €758 million) relate to other suppliers. Other Non-Current Liabilities Dec. 31, Dec. 31, 20 | F  urther Information on Liabilities € million 2016 2017 Asset subsidies granted by third parties 81 68 Of the total liabilities, €1,132 million (previous year: Social security liabilities 5 4 Payroll liabilities 1 0 €1,716 million) have maturities of more than five years. Miscellaneous liabilities 6 27 93 99 The asset subsidies granted by third parties include government grants that are contingent upon the maintenance of ­employment or the use of assets for the company’s own production purposes over defined periods of time. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Statement of F­ inancial Position 163 Notes to the Income Statement NOTES TO THE INCOME STATEMENT 24 | R  esearch and Development Expenses The research and development expenses of €145 million 21 | Sales (previous year: €131 million) mainly include the costs incurred to gain new scientific and technical knowledge, expenses relating Sales, which amounted to €9,664 million (previous year: to the search for alternative products and production processes, €7,699 million), mainly comprise goods sold less discounts and and costs for applying the results of research. The increase mainly rebates. The year-on-year increase in sales mainly results from results from the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. A breakdown of sales and the change in sales by segment and region is given in the segment information (see Note [38]). 25 | General Administration Expenses The general administration expenses, amounting to 22 | Cost of Sales €382 million (previous year: €303 million), comprise costs not directly related to operational business processes and the costs for the country organizations. The increase mainly results from Cost of Sales the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. € million 2016 2017 Expenses for raw materials and merchandise 3,325 4,521 26 | Other Operating Income Direct manufacturing and other production costs 2,620 2,998 5,945 7,519 Other Operating Income € million 2016 2017 The year-on-year increase in the cost of sales mainly results Income from non-core business 73 80 from the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. The Income from the reversal of provisions 31 25 Exceptional items 6 11 manufacturing costs include, among other costs, those for perIncome from hedging with sonnel, depreciation, amortization, write-downs, energies, and derivative financial instruments 0 5 goods and services procured. The other production costs mainly Income from reversals of write-downs of r­ eceivables and other assets 4 4 comprise inventory valuation effects and inventory discrepancies. Gains from the disposal of non-current assets 2 3 Miscellaneous operating income 31 51 23 | Selling Expenses 147 179 Selling Expenses The exceptional items contain income from the reversal of € million 2016 2017 provisions, primarily for restructuring, established as ­exceptional Marketing costs 481 574 items in previous years. Based on economic relevance, they comOutward freight charges and prise €6 million (previous year: €5 million) allocated to the cost other selling expenses 300 379 of sales and €0 million (previous year: €1 million) allocated to 781 953 other operating income. They also included gains of €5 million (previous year: €0 million) from the sale of the U.S. subsidiary International Dioxcide Inc., North Kingstown (U.S.), which were The selling expenses mainly comprise those for the internal allocated to other operating income. and external marketing and sales organization, freight charges, warehousing, packaging and the provision of advice to ­customers. The year-on-year increase in selling expenses mainly results from the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura and to increased freight costs. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 164 Consolidated financial statements 27 | Other Operating Expenses 28 | Financial Result The financial result is comprised as follows: Other Operating Expenses € million 2016 2017 Financial Result Exceptional items 56 272 Expenses for non-core business € million 2016 2017 67 69 Write-downs of trade receivables Income from investments accounted and other current assets 4 6 ­ sing the equity method for u 0 0 Losses from the disposal of Interest income 9 8 non-current assets 1 4 Interest expense (72) (93) Expenses for hedging with Net interest expense (63) (85) derivative financial instruments 50 0 Interest expense from compounding Miscellaneous operating expenses 44 59 interest-bearing provisions (40) (37) 222 410 Net exchange loss (24) (34) Miscellaneous financial expense and income (5) 1 Dividends and income from other affiliated companies 7 46 In fiscal year 2017, the exceptional items primarily include Other financial income and expense (62) (24) costs of restructuring measures of €121 million to optimize the Financial result (125) (109) production network. This especially affected the Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, Netherlands, of the Additives business unit (Specialty Additives segment) and the Zárate site in Argentina of the Leather Interest expense includes in particular payments of bond business unit (Performance Chemicals segment). There were interest adjusted for capitalized borrowing costs of €3 million also exceptional items of €115 million for the strategic alignment. (previous year: €2 million). The interest portion of the lease payThis included exceptional items in connection with the purchase ments under finance leases, amounting to €4 million (previous price allocation and integration of Chemtura, the U.S. chemical year: €4 million), is included in interest expense. company. There were also exceptional items of €36 million for digitalization and other measures. Of the exceptional items of €272 million (previous year: 29 | Income Taxes €56 million), €219 million (previous year: €7 million) was ­allocable to the cost of sales in line with its economic relevance, while This item comprises the income taxes paid or accrued in €6 million (previous year: €3 million) was allocable to selling the individual countries, plus deferred taxes. Income taxes are expenses, €5 million (previous year: €2 million) to research and computed on the basis of local tax rates. development expenses, €42 million (previous year: €10 million) The breakdown of income taxes by origin is as follows: to general administration expenses and €0 million (previous year: €34 million) to miscellaneous operating expenses. Income Taxes by Origin € million 2016 2017 Current taxes (141) (267) Deferred taxes resulting from temporary differences 2 47 statutory changes in tax rates 0 (1) loss carryforwards (5) 20 Income taxes (144) (201) The actual tax expense for fiscal year 2017 was €201 million (previous year: €144 million). This was €96 million (previous year: €35 million) more than the expected tax expense of €105 million (previous year: €109 million). In calculating the expected tax expense for the LANXESS Group, the aggregated income tax rate of 32.3% (previous year: 32.3%) for the German tax entity was applied. This comprises a LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Income Statement 165 corporation tax rate of 15.0%, plus a solidarity surcharge (5.5% of The change in deferred taxes is calculated as follows: corporation tax) and trade tax. The reconciliation of the expected tax result to the actual tax Changes in Deferred Taxes result is as follows: € million 2016 2017 Deferred taxes, January 1 315 359 Reconciliation to Actual Tax Result Tax income/expense recognized in the income statement (3) 66 € million 2016 2017 Changes in scope of consolidation (15) (86) Income before income taxes 339 325 Deferred taxes recognized in other Aggregated income tax rate of comprehensive income 53 (1) ­L ANXESS AG 32.3% 32.3% Exchange differences 9 (9) Expected tax result (109) (105) Deferred taxes, December 31 359 329 Tax difference due to differences between local tax rates and the hypothetical tax rate (17) (11) Reduction in taxes due to tax-free income and reduction of tax bases 5 14 The deferred taxes recognized in other comprehensive taxes due to ­income comprised €11 million (previous year: €72 million) ­relating non-tax-deductible expenses (6) (29) to remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability for post-­ Unrecognized deferred taxes on tax losses (15) (19) employment benefit plans and minus €12 million (previous year: Other tax effects (2) (51) minus €19 million) relating to financial instruments. In addition, Actual tax result (144) (201) other comprehensive income contains current taxes of €2 million Effective tax rate 42.5% 61.8% (previous year: €2 million). The changes in the scope of consoli­ dation in the reporting year resulted from the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. The other tax effects of minus €51 million (previous year: miDeferred tax assets of €104 million (previous year: nus €2 million) result primarily from the “one-time” taxation of the €156 million), which exceed the reversal of taxable temporary retained earnings of foreign subsidiaries held by U.S. s­ ubsidiaries differences, relate to tax jurisdictions in which losses were recordas a result of the U.S. tax reform legislation passed in December ed in fiscal year 2017 or the previous year. LANXESS assumes 2017. that it will generate sufficient taxable income in the future to realize The deferred tax assets and liabilities are allocable to the the deferred tax assets. various items of the statement of financial position as follows: Based on tax planning calculations and strategies, deferred tax assets of €159 million (previous year: €67 million) were recognized on the €592 million (previous year: €237 million) in tax Deferred Taxes loss carryforwards that represent income likely to be realized in Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 31, 2017 the future. This amount included deferred taxes of €22 million DeDeDeDe(previous year: €35 million) on loss carryforwards with an un­ ferred ferred ferred ferred tax tax tax tax limited carryforward period. € million assets ­liabilities assets ­liabilities Deferred taxes were not recognized for €534 million Intangible assets 26 63 25 201 ­(previous year: €255 million) of tax loss carryforwards. Of this Property, plant and equipment 19 134 24 183 amount, €283 million (previous year: €130 million) can theoInventories 33 3 29 3 retically be used over more than five years. Further, deferred tax Receivables and other assets 15 20 34 25 assets were not recognized in fiscal year 2017 for tax-deductible Pension provisions 292 0 335 0 temporary differences of €139 million (previous year: €44 million). Other provisions 104 8 136 5 Accordingly, deferred taxes on loss carryforwards of €141 million Liabilities 32 1 23 19 Loss carryforwards 67 – 159 – ­(previous year: €67 million) and deferred tax assets on tax-de588 229 765 436 ductible temporary differences of €33 million (previous year: of which non-current 404 197 543 384 €16 million) were not recognized. Set-off (146) (146) (323) (323) 442 83 442 113 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 166 Consolidated financial statements 30 | Earnings and Dividend per Share OTHER INFORMATION The calculation of earnings per share for fiscal year 2017 includes only earnings from continuing operations and is based 32 | Employees on the weighted average number of shares outstanding in the reporting period. As of December 31, 2017, 91,522,936 shares The average number of employees in the LANXESS Group were outstanding. Since there are currently no equity instruments in 2017 was 18,527 (previous year: 16,642). The year-on-year in issue that could dilute earnings per share, basic and diluted in­crease in the workforce mainly results from the acquisition of earnings per share are identical. Further information on equity the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura. instruments that could dilute earnings per share in the future is contained in Note [13]. Employees by Function 2016 2017 Earnings per Share Production 12,406 13,787 2016 2017 Change % Administration 1,809 2,075 Net income (€ million) 192 87 (54.7) Marketing 1,837 1.994 Number of shares Research 590 671 ­outstanding 91,522,936 91,522,936 – 16,642 18,527 Earnings per share in € (­undiluted/diluted) 2.10 0.95 (54.7) LANXESS AG reported a distributable profit of €116 million 33 | Contingent Liabilities and Other for ­fiscal year 2017 (previous year: €332 million). The dividend ­Financial Commitments payment made to stockholders of LANXESS AG during the reporting year amounted to €0.70 per share (previous year: €0.60 Contingent liabilities result from guarantees and similar inper share). struments assumed on behalf of third parties. They represent potential future commitments in cases where the occurrence of certain events would create an obligation that was uncertain as of 31 | Personnel Expenses the closing date. An obligation to perform under such contingent liabilities arises in the event of delayed settlement or insolvency The breakdown of personnel expenses is as follows: of the debtor. Contingent liabilities as of December 31, 2017, amounted to €1 million (previous year: €1 million). There are no contingent Personnel Expenses liabilities relating to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, L ­ everkusen, € million 2016 2017 ­G ermany, which is accounted for using the equity method. Wages and salaries 1,168 1,302 As a personally liable partner in Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Social security contributions 194 236 ­Leverkusen, Germany, LANXESS may be required to inject further Retirement benefit expenses 92 111 capital into this company in the future. Social assistance benefits 13 14 In addition, other financial commitments also exist under 1,467 1,663 operating leases. As explained in the section on accounting policies and ­valuation principles, operating leases are those which – unlike Total personnel expenses rose in fiscal year 2017. This is finance leases – do not transfer substantially all risks and rewards mainly attributable to the increase in headcount in connection with incidental to the ownership of the leased assets to the lessee. In the the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura and to salary LANXESS Group, operating leases are mainly used for o ­ perational adjustments in 2017. The personnel expenses shown here do not reasons and not as a means of financing. contain the interest expenses for compounding ­personnel-related The minimum non-discounted future lease and rental provisions, especially pension provisions, which is reflected in the ­payments relating to operating leases totaled €315 million (prefinancial result (see Note [28]). vious year: €334 million). LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Income Statement 167 Other Information The respective payment obligations mature as follows: Transactions with Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method, and its subsidiaries mainly Maturity Structure of Lease and Rental Payments comprised the purchase of site services in the fields of utilities, Dec. 31, Dec. 31, infrastructure and logistics totaling €458 million (previous year: € million 2016 2017 €420 million). As of December 31, 2017, payables of €108 million Up to 1 year 57 64 1 to 2 years 50 54 (previous year: €131 million) and receivables of €3 million (pre2 to 3 years 43 44 vious year: €3 million) existed as a result of these transactions. 3 to 4 years 38 38 There were also payment obligations to Currenta GmbH & Co. 4 to 5 years 35 25 OHG amounting to €6 million (previous year: €8 million) under More than 5 years 111 90 operating leases and obligations of €0 million (previous year: 334 315 €6 million) under purchase agreements. Contingent liabilities relating to Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG are outlined in the previous section. Payments under operating leases in fiscal year 2017 amountInformation on the compensation of the Board of Management ed to €73 million (previous year: €61 million). Future lease and and Supervisory Board can be found in the next section. rental payments include agreements relating to the Group’s headquarters in Cologne and to the production site in Singapore. Other significant agreements relate to the global leasing of land, office 35 | Compensation of the Board of buildings and warehouses. In addition, rail tankers and tank con­Management and the Supervisory tainers are leased for transporting raw materials and goods. Board Financial commitments resulting from orders already placed under purchase agreements relating to planned or ongoing capital For fiscal year 2017, total compensation of €14,581 thousand expenditure projects in the area of property, plant and equip(previous year: €11,852 thousand) was paid to the members of ment and intangible assets totaled €118 million (previous year: the Board of Management of LANXESS AG, comprising €10,362 €110 million). All of these payments are due in fiscal year 2018. thousand (previous year: €7,545 thousand) in short-term compensation (fixed compensation, Annual Performance Payment (APP), Description of the master agreement benefits in kind and other), minus €86 thousand (previous year: Under the master agreement that was concluded between minus €147 thousand) in adjustments for previous years, and other Bayer AG and LANXESS AG together with the Spin-Off and Takelong-term compensation components totaling €2,721 thousand over Agreement, Bayer AG and LANXESS AG agreed, among (previous year: €1,857 thousand) as part of the Long-Term Perother things, on commitments regarding mutual indemnification formance Bonus (LTPB). The total also includes compensation for liabilities in line with the respective asset allocation and on paid under the stock-based Long-Term Stock Performance Plan special arrangements allocating responsibility to deal with claims (LTSP). A total of 1,740,000 compensation rights were granted in the areas of product liability, environmental contamination and to the members of the Board of Management for 2017 in the antitrust violations. The master agreement also contains arrangereporting year. In the previous year, a total of 1,740,000 compenments for the allocation of tax effects relating to the spin-off and sation rights were granted for 2016 and an additional 1,350,000 to the preceding measures to create the subgroup that was subcompensation rights each for 2012 and 2013. The fair value of sequently spun off. these rights at the grant date was €1,584 thousand (previous year: €2,597 thousand). Personnel expenses for the stock-based compensation programs amounted to €1,558 thousand in the 34 | Related Parties reporting year (previous year: €3,430 thousand). Details of the compensation system for members of the Board In the course of its operations, the LANXESS Group sources of Management and an individual breakdown of the compensation materials, inventories and services from a large number of business are given in the “Compensation report” section of the combined partners around the world. These include companies in which management report for fiscal year 2017. LANXESS AG has a direct or indirect interest. Transactions with these companies are carried out on an arm’s-length basis. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 168 Consolidated financial statements In addition, service costs of €1,509 thousand (previous year: 36 | Financial Instruments €1,173 thousand) relating to defined benefit pension plans were incurred in fiscal year 2017 for members of the Board of ManageThe “Opportunity and risk report” in the combined management as part of their compensation package. The present value ment report outlines the LANXESS Group’s risk management of the defined benefit obligation as of December 31, 2017, was system, including its objectives, methods and processes, and the €18,377 thousand (previous year: €16,033 thousand). material financial risks such as currency, interest rate, counterparty, The total net expense for the compensation of the members liquidity and raw material price risks. of the Board of Management in fiscal year 2017 was €16,064 The risk that the fair value or the future cash flows of a financial thousand (previous year: €13,858 thousand). The balances outinstrument could change due to fluctuations in market prices is standing to members of the Board of Management as of December described below for the three market risks: 31, 2017, totaled €17,991 thousand (previous year: €11,514 thousand), comprising provisions of €7,025 thousand (previous year: Currency risks €4,575 thousand) for the APP, €3,639 thousand (previous year: A hypothetical appreciation of 5% in the exchange rate of €2,612 thousand) for the LTPB and €7,327 thousand (previous the euro against the hedged currencies as of the reporting date year: €4,327 thousand) for stock-based compensation. would have altered the fair value of derivatives by €17 million Payments totaling €473 thousand were made to former (previous year: €14 million). This would mainly have affected members of the Board of Management in fiscal year 2017 (preother comprehensive income by increasing the reported gain vious year: €1,244 thousand) and related to pension benefits. The correspondingly. This effect mainly relates to the U.S. dollar. A total pension obligation toward former members of the Board of corresponding depreciation of the euro would have had basically Management as of December 31, 2017, was €34,828 thousand the opposite effect. (previous year: €34,497 thousand). The members of the Supervisory Board received total comInterest rate risks pensation of €1,883 thousand in fiscal year 2017 (previous year: Financial liabilities with variable interest rates are covered €1,879 thousand). This compensation is generally paid at the start by investments with short-term fixed interest rates from available of the following year. The provisions established for stock-based liquidity so the LANXESS Group will incur only slightly higher compensation for Supervisory Board members as of December interest costs if interest rates rise. A general change of one 31, 2017, amounted to €950 thousand (previous year: €600 percentage point in interest rates as of December 31, 2017, thousand). would have altered Group net income by €5 million (previous In addition, the employee representatives on the Supervisory year: €3 million). A change of one percentage point in interest Board who are on LANXESS’s payroll received remuneration rates on derivative forward interest rate contracts would also under their employment contracts. The amounts of these salahave altered the fair value of the derivatives by €10 million. This ries represented appropriate compensation for the employees’ would mainly have affected other comprehensive income by functions and tasks within the Group. increasing the reported gain correspondingly. There were no Details of the compensation system for members of the forward interest rate contracts in the previous year. ­Supervisory Board and an individual breakdown of the amounts paid are contained in the section headed “Compensation report” Raw material price risks in the combined management report for fiscal year 2017. A hypothetical increase or reduction in the hedged commodNo loans were granted to members of the Board of Manageity prices of 10% as of the reporting date would have increased ment or the Supervisory Board in fiscal year 2017 or the previous or decreased other operating income by €0 million (previous year. year: €0 million) as a result of changes in the fair value of ­hedging instruments. The following table shows the contractually agreed (undiscounted) cash flows for primary financial liabilities, the interest components thereof and derivative financial instruments: LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Other Information 169 December 31, 2016  € million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 >2021 Bonds (47) (570) (49) (49) (549) (3,003) of which interest (47) (70) (49) (49) (49) (1,303) Liabilities to banks (44) – – – – – of which interest – – – – – – Trade payables (889) – – – – – of which interest – – – – – – Liabilities under finance leases (13) (12) (10) (9) (8) (40) of which interest (4) (4) (3) (3) (2) (6) Other primary financial liabilities (25) 0 0 0 0 (2) of which interest (23) – – – – – Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (348) (89) – – – – Receipts 321 83 – – – – Other hedging instruments – Disbursements (964) 0 (14) – – – Receipts 941 0 10 – – – Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (11) (11) – – – – Receipts 18 12 – – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (1,358) – – – – – Receipts 1,420 – – – – – December 31, 2017  € million 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 >2022 Bonds (536) (49) (49) (549) (648) (2,355) of which interest (36) (49) (49) (49) (48) (1,255) Liabilities to banks (89) – – – – – of which interest 0 – – – – – Trade payables (1,048) – – – – – of which interest – – – – – – Liabilities under finance leases (13) (11) (10) (8) (8) (29) of which interest (4) (3) (3) (2) (2) (4) Other primary financial liabilities (35) 0 0 0 0 (16) of which interest (35) – – – – – Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (20) (4) 0 – – – Receipts 19 3 – – – – Other hedging instruments Disbursements (599) – – – – – Receipts 585 – – – – – Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting Disbursements (428) (155) (21) (3) (3) (5) Receipts 446 152 19 3 4 9 Other hedging instruments Disbursements (1,341) – – – – – Receipts 1,358 – – – – – The contractually agreed payments for other primary financial liabilities due within one year from the reporting date included accrued interest of €35 million (previous year: €23 million) that mainly related to bonds. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 170 Consolidated financial statements Carrying amounts, measurement and fair values of financial instruments The following tables show the carrying amounts of the­ i­ndividual classes of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values. The basis of measurement is also shown: Carrying Amounts, Measurement and Fair Values of Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2016 IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount ­c ategory Dec. 31, 2016 € million Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,088 Other financial receivables LaR 1,972 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 355 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 40 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 189 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 8 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 58 Embedded derivatives – – Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (2,671) Liabilities to banks FLAC (44) Trade payables FLAC (889) Liabilities under finance leases – (70) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (27) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (26) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (23) LaR Loans and receivables AfS Available-for-sale financial assets FAHfT Financial assets held for trading FLAC Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost FLHfT Financial liabilities held for trading LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Other Information 171 Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value ­according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2016 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other Fair value comprehensive income) (profit or loss) 1,088 1,088 1,972 1,972 355 355 40 40 10 179 189 8 8 58 58 – – – – – – (2,671) (2,827) (44) (44) (889) (889) (70) (74) (27) (27) (26) (26) (23) (23) LANXESS Annual Report 2017 172 Consolidated financial statements Carrying Amounts, Measurement and Fair Values of Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2017 IAS 39 measurement Carrying amount ­c ategory Dec. 31, 2017 € million Financial assets Trade receivables LaR 1,316 Other financial receivables LaR 25 Cash and cash equivalents LaR 538 Available-for-sale financial assets Near-cash assets AfS 50 Other available-for-sale financial assets AfS 10 Derivative assets Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – 27 Other hedging instruments FAHfT 23 Embedded derivatives – 2 Financial liabilities Bonds FLAC (2,674) Liabilities to banks FLAC (89) Trade payables FLAC (1,048) Liabilities under finance leases – (61) Other primary financial liabilities FLAC (51) Derivative liabilities Hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting – (3) Other hedging instruments FLHfT (11) LaR Loans and receivables AfS Available-for-sale financial assets FAHfT Financial assets held for trading FLAC Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost FLHfT Financial liabilities held for trading Fair value measurement of the bonds is allocated to Level 1 Carrying Amounts by IAS 39 Measurement Category of the hierarchy outlined in the section “Fair value measurement.” Dec. 31, Dec. 31, However, two bonds with a fair value of €239 million (previous € million 2016 2017 year: €244 million) are allocated to Level 2 of the hierarchy. The Loans and receivables 3,415 1,879 fair value of liabilities allocated to Level 2 is calculated using Available-for-sale financial assets 229 60 discounted cash flows and taking account of observed market Financial assets held for trading 58 25 interest rates. 3,702 1,964 Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost (3,631) (3,862) Financial liabilities held for trading (23) (11) (3,654) (3,873) LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Other Information 173 Measurement according to IAS 39 Measurement Fair value ­according to IAS 17 Dec. 31, 2017 Amortized cost Acquisition cost Fair value (other Fair value comprehensive income) (profit or loss) 1,316 1,316 25 25 538 538 50 50 9 1 10 27 27 23 23 – – – 2 – 2 (2,674) (2,855) (89) (89) (1,048) (1,048) (61) (67) (51) (51) (3) (3) (11) (11) Fair value measurement The measurement of fair value is based on a hierarchy reflecting the significance of the measurement inputs. The fair value measurement hierarchy for an asset or liability comprises three levels: Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities on the measurement date Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly Level 3 U nobservable inputs for the asset or liability LANXESS Annual Report 2017 174 Consolidated financial statements The following table shows the volumes of assets and liabilities The non-current derivative asset allocated to Level 3 relates that were measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of the end to a derivative not designated as a hedging instrument from a right of the reporting period and the levels of the fair value hierarchy into of use contract, which due to its economic characteristics is not which the measurement inputs were categorized. Reclassification closely related to the host contract. It is measured by way of an between the levels is reviewed as of each reporting date. There option pricing model, the principal parameters of which are the were no reclassifications in fiscal year 2016 or 2017. development of the underlying commodity price, the exchange rate and their correlation. The embedded derivative had a negative fair value of €4 million on initial measurement, of which €1 million Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value was amortized in the reporting period. Starting with a carrying Dec. 31, 2016 amount of €0 million as of January 1, 2017, total value increases € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 of €2 million recognized through profit or loss in production costs, Non-current assets so a carrying amount of €2 million is recognized as of the reporting Investments in other date of December 31, 2017. affiliated companies 2 – – The investments in other affiliated companies measured at Non-current derivative assets – 1 – fair value pertain to shares in the listed company BioAmber Inc., Other non-current Minneapolis, U.S. The line item “Investments in other affiliated financial assets – 1 – companies” in the statement of financial position also includes Current assets €9 million (previous year: €10 million) in non-listed equity instruNear-cash assets 40 – – ments, the fair values of which at the end of the reporting period Current derivative assets – 65 – could not be reliably measured and which are therefore recogOther current financial assets 176 – – nized at purchase costs. There are currently no plans to dispose Non-current liabilities of these investments. Non-current derivative liabilities – 7 – Offsetting of financial assets and Current liabilities financial liabilities Current derivative liabilities – 42 – Offsetting was not used for the financial assets and financial liabilities recognized in the statement of financial position. The ­following table shows how legally enforceable netting arrangeAssets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value ments impact, or could impact, the Group’s financial position: Dec. 31, 2017 € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Non-current assets Investments in other affiliated companies 1 – – Non-current derivative assets – 5 2 Other non-current financial assets – 1 – Current assets Near-cash assets 50 – – Current derivative assets – 45 – Other current financial assets 1 – – Non-current liabilities Non-current derivative liabilities – 2 – Current liabilities Current derivative liabilities – 12 – LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Other Information 175 Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2016 Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount of financial statement of financial position instruments € million Financial instruments Financial collateral Financial assets Trade receivables 1,088 (12) 0 1,076 Derivative assets 66 (13) 0 53 Financial liabilities Trade payables (889) 12 0 (877) Derivative liabilities (49) 13 0 (36) Offsetting of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities as of December 31, 2017 Carrying amount Related amounts not offset in the Net amount of financial statement of financial position instruments € million Financial instruments Financial collateral Financial assets Trade receivables 1,316 (3) 0 1,313 Derivative assets 52 (11) – 41 Financial liabilities Trade payables (1,048) 3 0 (1,045) Derivative liabilities (14) 11 – (3) Either contracting party may offset on a net basis the positive Net gains and losses principally comprise interest income and and negative fair values arising from past-due derivative asset or expense and realized and unrealized exchange gains and losses. liability contracts with the same counterparty. In addition, fees of €8 million were incurred in fiscal year 2017 (previous year: €13 million) in connection with financial Net results by category instruments. The following table provides an overview of the net results based on the measurement categories defined in IAS 39: Collateralization of financial liabilities There were no financial liabilities collateralized by mortgages or other property claims in fiscal year 2017 or the previous year. Net Results by IAS 39 Measurement Category € million 2016 2017 Mezzanine financing Loans and receivables (34) (102) Mezzanine instruments such as profit participation rights, Available-for-sale financial assets 7 43 convertible bonds or warrant bonds have not been issued. Assets and liabilities held for trading 27 127 ­Information on the possible issuance of such instruments is Financial liabilities measured at ­given in Note [13]. amortized cost (76) (137) (76) (69) LANXESS Annual Report 2017 176 Consolidated financial statements 37 | Notes to the Statement of Cash Flows investments in securities. In addition, there were outflows to money market funds of €10 million (previous year: inflows of €60 million). Explanation of the method used to calculate In the previous year, the inflows included the proceeds from the and present cash flows sale of shares in Elemica Inc., Exton, U.S., of €6 million. In fiscal For a general explanation, please see the comments on the year 2017, the acquisitions of the U.S. chemicals group Chemtura, statement of cash flows in the section headed “Accounting policies Middlebury, U.S., and of the biotech startup IMD Natural Solutions and valuation principles.” GmbH, Dortmund, Germany, resulted in cash outflows totaling €1,803 million, of which €1,785 million was attributable to the Inflow from operating activities acquisition of Chemtura less acquired cash and cash equivalents The net cash flows from operating activities are determined (previous year: €198 million to the acquisition of Chemours). by deducting the financial result, depreciation, amortization, writeThe sale of the U.S. subsidiary International Dioxcide Inc., North downs, reversals of impairment charges and non-cash items from Kingstown, U.S., resulted in inflows of €9 million. Cash inflows income before income taxes. A further adjustment is made for from interest and dividends received amounted to €56 million the change in other assets and liabilities. Income before income (previous year: €10 million). They primarily consisted of inflows taxes, which is the starting point for the statement of cash flows, from the profit transfer of €45 million from Currenta GmbH & amounted to €325 million (previous year: €339 million). It conCo. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using tains depreciation, amortization and write-downs of €638 million the equity method. In the previous year, they mainly comprised (previous year: €481 million). Income taxes paid in fiscal year interest income from short-term investments in Brazil. There were 2017 amounted to €183 million (previous year: €184 million). no cash outflows (previous year: €200 million) for external funding The change in net working capital resulted in cash outflows of of pension obligations (CTA) in fiscal year 2017. The net cash €72 million (previous year: €47 million). Taking into account the outflow for investing activities was €167 million (previous year: change in other assets and liabilities of €120 million (previous €2,879 million). year: €44 million), cash inflows provided by operating activities amounted to €868 million in the reporting year (previous year: Inflow from financing activities €689 million). The cash inflows from non-controlling interests relate to the payments from Aramco Overseas Holdings Coöperatief U.A., The Outflow from investments/investing activities Hague, Netherlands, a subsidiary of Saudi Aramco. In the reporting Purchases of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment year, these amounted to €18 million for the acquisition of shares led to cash outflows of €547 million in fiscal year 2017 (previous in ARLANXEO High Performance Elastomers (Changzhou) Co., year: €439 million). Cash inflows from investment grants reduced Ltd., Changzhou, China. In the previous year, they amounted to cash outflows for capital expenditures by €4 million (previous year: €1,194 million for the interest in ARLANXEO. €7 million). The cash inflows for financial assets in fiscal year 2017 The net repayment of borrowings of €375 million (previous mainly comprised €1,951 million (previous year: cash outflows year: €1,107 million net borrowing of bonds) was attributable to of €1,950 million) for money market investments and inflows of financial liabilities as follows: €175 million (previous year: cash outflows €175 million) from Reconciliation of Borrowings 2017 Dec. 31, Cash Non-cash changes Dec. 31, 2016 ­changes 2017 Acqui­ Divest­ Lease Exchange Interest Accrued sitions ments ­liabilities diffe­ effect interest new rences from comand other € million ­additions pounding changes Bonds 2,671 (390) 390 – – 0 3 – 2,674 Liabilities to banks 44 32 17 – – (4) – – 89 Liabilities under finance leases 70 (15) 0 – 5 (3) 4 – 61 Other primary financial liabilities 27 (2) 7 – – 0 – 19 51 2,812 (375) 414 – 5 (7) 7 19 2,875 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Other Information 177 The repayment of borrowings mainly related to the repayment Cash and cash equivalents of the bond acquired due to the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals Cash and cash equivalents, which comprise cash, checks company Chemtura of €390 million. and bank balances, amounted to €538 million (previous year: Interest payments and other financial disbursements account€355 million). In accordance with IAS 7, this item also includes ed for cash outflows of €84 million (previous year: €73 million). In securities with maturities of up to three months from the date of fiscal year 2017, cash outflows for dividend payments amounted acquisition. to €67 million (previous year: €55 million), €64 million of which to the stockholders of LANXESS AG (previous year: €55 million). A net cash inflow of €508 million (previous year: net cash inflow of €2,173 million) was recorded for financing activities. 38 | Segment Reporting Key Data by Segment Advanced Specialty Performance Engineering ARLANXEO Reconciliation LANXESS Intermediates Additives Chemicals Materials € million 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 External sales 1,742 1,970 841 1,604 1,301 1,438 1,056 1,366 2,710 3,230 49 56 7,699 9,664 Inter-segment sales 57 53 9 12 1 1 1 – 0 – (68) (66) 0 0 Segment/Group sales 1,799 2,023 850 1,616 1,302 1,439 1,057 1,366 2,710 3,230 (19) (10) 7,699 9,664 Segment result/ EBITDA pre exceptionals 326 335 151 267 223 252 159 219 373 385 (237) (168) 995 1,290 Exceptional items ­affecting EBITDA 2 (7) – (75) (3) (62) – (12) 2 1 (51) (63) (50) (218) Segment assets 1,149 1,437 522 2,516 1,230 1,216 710 1,164 3,016 2,744 124 143 6,751 9,220 Segment acquisitions – 64 – 1,616 200 30 – 334 – – – – 200 2,044 Segment capital ­expenditures 136 156 44 84 80 75 47 68 138 150 17 27 462 560 Depreciation and ­amortization 102 116 28 99 64 75 45 54 216 224 17 20 472 588 Write-downs 3 2 – 37 2 7 – 2 4 3 – 0 9 51 Reversals of impairment charges – 1 – 0 – – – – – – – – – 1 Segment liabilities 741 852 291 577 536 552 274 332 712 803 576 685 3,130 3,801 Employees (December 31) 3,335 3,661 1,507 2,936 4,074 3,880 1,583 1,976 3,463 3,447 2,759 3,129 16,721 19,029 Employees (average for the year) 3,349 3,590 1,497 2,575 3,993 4,006 1,574 1,870 3,521 3,444 2,708 3,042 16,642 18,527 2017 figures restated. Key Data by Region EMEA (excludGermany North America Latin America Asia-Pacific LANXESS ing Germany) € million 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 External sales by market 2,254 2,720 1,292 1,489 1,326 1,859 788 898 2,039 2,698 7,699 9,664 Non-current region assets 783 971 1,067 1,238 572 2,191 304 277 1,313 1,208 4,039 5,885 Acquisitions 102 393 2 80 95 1,391 – 14 1 166 200 2,044 Capital expenditures 96 138 212 235 74 97 31 39 49 51 462 560 Employees (December 31) 3,251 3,730 7,600 8,036 1,418 2,642 1,435 1,419 3,017 3,202 16,721 19,029 LANXESS Annual Report 2017 178 Consolidated financial statements Segment reporting Segments Activities The valuation principles applied in segment reporting corEngineering Materials The Engineering Materials segment combines respond to the uniform accounting policies and valuation princioperational business units which manufacture high-tech plastics and high-performance ples used for the consolidated financial statements prepared in composites using mainly continuous production accordance with IFRS. processes. The production includes technical Group structures were changed in fiscal year 2017 in plastics, glass fibers and fiber composites as well as elastomers on a urethane basis for applications connection with the acquisition of the U.S. chemicals group in the automotive and electrical/electronics ­Chemtura. The business with additives previously contained in industries, the construction industry, medicine, and the sports and leisure sectors. the Performance Chemicals segment is now reported together ARLANXEO The ARLANXEO segment comprises operational with the additives business newly acquired from Chemtura in the business units that manufacture synthetic rubbers Specialty A ­ dditives segment. The urethane systems business, primarily in continuous production processes. likewise acquired from Chemtura, was integrated into the former The product portfolio includes specialty rubbers for high-quality rubber products for use in High P ­ erformance ­Materials segment, which has been renamed automotive engineering, tires and construction. Engineering Materials. In addition, the acquired business with organometallics was incorporated into the Advanced Intermediates segment. The previous year’s figures have been restated accordingly. The reconciliation eliminates inter-segment items and ­reflects On December 31, 2017, the LANXESS Group comprised assets and liabilities not allocable to the core segments including, the following reporting segments: in particular, those pertaining to the Corporate Center. The reconciliation also includes Currenta GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, which is accounted for using the equity method (see Segments Activities Note [3]). Advanced Intermediates The Advanced Intermediates segment comprises The transfer prices used for inter-segment business transoperational business units that manufacture basic actions are calculated using the OECD rules as if they had been and fine chemicals using primarily continuous production processes. The business units also agreed upon between independent third parties in comparable manufacture precursors and intermediates for circumstances (arm’s-length principle). each other. The product portfolio includes highThe majority of employees reflected in the reconciliation grade intermediates for use by the agrochemicals and coatings industries, for example; fine provide services for more than one segment. They include techchemicals as precursors and intermediates nical service staff. for the pharmaceuticals, agrochemicals and specialty chemicals industries; customer-specific The reporting regions are those into which LANXESS’s activspecialties; organometallics; and tire chemicals. ities are organized: EMEA (Europe [excluding Germany], Middle Specialty Additives The Specialty Additives segment comprises East, Africa), Germany, North America, Latin America and Asia-Paoperational business units that manufacture additives in chemical production processes. cific. Regional sales are calculated according to the recipient’s The product portfolio includes additives for place of business. In fiscal year 2017, no individual customer of the rubber, plastic and paint industries, such the LANXESS Group accounted for 10% or more of Group sales. as lubricants, flame retardants, plasticizers and bromine derivatives for a variety of applications. The earnings indicator used for internal management purposPerformance Chemicals The Performance Chemicals segment comprises es in the LANXESS Group is the operating result before depreciaoperational business units that manufacture tion and amortization (EBITDA) pre exceptionals (see the section process and functional chemicals as well as specialty products using chemical production headed “Value management and control system” in the combined processes. The product portfolio includes management report for fiscal year 2017). This is disclosed as material protection products; inorganic pigments the “segment result.” The starting point for calculating EBITDA for the coloring of concrete, emulsion paints and other coatings; finishing agents for the leather pre exceptionals is the operating result (EBIT), which comprises industry; reverse osmosis membrane elements gross profit, selling expenses, general administration expenses, and ion exchange resins for water treatment; and disinfectant and hygiene solutions. research and development expenses and other operating income LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Other Information 179 and expenses. EBIT and EBITDA are alternative key financial ratios Reconciliation of Segment Results not defined according to the International Financial Reporting € million 2016 2017 Standards (IFRS). These are viewed as supplementary and not a Total segment results 1,232 1,458 substitute to the data prepared according to IFRS. EBITDA pre (481) Depreciation and amortization (639) exceptionals is calculated from EBIT before depreciation/reversals Reversals of impairment charges – 1 of property, plant and equipment, amortization and impairments Exceptional items affecting EBITDA (50) (218) of intangible assets, disregarding exceptional items. The latter Other financial income and expense (62) (24) are effects that, by nature or extent, have a significant impact on Net interest expense (63) (85) the earnings position, but for which inclusion in the evaluation of Income from investments accounted for using the equity method 0 0 business performance over several reporting periods does not Other/Consolidation (237) (168) seem to be appropriate. Exceptional items may include writeIncome before income taxes 339 325 downs, reversals of impairment charges or the proceeds from the disposal of assets, certain IT expenses, restructuring expenses and income from the reversal of provisions established in this connection, and reductions in earnings resulting from portfolio The reconciliation of segment results to income before income adjustments or purchase price allocations. taxes contains total exceptional items comprising net charges of In view of the Group’s central financial management, interest €261 million (previous year: €50 million) (see Notes [26] and [27]). income and expense and income tax income and expense are not These include exceptional items of minus €218 million (previous reported at segment level. year: minus €50 million) that affect EBITDA, write-downs of minus The negative exceptional items that affected EBITDA in fiscal €43 million (previous year: €0 million), and reversals of impairment year 2017 are mainly connected with the acquisition of the U.S. charges of €0 million (previous year: €0 million). chemicals group Chemtura, the bundling of the Group’s internaThe change in segment results in the reconciliation is mainly tional chromium value chain in South Africa and the associated due to lower expenses for currency hedges. ending of production at the Zárate site in Argentina as well as Information on equity-method income is contained in Note [3]. expenses relating to the consolidation of production of lubricant This mainly arises from the provision of site services by Currenta precursors and the intended discontinuation of production at the GmbH & Co. OHG, Leverkusen, Germany, and is not allocated Ankerweg site in Amsterdam, Netherlands. They are offset by among the segments. positive exceptional items of €5 million related to the sale of the U.S. subsidiary International Dioxcide Inc. at the North Kingstown Reconciliation of Segment Assets site in Rhode Island, U.S., of the Material Protection Products business unit. The exceptional items in the previous year mainly Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million 2016 2017 related to the strategic realignment of the Group. Total segment assets 6,627 9,077 The segment acquisitions include the acquired net assets 355 Cash and cash equivalents 538 including goodwill as of the acquisition date. Deferred tax assets 442 442 Capital expenditures made by the segments comprise Near-cash assets 40 50 ­additions to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment. Income tax receivables 74 67 All depreciation, amortization and write-downs in fiscal year Derivative assets 66 52 Other financial assets 2,149 27 2016 and 2017 were recognized directly in profit or loss. Other/Consolidation 124 143 Group assets 9,877 10,396 Reconciliation of Segment Sales € million 2016 2017 The segment assets mainly comprise intangible assets, propTotal segment sales 7,718 9,674 erty, plant and equipment, inventories and trade receivables. They Other/Consolidation (19) (10) do not include items such as cash and cash equivalents and deGroup sales 7,699 9,664 ferred taxes. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 180 Consolidated financial statements Reconciliation of Segment Liabilities 41 | Utilization of Disclosure Exemptions Dec. 31, Dec. 31, € million 2016 2017 In fiscal year 2017, the following German subsidiaries made Total segment liabilities 2,554 3,116 use of disclosure exemptions pursuant to Section 264, ParaOther financial liabilities 2,812 2,875 graph 3, of the German Commercial Code (HGB): Derivative liabilities 49 14 Income tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 75 83 180 113 ›› Bond-Laminates GmbH, Brilon Other/Consolidation 576 685 ›› IAB Ionenaustauscher GmbH Bitterfeld, Greppin Group liabilities 6,149 6,983 ›› IMD Natural Solutions GmbH, Dortmund ›› LANXESS Accounting GmbH, Cologne ›› LANXESS Buna GmbH, Marl ›› LANXESS Deutschland GmbH, Cologne The segment liabilities mainly comprise provisions, trade pay›› LANXESS Digital GmbH, Cologne ables and other liabilities. They do not include income tax liabilities ›› LANXESS Distribution GmbH, Leverkusen in particular, as well as derivative and other financial liabilities. ›› LANXESS Organometallics GmbH, Bergkamen ›› LANXESS OMS Holding GmbH, Bergkamen ›› Saltigo GmbH, Leverkusen 39 | Audit Fees Outside Germany, LANXESS Limited (registration no. In fiscal year 2017, total audit fees of €3,121 thousand (previous 03498959), Newbury, Great Britain, utilized the exemption from year: €4,110 thousand) for the auditor of the consolidated financial the auditing of its annual financial statements as permitted by statements of the LANXESS Group were recognized as expensSection 479A of the Companies Act 2006. As required by law, es. The total amount includes €2,436 thousand (previous year: LANXESS AG, as the parent company, guaranteed all outstanding €2,969 thousand) relating to the auditing of financial statements. liabilities as of December 31, 2017, with respect to Section 479C The previous year was influenced by audit services in connection of the Companies Act 2006. with the establishment of the ARLANXEO strategic alliance. The fees were mainly paid for the audit of LANXESS AG’s annual financial statements and of the consolidated financial statements including 42 | Events after the Reporting Period the early warning system and for the review of the condensed consolidated interim financial statements. €215 thousand (previous On February 7, 2018, LANXESS acquired a production site year: €245 thousand) related to other services related to other in Charleston, U.S., from the Belgian chemicals group Solvay. The audit-related services, primarily services in connection with susnew site manufactures phosphorous chemicals and numerous detainability reporting and other services for audit certificates. €470 rived products such as flame retardant additives and intermediates thousand (previous year: €896 thousand) related to other services. for agrochemicals. The six production lines augment the global They largely include services from IT service provider PwC Cundus production network for phosphorousand bromine-based flame AG, a company affiliated with the auditor, totaling €200 thousand retardants, especially on the U.S. market. The preliminary purchase (previous year: €735 thousand). The fees for financial statements price of around €55 million was paid out of existing liquidity. The audit services comprise all fees, including incidental expenses, paid business with phosphorous additives generates annual sales of or to be paid for the audits of the consolidated financial statements €65 million and employs around 90 people. of the LANXESS Group and the financial statements of LANXESS No other events of particular significance took place after AG and its German subsidiaries. December 31, 2017, that could be expected to have a material effect on the earnings, asset and financial position of the LANXESS Group or LANXESS AG. 40 | D  eclaration of Compliance Pursuant to Section 161 of the Stock Corporation Act The Declaration of Compliance with the German Corporate Governance Code has been issued by the Board of Management and Supervisory Board pursuant to Section 161 of the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and made available to stockholders on the LANXESS website. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Other Information 181 Responsibility Statement Responsibility Statement To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable financial reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the earnings, asset and financial position of the Group, and the combined management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the LANXESS Group and LANXESS AG. Cologne, February 28, 2018 LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft The Board of Management Matthias Zachert Michael Pontzen Dr. Rainier van Roessel Dr. Hubert Fink Stephen C. Forsyth LANXESS Annual Report 2017 182 Consolidated financial statements Independent Auditor’s Report “To LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne Pursuant to § 322 Abs. 3 Satz [sentence] 1 HGB, we declare that our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements and of the REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE combined Group management report. ­CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OF THE COMBINED GROUP MANAGEBasis for the Audit Opinions MENT REPORT We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements and of the combined Group management report Audit Opinions in ­accordance with § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation We have audited the consolidated financial statements of (No. 537/2014, referred to subsequently as “EU Audit RegulaLANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne, and its subsidiaries (the tion”) and in compliance with German Generally Accepted StanGroup), which comprise the statement of financial position as at dards for Financial Statement Audits promulgated by the Institut December 31, 2017, and the statement of comprehensive income, der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors in Germany] statement of profit or loss, statement of changes in equity and (IDW). Our responsibilities under those requirements and prinstatement of cash flows for the financial year from January 1 to Deciples are further described in the “Auditor’s Responsibilities for cember 31, 2017, and notes to the financial statements, including the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements and of the a summary of significant accounting policies. In addition, we have Combined Group Management Report” section of our auditor’s audited the Group management report of LANXESS Aktiengereport. We are independent of the Group entities in accordance sellschaft, which is combined with the company’s management with the requirements of European law and German commercial report, for the financial year from January 1 to December 31, 2017. and professional law, and we have fulfilled our other German proWe have not audited the content of the statement on corporate fessional responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. governance pursuant to § [Article] 289f HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch: In addition, in accordance with Article 10 (2) point (f) of the EU German Commercial Code] and § 315d HGB in accordance with Audit Regulation, we declare that we have not provided non-audit the German legal requirements. services prohibited under Article 5 (1) of the EU Audit Regulation. In our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the audit, and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions on the ›› the accompanying consolidated financial statements comply, consolidated financial statements and on the combined Group in all material respects, with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, management report. and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315e Abs. [paragraph] 1 HGB and, in compliKey Audit Matters in the Audit of the ance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of the ­Consolidated Financial Statements assets, liabilities, and financial position of the Group as at Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional December 31, 2017, and of its financial performance for the judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolifinancial year from January 1 to December 31, 2017, and dated financial statements for the financial year from January 1 ›› the accompanying combined Group management report to December 31, 2017. These matters were addressed in the as a whole provides an appropriate view of the Group’s pocontext of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a sition. In all material respects, this combined Group manwhole, and in forming our audit opinion thereon; we do not provide agement report is consistent with the consolidated finana separate audit opinion on these matters. cial statements, complies with German legal requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Our audit opinion on the combined Group management report does not cover the content of the statement on corporate governance referred to above. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditor’s Report 183 In our view, the matters of most significance in our audit 2 As part of our audit, we reviewed the methodology emwere as follows: ployed for the purposes of performing the impairment test, among 1 Goodwill impairment other things. We assessed the appropriateness of the future cash 2 Pension provisions inflows used in the measurement, among other things by com3 Acquisition of Chemtura paring this data with the current budgets in the five-year plan approved by management, and reconciling it against general and Our presentation of these key audit matters has been sector-specific market expectations. We also assessed whether the ­structured in each case as follows: basis for including the costs of Group functions was accurate. With 1 Matter and issue the knowledge that even relatively small changes in the discount 2 Audit approach and findings rate applied can have material effects on the value of the entity 3 Reference to further information calculated in this way, we also included in our review the para­ meters used to determine the discount rate applied, including the Hereinafter we present the key audit matters: weighted average cost of capital, and evaluated the measurement model. Furthermore, we reviewed the sensitivity analysis carried 1 Goodwill impairment out by the company and additionally performed our own sensitivity 1 Goodwill of €855 million (8% of consolidated total assets analysis for the cash-generating units and, taking into account the or 25% of Group equity) is reported under the “Goodwill” balance information available, determined that the carrying amounts of sheet item in the company’s consolidated financial statements. the cash-generating units, including the allocated goodwill, were The company allocates goodwill to the respective cash-genadequately covered by the discounted future cash flows. Overall, erating units. Goodwill is tested for impairment once a year, unless the measurement inputs and assumptions used by management events or a change in circumstances indicates any sooner that are in line with our expectations and are also within the ranges goodwill may be impaired. The carrying amount of the relevant considered by us to be reasonable. cash-generating units, including goodwill, is compared with the corresponding recoverable amount in the context of the impair3 The company’s disclosures on goodwill are contained in ment test. The recoverable amount is always calculated on the the sections entitled “Intangible as-sets,” “Method and impact of basis of fair value less costs to sell. The present value of the future the global impairment tests,” and “Judgments and estimates” in cash flows from the respective cash-generating units normally the notes to the consolidated financial statements. serves as the basis of measurement. Present values are calculated using discounted cash flow models. The discounted cash 2 Pension provisions flow models are based on cash flow projections, which in turn 1 Pension provisions amounting to €1,313 million are reare based on the five-year plan approved by management and ported in the consolidated financial statements of the company applicable at the time the impairment test is carried out. The future under the balance sheet item “Provisions for pensions and similar net cash flows are dis-counted using a weighted cost of capital. obligations.” The pension provisions comprise mainly obligations The impairment test determined that no impairment losses had from defined benefit pension plans and plan assets. to be recognized. Obligations under defined benefit plans are measured using This matter was of particular significance to our audit, because the projected unit credit method. This requires assumptions to be the result of this measurement depends to a large extent on the made in particular about long-term rates of growth in salaries and Company's management's assessment of future cash inflows, the pensions, average life expectancy, and staff turnover. Furthermore, discount rate used, the growth rates assumed, and other assumpthe discount rate applied as of the balance sheet date must be tions made and is therefore subject to considerable uncertainty. determined by reference to market yields on high-quality corporate bonds with matching currencies and terms which are consistent with the expected maturities of the obligations. This usually requires the data to be extrapolated, since no sufficiently long-term corporate bonds exist. The plan assets are measured at fair value. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 184 Consolidated financial statements From our point of view, these matters were of particular im2 As part of our audit, we closely examined the contractual portance in the context of our audit because the recognition and arrangements for the acquisition, among other things. measurement of this item – which is significant in terms of its Based on that, we reviewed the opening balance sheet underamount – are based to a large extent on estimates and assumptions lying the acquisition. A valuation report was available to us for the made by the company’s management. purchase price allocation performed in accordance with IFRS 3, and we assessed this report accordingly. Given the specific mea2 Our audit included evaluating the actuarial expert reports surement peculiarities, we received assistance from our valuation obtained and the professional qualifications of the external experts. specialists. They assessed the appropriateness of, among other We also examined the specific features of the actuarial calculathings, the valuation methods on which the valuations were based tions and reviewed the numerical data, the actuarial parameters as well as the valuation parameters used. We also verified the acand the valuation methods on which the valuations were based counting treatment of the acquisition and assessed the disclosures for compliance with standards and appropriateness, in addition in the notes to the financial statements required under IFRS 3. to other procedures. In addition, we analyzed the changes in the Based on our audit procedures, we satisfied ourselves that, obligation and the cost components in accordance with actuarial considering the information available, the acquisition has been expert reports in the light of changes occurring in the valuation correctly presented overall. parameters and the numerical data, and verified their plausibility. For the purposes of our audit of the fair value of plan assets, we 3 The company’s disclosures relating to the accounting obtained bank confirmations. treatment of the acquisition are contained in the section entitled Based on our audit procedures, we satisfied ourselves that the “Acquisitions” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. estimates and assumption made by management were justified and adequately documented. Other Information The executive directors are responsible for the other informa3 The disclosures on the provisions for pensions can be tion. The other information comprises the statement on corporate found in the section entitled “Pension provisions and similar obgovernance pursuant to § 289f HGB and § 315d HGB. ligations” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The other information comprises further the remaining parts of the annual report – excluding cross-references to external infor3 Acquisition of Chemtura mation – with the exception of the audited consolidated financial 1 On April 21, 2017, LANXESS AG acquired the U.S. statements, the audited combined Group management report company Chemtura. The total purchase price for the acquisition and our auditor’s report, and the separate Non-financial report was €2,014 million. The company financed the purchase price pursuant to § 289b Abs. 3 HGB and § 315b Abs. 3 HGB. through corporate bonds issued in advance and through liquid Our audit opinions on the consolidated financial statements assets available. and on the combined Group management report do not cover The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination the other information, and consequently we do not express an using the acquisition method in accordance with IFRS 3. During audit opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion thereon. the purchase price allocation, the identified assets and assumed In connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read the liabilities of the company acquired were recognized at their fair other information and, in so doing, to consider whether the other values. The purchase price allocation was performed on the basis information of the information currently available. Taking into account the ›› is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial acquired net assets of €1,331 million that are to be allocated to ­statements, with the Group management report or our the company, the acquired goodwill amounted to €683 million. ­knowledge obtained in the audit, or In view of the material total impact that the acquisition had ›› otherwise appears to be materially misstated. on the amounts of net assets, financial position, and results of operations of the LANXESS Group and given the complexity of measuring the acquisition, this matter was of particular importance in the context of our audit. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Independent Auditor’s Report 185 Responsibilities of the Executive Directors and Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the the Supervisory Board for the Consolidated Consolidated Financial Statements and of the Financial Statements and the Combined Group Combined Group Management Report Management Report Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about The executive directors are responsible for the preparation of whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free the consolidated financial statements that comply, in all material from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and respects, with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the additional whether the combined Group management report as a whole requirements of German commercial law pursuant to § 315e provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position and, in all Abs. 1 HGB and that the consolidated financial statements, in material respects, is consistent with the consolidated financial compliance with these requirements, give a true and fair view of statements and the knowledge obtained in the audit, complies the assets, liabilities, financial position, and financial performance with the German legal requirements and appropriately presents of the Group. In addition, the executive directors are responsible the opportunities and risks of future development, as well as to for such internal control as they have determined necessary to issue an auditor’s report that includes our audit opinions on the enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that consolidated financial statements and on the combined Group are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. management report. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is ­executive directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s ability not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with to continue as a going concern. They also have the responsibility § 317 HGB and the EU Audit Regulation and in compliance with for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern. In German Generally Accepted Standards for Financial Statement addition, they are responsible for financial reporting based on the Audits promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (IDW) going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to will always detect a material misstatement. Misstatements can liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individalternative but to do so. ually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to Furthermore, the executive directors are responsible for the influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of preparation of the combined Group management report that, as these consolidated financial statements and this combined Group a whole, provides an appropriate view of the Group’s position management report. and is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated We exercise professional judgment and maintain professional financial statements, complies with German legal requirements, skepticism throughout the audit. We also: and appropriately presents the opportunities and risks of future ›› Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of development. In addition, the executive directors are responsible the consolidated financial statements and of the combined for such arrangements and measures (systems) as they have Group management report, whether due to fraud or error, ­considered necessary to enable the preparation of a combined ­design and perform audit procedures responsive to those Group management report that is in accordance with the applicarisks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and approble German legal requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient priate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. The risk of appropriate evidence for the assertions in the combined Group not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is management report. higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve The supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, Group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of the or the override of internal control. consolidated financial statements and of the combined Group ›› Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the management report. audit of the consolidated financial statements and of arrangements and measures (systems) relevant to the audit of the combined Group management report in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an audit opinion on the effectiveness of these systems. ›› Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used by the executive directors and the reasonableness of estimates made by the executive directors and related disclosures. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 186 Consolidated financial statements ›› Conclude on the appropriateness of the executive directors’ We also provide those charged with governance with a use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on statement that we have complied with the relevant independence the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertain­requirements, and communicate with them all relationships and ty exists related to events or conditions that may cast signifiother matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our cant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going conindependence, and where applicable, the related safeguards. cern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are From the matters communicated with those charged with required to draw attention in the auditor’s report to the relatgovernance, we determine those matters that were of most siged disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and nificance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of in the combined Group management report or, if such disthe current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We closures are inadequate, to modify our respective audit opindescribe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or reguions. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence oblation precludes public disclosure about the matter. tained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to be able to continue as a going concern. OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY ›› Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of ­REQUIREMENTS the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements Further Information pursuant to Article 10 present the underlying transactions and events in a manner of the EU Audit Regulation that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair We were elected as Group auditor by the annual general view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and financial meeting on May 26, 2017. We were engaged by the Supervisory performance of the Group in compliance with IFRSs as Board on November 14, 2017. We have been the Group auditor of adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of the LANXESS Aktiengesellschaft, Cologne, without interruption German commercial law pursuant to § 315e Abs. 1 HGB. since the financial year 2005. ›› Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the We declare that the audit opinions expressed in this auditor’s ­financial information of the entities or business activities report are consistent with the additional report to the audit com­within the Group to express audit opinions on the consolidatmittee pursuant to Article 11 of the EU Audit Regulation (long-form ed financial statements and on the combined Group manaudit report). agement report. We are responsible for the direction, super­ vision and performance of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinions. GERMAN PUBLIC AUDITOR ›› Evaluate the consistency of the combined Group manageRESPONSIBLE FOR THE ENGAGEMENT ment report with the consolidated financial statements, its conformity with German law, and the view of the Group’s The German Public Auditor responsible for the engagement ­position it provides. is Jörg Sechser. ›› Perform audit procedures on the prospective information presented by the executive directors in the combined Group Cologne, March 2, 2018 management report. On the basis of sufficient appropriate audit evidence, we evaluate, in particular, the significant asPricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH sumptions used by the executive directors as a basis for the Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft prospective information, and evaluate the proper derivation of the prospective information from these assumptions. We Bernd Boritzki Jörg Sechser do not express a separate audit opinion on the prospective German Public Auditor German Public Auditor” information and on the assumptions used as a basis. There is a substantial unavoidable risk that future events will differ ­materially from the prospective information. We communicate with those charged with governance ­regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 FURTHER INFORMATION 188 About this Report 190 Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report 192 GRI Content Index 199 Glossary 203 Financial Calendar/Contacts 188 FURTHER INFORMATION About This Report REPORTING METHODOLOGY DATA COLLECTION This report combines financial and sustainability reporting by The reporting period is 2017. In compiling the data, we apthe LANXESS Group. It is aligned to national and i­nternational plied the principles of balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, standards for financial and sustainability ­reporting, ­especially clarity and reliability. The report covers the Group companies that the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), ­G erman are included in the consolidated financial statements. accounting standards (DRS) and the principles of the U.N. ­Global For disclosure of HR data, LANXESS uses a global reporting Compact. In addition, the report complies with the GRI G4 system that contains the key employee data for the entire Group guidelines and is produced in accordance with the core option. (including former Chemtura employees). This ­report contains information according to the transparency We use electronic data capture systems for the systematic ­r­­equirements of the U.K. Modern S ­ lavery Act. The complete global recording of key performance indicators (KPIs) in the areas “­Slavery and human trafficking statement” can be viewed on the of safety and environmental protection. The two performance British LANXESS Website in section Corporate Responsibility indicators we use to measure occupational safety – the lost time under Commitment to human rights. injury frequency rate (LTIFR, known as MAQ in Germany) and the Reporting is performed annually. The last report for fiscal recordable incident rate (RIR) – apply to all sites. Environmental year 2016 was published in March 2017. protection data are gathered only at those production sites in which the company has a holding of more than 50%. As LANXESS has an interest of 50% in ARLANXEO, the latter continues to be reflected NON-FINANCIAL REPORTING in the LANXESS consolidated financial statements and will be consolidated from fiscal year 2016 to 2018; the environmental The Supervisory Board examined and approved the non-­ data pertaining to the ARLANXEO sites will continue to be ­included financial consolidated report of the LANXESS Group ­prescribed in our key data for this period. With regard to the collection of according to Sections 289c and 315c of the German ­Commercial emissions data, we have taken into account the recommendations Code (CSR Directive Implementation Act). The Non-­financial of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) and the Inter­Report can be found on the LANXESS website in section national Energy Agency (IEA). To ensure the quality of the data, ­Investor ­Relations under Corporate Governance. The non-finanPricewaterhouseCoopers has audited selected indicators with cial c­ onsolidated report was audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers limited assurance. These are identified accordingly in the report. GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft with limited a­ ssurance. In the case of other indicators which do not refer to the The corresponding content is identified with a dashed line in the LANXESS Group, the areas of scope are explicitly defined in the CR chapter of this annual report. report. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 About This Report 189 KEY REPORT CONTENT The content of the report for fiscal year 2017 is based on a materiality analysis performed in the 4th quarter of 2017. All key issues identified are described in detail in this report. The following table identifies the boundaries between the key issues and the GRI aspects they cover. Boundaries Key Issues Within the Organization Outside the Organization GRI Aspects Advanced Intermediates/Specialty Suppliers Custo­ Society Additives/Performance Chemicals/ mers Engineering Materials/ARLANXEO Good Corporate Governance X X X X Compliance in the categories Environmental, Society and Product Responsibility; Grievance Mechanisms in Respect of Labor Practices, Human Rights, Impacts on Society and the Environment; Customer Health and Safety; Product and Service Labeling; Marketing Communications; Customer Privacy; Anti-competitive Behavior; Anti-­c orruption; Investment; Non-discrimination; Child Labor; Forced or Compulsory Labor; Security Practices; Indigenous Rights; Assessment; Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Energized Employees and X X Employment, Labor/Management Relations; OccuPerforming Teams pational Health and Safety; Training and Education, Diversity and Equal Opportunity; Equal Remuneration for Women and Men; Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Resilient Sourcing X X Procurement, Supplier Environmental Assessment, Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, Supplier Human Rights Assessment, Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Safe and Sustainable Sites X X Water; Effluents and Waste Climate Action and X X X X Energy, Emissions; Transport Energy Efficiency Sustainable Product Portfolio X X X Products and Services; Customer Health and Safety; Product and Service Labeling Valuing Customer Relations X X Business-Driven Innovation X X Products and Services LANXESS Annual Report 2017 190 FURTHER INFORMATION Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report INDEPENDENT PRACTITIONER’S circumstances. Furthermore, the executive directors are respon­REPORT ON A LIMITED ASSURANCE sible for such internal control as they have considered necessary ENGAGEMENT ON NON-FINANCIAL to enable the preparation of a Non-financial Report that is free from REPORTING1) material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. LANXESS AG, Cologne, prepared a separate non-financial group report pursuant to § (Article) 315b Abs. (paragraph) 3 HGB Independence and Quality Control (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Code”) for the periof the Audit Firm od from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 (hereinafter the We have complied with the German professional provisions “Non-financial Report”) and published it pursuant to § 315 Abs. 3 regarding independence as well as other ethical requirements. Nr. (number) 2 Buchstabe (letter) b) HGB on the LANXESS Our audit firm applies the national legal requirements and Website, in section Investor Relations under Corporate Goverprofessional standards – in particular the Professional Code for nance. For the purpose of the publication in the present Annual German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors (“BeReport, the Non-financial Report is separated into 48 sections rufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer“: “BS with a dashed line in the “Corporate Responsibility” chapter. WP/vBP”) as well as the Standard on Quality Control 1 published ­PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (Institute of Public Auditors in has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German Germany; IDW): Requirements to quality control for audit firms (IDW version of the Non-financial Report published on the LANXESS Qualitätssicherungsstandard 1: Anforderungen an die QualitätssiWebsite, in section Investor Relations under Corporate Governance cherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis – IDW QS 1) – and accordand issued an in­dependent practitioner`s report, ­authoritative in ingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including German language, which has been translated as follows: documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal “To LANXESS AG, Cologne and regulatory requirements. We have performed a limited assurance engagement on the separate non-financial group report pursuant to § (Article) 315b Abs. (paragraph) 3 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Practitioner´s Responsibility Commercial Code”) of LANXESS AG, Cologne, (hereinafter the Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion “Company”) for the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December on the Non-financial Report based on the assurance engagement 2017 (hereinafter the “Non-financial Report”). we have performed. Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an audit on external sources of in-formation or expert opinions, referred Responsibilities of the Executive Directors to in the Non-financial Report. The executive directors of the Company are responsible for the We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance preparation of the Non-financial Report in accordance with §§ 315b with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or This responsibility of Company’s executive directors includes Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the IAASB. the selection and application of appropriate methods of non-financial This Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance reporting as well as making assumptions and estimates related to engagement to allow us to conclude with limited assurance that individual non-financial disclosures which are reasonable in the nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that 1) P  ricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH has performed a limited assurance engagement on the German version of the separate non-financial report and issued an independent assurance report in German language, which is authoritative. The following text is a translation of the independent assurance report. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Non-financial Group Report: Independent Assurance Report 191 the Company’s Non-financial Report for the period from 1 January Assurance Conclusion 2017 to 31 December 2017 has not been prepared, in all material Based on the assurance procedures performed and assuraspects, in accordance with §§ 315b and 315c in conjunction with ance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that 289c to 289e HGB. causes us to believe that the Company’s Non-financial Report for In a limited assurance engagement the assurance procedures the period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 has not are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement, been prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with §§ 315b and therefore a substantially lower level of assurance is obtained. and 315c in conjunction with 289c to 289e HGB. The assurance procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgment. Within the scope of our assurance engagement, we perIntended Use of the Assurance Report formed amongst others the following assurance procedures and We issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed further activities: with the Company. The assurance engagement has been performed for purposes of the Company and the report is solely ›› Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the sustainintended to inform the Company about the results of the limited ability organization and of the stakeholder engagement assurance engagement. The report is not intended for any third ›› Inquiries of management and relevant personnel involved parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. Our responsibility in the preparation of the Non-financial Report regarding the lies only with the Company. We do not assume any responsibility preparation process, the internal control system relating to towards third parties. this process and selected disclosures in the Non-financial Report Munich, 2 March 2018 ›› Identification of the likely risks of material misstatement of the Non-financial Report PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH ›› Analytical evaluation of selected disclosures in the Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Non-financial Report ›› Comparison of selected disclosures with corresponding data in the consolidated financial statements and in the group management report Hendrik Fink ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch” ›› Evaluation of the presentation of the non-financial information Wirtschaftsprüfer German public auditor LANXESS Annual Report 2017 192 FURTHER INFORMATION GRI Content Index  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Foreword by the Chairman of the p. 3 Board of Management G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities p. 5–10, 12, 44–45, 104–116 Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization LANXESS AG G4-4 Primary brands, products or services p. 64–67 lanxess.com/corporate/products-solutions/products-­solutions/ G4-5 Location of the organization’s Cologne, Germany ­headquarters G4-6 Countries where the organization p. 66–67 lanxess.com/corporate/about-lanxess/sites-worldwide/ operates G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 49-50, 64 G4-8 Markets p. 71, 73, 79–80 G4-9 Scale of the organization Key data table cover, p. 38, 84 G4-10 Total workforce p. 23, 28 6 G4-11 Employees covered by collective p. 33 3 ­bargaining agreements G4-12 Description of supply chain p. 34 G4-13 Significant changes in the organization’s p. 64–65, 138–141 size, structure or ownership G4-14 Explanation of how the precautionary p. 44–45, 71–72, principle is addressed 106–107 G4-15 Participation in and endorsement p. 19–20, 41, 43, of externally developed charters, 47, 204 ­principles and initiatives G4-16 Important memberships p. 34, 204 Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s p. 142–143 consolidated financial statements G4-18 Process for defining the report content p. 12–14 G4-19 Material aspects identified p. 14, 189 G4-20 Material aspects within the organization p. 189 G4-21 Material aspects outside the organization p. 189 G4-22 Effects of any re-statements of informap. 188 tion G4-23 Changes in the scope, boundary or p. 138–141, 188 ­measurement methods Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Overview of stakeholder groups p. 13 lanxess.com/corporate/corporate-responsibility/­stakeholdersrelations/ G4-25 Basis for identification of stakeholder p. 13 lanxess.com/corporate/corporate-responsibility/­stakeholdersgroups relations/ G4-26 Engagement of stakeholder groups p. 13, 31, 44-45 lanxess.com/corporate/corporate-responsibility/­stakeholdersrelations/ G4-27 Consideration of key concerns raised p. 13, 31, 43–45 lanxess.com/corporate/corporate-responsibility/­stakeholdersby stakeholder groups relations/ LANXESS Annual Report 2017 GRI Content Index 193  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period p. 188 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report p. 188 2017 G4-30 Reporting cycle p. 188 G4-31 Contact point Masthead G4-32 GRI Content Index p. 192–198 G4-33 External assurance for the report p. 190–191 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization p. 52–55 Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Values, principles and code of conduct p. 17, 19–21 1–10 Economic Management approach p. 6–10, 17, 44–45 Economic Performance Indicators G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated p. 46, 92–93, 119 and distributed G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s d­ efined p. 151–157 benefit plan obligations Market Presence G4-EC5 Wages An employee’s individual income is based on his or her responsibilities 6 and performance. As well as collective agreements that are the basis for the compensation of non-managerial staff in Germany and many other countries, legal requirements such as minimum wage levels are also important in ensuring fair compensation. In Germany, for example, we obtain temporary employees only from agencies that are covered by the collective agreement for temporary employment. In addition, the ­chemical industry pays industry-specific supplements. G4-EC6 Local hiring p. 27 6 Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services p. 46–47 provided primarily for public benefit Procurement G4-EC9 Selection of locally based suppliers p. 70 Environmental Management approach p. 13–18, 34–42 Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 34, 70 7, 8 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that Not relevant as LANXESS cannot use any significant quantities of 8 are recycled input materials ­recycled input materials in the manufacture of its products Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the p. 38–39 7, 8 ­organization G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the p. 38–39 8 ­organization G4-EN5 Energy intensity p. 41–42 8 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption p. 41–42 8, 9 G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of p. 41–42, 44–45 webmagazine.lanxess.com/tomorrows-mobility-is-green/ 8, 9 products and services LANXESS Annual Report 2017 194 FURTHER INFORMATION  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal p. 36–37, 38–39 7, 8 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions – p. 38–39, 40–41 7, 8 Scope 1 G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions – p. 38–39, 40–41 7, 8 Scope 2 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions – p. 41 7, 8 Scope 3 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity p. 40 8 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions p. 40–42 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/­sustainability/ 8, 9 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances p. 38–39 7, 8 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant p. 38–39, 41 7, 8 air emissions Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge p. 36–37, 39 8 G4-EN23 Quantity of waste p. 37, 39 8 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of On March 3, a fire occurred at the Mapleton site in the U.S. during 8 significant spills ­draining of a separator. The fire was quickly extinguished. On July 28, a huge amount of water flowed into our chromium mine in Rustenberg, South Africa, as a result of a controlled explosion. After official inspections on July 31 and September 15 and 26 at our f­ acility in Liyang, China, we decreased production. In addition, we ­implemented measures to reduce emissions and further improvements. On August 15, a fire broke out in the production hall of our plant in ­P yeongtaek, Republic of Korea, causing production to be temporarily suspended. The fire was quickly extinguished. On September 28, 1,000 barrels of saline solution containing oil leaked from a pipeline in El Dorado, U.S. The authorities were called in and ­rehabilitation work was started. At the same plant, a system m ­ alfunction ­occurred on November 23, resulting in 4 metric tons of sulfur dioxide being released into the atmosphere. The authorities were informed immediately. Due to uncontrollable heating of container content, there was a pressure build-up and release of 2 metric tons of a mixture of substances that ignited at a site in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, on December 18. The plant and ­neighboring premises were evacuated before the product was released. Products and Services G4-EN27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental p. 44–45 lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/­sustainability/ 7, 8, 9 impacts lanxess.com/en/corporate/corporate-responsibility/­products-andinnovations/ Compliance G4-EN29 Fines for non-compliance with Should material cases occur, these would have to be reported in the 8 ­environmental laws and regulations audited financial statements. Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of p. 42 8 transporting products and other goods and materials, and transporting members of the workforce Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32 New suppliers screened using p. 34 8 ­environmental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative S. 34 8 environmental impacts in the supply chain LANXESS Annual Report 2017 GRI Content Index 195  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Environmental Grievance Mechanisms G4-EN34 Formal grievances about Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to 8 environmental impacts report environmental grievances. No corresponding grievances were filed for fiscal year 2017. Labor Practices and Decent Work Management approach p. 13–18, 23–33 Employment G4-LA1 Employee turnover p. 23, 25–26 6 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees p. 28–30 G4-LA3 Parental leave p. 30 6 Labor/Management Relations G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding signifiIn accordance with the German Works Constitution Act, LANXESS is 3 cant operational changes obliged to inform the Works Council fully and in good time of any planned operational changes that could result in material disadvantage to all or substantial parts of the workforce. The Economics Committee is also informed on a regular basis about the company’s economic affairs. We fully comply with our legal obligations with respect to the responsible bodies. Notification periods are defined in the collective agreements in Germany and other countries. In Germany, for instance, it is four weeks. Similar periods in other countries are also always complied with. Occupational Health and Safety G4-LA5 Workforce representation in health and Protecting the health and safety of our employees is a regular aspect safety committees of the dialog between employee and employer representatives in all ­countries where collective agreements apply. In Germany, our occupational health management and workplace reintegration programs are based on agreements with employee representatives. The operational teams are managed by steering committees made up equally of employer and employee representatives. G4-LA6 Injuries, occupational diseases and p. 30–32, 38-39 work-related accidents G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in Protecting the health and safety of our employees is a regular aspect formal agreements with trade unions of the dialog between employee and employer representatives in all ­countries where collective agreements apply. In Germany, our occupational health management and workplace reintegration programs are based on agreements with employee representatives. The operational teams are managed by steering committees made up equally of employer and employee representatives. (Vocational) Training G4-LA9 (Vocational) training p. 24–25 6 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and p. 24–25, 27, 29, 33 lifelong learning G4-LA11 Regular performance and career p. 24–25, 32 6 ­development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies p. 27–29, 56–58 6 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men G4-LA13 Pay differentials by gender For non-managerial employees, collective agreements mean there are no 6 notable differences between the salaries of female and male employees. Managers’ compensation is based on their responsibilities and performance and also on aspects such as industry and managerial experience. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 196 FURTHER INFORMATION  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-LA14 New suppliers screened using labor p. 34 practices criteria G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative p. 34 impacts for labor practices in the supply chain Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-LA16 Formal grievances about labor practices Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to report grievances concerning labor practices. No material grievances concerning labor practices were filed in fiscal year 2016. Human Rights Management approach p. 13–21 Capital Expenditures G4-HR1 Investment agreements and contracts p. 21 2 that have undergone human rights screening G4-HR2 Training on human rights aspects p. 21–22 1 Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Incidents of discrimination and 6 p. 21 actions taken Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-HR4 Violation of the right to exercise freedom p. 33 3 of association or collective bargaining Child Labor G4-HR5 Principles and measures to p. 19–21 5 eliminate child labor Forced or Compulsory Labor G4-HR6 Principles and measures to eliminate p. 19–21 4 forced or compulsory labor Security Practices G4-HR7 Security personnel training LANXESS does not employ its own security personnel at its sites but 1 procures security services from specialized external providers. They, like all our suppliers, are subject to our Supplier Code of Conduct, which also covers human rights. In addition, professional security providers contracted by LANXESS are subject to the relevant security legislation in each country. In South Africa, for example, security personnel undergo regular training, which is documented and complies with the requirements of the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority of South Africa (PSIRA). Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Violations involving rights of Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to 1 indigenous people report grievances concerning the violation of indigenous rights. In fiscal year 2017, we received no reports or other indications of cases involving the violation of indigenous rights. Assessment G4-HR9 Operations that have been subject to p. 21 1 human rights reviews and/or impact assessments LANXESS Annual Report 2017 GRI Content Index 197  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-HR10 New suppliers and contractors that have p. 34 2 undergone human rights screening G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative p. 34 2 human rights impacts in the supply chain Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR12 Formal grievances related to p. 21 1 human rights Society Management approach p. 13–22, 46–47 Local Communities G4-SO1 Operations with implemented local p. 46–47 1 ­community engagement, impact assessments and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant potential p. 35–37, 40–44 1 or actual negative impacts on local communities Anti-Corruption G4-SO3 Business units analyzed for risks related p. 22 10 to corruption G4-SO4 Percentage of employees trained in antip. 22 10 corruption policies and procedures G4-SO5 Incidents of corruption and actions taken p. 22 10 Anticompetitive Behavior G4-SO7 Legal actions for anticompetitive The company was not involved in any legal actions regarding ­behavior, antitrust and monopoly ­anticompetitive behavior or violations of antitrust law in 2017. practices Compliance G4-SO8 Penalties for non-compliance with Should material cases occur, these would have to be reported laws and regulations in the audited financial statements. Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society G4-SO9 New suppliers screened using criteria p. 34 for impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative p. 34 impacts on society in the supply chain Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-SO11 Formal grievances about impacts Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to on society report grievances concerning impacts on society. No formal grievances concerning material impacts on society were filed in fiscal year 2017. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 198 FURTHER INFORMATION  G4 Indicators and Description Location Comments and Online Annexes UNGC Product Responsibility Management approach p. 12–20, 43–45 Customer Health and Safety G4-PR1 Significant product and service ­ p. 34, 43–44 categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed G4-PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line ­regulations and voluntary codes to r­ eport grievances concerning non-compliance with regulations ­concerning health and safety ­concerning health and safety. In fiscal year 2017, we received no ­indications of non-compliance with pertinent regulations. Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information p. 43 required by legislation G4-PR4 Incidents of non-compliance with Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line to ­regulations and voluntary codes report grievances concerning non-compliance with regulations and ­concerning product and service voluntary concerning product and service information. We received no ­information indications of corresponding non-compliance for fiscal year 2017. G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction including results of p. 45 surveys measuring customer satisfaction Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products p. 37 Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Complaints regarding customer Our employees and external third parties can use the Integrity Line data privacy to report complaints regarding customer data privacy. In fiscal year 2017, we received no reports or other indications of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and Should material cases occur, these would have to be reported regulations concerning the provision and in the audited financial statements. use of products and services LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Glossary 199 Glossary ISO 9001 International standard that defines minimum requirements for quality management systems. INDUSTRY-SPECIFIC TERMS Networked site Additives Production site where many different production processes Additive are substances that are added in small quantities to and value chains are integrated as a highly efficient network; for products in order to improve or actually create certain properties. example, the by-products from one production plant are used by The positive effects aimed for may relate to manufacturing, storage another facility at the same site to manufacture another product. and processing, or they may be product characteristics that exist The network principle results in lower energy and raw material during and after a product’s service life. In contrast to fillers, addiconsumption while ensuring high production output. It is thus tives are very highly dispersed in the material and almost always resource-friendly and reduces logistics costs at the same time. comprise just a few percent of the overall volume. OSHA CLP and GHS Occupational Safety and Health Administration: an a­ gency CLP is the abbreviation for classification, labeling and packof the United States Department of Labor that is authorized to aging. The E.U. CLP Regulation contains provisions for the clasadopt occupational safety standards. OSHA also enforces these sification, labeling and packaging of substances and mixtures. standards with the aim of reducing the number of work-related It is based on the Globally Harmonized System of Classificaaccidents and their consequences. tion and Labeling of Chemicals – or GHS for short – which ensures that hazards are labeled in the same way all over the world. The REACH use of classification criteria and labeling elements that have been Abbreviation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization agreed upon internationally is aimed at making things easier for and Restriction of Chemicals; the E.U. REACH Regulation stipulates distributors and at protecting people and the environment worldthe registration, assessment and approval of chemicals before wide from the hazards that may be caused by chemicals. marketing. It imposes a duty on manufacturers and importers to determine the hazardous characteristics of substances and Compounding facility estimate their impact on health and the environment. A facility for processing and finishing ­engineering plastics to enhance their functional properties. Synthesis In chemistry, a synthesis is a process used to manufacture a COSO compound from several elements or a complex new substance The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway from a number of simple compounds. A synthesis therefore goes Commission (COSO) is a voluntary private-sector organization beyond the purely physical mixing of two or more substances. A that has compiled and published guidelines on enterprise risk synthesized compound cannot be split back into its base products management in an internationally recognized framework. by physical means. ISO 14001 VOC emissions International standard that supports organizations in introVolatile organic compounds is the collective term for organducing an environmental policy, formulating environmental taric carbon compounds that evaporate easily or already become gets and implementing these with the aid of an environmental gaseous at low temperatures. management system. ISO 50001 International standard that defines requirements for systematic energy management to help organizations reduce energy costs, greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 200 FURTHER INFORMATION FINANCIAL GLOSSARY Equity method Accounting method that sets the interests in ­affiliated compaCapital employed nies against the acquisition costs, with the result that any changes This is defined as total assets less deferred tax assets and in the stakeholder’s interest lead to an adjustment in the net assets interest-free liabilities. of the affiliated company. Cash flow Financial covenants Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents. Clauses or (side) agreements in loan agreements and term sheets; these are contractually binding promises by the borrower Corporate governance or the obligor during the term of the loan agreement, for example Responsible corporate management and oversight aligned that net financial liabilities will not exceed a defined multiple of an with long-term value creation; it comprises the observance of laws, earnings indicator such as EBITDA pre exceptionals. regulations, recognized standards and ­recommendations as well as the implementation and application of company guidelines and GDP management and control structures. Gross domestic product: the sum of all goods and services produced by an economy over the period of one year and destined Deferred taxes for consumption. Tax expense or tax income that is likely to arise in the future from temporary differences between the carrying amount used Goodwill in the annual financial statements and the taxable value of assets Intangible assets from the acquisition of a company; it is meaand liabilities and tax income that is likely to arise in the future sured as the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value from unused loss carryforwards or tax credits. of the net assets acquired. Due diligence Hedging The careful investigation and analysis of a ­company, particuAn investment position intended to limit or offset certain clearly larly in respect of its economic, legal, tax and financial condition identified risks such as exchange rate fluctuations or interest rate and its performance in the areas of technology and the environchanges. ment; it is undertaken especially by potential purchasers involved in acquisition projects. Hybrid bond A hybrid bond is a corporate bond with a very long or unEBIT limited term. The issuing company may terminate a bond after a Earnings before interest and taxes: the operating result before previously defined date. Moreover, the interest payments agreed deduction of interest and income taxes. upon may be canceled or suspended under certain conditions. Hybrid bonds are subordinated financial instruments. In the EBITDA event of an insolvency or liquidation, they will only be serviced Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amorti­zation: after the company has fulfilled all other obligations toward third the operating result before deduction of interest and income taxes parties. This higher risk borne by investors is compensated by plus depreciation and impairment losses on property, plant and higher interest rates compared with conventional corporate bonds. equipment and amortization and impairment losses on intangible Depending on the bond conditions, at least part of a hybrid bond assets. is treated as equity by rating agencies and banks. EMEA IAS/IFRS Europe, Middle East, Africa region. International Accounting Standards/International Financial Reporting Standards; these are uniform international accounting regulations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board with the aim of ensuring the global comparability of financial statements and the publication of information of relevance to decisions. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 Glossary 201 NAFTA The North American Free Trade Agreement is an economic alliance between the United States, Canada and Mexico that makes the North American continent a free trade zone. Net financial liabilities Calculated as the sum of current and non-­current financial liabilities (adjusted for liabilities for accrued interest) less cash, cash equivalents and near-cash assets. Purchase price allocation Distribution of the cost of an acquisition to the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities. Rating Assessment of a debtor’s credit standing; ratings are issued by, for example, the world’s leading rating agencies such as Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, but also by banks applying their own criteria. ROCE Return on capital employed: ROCE is the ratio of EBIT pre exceptionals to capital employed and a measure of profitability. LANXESS Annual Report 2017 202 Glossary Further Information We Support WE SUPPORT www.unglobalcompact.org www.responsible-care.de www.chemiehochdrei.de www.cdp.net/ www.tfs-initiative.com LANXESS Stock in Sustainability Indices www.sustainability-indices.com www.ftse.com/products/indices/FTSE4Good carbon neutral natureOffice.com | DE-149-070139 print production LANXESS Annual Report 2017 FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2018 4 Quarterly Statement Q1 2018 Conference Call JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN 15 Annual Stockholders’ Meeting, Cologne 2 Half-Year Financial Report H1 2018 Conference Call JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC 12 Quarterly Statement Q3 2018 Conference Call CONTACTS & MASTHEAD MASTHEAD CONTACTS ­L ANXESS AG Corporate Communications Kennedyplatz 1 Christiane Dörr 50569 Cologne, Germany Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 2674 Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 0 mediarelations@lanxess.com www.lanxess.com Investor Relations Consultancy: André Simon Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Tel. +49 (0) 221 8885 3494 ir@lanxess.com Design and Production: Kirchhoff Consult AG, Hamburg, Germany Date of publication: March 15, 2018 English edition: EVS Translations GmbH, Offenbach, Germany Printed by: Kunstund Werbedruck, Bad Oeynhausen, Germany This annual report contains forward-looking statements based future results, financial situation, development or performance of on current assumptions and forecasts made by LANXESS AG the company and the estimates given here. The company assumes management. Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and no liability whatsoever to update these forward-looking statements other factors could lead to material differences between the actual or to conform them to future events or developments. PUBLISHER LANXESS AG 50569 Cologne Germany www.lanxess.com
