2017 RESPONSIBILIT Y HIGHLIGHTS REPORT ABOUT AMGEN Our mission to serve patients is central possible health outcomes and dramatically to our strategy, which is focused on improve people’s lives. Our medicines discovering, developing, manufacturing typically address diseases for which there and delivering innovative human are limited treatment options, or they are therapeutics to treat some of the world’s medicines that provide a viable option to most serious diseases. It is through these what is otherwise available. efforts that we make our greatest contribution to society. Amgen has distinguished capabilities as a research and development innovator and as Amgen has approximately 20,000 staff a manufacturer of biologic medicines. We worldwide with a presence in 100 countries. leverage tools such as advanced human F O R M O R E I N F O R M AT I O N , V I S I T A B O U T A M G E N O N A biotechnology pioneer since 1980, genetics to validate and identify human www.amgen.com we have reached millions of patients disease targets. Through our biology-first around the world with our robust product approach, we seek to match disease targets portfolio of innovative medicines, and with the best modality or medicine from the we have a pipeline of medicines with standpoint of optimal efficacy and safety. A breakaway potential. worldwide leader in biologics manufacturing, Amgen has an outstanding track record of “Never before have we been in Amgen focuses on areas of high unmet reliably delivering high-quality medicines to a better position to understand medical need in cardiovascular disease, patients who need them. and combat human disease.” oncology, bone health, nephrology, —S E A N H A R P E R , E X E C U T I V E V I C E P R E S I D E N T, neuroscience and inflammation. Our staff R E S E A R C H A N D D E V E LO P M E N T strive for solutions that provide the best Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 2 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING SPOTLIGHT ON 2017 Beyond our mission to serve patients, we devote considerable resources to support human and environmental health and build strong 100% of staff completed We have a 35% minority We reduced 118,200 communities where we live and work. Improving Code of Conduct training. population in the metric tons of carbon patient access to medicines, supporting science U.S. workforce. emissions, or 28%, since 2007, saving $28 million in education, developing sustainable research and operating costs annually. manufacturing processes and volunteering in our communities are just some of the many efforts we are proud to highlight in this report. CR’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens 2017 Staff donations plus matching funds Staff contributed nearly 29,000 from the Amgen Foundation totaled volunteer hours in 2017. $7.8 million in 2017. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 3 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMITMENT | 6 ENVIRONMENT | 21 Our commitment extends We take action to CONTENTS beyond making vital medicines. reduce our impact on the environment. Our 2017 Responsibility PAT I E N T S | 1 0 WORKPLACE | 26 Highlights Report features Our mission is to We foster an inclusive, selected accomplishments in serve patients. safe and healthy work environment. the many areas where we are making positive contributions for patients and beyond. O P E R AT I N G REPORTING | 28 R E S P O N S I B LY | 1 4 We communicate our Our business is built on an progress in a variety Complete information and unwavering commitment to of ways aligned with integrity and compliance. global standards. full data can be found on www.amgen.com. COMMUNITY | 17 We recognize the importance of giving back to our communities. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 4 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING LEADERSHIP MESSAGE Thank you for your interest in Amgen and how we are on Cancer and serve as a member of the American destruction, our people stood together and rose to the helping to build a better tomorrow. As one of the world’s Heart Association CEO Roundtable, two not-for-profit occasion—for patients, the community and each other. leading biotechnology companies, our greatest contribution organizations promoting disease prevention and wellness. If we bring this same spirit to everything we do, there’s to society comes from discovering and developing nothing we can’t accomplish. innovative medicines to treat patients suffering from serious We’re further aligning our efforts with respected illnesses such as cardiovascular disease and cancer. international frameworks. This report includes our Thank you again for your interest in Amgen. We value your These two diseases alone claim millions of lives every year Communication on Progress associated with the Ten feedback, and I invite you to share your thoughts with us at globally and cost society hundreds of billions of dollars. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which responsibility@amgen.com. As the world grows older, these statistics will only get many of our policies, procedures and programs support. worse without the type of innovation Amgen provides. Additionally, this report discusses the ways in which Amgen aligns with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, which call for broad action to promote prosperity while We also recognize that we have an ability to make a protecting the planet. positive impact in many other ways—and that’s what you will read about in this report. We are committed, for I’m proud to see that our efforts to be a good corporate example, to ensuring that patients in financial need can citizen are being recognized. In 2017, Amgen was access our medicines, that young people can learn a love included on the Dow Jones Sustainability World and for science, that we can reduce our environmental impact, North America Indexes for the fourth and fifth year in a even as we expand our geographic presence, and that we row, respectively, and the U.S. Environmental Protection can create a workplace in which employees from diverse Agency honored our scientists with the Green Chemistry backgrounds can work together to achieve great things. Challenge Award. Amgen earned a perfect score on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index, administered by the Human We know that the most powerful and rewarding way to Rights Campaign Foundation, and, in early 2018, we change the world is to do so with others by your side. ranked among the top 100 on Forbes magazine’s In 2017, we established a Global Advocacy Relations inaugural list of “America’s Best Employers for Diversity.” team to better understand the needs of the most important stakeholders we serve: patients. We also Finally, our report discusses Amgen’s response to have joined forces with organizations, such as the Union Hurricane Maria, a Category 5 storm that swept across for International Cancer Control and the World Heart Puerto Rico in September 2017. Puerto Rico is home to Federation, to advance the treatment of life-threatening some 2,000 Amgen staff members and our company’s Robert A. Bradway diseases throughout the world. I chair the CEO Roundtable largest manufacturing site. In the face of unprecedented Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 5 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMITMENT As we accomplish our core work of discovering, Engaging With Stakeholders developing, manufacturing and delivering innovative Amgen strives to continuously align its responsibility human therapeutics to serve patients, we are programs with the expectations of internal and external committed to responsible operations across our global stakeholders. In particular, we focus on those issues company. Our approach, which includes social and that are considered to be the highest priority for environmental aspects, has evolved and grown over the stakeholders and that align with Amgen’s mission, years, and we are proud to be sharing our progress in values and strategy. this report. This year we are highlighting how we align with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Amgen uses a variety of mechanisms to gauge (SDGs), a globally recognized platform for advancing stakeholder interests, including direct engagement with sustainability in the public and private sectors. stakeholders, periodic stakeholder assessments and relevant frameworks. These frameworks include the UN Global Compact, Sustainable Development Goals and Responsibility Governance Sustainability Accounting Standards Board standards, Responsibility at Amgen is governed at the highest as well as external sustainability ratings, such as the levels. Our executive leadership reports our progress Dow Jones Sustainability Index and CDP (formerly to the Corporate Responsibility and Compliance known as Carbon Disclosure Project), since they Committee (CRCC) of our Board of Directors. The represent the perspectives of key stakeholders. CRCC assists the Board in overseeing Amgen’s activities in the areas of corporate responsibility and compliance. In addition, Amgen’s responsibility performance is governed through facilityand corporate-level management reviews. One key component of Amgen’s corporate-level governance is the Sustainability Council, which includes representation by leaders from a wide cross section of company functions and provides guidance on the FOR MORE INFORMATION implementation of our environmental sustainability plan Visit Leadership on www.amgen.com. as well as areas of social responsibility. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 6 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMITMENT Listening to Our Patients Amgen is also highly committed to working with Patients are at the center of everything we do and are global regulators to ensure the incorporation of the our most important stakeholders. As a result, the safety patient’s voice in drug development and regulatory and effectiveness of our medicines are paramount. decision-making across all stages of the lifecycle. In In addition, we seek patients’ input to advise us with 2017, Amgen participated in several U.S. Food and decision-making and product strategy across the Drug Administration workshops on Patient-Focused lifecycle of our products. Drug Development to guide us on the collection and submission of usable patient experience data for To best serve patients, we recognize that we must medical product development and regulatory work with them to understand their unmet needs and decision-making. provide innovation that enhances both their experience with and the value of our medicines. This approach In 2017, we established a new Global Advocacy relies on an active feedback loop with patients. In 2017, Relations team to better understand and incorporate we continued our efforts to consistently incorporate the patient community voice early on as we develop the patient voice across the product lifecycle. Through and commercialize our medicines, as well as to engaging with patients, we identified opportunities and positively impact the healthcare environment in support integrated solutions to improve the patient experience of access to treatment for patients. The team held in some of our clinical trials, as well as in the posta stakeholder summit that brought together Amgen approval setting. As one example of this effort, we leadership with the leadership of 44 national patient co-created support solutions with patients with multiple advocacy organizations, professional societies and myeloma and their caregivers to improve patients’ research and policy organizations in a variety of experience with KYPROLIS® (carfilzomib) and help therapeutic areas in order to share perspectives on them stay on the drug as prescribed. patient challenges and sustainable healthcare. FOR MORE INFORMATION Visit Amgen’s Commitment to Patients on www.amgen.com. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 7 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMITMENT During 2017, we conducted a Stakeholder Assessment Results stakeholder assessment to update Most Important and enhance our understanding of ACCESS TO the responsibility issues of greatest ETHICAL MEDICINE importance to internal and external BUSINESS stakeholders. We gathered information from stakeholders using direct interviews, SAFE, PRODUCTS & EFFECTIVE online surveys, group discussions and SUPPLY CHAIN MEDICINE review of relevant published material. We surveyed internal stakeholders to DIVERSITY & Importance to External Stakeholders understand their perspectives on issues INEQUALITY INNOVATION that impact Amgen’s business. External & GROWTH stakeholders surveyed included patient ENVIRONMENT, HUMAN HEALTH & SAFETY advocacy organizations, corporate social RIGHTS responsibility-focused non-government organizations, investors and organizations EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT devoted to promoting access to medicine. We are using the information we gained to help shape our approach to programs and reporting as we move forward. PHILANTHROPY & SCIENCE EDUCATION Impact on Business Most Impactful While all issues included in this assessment are important, this graph shows that, in the view of a variety of stakeholders, enhancing access to medicine, making safe and effective medicines and conducting business in an ethical manner are currently the highest priority issues. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 8 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMITMENT Amgen’s mission is in complete Through our long-term alignment with SDG 3: Good commitment to environmental Health and Well-Being. Beyond sustainability targets, we have The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are making innovative medicines significantly reduced the amount a globally recognized framework for advancing to address serious illnesses, of waste and carbon produced sustainability in the public and private sectors. Amgen is also establishing new from our operations, while Many different stakeholders, including countries, partnerships, business models and patient assistance simultaneously reducing the amount of energy and communities, businesses and organizations programs to ensure as many people as possible benefit water used—a commitment that supports SDG 12: support the goals to tackle global challenges in from those medicines. Responsible Consumption and Production. economic, social and environmental dimensions. Much of Amgen’s approach to responsibility is The Amgen Foundation’s numerous Amgen’s work to forge aligned with the SDGs. Throughout this report, and innovative science education partnerships aligns well with you’ll see SDG icons to signal how our current programs for teachers and SDG 17: Partnerships for the actions in an area align with five SDGs within students around the world support Goals. For instance, in 2017, this framework. fulfillment of SDG 4: Quality Amgen expanded its partnership Education—Ensure Inclusive and with the Union for International Quality Education for All and Promote Lifelong Learning. Cancer Control to support the C/Can 2025:City Cancer Challenge, designed to improve global health systems and access to medicines to address the growing A great deal of our work at burden of cancer. Amgen aligns with SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure. Amgen has pioneered the use of modular, configurable technologies that are more environmentally friendly and enable Amgen to grow production capabilities to improve access to our medicines for patients around the world. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 9 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING PATIENTS Amgen was founded on the belief that biotechnology can be harnessed to relieve human suffering through we are committed to responsible and transparent on emerging markets. By strategically using our medical therapeutics. We have delivered on this clinical trial management, supplying patients with experience as a pioneer and global leader in vision, investing billions of dollars in research and safe, effective and high-quality products and biotechnology, the Amgen Health and Innovation development and providing numerous innovative promoting access to our medicines and health Partnerships framework aims to increase the number medicines to serve patients facing serious illnesses. innovation through strategic initiatives, collaborative of patients around the world who are benefiting from We believe that medicines like ours represent the partnerships and charitable giving. innovative biologic medicines and biosimilars to treat best hope to address the clinical, economic and serious, life-threatening diseases. societal burden of disease. Access to Medicine Amgen is working across the entire healthcare One key element of Amgen’s enduring commitment community to ensure a fertile environment for to serve patients is the support and education innovation and to help develop healthcare systems programs that help patients in financial need access Connecting patients to therapeutic innovation that enable patients to access the treatments they our medicines in many countries around the world. comes with a deep sense of responsibility that need through a variety of programs and strategic For example, since 2008, the Amgen Safety Net surrounds and extends beyond the practice initiatives. In 2017, Amgen developed a new Health Foundation provided more than $4 billion worth of of discovering, developing and manufacturing and Innovation Partnerships framework to coordinate a Amgen medicines to help hundreds of thousands medicines. With patients at the center of all we do, number of these efforts, with a particular emphasis of qualifying patients gain access to their therapy in the United States at no cost. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 10 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING PATIENTS As of December 2017, we had 13 patient access multi-stakeholder event in Bogota, Colombia, Another key element of our approach is to develop programs in operation outside the United States. which culminated in the signing of the Colombian high-value therapeutic choices in the form of highThese programs are designed to help clinically Manifesto for the Prevention of Myocardial quality and reliably supplied biosimilars. With nine and financially eligible patients obtain the Infarction—a commitment to provide better active biosimilar programs in our pipeline, this is an medicines they need. cardiovascular care and prevent cardiovasculararea of significant investment for Amgen. related deaths in Colombia. At the end of 2016, Amgen is also committed to working with Amgen became a founding sponsor of All.Can, a policymakers, patients and other stakeholders to multi-stakeholder international initiative designed to establish sustainable healthcare systems, with help define better solutions for sustainable cancer access to quality care. These types of collaborative care and improve patient outcomes in the future. efforts are particularly important in parts of the world with less developed healthcare systems, and we We have also been at the forefront of developing are expanding our engagement in these kinds of innovative partnerships designed to improve communities. During 2017, Amgen expanded its population health and patient access, as well as partnership with the Union for International Cancer outcomes-based and risk-sharing contracting Control to support its innovative new C/Can 2025: approaches that link the price of our medicines City Cancer Challenge program. C/Can 2025 is a to their real-world performance. In this regard, multi-stakeholder initiative that supports major Amgen developed a new Value-Based Partnership cities in the design, planning and implementation team that launched programs in more than 10 of integrated cancer treatment solutions that strive countries, seeking to increase value to patients and to reduce cancer mortality. We are also supporting healthcare systems by improving patient outcomes the World Heart Federation (WHF) in the rollout at a lower overall cost to the healthcare industry. of its cardiovascular disease “roadmaps” and in These programs include collaborations with payers, organizing implementation events at a country pharmacy benefit managers, providers, academia level. For instance, in conjunction with WHF and other stakeholders to gain insights to better and the Colombian Society of Cardiology and inform, and potentially improve, patient outcomes Cardiovascular Surgery, Amgen supported a and experiences. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 11 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING PATIENTS Supporting Health Education Safe and Effective Medicines for Our Patients Every year, Amgen donates millions of dollars Patient safety is our highest priority. To fulfill our to organizations that advance medicine and commitment to patient safety, Amgen’s Global healthcare, promote healthcare professional Patient Safety Team applies a comprehensive, education, educate the public on diseases continuous and rigorous approach to and medical conditions and support other pharmacovigilance—the science of monitoring, philanthropic and charitable causes that reviewing, evaluating and communicating ultimately benefit patients. information on the safety of pharmaceutical products throughout the product lifecycle. Amgen In 2017, Amgen supported several headache works collaboratively and transparently with medicine fellowships across multiple institutions. worldwide regulatory agencies to achieve the Fellowship programs like these are designed to common objective of protecting patient safety. inspire physicians to enter careers in neuroscience and provide opportunities for eligible physicians Our supply chain security program supports an who wish to gain advanced training in the specialty effective, secure and resilient global supply chain, of headache medicine. Through the programs, and the overall integrity of Amgen’s medicines, fellows gain a deep understanding of the for the protection and safety of our patients. In 2017, diagnosis and treatment of headache disorders. Amgen continued to advance the practice “At Amgen, we are committed to patients, of product serialization, a safety feature that allows ensuring through our resilient supply chain verification and authentication for Amgen’s products that we serve every patient, every time with in order to combat counterfeiting and ensure safe and effective medicines.” product integrity in accordance with the U.S. Drug Supply Chain Security Act and the — S O M C H AT T O PA D H YAY, V I C E P R E S I D E N T, G LO B A L S U P P LY C H A I N European Falsified Medicines Directive. FOR MORE INFORMATION FOR MORE INFORMATION Visit Grants and Giving on www.amgen.com. Visit Global Patient Safety on www.amgen.com. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 12 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING PATIENTS Clinical Trial Transparency and Data Sharing touches on Amgen’s contribution of contributorWe never forget the central role patients play in arm data to Project Data Sphere, a data-sharing the development of Amgen medicines through cancer research initiative of the CEO Roundtable clinical trial participation. Ensuring transparency on Cancer, chaired by our CEO Robert Bradway. regarding our clinical trials and their results is Further, to improve patients’ access to clinical an important issue for Amgen, and we aim to trial data and outcomes and enhance their ensure that our research practices are available, understanding of that data, in 2017, we created a responsible and fully compliant with applicable portal containing brief summaries of the main results laws, regulations and guidelines. Amgen is from clinical studies written in plain language. also committed to the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and Amgen also participates in the TransCelerate the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Placebo and Standard of Care Initiative, sponsored of America endorsement of “Principles for by the nonprofit TransCelerate Biopharma Inc., Responsible Clinical Trial Data Sharing.” in which companies share de-identified clinical trial data with one another to design clinical trial We believe it is important to honor the altruism protocols to be more streamlined and efficient. In of patients who participate in clinical trials. To 2017, Elliott Levy, M.D., senior vice president of that end, we share certain clinical trial data in Global Development at Amgen, was appointed collaboration with external medical and scientific Chair of the TransCelerate Board of Directors. researchers to advance clinical research and enhance public health. In 2017, David Reese, senior vice president, Translational Medicine, co-authored a commentary in the New England FOR MORE INFORMATION Journal of Medicine, “Advantages of a Truly OpenVisit Clinical Trials and Amgen’s Commitment to Patients Access Data-Sharing Model.” This commentary on www.amgen.com. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 13 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Operating ethically and responsibly is central to our & Business Ethics Program to the Corporate produce them. Annual performance assessments mission to serve patients. For Amgen’s passionate Responsibility and Compliance Committee of the explicitly integrate Amgen’s Values, and staff are and committed people, doing the right thing means Board of Directors. evaluated in terms of how well their execution living the Amgen Values—being ethical, trusting and of their job responsibilities is aligned with those respecting each other, ensuring quality and being Supporting and Reinforcing Our Compliance Culture values. Amgen’s leadership holds managers and science-based, to name a few. As the scope, Our compliance governance structure is supported staff accountable for ethical business conduct by complexity and global footprint of our business by our Worldwide Compliance & Business Ethics enforcing standards through internal monitoring, continues to evolve, maintaining an ethical culture Program. Compliance professionals located in investigating and auditing, responding promptly is essential. countries where we operate manage this program to detected problems, undertaking corrective and provide resources to support all staff. Global actions and applying disciplinary measures resources that help staff members do the right thing where appropriate. Compliance Governance include Amgen’s Code of Conduct, compliance Our ethical culture starts at the highest levels of websites and training courses, Amgen’s compliance leadership and is integrated at every level of our policies, guidance from managers and dedicated business. To guide us, Amgen has created a tiered compliance professionals and Amgen’s compliance governance structure to ensure a Business Conduct Hotline. company-wide commitment to compliance. The Compliance Committee and the Compliance Council Amgen’s Code of Conduct makes clear the have management and operational responsibilities, expectation that every person and entity conducting respectively, for the Worldwide Compliance & business for Amgen worldwide follow its corporate Business Ethics Program. The Compliance policies as well as all applicable requirements that Committee includes executive management, govern our business. Code of Conduct training is while the Compliance Council, which is chaired completed on an annual basis by all Amgen staff by Amgen’s Chief Compliance Officer, is a as well as any others who conduct business on cross-functional team of senior leaders whose behalf of Amgen. responsibilities include addressing compliance risks and promoting compliance throughout Staff performance measurement has a strong Amgen. The Chief Compliance Officer reports on ethical component—staff are assessed not just on the effectiveness of the Worldwide Compliance what outcomes they produce but also on how they Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 14 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Promoting Ethical Business Practices In the United States, Amgen voluntarily “At Amgen, performance is measured by both Fighting serious illness takes more than innovation complies with and fully supports the accomplishments and behaviors. It’s not just and medicine. It also requires collaborating with Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers what we do but how we do it that matters. people and organizations around the world that of America’s (PhRMA) revised “Code on The Amgen Values and our Leadership advance science and provide quality healthcare for Interactions with Healthcare Professionals.” Attributes provide the compass to help patients. These relationships are built upon ethical The Code, which took effect in January 2009, us all continue on an ethical path.” and responsible business conduct and reliable provides firm guidance on such interactions, — C Y N T H I A M . PAT T O N , S E N I O R V I C E P R E S I D E N T A N D C H I E F CO M P L I A N C E O F F I C E R disclosure of information and are conducted with including the use of promotional materials, guidance from a number of Policies, Practices and grants and consulting arrangements, meals Disclosures. Those policies include extensive and entertainment, continuing medical requirements for staff interactions with healthcare education, clinical practice guidelines professionals and government representatives to and sales and marketing training for ensure that these interactions not only comply with company representatives. all applicable laws and regulations but also that they are conducted in an ethical manner without conflicts of interest. FOR MORE INFORMATION Visit How We Operate on www.amgen.com. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 15 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING OPERATING RESPONSIBLY Supplier Sustainability In the area of conflict minerals, Amgen will continue Moghbeli Pashai is well recognized for her Amgen continues to expand and enhance its to identify, reduce and ultimately eliminate the use leadership on supplier diversity. In 2017, Women’s Supplier Sustainability Program, which is designed of conflict minerals—those that directly or indirectly Enterprise magazine recognized her as one of the to support our expectation that our suppliers finance armed groups in the Democratic Republic Top 100 Leaders in Corporate Supplier Diversity, not only address quality, cost and reliability of the Congo and surrounding countries—in our and DiversityPlus Magazine recognized her as one requirements but also a wide range of sustainability products. The identification of potential use of of the Top 25 Women in Power Impacting Diversity. and social responsibility considerations, such conflict minerals in our supply chain is integrated as business ethics, labor and human rights and into our Supplier Sustainability Program and environmental impacts. annual assessment. In 2017, Amgen implemented the first phase of its Amgen also has a Supplier Diversity Program Supplier Sustainability Assessment to evaluate the that is designed to provide opportunities to small, performance of our key suppliers against the disadvantaged, women-owned, minority-owned, requirements of our Supplier Code of Conduct. service-disabled-veteran-owned or veteran-owned This first phase focused on those suppliers that are businesses that are seeking to do business with most important to Amgen’s business because of Amgen. Two key efforts within our Supplier Diversity the nature and/or volume of products or services Program are participation in events designed to they provide. The Assessment, conducted by an inform small and diverse businesses of opportunities independent third party, provides the basis for to engage with Amgen and our participation in increased understanding of suppliers’ performance organizations devoted to the promotion of diversity across a wide range of issues, while ensuring in the supply chain. Amgen is a corporate member that suppliers are aware of our performance of various key national associations that support expectations. Results of the Supplier Performance supplier diversity, such as the National Minority Assessment facilitate a dialogue with suppliers Supplier Development Council and the Women’s FOR MORE INFORMATION about areas where performance improvement Business Enterprise National Council. In addition, Visit Supplier Sustainability in Responsibility on should be focused. Amgen’s Supplier Diversity Liaison Officer Jinus www.amgen.com. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 16 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMUNITY The Amgen Foundation, established in 1991, teachers and supporting compelling hands-on and is the principal channel for Amgen’s corporate virtual learning opportunities for students. To that end, philanthropy efforts, providing a wide range of the Amgen Foundation has contributed more than support for communities throughout the world. $130 million to advancing science education Through effective philanthropy, the Foundation has programming globally. helped to make the excitement of the sciences, the promise of science, technology, engineering and The Amgen Scholars Program, launched in 2006, mathematics (STEM) education, and the provision makes it possible for young scientists from around the of essential social services more accessible to globe to engage in cutting-edge research experiences members of the community. and learn more about biotechnology and drug discovery. In fact, the program has opened the door for participating undergraduates from 700 colleges and To date, the Foundation has contributed nearly $300 universities to undertake research at elite institutions million to local, regional and international nonprofit such as MIT, Stanford, Cambridge and the National organizations that reflect Amgen’s core values and Institutes of Health. There are more than 3,500 alumni complement the company’s dedication to impacting since the program’s inception, many of whom are lives in inspiring and innovative ways. now pursuing hundreds of advanced scientific degree programs and careers, including over 200 who have Support of Science Education earned their doctorate in a scientific field. Noteworthy “At its core, science is about community, The Amgen Foundation places a strong emphasis on in 2017, among many alumni accomplishments, about sharing ideas and searching for strengthening science education and is committed to Caltech Amgen Scholar alumnus Marvin Gee was truth together.” investing in meaningful, evidence-based initiatives that named to the Forbes “30 Under 30” list in Healthcare — 2 0 1 7 C A LT E C H A M G E N S C H O L A R S A M A N T H A J E N S E N make a difference at the local, national and international for his entrepreneurial efforts as a co-founder of an levels. The Amgen Foundation has two goals: inspiring innovative cancer therapy startup. the next generation of innovators and advancing scientific literacy. The Foundation pursues these goals with two complementary strategies: investing in science Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 17 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMUNITY The Amgen Biotech Experience (ABE) program, In 2017, Amgen continued its partnership with the Amgen Teach, which supports science teachers based on a community project initiated by Amgen Khan Academy. The Amgen Foundation’s $3 million, across Europe by providing training workshops and scientists nearly 30 years ago, empowers teachers three-year grant allows Khan Academy to create distance-learning events, has reached 3,000 teachers to bring biotechnology into their classrooms while and provide free, high-quality biology lessons for with trainings, impacting more than 440,000 students engaging students in science through hands-on students and teachers everywhere. With the Amgen in 10 countries over the past three years. learning. In 2017, we expanded the program to nine Foundation’s support, Khan Academy has grown its new regions outside of the United States, with a goal biology offerings to more than 300 videos, 80 exercise of reaching 900,000 students across the globe by sets and 195 articles. These resources are accessible 2020. ABE students have shown significant learning to Khan Academy’s more than 60 million registered gains in biotech, as well as an increased interest and users from across 190 countries. confidence in doing science and biotechnology. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 18 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMUNITY Staff Volunteering and Philanthropy Amgen staff share a strong ethic of giving back Volunteer efforts are as diverse as the worldwide to their communities. Each year, thousands of locations that comprise Amgen. In 2017, staff Amgen staff generously devote their personal time, volunteered to support recovery in Houston, Texas, energy, talents and funds to a variety of charitable following Hurricane Harvey, helped prepare meals at organizations around the world. Amgen and the a food bank in Canada and participated in a beach Amgen Foundation support staff philanthropy cleanup in Singapore in honor of World Environment through Amgen Volunteers, our Matching Gifts Day, among many other activities. Amgen provides Program and company-sponsored volunteering. resources to support team-building experiences that strengthen workplace culture as team members Through Amgen Foundation’s Matching Gifts volunteer together in communities. We were proud to Program, staff donations plus matching funds from be recognized with the Corporate Social Responsibility the Foundation totaled $7.8 million in 2017. The Program of the Year award by the Ireland Pharma Matching Gifts Program provides a 1:1 match for Industry organization. staff donations to eligible nonprofit organizations from $50 up to $20,000 annually per staff member. Staff from around the world volunteer as mentors to help students gain a greater understanding of 2017 marked the first full year of the Amgen Impact science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). Day program. Through Impact Day, all fulland partIn 2017, Amgen was awarded an Excellence in time regular, active staff members are eligible to take Volunteer Mobilization award by US2020. US2020’s up to eight hours of paid time off per calendar year to mission is to dramatically increase the number of volunteer in support of an effort of their choice. Staff STEM professionals engaged in high-quality STEM contributed nearly 10,000 volunteer hours through mentoring with youth in America, with a specific focus this initiative and nearly 29,000 volunteer hours on programming that supports underserved and overall in 2017. underrepresented students. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 19 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING COMMUNITY Supporting Communities in Times of Disaster both the Amgen Foundation and global staff members 2017 was an unprecedented year for natural donated funds in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria and disasters—some of which hit very close to home for our five additional natural disasters in 2017: Hurricanes business and staff. Hurricane Maria devastated Puerto Harvey and Irma, two severe earthquakes in Mexico Rico, the location of Amgen’s largest manufacturing and the Southern California wildfires. facility. In the aftermath of this crisis that impacted 3.5 million people on the island, including more “With their admirable dedication, our staff in than 2,000 Amgen staff, Amgen demonstrated its Puerto Rico demonstrated their unwavering resilience and commitment to responsibility in multiple commitment to patients. We wanted to reflect ways. We continued to supply medicine for patients, that same commitment back to our staff at uninterrupted by the state of emergency on the island. the site, to the Juncos community and to the We ensured a broad safety net of resources for our island with which we have formed a close staff, including water, gas and food. bond over the past 25 years.” — K E R R Y I N G A L L S , V I C E P R E S I D E N T, S I T E O P E R AT I O N S In support of the local Juncos community, the Amgen Manufacturing Limited site provided diesel fuel for generators to help power the local hospital, dialysis FOR MORE INFORMATION clinic and grocery store. After the Municipality of Juncos Visit Responsibility on www.amgen.com. had to cancel its traditional Christmas celebration, Amgen helped the festivities go on—funding a party for some 5,000 members of the community. The Amgen Foundation pledged $3 million to support urgent Hurricane Maria relief efforts in Puerto Rico, committing up to an additional $2 million for longer-term rebuilding efforts. Through the Disaster Relief Matching Program, Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 20 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT Amgen believes in conducting our business in an Our Targets environmentally sustainable manner. In alignment To reduce our environmental footprint, we harness “The cheapest, cleanest unit of energy is the with our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Plan, in innovative tools, techniques, facilities and equipment. one you don’t use. A major contributor to our implementation since 2012, we integrate sustainable We set our 2020 environmental targets by establishing energy and carbon reduction achievements practices throughout our business, leveraging our reduction quantities based on our 2012 baseline at Amgen has been strategic energy-saving culture of innovation to deliver improvements and performance. We have created a portfolio of projects drive performance. We have demonstrated that projects, which follow this basic idea that it’s and initiatives that we implement to achieve the practices that benefit the environment also benefit better to conserve energy in the first place.” targeted reductions. We track progress towards our our operations as a whole. targets through verified results from these improvement — D E R E K M U L L I N S , E N E R G Y M A N AG E R projects, without influence from growth or contraction in our business. We are progressing ahead of our plan towards meeting these targets. 2020 Target Progress Through 2017 Carbon Reduce 3,000 metric tons (MT) of fleet carbon 20% of 2012 baseline 3,000 MT Carbon Reduce 38,500 metric tons (MT) of facility carbon 10% of 2012 baseline 34,500 MT Waste Reduce 1,490 metric tons (MT) of waste to landfill or incineration 1,038 MT 35% of 2012 baseline Water Reduce 269,000 cubic meters (CM) 10% of 2012 baseline 266,000 CM 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 2012 Baseline 2020 Target Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 21 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT Reducing Carbon Through Energy Conservation In addition to operations-based projects, we also take Partner Meetings and was recognized by the Amgen implements a comprehensive carbon reduction steps to reduce carbon output from our business by Association of Energy Engineers as an Energy strategy that focuses on eliminating energy use where encouraging alternative methods of commuting to Project of the Year. possible, increasing energy efficiency and increasing work, such as carpooling and providing electric • Implementation of new air exchange reduction the proportion of energy used from renewable and vehicle charging stations at some facilities. and air handling conservation projects at two U.S. alternative sources. We complete energy-related manufacturing sites resulting in an energy reduction projects that provide substantial returns for both energy Highlights of our energy and carbon program in of 5,200 GJ. savings and carbon reduction across our network of 2017 include: • Expanding the evaluation of Scope 3 emissions facilities around the world. We have realized savings • Continued use of our facility data evaluation program associated with our business to include carbon of $28 million in operating costs annually and reduced conserved 67,800 gigajoules (GJ) at Amgen’s emissions from waste generated from operations carbon emissions by 118,200 metric tons (MT), or 28 U.S.-based locations. This program was selected to and from staff commuting. percent, from 2007 through 2017 by implementing be presented at the 2017 ENERGY STAR® Industrial energy conservation and carbon reduction projects. 141 8 500 14 8 10 431 1,100 84 84 20 34 400 84 84 Scope 1 Sources Natural Gas 84 300 84 Diesel Carbon Emissions Propane 200 Carbon Emissions Avoided* 416 385 363 354 369 291 278 from 2007 Through 2012 Scope 2 Sources 100 Carbon Emissions 1,039 Fossil Fuel Avoided* 2013+ Renewables *Value represents year-over-year, 988 Nuclear 0 cumulative and continuing avoidance. 3 Nonspecified 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 Energy Use by Source (1,000 GJ) Carbon Emissions and Carbon Emissions Reduced Through Conservation Efforts (1,000 MT) Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 22 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT Conserving Water: a Precious Resource Highlights of our water conservation program in Water is vital for the manufacture of our medicines. 2017 include: To conserve this precious resource, we have developed water-saving practices and strategic projects based on • Use of next-generation biomanufacturing technologies assessments of our water use and available opportunities that reduce the volume of water required to maintain for conservation. Our total water use company-wide in 2017 manufacturing equipment and spaces. declined slightly from 2016. Water conservation projects implemented in 2017 resulted in an additional 63,000 cubic • Conservation of approximately 11,000 CM of water meters (CM) of annual water reduction to achieve a total of resulting from engineering projects to optimize heating, 266,000 CM since establishing our 2020 targets in 2013. ventilation and air conditioning systems. We have reduced annual water usage through projects eliminating 952,000 CM, or 29 percent, since 2007. 4,000 3,500 19 142 36 203 266 3,000 686 686 686 686 686 686 2,500 Water Intake 2,000 1,500 Water Intake Avoided* from 2007 Through 2012 3,286 2,720 2,725 2,487 2,520 2,351 2,320 1,000 Water Intake Avoided* 2013+ 500 *Value represents year-over-year, 0 cumulative and continuing avoidance. 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Water Intake and Intake Avoided Through Conservation Efforts (1,000 CM) Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 23 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT Reducing Waste Highlights of our waste reduction and recycling program for Our waste management program has matured over the 2017 include: years as we have sought more opportunities to reduce • Expansion of our program to recycle plastics used in waste and as more opportunities and technologies have manufacturing at our Rhode Island and our Woburn, become available for recycling and composting. We strive Massachusetts, facilities. This program diverted 141 MT to eliminate waste within the constraints of our regulated of these plastics from the landfill and repurposed them for biopharmaceutical business. Total waste generation industrial uses. company-wide decreased in 2017 from 2016. Waste • Expansion of our program to reuse shipping containers reduction projects implemented in 2017 resulted in an used in distributing clinical products. additional 188 metric tons (MT) of annual waste reduction • Diversion from landfill of approximately 129 MT of to achieve a total of 1,038 MT since establishing our 2020 equipment and materials that were reused within Amgen’s targets in 2013. We have reduced annual waste generation network or by external purchasers or beneficiaries through through projects eliminating 2,132 MT, or 21 percent, our Surplus Asset Management Program. since 2007. 320 441 688 850 1038 100% 1,094 1,094 1,094 1,094 1,094 90% 1,094 Waste Reduced* 3,542 from 2013+ 80% 70% 4,762 4,493 4,501 5,235 5,517 Waste Reduced* from 4,790 2007 Through 2012 60% 50% Recycled, Composted 40% and Reused 30% 6,604 4,256 4,287 4,429 4,819 4,814 5,067 Disposed 20% 10% *Value represents year-over-year, cumulative and continuing avoidance. 0 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Routine Waste by Waste Hierarchy (MT) Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 24 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING ENVIRONMENT Sustainable by Design Our approach is based on the 12 principles of Green In line with our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Plan, Chemistry, which include the minimization of toxicity we are integrating environmentally sustainable practices and waste and conservation of energy and water. throughout our complex, global business. Since we formalized our Environmental Sustainability program, “The green chemistry approach developed and implemented creative, smart thinking along with advances in by Amgen and Bachem for the manufacture of Parsabiv™ is technology and infrastructure help to drive practices an excellent example of scientific innovation resulting in both more deeply into our operations. the evolution of our manufacturing technology and benefits to the environment,” said Margaret Faul, executive director, Sustainable Manufacturing Facility Licensed in 2017 Process Development. In May 2017, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration licensed Amgen’s pioneering next-generation Manufacturing Plastics Program Expanded biomanufacturing plant in Singapore for commercial In 2017, we expanded our program to recycle even more production of biologic drug substance. The plant’s plastics generated from biomanufacturing, such as gloves, modular, flexible design fits in a smaller footprint than a tubing, pipette tips and other plastics. We sent 141 metric conventional plant and boasts more environmentally friendly tons of plastics to a special waste processing plant, at cost technology. Compared with the manufacture of the same to Amgen, where they are processed into industrial-grade amount of product in a traditional facility, the plant has so plastics for use in benches, pallets, and road curbs, among far demonstrated annualized reductions of approximately other uses. 268,000 gigajoules of energy, 8,800 metric tons of carbon and 82,000 cubic meters of water. “We are proud to have been able to propose and implement a solution that helps promote environmental protection,” Amgen Wins Prestigious Green Chemistry Award said Jim Rawley, manager, Environment, Health, Safety Amgen was honored to be the recipient of the and Sustainability. “Recycling these plastics helps reduce 2017 Green Chemistry Challenge Award for practices, the amount of raw material used in certain products and developed in partnership with manufacturing partner, reduces plastics in our waste stream.” Bachem, which improved the environmental footprint of our synthetic peptide drug, Parsabiv™ (etelcalcetide). FOR MORE INFORMATION Visit Environment in Responsibility on www.amgen.com. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 25 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING WORKPLACE While we work to develop treatments to take care Wellness and the Work Environment of others, we also prioritize care for the people Amgen staff members drive our commitment to contributing to these advances: our staff. We delivering innovative therapeutics that improve strive to create an inclusive, safe and healthy human health. We empower staff to pursue healthy work environment. lifestyles themselves by supporting access to resources and facilities, including fitness facilities and memberships, healthy eating options and many Amgen’s Safety Culture health-oriented promotions and events throughout At Amgen, we pride ourselves on being a dynamic, the year. In 2017, we initiated MOVE MORE, a new innovative company. In the midst of change, our health promotion program to help make moving part culture of safety is a constant. of staff members’ daily routine. Our popular, annual Walk to Wellness program celebrated its 10th year We work towards creating a world-class safety in 2017. More than 3,000 staff and their spouses/ culture through safety leadership and risk partners took part in the challenge, logging nearly management practices, integrating safety 700 million total steps. throughout our business processes. We strive to make safety a fundamental part As an extension of our focus on a healthy workplace of how staff operate in all functions. culture, in 2017, CEO Robert Bradway joined the American Heart Association CEO Roundtable, a “Our staff are critical to our company. In 2017, we set a high bar for safety, targeting leadership collaborative of more than 35 CEOs Providing a safe and healthy environment a goal of equal or less than 0.30 incidents per dedicated to improving cardiovascular health in where staff can continue to innovate and do 100 staff. Though we fell short of our goal, we their workplaces and in local communities. The CEO did improve our record throughout the year, Roundtable is helping to scale up evidence-based their best work is essential to Amgen’s success.” moving from 0.44 to 0.35 overall. We attribute this standards and best practices to support the AHA’s — E S T E B A N S A N T O S , E X E C U T I V E V I C E P R E S I D E N T, O P E R AT I O N S positive movement to focused safety programs goal of achieving a 20 percent improvement in the we accomplished throughout the year, including cardiovascular health of all Americans by 2020. sustained improvements for safety in our Research FOR MORE INFORMATION and Development function and our Manufacturing Visit Safety and Wellness in Responsibility on Safety Improvement Plan. www.amgen.com. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 26 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING WORKPLACE Workspace Renovations Support an Innovative, With endorsement from senior management and Healthy Culture engagement with senior leaders across the In 2017, Amgen made significant progress with the organization, Amgen has implemented a global rollout of office and lab space renovations that fit an strategy designed to leverage our diversity and activity-based working model. These varied create a more inclusive workplace. This diversity workspaces support Amgen’s collaborative, and inclusion strategy establishes priorities that innovative culture and provide a healthy, vibrant serve as a baseline for measuring our progress work environment for staff. These workspaces towards a more inclusive workplace. We provide contain abundant natural light and a choice of leaders and managers with training and tools to flexible work areas adapted to the variety of tasks lead a diverse workforce and create an inclusive staff perform throughout the day. We further support environment. staff health in these spaces by providing ergonomic equipment and workstations and encouraging Amgen has nine executive-sponsored Employee staff to make movement an important part of their Resource Groups that are organized around a daily work routine. Multiple guided stretch breaks primary diversity attribute and promote employee are incorporated in the design, as well as stretch development, professional growth and inclusion. stations with instruction cards. These workspaces In 2017, chapters of these Employee Resource also offer wellness rooms to recharge. Groups grew to more than 20 around the world. Diversity and Inclusion Amgen received a perfect score of 100 percent At Amgen, we understand that to successfully on the 2017 Corporate Equality Index (CEI). CEI FOR MORE INFORMATION sustain and grow as a global enterprise we must is a national benchmarking survey and report on Visit Diversity and Inclusion in Responsibility on www.amgen.com. ensure a diverse and inclusive work environment. corporate policies and practices related to LGBT We believe that an environment of inclusion fosters workplace equality, administered by the Human innovation, which drives our ability to serve patients. Rights Campaign Foundation. We continue to pride We actively recruit to foster diverse points of view. ourselves on industry-leading offerings for families We are proud to say that 51 percent of our of all compositions and in 2017, added transgender global workforce is female, and the total minority benefits to our package. population of our U.S. workforce is 35 percent. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 27 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Amgen communicates its progress in environmental sustainability index, available on www.amgen.com, summarizes Amgen’s Above and beyond our use of the GRI Guidelines as a and social responsibility in a variety of ways. We provide reporting in relation to the GRI G4 indicators. framework for reporting, other key reporting commitments information on our website, participate in industry conferences A full set of environmental performance data is also available include the following: and workshops, provide information to external organizations on our website. We measure and report, on an annual basis, • Donations and grants made by the company and the and produce annual reports. our overall energy and carbon, water, waste and sales fleet Amgen Foundation fuel efficiency performance. We include data gathered from • Political contributions in the U.S. 19 manufacturing, research and development and distribution • Disclosures in alignment with the European Federation of Amgen is committed to aligning our reporting with respected facilities in North America, South America, Eurasia, Asia Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations codes of practice global standards. This Responsibility Highlights Report, which and Europe, representing approximately 94 percent of our • Securities and Exchange Commission—required covers the practices of our global company (see the Amgen operations—based on our facilities’ square footage. The financial reporting fact sheet for locations), contains Standard Disclosures from remaining square footage includes primarily administrative • Responses to CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting offices. Recently acquired facilities are outside the scope of investor requests for climate change and water information Guidelines. The GRI Guidelines offer a useful framework to help our reporting. Our 2017 environmental and safety data have • Complete environmental data, which is available in companies standardize their sustainability reporting. Our GRI undergone limited assurance by Bureau Veritas North America. Responsibility on Amgen.com • UN Global Compact annual Communication on Progress • Alignment with relevant Sustainable Development Goals Type Unit 2007 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Total Energy (a) 1,000 GJ 4,341 3,849 3,817 3,706 3,812 3,535 3,709 Total Carbon From Energy (a) 1,000 MT CO2Eq 416 385 363 354 369 291 278 Total Water Withdrawal (a) 1,000 CM 3,286 2,720 2,725 2,487 2,520 2,351 2,320 Total Routine Waste (a) MT 10,146 9,018 8,780 8,929 10,054 10,330 9,856 Environmental Notices of Violation (NOVs) (b) 1 NOV 8 2 2 6 1 1 1 Staff Injury and Illness Rate Incidents per 100 workers 0.81 0.56 0.57 0.42 0.37 0.44 0.35 Staff Lost Day Case Rate Incidents per 100 workers 0.25 0.17 0.11 0.12 0.12 0.14 0.11 Amgen Staff (FTE) People 17,500 17,900 20,000 17,900 17,900 19,200 20,800 Net Sales $ Millions 14,311 16,639 18,192 19,327 20,944 21,892 21,795 Non-GAAP Net Income (c) $ Millions 4,804 5,119 5,814 6,700 7,954 8,785 9,246 Non-GAAP R&D Expenses (c) $ Millions 3,064 3,296 3,929 4,121 3,917 3,755 3,482 For additional environment, safety and financial performance data, please see www.amgen.com. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 28 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Data Notes a) Please see Responsibility/Environment on amgen.com for an Independent Verification Statement for this data. Amgen has included data from 19 facilities covering energy and carbon, water and waste. The facilities represent approximately 94 percent of Amgen’s worldwide facility space based on total square feet. Included facilities are in Thousand Oaks, California, U.S.; West Greenwich, Rhode Island, U.S.; Longmont, Colorado, U.S.; Bothell, Washington, U.S.; Juncos, Puerto Rico, U.S.; Louisville, Kentucky, U.S.; South San Francisco, California, U.S.; Cambridge and Woburn, Massachusetts, U.S.; Burnaby, Canada; Breda, Netherlands; Dun Laoghaire, Ireland; Uxbridge, Abingdon and Cambridge, United Kingdom; São Paulo, Brazil; Yenibosna and Sekerpinar, Turkey; and Tuas, Singapore. This includes leased buildings where we have operational control over building infrastructure, including utilities. b) Environmental notices of violation (NOVs) reported that resulted from agency inspections. c) Amgen Inc. Reconciliations of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures (Unaudited) ($ In millions) Years ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2007 GAAP research and development expenses $ 3,562 $ 3,840 $ 4,070 $ 4,297 $ 4,083 $ 3,380 $ 3,266 Adjustments to research and development expenses: Acquisition-related expenses (a) (77) (78) (89) (124) (142) (50) (100) Certain charges pursuant to our restructuring and other cost savings initiatives (b) (3) (7) (64) (49) (12) (19) Stock option expense (3) (12) (22) (83) Total adjustments to research and development expenses (80) (85) (153) (176) (154) (84) (202) Non-GAAP research and development expenses $ 3,482 $ 3,755 $ 3,917 $ 4,121 $ 3,929 $ 3,296 $ 3,064 GAAP operating income $ 9,973 $ 9,794 $ 8,470 $ 6,191 $ 5,867 $ 5,577 $ 3,980 Adjustments to operating income: Acquisition-related expenses (c) 1,594 1,510 1,377 1,546 986 470 1,016 Certain charges pursuant to our restructuring and other cost savings initiatives (b) 88 37 114 596 71 347 739 Expense/(benefit) related to various legal proceedings 105 91 (3) 14 64 34 Stock option expense 16 34 59 181 Expense resulting from clarified guidance on branded prescription drug fee (d) 129 Write-off of inventory (e) 90 Write-off of manufacturing asset (f) 30 Other 3 Total adjustments to operating income 1,685 1,652 1,582 2,284 1,105 940 2,090 Non-GAAP operating income $ 11,658 $ 11,446 $ 10,052 $ 8,475 $ 6,972 $ 6,517 $ 6,070 GAAP net income $ 1,979 $ 7,722 $ 6,939 $ 5,158 $ 5,081 $ 4,345 $ 3,078 Adjustments to net income: Adjustments to operating income 1,685 1,652 1,582 2,284 1,105 940 2,090 Adjustments to other income (g) 12 140 219 Income tax effect of the above adjustments (h) (538) (525) (496) (717) (376) (329) (491) Other income tax adjustments (i) 6,120 (64) (71) (25) (30) 23 (92) Non-GAAP net income $ 9,246 $ 8,785 $ 7,954 $ 6,700 $ 5,814 $ 5,119 $ 4,804 (a) The adjustments related primarily to non-cash amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. (b) The adjustments related to headcount charges, such as severance, and to asset charges, such as asset impairments, accelerated depreciation and other charges related to the closure of our facilities. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the adjustment included gains recognized on the sale of assets related to our site closures. (c) The adjustments related primarily to acquisition-related expenses associated with various acquisitions including, but not limited to, non-cash amortization of acquired intangible assets and changes in estimated fair values of contingent consideration. For the year ended December 31, 2017, the adjustment included net charges associated with the discontinuance of the internal development of AMG 899. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the adjustment included the write-off of certain acquired in-process research and development. (d) The adjustment related to the recognition of an additional year of the non-tax deductible branded prescription drug fee, as required by final regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service. (e) The adjustment related to the write-off of inventory primarily due to changing regulatory and reimbursement environments. (f) The adjustment related to the write-off of a semi-completed manufacturing asset that was not used due to a change in manufacturing strategy. (g) The adjustments related primarily to non-cash interest expense associated with our convertible notes. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the adjustment included bridge financing costs associated with the Onyx business combination. (h) The tax effect of the adjustments between our GAAP and non-GAAP results takes into account the tax treatment and related tax rate(s) that apply to each adjustment in the applicable tax jurisdiction(s). Generally, this results in a tax impact at the U.S. marginal tax rate for certain adjustments, including the majority of amortization of intangible assets, whereas the tax impact of other adjustments, including restructuring expense, depends on whether the amounts are deductible in the respective tax jurisdictions and the applicable tax rate(s) in those jurisdictions. (i) For the year ended December 31, 2017, the adjustment related primarily to the impact of U.S. Corporate tax reform, including the repatriation tax on accumulated foreign earnings and the remeasurement of certain net deferred and other tax liabilities. For all other years, the adjustments related to certain prior period items excluded from GAAP earnings, as well as resolving certain non-routine transfer-pricing and acquisition-related issues with tax authorities, as applicable. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 29 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Communication on Progress–UN Global Compact • Amgen scientists have pioneered a new biomanufacturing Bachem, in applying green chemistry practices. (See the This 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report serves as Amgen’s paradigm that is leaner, greener, more flexible and productive Environment section of this report for more details.) Communication on Progress for the United Nations Global and less costly to build and operate. (See Environment section Compact (UNGC). The statement from our Chief Executive Officer of this report for more details.) • The Amgen Foundation announced a three-year, $10.5 million at the beginning of the report reaffirms our commitment to the grant to expand the Amgen Biotech Experience in the U.S. and principles of the UNGC, and much of the content throughout • With endorsement and engagement from senior management across the globe, which will allow the program to engage nearly the report highlights progress in the four key areas of the UNGC: across the organization, Amgen has implemented a global 900,000 high school students by 2020. (See the Community Environment, Labor, Human Rights and Anti-Corruption. In diversity and inclusion strategy designed to create a more section of this report for more details.) addition, this section includes a summary of some of the 2017 inclusive workplace. (See the Workplace section of this report progress most relevant to the UNGC, as well as a table that for more details.) • During 2017, Amgen expanded its partnership with the Union provides a listing of where additional information about for International Cancer Control’s C/Can 2025: City Cancer relevant programs and policies can be found. • Amgen continues to expand and enhance its Supplier Challenge to support improved health systems and address the Sustainability Program, which is designed to support our growing burden of noncommunicable diseases around the world. Highlights of Progress expectation that our suppliers not only address quality, cost and (See the Patients section of this report for more details.) Many of Amgen’s programs, procedures, policies and reporting reliability requirements but also a wide range of sustainability are well aligned with the UNGC principles, and we continue to and social responsibility considerations. (See the Operating • In 2017, we established a new Global Advocacy Relations team work to enhance our approaches and performance in alignment Responsibly section of this report for more details.) to better understand and incorporate the patient community voice with those principles. Over the last 12 months, some of the early on as we develop and commercialize our medicines, as well progress that has been achieved includes the following: • The United States Environmental Protection Agency has as to positively impact the healthcare environment in support of honored Amgen with a 2017 Green Chemistry Challenge Award access to treatment for patients. (See the Patients section of this for its work, in conjunction with its manufacturing partner report for more details.) Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 30 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Summary of Relevant Reporting In addition to this report, Amgen provides extensive reporting on policies and progress aligned with the UNGC on our website. Below is a summary table providing links to existing reporting aligned with the major categories of UNGC principles. UNGC Principles Categories Amgen Policies, Programs and Reporting Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Responsibility Highlights Report Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility Staff Code of Conduct Diversity and Inclusion Access to Medicine Employee Health and Safety Employee Wellness Environment, Health and Safety Policy Non-Discrimination Environmental Sustainability Commitment Environmental Sustainability Performance Amgen Foundation Supplier Sustainability California Supply Chain Transparency Act Conflict Minerals Policy Conflict Minerals Report Supplier Diversity Anti-Corruption and U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Interactions with Healthcare Providers Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 31 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Summary of Relevant Reporting (continued) UNGC Principles Categories Amgen Policies, Programs and Reporting Human Rights Labor Environment Anti-Corruption Counterfeit Drugs Global Patient Safety Grants and Giving Antitrust and Unfair Competition Policy Dealing with the Government Policy Compliance Reporting and Non-Retaliation Insider Trading Policy Protection of Personal Information Policy Awards and Accolades Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 32 COMMITMENT PATIENTS OPERATING RESPONSIBLY COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT WORKPLACE REPORTING REPORTING Forward-Looking Statements This communication contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current expectations and beliefs of Amgen. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including estimates of revenues, operating margins, capital expenditures, cash, other financial metrics, expected legal, arbitration, political, regulatory or clinical results or practices, customer and prescriber patterns or practices, reimbursement activities and outcomes and other such estimates and results. Forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those discussed below and more fully described in the Securities and Exchange Commission reports filed by Amgen, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and any subsequent periodic reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Unless otherwise noted, Amgen is providing this information as of the date of this communication and does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this document as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. No forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual results may differ materially from those we project. Our results may be affected by our ability to successfully market both new and existing products domestically and internationally, clinical and regulatory developments involving current and future products, sales growth of recently launched products, competition from other products including biosimilars, difficulties or delays in manufacturing our products and global economic conditions. In addition, sales of our products are affected by pricing pressure, political and public scrutiny and reimbursement policies imposed by third-party payers, including governments, private insurance plans and managed care providers and may be affected by regulatory, clinical and guideline developments and domestic and international trends toward managed care and healthcare cost containment. Furthermore, our research, testing, pricing, marketing and other operations are subject to extensive regulation by domestic and foreign government regulatory authorities. Our business may be impacted by government investigations, litigation and product liability claims. In addition, our business may be impacted by the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities. If we fail to meet the compliance obligations in the corporate integrity agreement between us and the U.S. government, we could become subject to significant sanctions. Further, while we routinely obtain patents for our products and technology, the protection offered by our patents and patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by our competitors, or we may fail to prevail in present and future intellectual property litigation. We perform a substantial amount of our commercial manufacturing activities at a few key facilities, including in Puerto Rico, and also depend on third parties for a portion of our manufacturing activities, and limits on supply may constrain sales of certain of our current products and product candidate development. In addition, we compete with other companies with respect to many of our marketed products as well as for the discovery and development of new products. Further, some raw materials, medical devices and component parts for our products are supplied by sole third-party suppliers. Certain of our distributors, customers and payers have substantial purchasing leverage in their dealings with us. The discovery of significant problems with a product similar to one of our products that implicate an entire class of products could have a material adverse effect on sales of the affected products and on our business and results of operations. Our efforts to acquire other companies or products and to integrate the operations of companies we have acquired may not be successful. A breakdown, cyberattack or information security breach could compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems and our data. Our stock price is volatile and may be affected by a number of events. Our business performance could affect or limit the ability of our Board of Directors to declare a dividend or our ability to pay a dividend or repurchase our common stock. We may not be able to access the capital and credit markets on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Amgen 2017 Responsibility Highlights Report 33 Amgen Inc. One Amgen Center Drive Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799 www.amgen.com © 2018 Amgen Inc. All rights reserved. May 2018.
