Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 1 Contents Statement of support.............................................................................................................................. 3 About Scope Global................................................................................................................................. 4 Human rights........................................................................................................................................... 5 Labour ..................................................................................................................................................... 8 Environment ......................................................................................................................................... 10 Anti-corruption ..................................................................................................................................... 12 Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 2 Statement of support 14 December 2017 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm that Scope Global reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This is our first year as a member of the United Nations Global Compact. In our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Christine Molitor Chief Executive Officer Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 3 About Scope Global Scope Global delivers international development and education programs and services that benefit Asia, the Pacific and Australia. Through our work in more than 50 countries, we facilitate learning, study and professional development opportunities, and partner with governments and communities to improve livelihoods and contribute to social and economic development. Our expert team is headquartered in Adelaide, South Australia and operates throughout Australia, Asia and the Pacific. Everything we do is inspired by our vision to enable people to positively change their world. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 4 Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policy and goals Scope Global holds diversity, inclusiveness and human rights as core principles. We expect that our employees, personnel (including consultants and sub-contractors), business partners and suppliers respect and comply with human rights principles including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The nature of our work means that we typically deliver programs on behalf of clients such as the Australian Government Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Australian Government Department of Education and Training, the Asian Development Bank, and Australian universities. Our clients also have clear expectations about protecting and promoting human rights that we integrate alongside our own core principles and procedures. Through our work, our aim is to ensure all people can access, benefit and contribute to the development of their communities on an equal basis. In the next year, we are aiming to review our Diversity and Inclusion Policy and approaches. Our long-term aim, which is driven by our Strategic Plan, is to embed diversity and inclusion in everything that we do. Implementation Scope Global works to protect the human rights of all of our personnel, program participants, partners and stakeholders. Examples of actions Scope Global takes in this area include:  Respecting and protecting human rights o All staff and personnel are required to sign our Code of Conduct that sets out our standards of professional conduct o All staff receive child protection training as part of their induction in line with Scope Global’s Child Protection Policy o Inclusivity is built into the design of a number of programs we deliver, taking into account gender equality, disability inclusion, disadvantaged groups, and inclusion for populations that live in rural and remote areas o Our informed consent procedure is designed to ensure our personnel and program participants are not endangered in any way.  Ensuring our personnel are provided with safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities Our Work, Health and Safety Policy has been developed and applied across all operations, ensuring that each location in which we operate is compliant with the legislation. We have established processes and audits in place to assess our workplace, to identify any potential hazards and any required actions to mitigate these. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 5  Protecting our personnel from workplace harassment We have a zero tolerance to any form of harassment and have established policies and training about our Code of Conduct, bullying in the workplace, and diversity and inclusion to promote this standard. This training also aims to ensure there are effective channels and resources for reporting and investigating any complaints that are presented. Measurement of outcomes Scope Global has protected and promoted human rights over the past year by:  Providing induction training to all new staff members, both Australian and overseas-based, that covers expectations under our Code of Conduct, our workplace bullying and harassment policies and procedures, disability inclusion, and child protection  Upholding equal opportunity employment practices to ensure all applicants and potential applicants are treated fairly and without bias  Holding staff events to raise awareness about and celebrate key international days such as International Women’s Day (8 March), White Ribbon Day (25 November) and International Day of People with a Disability (5 December)  Supporting a vast array of local suppliers (such as local community-based and Indigenous catering companies) and at least 10 charitable organisations through donations and staff volunteering  Expressing the right to self-expression, for example by joining Pride and Diversity, an organisation that supports employers to facilitate a safe working environment for people who identify as part of the LGBTI+ community. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 6 CASE STUDY Best practices in disability inclusion In 2015 Scope Global designed the Disability Empowerment Skills Exchange (DESE), a world first for inclusive team-based international volunteering. DESE connects skilled Australians who have lived experience of disability with partners in the Asia-Pacific region to share knowledge, combat stereotypes and develop leadership for disability empowerment. In 2017 the second and third skills exchanges mobilised to Fiji and Laos to partner with the Fiji Ministry of Education Special and Inclusive Education Unit, the Laos Disabled Women’s Development Centre and the Laos Disabled People’s Association. The DESE teams cumulatively reached 693 local people via 30 activities that included people with disability acting as co-trainers and facilitators. Outcomes included:  Increase of private sector, government and tourism organisations offering employment opportunities for students and people with a disability in Fiji and Laos  Provided professional development sessions with teachers from three pilot schools in Fiji  Improved team skills of the Laos National Wheelchair Basketball Team  Initiated a Laos Women’s Wheelchair Basketball Team  Modifications to enable the first wheelchair accessible and safe van in Laos  Disability awareness raised in local communities such as taxi drivers, accommodation staff and tourism providers. The initiative has been recognised domestically and internationally for its inclusive model, bilateral capacity development outcomes, and significant reach, engagement and public diplomacy outcomes with communities in Australia, Fiji and Laos. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 7 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals As a people-focused organisation, Scope Global is committed to providing high standards of employment conditions and approaches to engage employees, contractors and personnel who undertake work on behalf of the organisation. Our diverse workforce operates throughout the Asia-Pacific region. We provide opportunities to enable individuals to reach their full potential irrespective of their individual background. Our policies and procedures are reviewed regularly to guide areas such as making fair employmentrelated decisions and arrangements, ensuring fair and equitable remuneration, diversity and inclusion in the workplace, and work health and safety in all workplace locations. Scope Global’s work aims to promote ethical sourcing and procurement, working towards the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, as well as the effective abolition of child labour. Over the next year, Scope Global aims to provide additional employment benefits by introducing paid parental leave entitlements and domestic violence leave policy. We have a fair and measured approach to performance management, and over the next year we plan to strengthen this by reviewing our performance planning, development and assessment framework. We will also review our Diversity and Inclusion Policy and associated strategies, and set benchmarks for future review in the areas of gender equality, disability, indigenous engagement and inclusion. Further, in the next year our CEO Christine Molitor will become a Workplace Gender Equality Agency Pay Equity Ambassador. This is an initiative of the Australian Government that brings together Heads of Government and CEOs who are committed to playing a leadership role in achieving pay equity and gender equality in their organisation and community. Implementation Examples of actions Scope Global has taken to ensure high standards of employment conditions include:  Employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. Our Recruitment and Selection Policy sets out rigorous processes to be followed to ensure that our employment decisions are based on specific job and organisational criteria, with skilled personnel being placed on our panels to determine these decisions. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 8  Employment conditions are developed strictly in accordance with Australian laws and where relevant, local laws in the countries in which we operate. When operating in countries outside of Australia, we apply the Australian National Employment Standards where local provisions are less favourable.  Scope Global has designed its own job evaluation and remuneration framework in accordance with the Hay Group data and methodology, ensuring that our salaries are relevantly benchmarked and are competitive in the market.  Preventing discrimination: We have zero tolerance to any form of harassment. We have established policies and training about our Code of Conduct, bullying in the workplace, and diversity and inclusion to promote this standard and to ensure that there are effective channels and resources for reporting and investigating any complaints that are presented.  Health and safety: We are committed to ensuring the health and safety of our personnel. Our Work Health and Safety Policy sets out rigorous responsibilities, strategies and controls that are in place to ensure all workers have a clear understanding of their duties and the duties of others in relation to work health and safety.  Employee views: Our employees are regularly consulted for their views about issues that may affect them, for example employment conditions, staff culture and strategic planning. Measurement of outcomes Scope Global monitors and evaluates performance against labour principles through the following measures:  Employee engagement: we have conducted regular employee engagement surveys since 2013 and developed an employee engagement strategy to address identified areas of importance as a result of the survey feedback and overall engagement levels.  Employee demographics: we monitor our employee demographics and implement specific interventions or recruitment tactics if required. The following is a selection of employee demographic data from the 2016–17 financial year: o 50% of our board members identified as female o 65% of our managers identified as female o Our Chief Executive Officer is female o 64% of our total employees are female.  Safety in the workplace: we work to ensure our personnel have high standards of employment conditions and are safe at work by: o Regularly reviewing and maintaining work health and safety and incident-related policies and procedures o Responding to workplace-related injuries and actively working to mitigate future injuries and identified risks to safety at work.  Fair and equitable remuneration: in October 2017 we analysed current remuneration data of our Australian-based employees to determine the extent (if any) of a gender pay gap. Findings from the analysis are being used to inform future recruitment, succession and development planning strategies.  Periodic review: senior managers review our labour rights-related risks and opportunities on a regular basis and evaluate feedback and suggestions from personnel about ways to improve working conditions. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 9 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Scope Global takes environmental protection and sustainability seriously; promoting greater environmental responsibility is a growing area of focus throughout the organisation. We are committed to integrating principles of sustainable development into our work by considering environmental, social and economic issues in our approaches and decisions. Most of Scope Global’s work is office based, which means our direct environmental impact is relatively small. We acknowledge legal obligations and government requirements that are relevant to our work. In the next year, Scope Global is aiming to take a range of actions to better understand our environmental footprint and support environmental protection. Our newly launched 2018–2021 Strategic Plan contains specific actions to achieve improved environmental performance against targets established in an annual environmental strategy. Implementation Examples of Scope Global’s approach to environmentally sustainable practice include:  Ensuring we are compliant with relevant government directions and legislative requirements across all country offices  Our Code of Conduct applies to all Scope Global personnel, requiring that personnel adhere to professional values and meet ethical and legal standards relevant to their work, which includes care and respect for the environment  Encouraging individual and office-based recycling throughout all business locations  Wherever possible and practicable, purchasing environmentally sounder products such as printing and office supplies  Disposing of waste in environmentally responsible ways  Collaborating through online conversation and meeting tools wherever possible to reduce the environmental impact of long-distance travel  Upgrading our facilities to enable improved environmental efficiencies, for example upgrading air conditioning and adding reflective film to windows at our head office in Adelaide, Australia  Due to the nature our operations, we do not handle hazardous or dangerous substances. Where cleaning chemicals have been identified onsite, maintaining material safety data sheets and appropriate storage and waste facilities to minimise exposure. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 10 Measurement of outcomes Scope Global regularly monitors and evaluates environmental performance. Here are examples:  We comply with relevant legal and regulatory obligations in the countries we operate in  We communicate, train and develop our people to support environmentally safe and sustainable practices, for example storage and removal of chemicals  Our Executive team consistently and systematically reflects on and seeks to improve environmental practices across our operations  Through programs we managed during the reporting period, such as Australian Volunteers for International Development and Pacific Technical Assistance Mechanism Phase 2, we supported volunteers and technical advisers in assignments that are designed to improve and protect the environment in developing countries in Asia and the Pacific. Environmental contributions through programs we manage Through a number of programs we manage, Scope Global supports technical experts, volunteers and communities to protect the environment and work towards sustainable outcomes. Some examples include:  Through the Pacific Technical Assistance Mechanism Phase 2, a climate change adviser in Kiribati secured international funding to set up a national climate change unit to address the impact of rising sea levels. Scope Global manages PACTAM2 on behalf of the Australian Government Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.  Through the Australian Volunteers for International Development program, an Australian volunteer and marine researcher helped to repair coral reefs in Indonesia while supporting local fishing communities to build a better future. Scope Global managed the AVID program on behalf of the Australian Government Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Read more: http://volunteers.scopeglobal.com/scope_archive/protecting-our-oceans-for-the-future/ Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 11 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Scope Global has a zero tolerance approach towards fraud and corruption and insists on applying the highest standards of integrity and transparency in the management of funds and resources, and in our work with clients and partners. As an organisation we work to:  Create an anti-fraud culture  Deter people from committing fraud  Detect and report fraud or suspected fraud promptly  Investigate suspected fraud promptly and professionally  Implement effective sanctions against those found to be committing fraud  Seek redress in respect of money or assets defrauded. Implementation Scope Global is committed to minimising the incidence of fraud and corruption through identifying risk and developing, implementing and regularly reviewing a range of prevention and detection strategies. Examples of measures and actions we take to achieve anti-corruption throughout our operations in Australia and overseas include: Commitment to compliance  We are committed to complying with all relevant laws, including anti-corruption laws  Scope Global’s Fraud Control Officer ensures that Scope Global adheres to our Fraud Risk Management Framework  Our Procurement Policy sets out mandatory expectations for efficient, competitive, fair and transparent procurement and ensures our legal and contractual obligations are met  We require staff and service providers/contractors to undertake professional and ethical business practices. Robust procurement and contracting procedures  Detailed policies, guidelines and procedures are in place to reduce anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents  Our Fraud Risk Management Policy brings together all prevention, detection and response initiatives adopted by Scope Global. The policy is informed by the requirements of the Commonwealth Fraud Control Framework 2017  Due diligence checklists are completed to mitigate financial, legal and reputational risk to Scope Global  We clearly communicate the ways that employees and contractors can report suspected instances of fraud  We clearly define the reporting and decision-making process with respect to suspected fraud. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 12 Education and training  Providing mandatory fraud awareness training for employees, personnel and (where appropriate) service providers and contractors  Including fraud awareness training as part of the routine induction process for all new Australian and overseas-based employees and personnel  Ensuring all employees are aware of our Fraud Risk Management Policy and requirements for disclosing knowledge of or suspected fraud, misconduct or corruption and under the Code of Conduct. Audit regime  Scope Global engages Ernst & Young, one of the leading accounting and audit organisations in the world, to conduct its annual external audit  The annual external audit regime consists of both controls based testing (ensuring internal control systems are operating correctly) and a substantive-based financial audit to give stakeholders the necessary level of assurance they require with respect to the annual financial statements  Scope Global is also committed to its internal audit program, which reviews key controls within its internal control environment and monitors their effectiveness  Scope Global’s internal audit function focuses not only on financial controls but also on those controls operating within its risk management framework to ensure risk is mitigated and maintained at an acceptable level. Code of Conduct  All Scope Global personnel are required to read and agree to abide by the Scope Global Code of Conduct. The following excerpts from the Code of Conduct are relevant to the fraud prevention, detection and investigation: o All employees are responsible for immediately disclosing any suspected or committed fraud, misconduct or corruption of which they become aware to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer or any member of the Scope Global Executive team. o Employees are expected to report any workplace behaviour that a reasonable person would suspect violates any law or represents corrupt conduct, mismanagement of Scope Global resources, is a danger to public health and safety or to the environment, or amounts to misconduct. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 13 Measurement of outcomes Over this reporting period, Scope Global has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption and bribery. Scope Global monitors and evaluates its anti-corruption performance through a range of measures including:  Identifying fraud risk areas and developing an ongoing understanding of fraud management issues through developing and implementing a policy and fraud control plan  Working to identify fraud through regularly reviewing and scrutinising our operations  Investigating alleged or suspected instances of fraud using qualified staff with expertise in investigation techniques and appropriate contractors  Seeking the prosecution of people or organisations for fraud offences  Using lawful avenues to recover money or property lost through fraudulent activity. Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 14 Scope Global is pleased to affirm its continued support for the principles of the United Nationals Global Compact, and to take action to support the Sustainable Development Goals. www.scopeglobal.com Scope Global Communication on Progress 2017 | 15
