Engineering: people’s work Annual Report 2017 1 Bio-based bicycle bridge Ritsumasyl The Netherlands 2 Engineering: people’s work Annual Report 2017 2 REPORT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In 2017, the world’s first 3D-printed concrete develop their talents and apply them to create bicycle bridge was completed in the Dutch added value for society. The economy and the town of Gemert. There was a massive labour market improved in 2017, which resulted increase in the use of Virtual Reality in our in an increased inflow of personnel (15 %) as design and participation processes, and well as a higher outflow (12 %). On balance, we enthusiastically worked on challenging the size of our workforce grew from 1,029 to circular design and digital construction 1,054 employees. We devoted extra attention projects. In the year under review we promoted to leadership and engagement and we are very entrepreneurship by devoting extra attention pleased that Witteveen+Bos employees worldwide to innovation, which resulted in a stronger continue to be proud of their work, feel connected position on the Dutch market. Thanks in to the company, and appreciate the development part to this focus on innovation, the Port of opportunities offered. Rotterdam Authority selected us to draw up a flexible design for a future-proof quay. We The manner in which we organise our business also helped the Central Government Real operations also creates value. In 2017, we Estate Agency to tackle the complex challenge introduced the integrated BST10 system worldwide of realising energy-neutral buildings in The to replace our existing financial management Hague. Internally, we switched to a new project and project accounting systems. Data conversion accounting and financial administration proceeded very smoothly, although it took more system, and completed the renovation of our time for staff to become familiar with the new Leeuwenbrug office in Deventer. The year system. We introduced a new car policy based under review was a busy and dynamic one on electric vehicles as the default option, and and was closed on balance with 2.4 % organic embarked on the large-scale renovation of our workforce growth, a total revenue of EUR 130.8 Leeuwenbrug office in Deventer: two important million, and a net result of EUR 12.5 million. measures aimed at reducing our CO2 footprint. As a result, we have achieved our target of Witteveen+Bos wants to provide added value 28 % reduction in CO2 emissions per capita to society. We use the seventeen Sustainable compared to the reference year (2007). Internally, Development Goals (SDGs) defined by the the departments worked on updating their United Nations in 2015 to guide our contributions organisational structure and working methods. to a socially, ecologically and economically Director Henk Nieboer stepped down because sustainable world. Based on a materiality he turned 55 in 2017, the age at which members analysis conducted in 2016 in consultation with of the Board of Directors are required to resign internal and external stakeholders, we have according to the company’s articles of association. formulated four corporate objectives, on which we He was succeeded by Stephan van der Biezen. continued to achieve good progress in 2017. Finally, 2017 was the first full year of working with a Supervisory Board. Important points on the agenda Our first corporate objective is to create added included compliance, risk management, and the value for society through our projects. Our seven transition to the BST10 system. sustainable design principles enable us to put sustainability into practice. In 2017, 80 % of all Creating economic value has been defined as colleagues worldwide were already familiar with our fourth corporate objective. The projects that the seven sustainable design principles, with Witteveen+Bos N.V. worked on in 2017 produced these principles being considered in 54 % of all a total revenue of EUR 130.8 million. Internal audited projects. Ongoing attention is required revenue accounted for EUR 104 million of this total. to increase both percentages to 100 %. By Productivity was lower than forecast in the first half performing a materiality analysis for each separate of 2017, but showed an upturn after the summer. business line, we were able to gain further insight As a result of the switch-over to the BST10 system, into the potential impact of our activities. In 2017 backlogs in invoicing and liquidity developed. Witteveen+Bos implemented the Plus+ Innovation These issues were resolved by the end of 2017. Programme, which is aimed at developing new The net result in 2017 amounted to EUR 12.5 solutions for today’s challenges in river deltas, million, yielding a net profit margin of 9.6 %. We infrastructure, ‘closing the loops’, and sustainable are pleased to inform readers about our work cities. Various innovations are already providing and results in 2017 in this Annual Report. We are added value for our clients. By devoting extra convinced that Witteveen+Bos is well-positioned attention to our home market of the Netherlands, to address the challenges of the future, and look we were able to gain a great deal of new knowledge forward with confidence to 2018. and increase our revenue in the Netherlands in 2017. Deventer, The Netherlands, 19 March 2018 We have defined ‘Developing top talent’ as our Board of Directors of Witteveen+Bos N.V. second corporate objective: Witteveen+Bos wants Karin Sluis to provide a platform for people to discover and Stephan van der Biezen 3 REPORT BY THE SUPERVISORY BOARD The Supervisory Board of Witteveen+Bos N.V. is pleased to present this report to the stakeholders of Witteveen+Bos in order to provide insight into the performance of our supervisory duties in the year under review. Following the creation of a Supervisory Board in 2016, in 2017 we were provided with ample opportunity and all the information we needed to explore relevant developments at Witteveen+Bos. Four regular meetings with the Board of Directors were held in 2017. We are pleased with the open, transparent communication between the Supervisory Board and the Board of Directors, and we regularly provided unsolicited advice on various topics. The composition of the Board of Directors remained unchanged in 2017, and all meetings were attended by all members, with one exception. Frequently discussed subjects included financial matters and general developments within the company. We received detailed quarterly financial reports, and in the meantime we were kept up-to-date with summaries of relevant financial information. At every meeting we discussed work in progress, invoicing and liquidity with the CFO and the Board of Directors. Other topics addressed included the implementation of the new project accounting and financial administration system, risk management, compliance and integrity, accommodation, optimising the organisation and internal processes of departments, and various aspects of human resources policy, such as career development and remuneration. We were also involved in initial explorations of the future development of the employee share ownership scheme. In the run-up to 2018, the Business Plan and budgets for the coming year were reviewed. The financial statements were prepared by the Board of Directors, checked by the company’s external auditor, Deloitte and were also discussed in the presence of the external auditor Deloitte. The Supervisory Board supports the Board of Director’s proposal for dividend distribution. We proposed that the General Meeting of Shareholders adopt the financial statements, discharge the Board of Directors from liability for its management and policies, and discharge the Supervisory Board from liability for the performance of its supervisory duties. The Board of Directors has defined risk management as a key focus area in 2018, and the Supervisory Board will be closely involved in this process. Other topics on the agenda in 2018 include the further development of a compliance programme, labour market developments, pension schemes, and diversity and inclusion. We would like to thank the Board of Directors and the employees of Witteveen+Bos for their commitment and enthusiasm in the year under review, and we look forward to a successful, healthy 2018 for the company and its staff. Deventer, The Netherlands, 19 March 2018 Supervisory Board Hans van der Ven (Chairman) Gerard van de Aast Inca van Uuden 4 REPORT OF THE STAKEHOLDER PANEL On Thursday 8 March 2018, a draft version of the Annual Report 2017 was discussed with a panel consisting of five external stakeholders. Witteveen+Bos was represented by two members of the CSR team. The stakeholders critically reviewed the report, and advised on points for improvement. Their recommendations have been incorporated into the final version of this Annual Report where possible, while others will be addressed in 2018. Sustainable design principles and Sustainable Development Goals Witteveen+Bos has successfully aligned its four corporate objectives with the UN’s seventeen Sustainable Development Goals. The company’s sustainable design principles play a prominent and crucial role in that regard, and serve as important instruments. The principles are clear and well-conceived. The question is how Witteveen+Bos can demonstrate that they are applied in practice, and what the results are. Outcome measures would be very helpful. This feedback will be incorporated into the revision of the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to be undertaken in 2018. Transparency The Annual Report offers little insight into the dilemmas encountered by Witteveen+Bos, relevant developments observed by the company in the external environment, defined objectives that have not (yet) been achieved, and improvements that the organisation wishes to realise. This could be addressed by contextualising the results as they are currently quantified by means of the KPIs. How do these results relate to long-term objectives? Transparency would also be enhanced by including a table that provides an overview of financial and non-financial key figures. A further explanation of and reflection on the talent development and business operations objectives would be welcome. This feedback has been partially incorporated into the report by providing a more detailed explanation of the KPIs. The panel calls upon Witteveen+Bos to become more visible and take on a more active role in sharing knowledge and participating in the public debate about sustainable development. Company Code and integrity Greater clarity about the contents of the Company Code and how it is enforced would be welcome. The Annual Report does not explicitly state that the Company Code is also an integrity code. There is insufficient reporting about ethical aspects like human rights, the company’s anti-corruption policy, and the conditions under which Witteveen+Bos participates in certain projects or decides not to do so. Increasing attention is devoted to these matters in society. This feedback has been partially incorporated into the report under the heading ‘Integrity’. In the coming year, attention will be devoted to the enforcement of ethical norms and standards. Business model The stakeholder panel advises Witteveen+Bos to provide a clear description, at the start of the Annual Report, of the nature of the company, its services and products, how it creates value, and the supply chain of which it is part, in relation to its corporate objectives. The company’s unusual ownership structure and its implications also deserve a more prominent place. These recommendations will be taken into account in the Annual Report for 2018. Integrated reporting, governance and external assurance The members of the stakeholder panel advise Witteveen+Bos to produce integrated reports in accordance with the reporting framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). The stakeholder panel also recommends Witteveen+Bos to consider commissioning an external auditor to provide assurance of non-financial information, as an external auditor is responsible for verifying claims made in the Annual Report. Stakeholder panel Eibert Jongsma, Overijssel Nature Conservation Organisation Robert Koolen, Heijmans Bianca Peters, Deltares Margriet Rouhof, TenneT Bouwe Taverne, PUM 5 CONTENT 8 Mission and vision 12 Corporate objectives 16 Sustainable Design Principles 20 Interview: Circular design 24 Objective 1: Adding value through projects 36 Interview: Centre Point of Indonesia 42 Interview: Customised innovation programme 46 Objective 2: Developing talent 48 Personnel key figures 56 Interview: Sustainable renovation 60 Objective 3: Adding value through our business operations 62 Business operations key figures 66 Objective 4: Creating economic value 67 Summarised annual results 2017 68 Financial key figures 70 Interview: In business together 29 35 42 6 8 11 36 40 56 64 7 MISSION AND VISION We have a clear mission statement: ‘Witteveen+Bos offers its clients value-added consultancy and top-quality designs for water, infrastructure, environment and construction projects. We use our high-end expertise to resolve complex issues and are a committed partner for our clients. We attach great importance to our independence and to our corporate culture, which allows all our employees to excel, utilise their talents to the full, and maximise value for clients.’ Vision Witteveen+Bos is an engineering consultancy that seeks to offer the very highest level of quality, because we believe that a commitment to excellence is key to developing sustainable solutions for today’s challenges. We aim to be very good at what we do. Our staff are experts in their respective disciplines and pursue ongoing innovation. We work with expert partners and maintain a culture of entrepreneurship and trust. We consider it essential that our actions are guided by our key quality attributes: expertise, reliability and commitment. Knowledge and innovation At the core, our work is about knowledge: bringing together the right expertise to help solve challenging issues in water, infrastructure, environment and construction projects. We set high standards. At Witteveen+Bos, state-of-the-art expertise is based on passion for the profession. Our employees want to know everything there is to know in their field, from geotechnical engineering to mechanical engineering and from water management to environmental law. By sharing and developing knowledge and deploying it worldwide, we can devise the most effective solution for each client’s project. Sustainable collaboration The issues we tackle are becoming increasingly complex. To develop sustainable solutions, our staff work in international and multidisciplinary project teams alongside colleagues from various backgrounds. We always try to assemble the best possible team. We therefore regularly collaborate with external partners, either on specific projects or in formal strategic alliances and joint ventures with other leading consultancies and complementary organisations. Entrepreneurship and trust Our corporate culture is characterised by trust and scope for entrepreneurship. We work in an informal atmosphere and employees indicate that they feel engaged with the organisation. Together we are Witteveen+Bos connected worldwide. It is essential that everyone is enabled to excel at what he or she does, and that we offer an environment that promotes creativity and innovation. By pursuing mainly organic growth, we can retain our identity and safeguard our corporate culture. Clients Both publicand private-sector clients call on us to help resolve the challenges they face. We provide advice to contractors, engineering and architectural firms, energy and water companies, railway and port authorities, and industry. In the public sector, we work for national governments, water boards, and provincial and local authorities. Our activities cover the entire chain, from policymaking and design to contracting and supervising the performance of work. We aim to establish long-term relationships with our clients that enable us to meet their needs and expectations as effectively as possible while delivering maximum added value. 8 Organisation The Board of Directors is charged with the day-to-day management of Witteveen+Bos N.V., overseen by the Supervisory Board. With over 1,050 colleagues, we operate close to our clients, projects, partners and the employment market. Our offices are located in eleven countries worldwide, with six offices in the Netherlands. In Belgium, Indonesia, the Netherlands and Kazakhstan, staff representation bodies have been set up to look after employees’ interests. In the other offices, consultations are held directly with the employees themselves. Over 30 small organisational units the ProductMarket Combinations or PMCs are responsible for contract management and acquisition. These PMCs are clustered into four business lines focusing on the following areas of expertise: Built Environment; Deltas, Coasts and Rivers; Energy, Water and Environment; and Infrastructure and Mobility. Worldwide, the business lines and regions form a matrix structure (see the organisation chart on page 10), supported by corporate functions such as Finance, HR, Legal Affairs, Communication, ICT and Facility Management. This organisational structure enables employees from various disciplines and different countries to collaborate on projects in a network, ensuring that we bring together the required knowledge and experience from all over the world in order to devise the best and smartest solutions. Integrity Worldwide, we work for and with a wide range of stakeholders: society as a whole, our clients and business relations, our company, and our colleagues. All Witteveen+Bos employees are committed to fulfilling their responsibilities to our stakeholders. Together we can realise our mission and vision. The behaviour of every individual Witteveen+Bos employee can make the difference. The Company Code describes our principles and how we do business at Witteveen+Bos, including our individual and collective responsibilities to all our stakeholders. In addition to our own values and convictions, the Company Code is also based on the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. In addition, Witteveen+Bos is a member of the United Nations Global Compact, and has adopted its ten principles in the area of human rights, labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. Ownership Witteveen+Bos has a noteworthy ownership structure. In 1992 an employee share ownership system was introduced whereby the company is wholly owned by its staff. This arrangement provides a major incentive for staff engagement and entrepreneurship. We aim to maintain a sound financial basis and stable profit levels. Each year, the net profit is disbursed through a profit-sharing scheme for all employees and dividend distribution to all shareholders. This reflects a central tenet of the Witteveen+Bos philosophy: everyone within the company contributes to our success, and hence everyone should derive the benefits of that success. 9 Overview business lines and PMCs Board The Netherlands Africa, Europe and CIS countries Middle East South-East Asia of the Americas (Commonwealth of and Australia Directors Independent States) Area Development Resilient Infrastructures UK Water and Urban Built Environment Development Dubai Buildings Business Line Environmental Law and Permits Planning Studies and Process Management Urban Development Ecology Water and Infrastructure Water and Infrastructure Hydraulic Infrastructure and Deltas, Coasts and Rivers Latvia Russia Geotechnical Engineering Indonesia Ports and Waterways Water Management Indonesia Business Line Flood Protection and Land Development Water and Infrastructure Singapore Coasts, Rivers and Land Reclamation Hydraulic Structures and Geotechnical Engineering Water Management Wastewater Sustainable Environmental W  ater and Environment Water and Environment Energy, Water and Environment Solutions Belgium Kazakhstan Vietnam Assetmanagement  oil Remediation and Sustain­able S Business Line Land Management Drinking Water Industry and Energy Information Technology International Technical Assistance Construction Management Infrastructure and Spatial Infrastructure and Mobility Design Belgium Infrastructural Engineering Business Line Civil Structures for Railways Underground Infrastructure Smart Infra Systems Traffic and Roads Product-Market Combination (PMC) 10 11 CORPORATE OBJECTIVES Witteveen+Bos has a dual mission: we devise In the coming years, we plan to assess all projects sustainable solutions to complex challenges in completed by each business line using a so-called the field of water, infrastructure, the environment ‘SDG Impact Tool’. This enables us to increase our and construction, and we want to enable all our current impact to reach our maximum potential impact. employees to excel. To fulfil this mission, we must devote ongoing attention to four corporate Objective 2: Developing talent objectives: adding value through projects, Our second corporate objective is based on the second developing talent, adding value through our part of our mission: we want to provide a platform for business operations, and creating economic value. our staff to achieve their ambitions and develop their talents (G4-20, G4-21). We aim to be a good employer The seventeen Sustainable Development Goals by promoting diversity and enabling our employees (SDG’s) of the United Nations constitute a worldwide to utilise their talents to the full. Our corporate culture action plan to ensure a socially, ecologically and of trust and entrepreneurship is aimed at ensuring economically sustainable world by 2030. In 2016, good in-company relationships and solidarity. We we consulted with internal and external stakeholders also ensure that employees gain optimal satisfaction to investigate how Witteveen+Bos can maximise its from their work, and that we have sufficient in-house contribution to the SDG’s. The results of this materiality talent for career development and promotion to other analysis are summarised on page 14. The analysis (management) positions. Finally, we contribute to revealed a significant difference between our current high-quality technical education and encourage young and our potential maximum impact, and this is where people to study technical subjects. our challenge lies. We aim to increase our impact by pursuing four corporate objectives *(G4-18, G4-19). Objective 3: Adding value through our business operations Objective 1: Adding value through projects In order to work on projects and develop talent, we Our first objective is based on the first part of must have professional ICT systems, comfortable our mission: we want to add value through water, business premises and effective operational infrastructure, environment and construction projects processes. Adding value through our business (G4-20, G4-21). Our projects are undertaken by the operations has therefore been defined as our third following business lines: corporate objective (G4-20, G4-21). This means that D eltas, Coasts and Rivers: flood protection, ports, our departments provide professional support to the waterways, coastal and river management, land business lines and offices, with a view to maximum reclamation, water management and ecology; value creation. Supporting sustainable business travel, Energy,  Water and Environment: renewable reducing our CO2 emissions and promoting Corporate energy, oil and gas, wastewater treatment and Social Responsibility in the supply chain are other drinking water production, asset management, soil important objectives. remediation and air quality; Built  Environment: planning studies, urban and area Objective 4: Creating economic value development, buildings, environmental law and Realising healthy financial results is essential to permits; the long-term continuity of the company. Creating Infrastructure and Mobility: traffic, roads, tunnels, economic value has therefore been defined as our rail infrastructure, civil engineering structures and fourth corporate objective (G4-20, G4-21). Good infrastructure systems. financial results are necessary to ensure sufficient scope for innovation and other new developments, Witteveen+Bos has deliberately opted for a broad and to invest in people. We therefore aim to realise a portfolio of disciplines and clients. In support of a healthy annual net profit margin of at least 8 % and an worldwide joint learning process throughout the annual workforce and revenue growth of 3 to 5 %. chain, we share our knowledge and the experiences gained with various clients. We aim to provide optimal Measuring and reporting on progress products and services that meet all applicable In the sections that follow, we report on the progress usage, safety, environmental and maintenance and achieved in 2017 in realising our four corporate management requirements. In order to maximise objectives. In order to measure the progress achieved, our contribution and offer sustainable solutions, we we have identified Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) consider the application of our seven sustainable for each objective. design principles in all projects. These principles are part of our quality management system, which * To ensure transparency, we have prepared our Annual is based on the most recent ISO 9001 and SCC Report in accordance with the GRI G4 guidelines of the Global standards. Reporting Initiative (GRI). The main GRI indicators are stated in parentheses. The information concerning the involvement In 2017, all four business lines determined to which of of stakeholders (G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, and G4-27) is the seventeen UN Sustainable Development Goals displayed on page 3, 4 and 5. The full GRI index is available on (SDG’s) they could most effectively contribute in their our website at www.witteveenbos.com/CR. projects and with their knowledge. Details are provided in the table on pages 14 and 15 (G4-22). 12 13 Potential impact of Witteveen+Bos on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Potential impact according to our external stakeholders Potential impact according to our internal stakeholders Contribution to the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals in our projects and with our knowledge We focus on We help Our aim is to We recommend We design sustainable the industry provide over a the use of future-proof agriculture and capitalise on million people energy-efficient infrastructure a sustainable societal benefits with access to systems and and align water supply, by focusing drinking water, installations, the functional including delta on circularity, and to give more minimise energy life cycle more salinisation, renewable than 500,000 consumption, with the technical efficient energy, safety, people access and actively life cycle. water usage, health and the to wastewater generate energy. integrating the environment. treatment We focus value chain, facilities. We focus on on system and improved designing management in information low-head stead of asset provision. hydropower management. plants. 14 Current impact of Witteveen+Bos on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Current impact according to our external stakeholders Current impact according to our internal stakeholders All our projects 50 % of our We limit CO2 Our focus is Our focus is In project contribute projects are to be emissions during on proactively on proactively assessments, to a higher‘circular’ by 2025. construction protecting and protecting and our clients quality human phase (reduced strengthening strengthening evaluate our environment We aim to create use of materials) areas based areas based customer in 2025. a sustainable and operation on system on system focus, expertise water cycle and phase (lower analyses, and analyses, and (substance), We focus on design treatment energy where necessary where necessary professionalism sustainable plants that consumption). on restoring on restoring (process) and urban maintain a neutral large areas at a large areas at a sustainability development water balance. We perform a systemic level. systemic level. performance, (resilient cities). CO2 assessment as well as the We use data for all proposed Where possible, Where possible, quality of the Our projects analysis for maintenance we provide we provide end product. are aimed at efficient and measures. insight into insight into protecting sustainable use the benefits of the benefits of against flooding of materials. system recovery. system recovery. and reducing water-related We control nuisance. reuse: insight into present and future situation, setting and adjusting targets. 15 SUSTAINABLE DESIGN PRINCIPLES The ‘Building with Nature’ By creating flexible designs, Circular design is about making principle requires engineers we can anticipate future choices that take account of to gain insight into the natural developments and factor in current and future life cycles processes occurring in a project uncertainties. We consider longthroughout the entire process: environment by determining term scenarios and developments from the initiation phase through their physical, chemical and/ like climate change, but to exploration, design, execution, or biological characteristics. also relevant changes and management and maintenance, Negative effects on these trends in society. Robustness, followed by the next life cycle. processes can then be avoided adaptability and resilience are That means thinking ahead about in the design phase, while such three perspectives to take into design and materials usage, at processes can also be used to account when drawing up flexible all levels and in all phases of a create additional benefits. It is designs. A robust ‘first time right’ structure’s life cycle. In addition applied by performing a system design lasts the entire life cycle. to the technical life cycle, analysis to consider the project An adaptable design meets designers learn to also consider in a broader context. Such an the applicable requirements the functional life cycle. Circular analysis involves determining the during part of the life cycle, and design is also about ‘closing the dominant processes, identifying can be easily adjusted when loop’ by using waste as a resource key factors that can influence circumstances change. in the design process. these processes, and finally A resilient design contributes identifying effective measures to the resilience of the larger aimed at those key factors. system of which the object or structure is part. 16 The ‘Multifunctional design’ The ‘Participatory design’ The ‘Trias Energetica’ design The ‘Socially responsible principle encourages engineers principle means that designs principle is aimed at minimising the design’ principle encourages to consider adding functions to should not be created for use of finite (i.e. non-renewable) consideration of other measures a design. Questions like ‘How stakeholders, but together with resources. It is a three-step besides just technical ones. The can I make optimal use of the stakeholders. Future users and strategy for producing an energyquestion ‘How can I increase the space available?’ and ‘How many people who may be adversely efficient and resource-efficient prosperity effects of my project?’ functions can be added and how affected by the design are given design, and consequently also is central to this principle. This do they reinforce each other?’ are an active role in the design a strategy for reducing CO2 can be accomplished by technical important in that respect. It is also process. This approach enhances emissions. The three steps of the measures, behavioural measures, essential to make optimal use of public support and enables work Trias Energetica are as follows: or measures aimed at people’s existing values in an area, such to be performed more efficiently. Step 1: Limit demand and socio-economic circumstances, as cultural/historical, recreational Witteveen+Bos has develop prevent unnecessary use and or a combination of all three. and social values as well as an in-house, evidence-based waste; Changing the socio-economic landscape and nature values. statistical method for measuring Step 2: Use renewable sources circumstances of local residents Finally, careful consideration must public support. ‘We draw up a for energy, and use waste as can help them benefit from the be given to a future-proof design, participation and communication a resource; project. An example is putting for instance by using a clear strategy for each project, and Step 3: Make efficient use of any up a traffic sign to reduce the urban development or landscape try to ensure that stakeholders non-renewable sources needed speed limit, so that it is no framework, and by reflecting on become truly involved and to meet the remaining demand. longer necessary to construct an the future value of the spaces engaged’, says stakeholder additional traffic lane. The speed created and the materials used. manager Ehsan Nouzari. ‘Their restriction results in behavioural local knowledge and ideas simply changes, which in turn can help improve the quality of the design.’ reduce traffic congestion. Scan the QR code to watch a video about the Witteveen+Bos sustainable design principles 17 Objective 1 Adding value through projects Executing water, infrastructure, environment and construction projects is our core process. All stakeholders agree that Witteveen+Bos can achieve the greatest impact through our projects. In this way we can contribute to Sustainable Development Goals like good health and well-being, clean drinking water and sanitation, affordable and clean energy, resilient infrastructure, sustainable cities and communities, responsible consumption and production, conserving life below water, and conserving life on land. 18 19 INTERVIEW 20 Circular design The Netherlands has formulated the ambition of realising a fully circular economy by 2050. This economic model is based on recycling raw materials and resources and preventing waste. Witteveen+Bos is working on circular solutions in a wide range of projects. Ambitions are translated into strategies, visions and principles, and we develop and implement smart, innovative solutions, either in-house or in collaboration with clients. It is clear that the design chain and our operational processes are changing. Two experts in circular design explain how we can add even more value in our projects by creating the right conditions. ‘Circular design is applied sustainable development by engineers’ 21 ‘Circular design means preparing a deconstruction plan The Dutch government has set up a national and integrally. By applying our sustainable firm Metabolic, which specialises in industrial programme called ‘Circular Economy in the design principles, we can encourage ourselves ecology. Rob has analysed mass flows within Netherlands by 2050’, which seeks to realise a and our clients and stakeholders to view the chain, and has identified possible measures 50 % reduction in the consumption of primary challenges differently.’ to close loops and become climate-neutral by raw materials by 2030. Five so-called ‘transition 2050. ‘Measures to promote circularity are agendas’ are designed to help change course. More and more clients are looking to phase often aimed at existing systems. In the case Such a vision document will result in a welcome out their linear processes, and to ensure that of Vallei & Veluwe Water Board, however, we acceleration of the process, says Arjen van their energy management is in order and that quickly asked ourselves if revamping the entire Nieuwenhuijzen, an expert in energy, water and materials can be recycled. Rob Dijcker has system was a better solution. By zooming out, resource recovery. ‘People are clearly thinking been focusing on the circular economy and you can see new possibilities emerging along differently; they are adopting a more disruptive on waste materials for approximately twelve the existing system boundaries. We must look mindset based on the conviction that radical years. He supported Delfland Water Authority at the challenges from a different perspective. change is truly possible. The time is ripe to take in preparing a circular economy strategy: ‘We As engineers, we apply a bottom-up approach bigger steps.’ Arjen has been applying circular started by performing a circularity and selfbased on technology. We help our clients in principles for over fifteen years in his work for sufficiency analysis. A strategy has since been realising their ambitions and implementing their Witteveen+Bos. ‘For environmental reasons, drawn up, and work sessions with employees strategy, and can translate this into challenges we have long been exploring options for the have yielded good ideas that Delfland Water technical or otherwise that can be addressed.’ recycling of water, energy and resources at Authority can use to take concrete steps.’ Vallei Romeo Neuteboom Spijker, project manager treatment plants, landfill sites and waste & Veluwe Water Board also wants all its longand leader of the Circular Economy programme collection and processing facilities. So we term decision-making to be fully circular from at Vallei & Veluwe Water Board, is pleased with have been familiar with circular thinking for 2025 onward, in order to eventually achieve the collaboration: ‘The Water Board has high quite some time. I am convinced that we as fully circular operations in 2050. Rob and Arjen ambitions when it comes to promoting a circular engineers can help to speed up this transition, are helping the water board to realise these economy. It is a wonderful, innovative field that because we are skilled at thinking laterally ambitions, working together with consultancy demands new expertise and new forms of 22 for each design’ collaboration. The partnership between of the potential for reuse and the sustainability to be even more proactive in demon­strating to Witteveen+Bos and Metabolic is proving to benefits. It turned out that the bicycle bridge clients what is possible, because we really need be a good combination.’ ‘To create a good and the main bridge are in good condition for more scope for circularity in projects. By circular design, you would really need to reuse, and that disassembly would be more considering other aspects besides costs, carefully consider the entire life cycle three cost-effective than demolition. In light of these a better solution can be devised.’ times before completing the design. You can demonstrable sustainability benefits, the tender improve the results by simply drawing up a procedure for the traditional demolition of the The international dimension of the drive for a deconstruction plan’, says Rob. In 2017, arch bridge was halted and reuse options will circular economy is underlined by the signing Witteveen+Bos teamed up with the Directoratenow be further investigated. We can increase of the ‘ReCirc Singapore’ covenant in December General of Public Works and Water Management our impact by looking beyond the existing system 2017. Arjen is proud of this milestone: ‘After (Rijkswaterstaat) to develop a manual for the boundaries and thinking more in terms of cycles. more than a year of consultations and application of circular design principles in the preparations with our partners, we have Multi-Year Programme for Infrastructure, Spatial Arjen adds: ‘As engineers, we are often at now completed an action plan for the joint Planning and Transport (MIRT). Using this the controls and can influence the decisiondevelopment of circular solutions in the field manual, circular economy assessments can making process. The entire life cycle should of water, sludge and waste treatment and be performed for large infrastructure projects be taken into account right from the start, raw materials recovery in Singapore and the like InnovA58. As part of the Directorate’s both functionally and technically. That means Netherlands. Circularity connects on all fronts, Impulse programme, Rob also investigated thinking ahead about materials usage, at all and that makes it a very exciting field. But possible ways to reuse the redundant steel levels and in all phases of a structure’s life cycle. realising a circular economy is also a necessity. arch bridge across the Lek River at Vianen. Being aware of the impact of your design from If we want to become fully circular by 2050, The analysis produced an unexpected the outset allows you to devise the best possible all designs must be created in accordance outcome. ‘The call for tenders for the bridge solution together with the client and stakeholders. with circular principles from now on.’ Rob adds: demolition was already being prepared when The traditional, linear approach in the sector ‘And every Witteveen+Bos design should I was asked to help conduct a quick analysis remains a challenge in that respect. We will have include a deconstruction plan.’ 23 ADDING VALUE THROUGH PROJECTS According to our internal and external stakeholders, Witteveen+Bos can achieve the greatest impact and make the greatest contribution to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals by providing sustainable solutions in its projects. Our sustainable design principles are an important tool in that regard. Project portfolio In 2017, Witteveen+Bos worked on 3,445 projects worldwide. Our productivity was relatively low in the first half of the year, but showed an upturn after the summer. There was further growth in both our consultancy and our engineering work in relation to the circular economy, the energy transition, climate change adaptation, and digital construction. Examples of such projects include the ‘materials passport’, the drive to make government buildings in The Hague energy-neutral, water management in Tilburg, and the world’s first 3D-printed concrete bridge in Gemert. In 2017, our staff also worked on many other smalland large-scale projects all over the world, such as the NCOC water treatment plant in Kazakhstan, the Oosterweel Link in Belgium, the ‘Centre Point of Indonesia’ land reclamation project, dike reinforcements in the Northern Meuse Valley, and the innovative expansion of the A58 motorway (InnovA58). Innovation We live in a time characterised by major challenges in areas like energy and climate change, offset by rapid technological developments like digitalisation and robotisation. The Plus+ Innovation Programme was therefore high on our agenda in 2017. This programme consisted of five innovation campaigns, in which some 169 ideas for new products and services were submitted from all parts of the worldwide organisation. Sixteen of these ideas were further elaborated during the ‘Accelerator Phase’. Our autumn staff meeting offered an excellent occasion to announce the winner: a tool called ‘Fire Safety Engineering in Virtual Reality’. Dutch market The strong growth in revenue and in the size of our workforce during the 2006-2016 period occurred only outside the Netherlands. Nevertheless, in this phase of the company’s development we are able to operate worldwide thanks to the new knowledge and experience gained in our home market. In 2017, we therefore devoted special attention to the Dutch market as a spearhead. Among other activities, we organised symposiums and workshops for Dutch clients. In addition, innovative solutions like the Digital Process Operator and the Compliance Tool developed as part of the Plus+ programme were introduced in the Netherlands. Finally, we devoted extensive attention to submitting winning tenders in the Dutch market. Our efforts were successful, with the order portfolio growing to provide enough work for 34 weeks at the end of 2017 (up from 28 weeks at the start of the year). Projects in the Netherlands account for a significant portion of the portfolio. Safety Witteveen+Bos is a co-signatory of the Governance Code on Safety in the Construction Sector, reflecting our commitment to improving the safety culture within the industry. In 2017, we started taking stock of ways in which Witteveen+Bos can implement this Code. We devoted particular attention to this matter in 2017, working to update our in-company safety regulations. Initially, five Dutch PMCs will attempt to obtain Safety Ladder certification at Level 3. Awards In 2017, Witteveen+Bos employee Arjen van Nieuwenhuijzen won the H2O Award for the best water-related article published in a professional journal, for his work on water treatment plants as ‘energy and raw materials factories’. Richard de Nijs won the Keverling Buisman Prize for the best article about geotechnical engineering with his piece on the Oosterweel Link project in Antwerp. The Railinfra Solutions project to construct railway underpasses in Zutphen received an honourable mention at the presentation of the Schreuders Award, and the 3D-printed concrete bridge in Gemert and the Lammermarkt underground car park in Leiden were nominated for the Concrete Award. Witteveen+Bos also won design competitions for the London Cycling Boulevard, a bridge in the Estonian capital Tallinn, and a sports park on the Heizel Plateau in Brussels. Sustainable design principles In 2017, we continued the process of embedding our sustainable design principles in the organisation and applying them more widely. We have defined four Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to measure our progress in achieving these aims. Our sustainable design principles are explained in detail on pages 16 and 17. 24 KPI 2017 Result 100 % of employees are familiar with 80 % of employees are familiar with the sustainable design principles. the sustainable design principles (measured in a survey among all employees worldwide). Sustainable design principles are Sustainable design principles were considered and/or applied in 100 % of applied in 54 % of all audited projects. all projects, to be measured by means of 35 project audits (corresponding to 1 % of all projects). In two years’ time, 100 % of design In 2017, work sessions were held at a leaders attended a (refresher) course number of Product-Market or expert session on the sustainable Combinations (PMCs) to support the design principles in the past two concrete implementation of the years. sustainable design principles in offers and projects. No (refresher) courses were organised. These courses are scheduled for 2018. This KPI requires extra attention in 2018. Average mark given by clients for the This KPI was adjusted in the interim to added value for society provided by one client assessment per business the project results, thanks to the line, instead of one per PMC. Attention application of the sustainable design was primarily devoted to changing our principles. At least one external client corporate culture; external client assessment for each PMC, in which assessments with ratings were not this question is explicitly addressed held. However, generic feedback was and where a mark is given. Minimum received (G4-26). score: 7 out of 10. It continues to be our aim to apply the sustainable design principles in all of our projects. At the same time, we realise that systematically working with new principles requires a culture shift and that this will take time. Organising work sessions to provide concrete insight into the sustainable design principles will remain a point for attention in 2018. We will also consider defining more result-oriented KPIs. We have noted that it is not always possible to apply the sustainable design principles in day-to-day project activities, such as preparing a soil investigation plan, testing software, or inspecting civil engineering structures. In addition, some of our clients do not sufficiently appreciate the usefulness and necessity of these principles for their own business operations. Together with a growing number of clients, we investigated how the sustainable design principles can be applied in practice in their operations. Energy transition defined as spearhead for 2018 For our corporate objective of ‘Adding value through projects’, we have selected the energy transition as a spearhead for 2018. This is one of the greatest challenges of our time, and one to which we can make a substantial contribution as an international consultancy and engineering firm. We are already doing so by working on projects like the future disconnection of city districts from the natural gas grid in Gelderland province, and by building small-scale hydro-electric power stations in Sierra Leone. Because we wish to increase our impact, we aim to develop and successfully market innovative solutions that will contribute to the energy transition. Our objective is to realise growth in this area of our consultancy work, possibly allowing us to establish a new PMC towards the end of 2018. 25 PROJECTS 2017 United Kingdom The Netherlands (6 offices) Belgium (2 offices) Ghana 3,445 The Netherlands 2,827 projects Africa, Europe and the Americas 415 projects CIS countries 14 projects Middle East 40 projects South-East Asia and Australia 149 projects 1-4 5 10 11 20 21 50 26 Russia Latvia Kazakhstan (3 offices) CIS countries Dubai Vietnam Middle East Singapore Indonesia South-East Asia and Australia Africa, Europe and the Americas Projects Witteveen+Bos Offices Witteveen+Bos (19) 51 80 81 300 2,827 projects Region classification 27 + Innovative movable bridge in Tallinn + ‘Materials passport’ for Princess Beatrix locks complex An international consortium consisting of Plein06, Witteveen+Bos and Novarc A ‘materials passport’ for a civil engineering structure is a data set Group has won the international design competition for an iconic openable that provides insight into the materials used for construction, the way pedestrian bridge in the centre of Tallinn’s old harbour. The design contest was in which these have been processed, and the possibilities for reuse held to mark the centenary of Estonia’s 1918 Declaration of Independence. during maintenance work and after the demolition or disassembly The competition and the future design and construction of the bridge are of the structure. The Directorate-General of Public Works and Water co-funded by the EU. The bridge is planned for completion by the end of 2018. Management has commissioned Witteveen+Bos and the contracting The ‘New Balance 100’ design is a work of art as well as an innovative engineering group ‘Sas van Vreeswijk’ to study which information (for decisionstructure. New Balance 100 will be Estonia’s first dynamic, movable bridge, and making purposes and otherwise) is needed to ensure high-quality will therefore represent an architectural and cultural milestone for the country. materials recycling during the expansion and renovation of the Princess The aesthetical and innovative solutions ensure that New Balance 100 will be Beatrix locks complex, and where this information should be available a high-profile object in public space, in terms of both appearance and function. in the construction chain. Registering the required object details in a It will be the perfect symbol to celebrate the 100-year anniversary of Estonia’s ‘materials passport’ ensures that this information is kept on file, and Declaration of Independence. facilitates high-quality recycling. Tallinn Estonia Nieuwegein The Netherlands 28 + Energy transition in The Hague + Smart Integrated Construction System In order to implement the energy transition in the city centre of The Hague, Approximately 80 % of Singapore’s population lives in homes built by the municipal authority and the Central Government Real Estate Agency have the Singapore Housing & Development Board (HDB), the government commissioned a consortium consisting of Witteveen+Bos, Rebel Group and organisation responsible for the development of all social housing in DWA to develop an approach for making sixteen buildings completely ‘fossil the South-East Asian nation. HDB has commissioned Witteveen+Bos fuel free’ by 2040. The study examined various combinations of energy-saving and Nanyang Technological University to develop a Smart Integrated measures, local generation of sustainable energy, and the costs and benefits Construction System that makes use of digitalisation and automation of the different options. This resulted in the following plan: first reducing energy to increase productivity in construction projects. We are responsible for consumption and generating energy within individual buildings; followed by the development of an integrated centralised system for intelligently and energy storage and exchange between the buildings included in the efficiently collecting, structuring and sharing all information relating to a ‘The Hague energy transition’ programme via a Thermal Energy Storage construction project. This includes, for instance, three-dimensional Building network; connecting these buildings to a sustainable district heating network; Information Models, documentation, information for contract management, and finally purchasing green energy. This project is a great example of the and updates on progress. It is important to make the information available in successful application of the ‘Trias Energetica’ sustainable design principle. such a way that tower cranes can operate autonomously on building sites. The Hague The Netherlands Singapore 29 + A 3D-printed concrete bicycle bridge + Screening of dry-cleaning locations In 2017, the world’s first 3D-printed bicycle bridge was taken into operation. Chemical textile cleaning, also known as dry cleaning, poses an This unique structure is part of a new ring road around the town of Gemert. increased risk of severe soil and groundwater contamination. Witteveen+Bos was responsible for the structural design and engineering, Dry-cleaning locations make use of chlorinated solvents, which Eindhoven University of Technology printed the bridge, and BAM Infra assembled can lead to groundwater contamination. There is also a risk of and installed it. The bridge consists of approximately 800 printed layers and was indoor air pollution. The Flanders Public Waste Agency (OVAM) assembled on-site. 3D concrete printing is a unique and promising production has commissioned Witteveen+Bos Belgium/MAVA to screen method that requires less construction materials and no formwork. This results potential dry-cleaning locations in Antwerp and Ghent. The in less waste and reduced consumption of scarce resources. The bridge was screening comprises historical investigations of potential longitudinally prestressed along its axis, and the layers were reinforced at the sources and an initial soil survey of suspected dry-cleaning same time as the concrete was being printed. This is a world first, and it has great locations. By means of this campaign, Witteveen+Bos/MAVA is potential for other applications in construction projects. The savings in material helping the Flemish government to achieve its aim of starting usage and the reduction of CO2 emissions are in keeping with the sustainable clean-up operations for all high-risk historically contaminated design principles of ‘Circular design’ and ‘Trias Energetica’. sites by 2036. Gemert The Netherlands Antwerp and Ghent Belgium 30 + London Boulevard in Virtual Reality + Offshore Centre on Maasvlakte II For the London Cycling Campaign, Witteveen+Bos has completed a The Port of Rotterdam Authority is developing a new area of the Princess design for the construction of cycle paths along the London Boulevard. Alexia Port (part of the Maasvlakte II land reclamation project) into a large The design was developed in 3D and presented and visualised for Offshore Centre that will be the first facility of its size in Europe. The site stakeholders using Virtual Reality (VR) simulations a good example will accommodate suppliers and construction companies operating in the of participatory design. The London Boulevard is an envisaged 2-mileoffshore wind energy sector, as well as firms that dismantle oil and gas long route between East and West London that encourages commuters platforms. Witteveen+Bos is contributing to this area development project, to walk, cycle, or use public transport. This stretch of road is currently and has been commissioned to engineer the heavy load deep-sea quay, plagued by frequent accidents between motor vehicles and pedestrians among other things. The sustainable design principle of ‘flexible design’ and cyclists. The new design therefore provides for separate cycle tracks is central to the project, since the quay can be adapted to future changes and safer intersections. The route has been included in plans for the in use. The quay is sufficiently robust to support a container crane, for future development of London‘s cycling infrastructure. The Virtual Reality instance. Application of the ‘participatory design’ principle ensures that simulation has been nominated for the Best Innovation Award in the future users are involved at the earliest possible stage. Such a process Healthy Street Awards 2017 competition. contributes to an optimised design. London United Kingdom Rotterdam The Netherlands 31 + Broad stakeholder participation in Limburg province + Assessing the economic value of a rainforest Since 2016, Witteveen+Bos and Arcadis have supported Limburg Water The ‘Building with Nature’ principle requires engineers to gain insight into Authority in reinforcing fifteen dike sections in Northern and Central the natural processes occurring in a project environment. Negative effects Limburg. Participatory design is a key design principle in this project. on these processes can then be avoided in the design phase, while such The project organisation has sought to consult and collaborate with as processes can also be used to yield additional benefits. In order to identify many of the 60,000 stakeholders (including local residents) as possible. natural values and benefits, Witteveen+Bos is conducting an assessment First we carefully explained why dike reinforcements, and in some of the value of the ecosystem services provided by the rainforest of Borneo cases relocations, are necessary: the existing dikes are not capable of for the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). This huge rainforest is of great accommodating the increasing quantities of water that will flow through value for millions of people on account of the many goods and services the Meuse river in the future, as a result of climate change. Public support that it supplies. However, deforestation is putting pressure on ecosystem is needed to subsequently collaborate in working groups for each services such as providing a habitat for orang-utans and serving as a dike section, where targeted solutions will be devised and assessed. local drinking water supply. This study will raise awareness of the value of Witteveen+Bos has develop an in-house, evidence-based method for ecosystem services provided by the rainforest, and will establish a basis measuring public support and adjusting participation methods if necessary. for more sustainable land use. Northern Meuse Valley The Netherlands Borneo Indonesia 32 + Improved water treatment thanks to 1-STEP® filter + Offshore Grid Holland Coast (South) The 1-STEP® filter is an innovative solution developed by Waternet, The Dutch government’s roadmap for offshore wind energy specifies Witteveen+Bos, Nijhuis Industries, Cabot Norit Activated Carbon, and that the objective of 3,500 MW of new capacity by 2023 is to be realised Delft University of Technology. This activated carbon filter solution thoroughly in three offshore wind farm zones off the Dutch coast: Borssele, Holland removes phosphate, suspended solids, heavy metals, nitrogen, organic microCoast (South) and Holland Coast (North). Grid operator TenneT is contaminants and medicine residues from treated wastewater, and does so using responsible for the construction of the required ‘offshore grid’. The a single, compact system. Stricter requirements in the discharge permit issued Offshore Grid Holland Coast (South) project is aimed at ensuring that to Waternet (the water cycle company for Amsterdam and the surrounding area) the electricity generated in the Holland Coast (South) wind farm zone is prompted the development and implementation of this innovative filter a few transported to the onshore high-voltage grid. The project comprises the years ago. At Waternet’s Horstermeer wastewater treatment plant, the 1-STEP® realisation of offshore platforms, offshore and onshore cables, and filter has resulted in a cost-effective improvement in effluent quality. The filter has a new onshore transformer substation. Witteveen+Bos contributed to also turned out to provide optimal pre-treatment for the production of industrial the preparations for the project by performing a routing study, analysing and process water from effluent. This makes it an essential link in water recycling and evaluating alternatives, conducting impact assessments, drawing up plants, and an important step in the development of a circular economy. an Environment Impact Report, and preparing permit applications. Various locations Worldwide South Holland province The Netherlands 33 + Bio-based bicycle bridge + IMPAKT programme completed The Fryslân provincial authority is building a bicycle bridge made of bio-based In 2014, the Directorate-General of Public Works and Water Management composite materials to complete the new ring road around the city of Leeuwarden. (Rijkswaterstaat) set up a ‘Secure Working’ programme to reduce the The bridge design was elaborated by the DRIVE construction team, consisting vulnerability of infrastructure-related ICT systems and to increase of Sweco/Witteveen+Bos, the provincial authority, the Reef Infra/Spie contracting responsiveness in case of incidents. Following a preparation phase, group, and composites manufacturer Infra Composites. Bio-based composites structures like tunnels, bridges and locks were inspected on-site by a are relatively new in the infrastructure sector. The material used in this project multidisciplinary team of engineers and specialists from Rijkswaterstaat, consists of balsa wood, flax, resin and hardener. A study was performed in VKA, Witteveen+Bos, Royal HaskoningDHV and Pilz. They surveyed collaboration with a number of educational institutions to determine the optimal the structures, interviewed managers, and performed on-site tests of composition of the material. This resulted in a mixture that consists of 80 % functional safety, cyber security and access security. Completed in late natural materials, with a service life of 50 years. The entire 66-metre-long 2017, the programme helped to improve the safety and security of no less roadway will be constructed out of bio-based composite, a world first at this than 460 infrastructure objects. Witteveen+Bos, Royal HaskoningDHV and scale. All partners involved gained new insights into bio-composites thanks Pilz established a separate engineering firm under the name IMPAKT to to the materials study. continue their successful collaboration. Ritsumasyl The Netherlands Various locations in The Netherlands 34 + A9 motorway, Badhoevedorp Holendrecht section + Exposure to Substances of Very High Concern The expansion of the A9 motorway near Amstelveen is part of the SchipholThere are regular reports in the media about the release of toxic substances Amsterdam-Almere (SAA) programme. Since 2014, Witteveen+Bos and the as a result of incidents and technical malfunctions at companies. It is Directorate-General of Public Works and Water Management (Rijkswaterstaat) essential that both workers and local residents are informed as quickly and have been working on the integrated design and plan development for the accurately as possible if there is any risk of hazardous exposure to high route decision, which was signed by the Minister of Infrastructure and the concentrations. Witteveen+Bos models these types of short-term exposures Environment in March 2017. It is now time for the preparation of contract for companies, and evaluates the risks associated with substances like documents, the tender procedure, and the performance of work. Witteveen+Bos benzene. The team also provides advice on the prevention of emissions by contributes to the next phase and will staff the Rijkswaterstaat technical performing safety studies, such as HAZOP reviews for chemical companies. team that is to provide all technical support during the 2017-2025 period. So-called ‘Substances of Very High Concern’ constitute a special category. The commission includes drawing up documents for the DBFM contract, They can cause cancer, interfere with human reproduction, and accumulate supervising the call for tenders, the dialogue phase, the performance of work in the food chain. Witteveen+Bos helps companies to comply with reporting and the provision of back-office support, and eventually overseeing requirements in view of their obligation to minimise the use of such the completion and delivery phase. substances and adhere to the Maximum Permissible Risk Level (MPR). Amstelveen The Netherlands Various locations in The Netherlands 35 INTERVIEW 36 Centre Point of Indonesia Centre Point of Indonesia is an iconic project in the shape of Indonesia’s national symbol, the Garuda. It is located off the coast of Makassar, often called the capital of the east of the Indonesian archipelago. Geographically, the densely populated city is literally in the middle of Indonesia and is a major trading hub. New land is needed to absorb the population growth. The land is being developed offshore. Witteveen+Bos has been involved in this project since the start in 2015 by developing the conceptual design, preparing contractual documents and maintaining supervision. Adecar Nugroho, design coordinator, and Budiwan Adi Tirta, geotechnical engineer, are both working on this high-profile project. ‘We factor in all stakeholders already present in the area, including the ecosystems’ 37 ‘The soft subsoil resulted in special conditions for this The project calls for enlargement of a small projects we have not had any engineering canals and installing bank revetments. Delivery pre-existing land reclamation along Losari problems’, adds Tirta. ‘The project location is is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2018. Beach to create an area of 157 hectares. After close to a small island occupied by fishermen delivery, developer KSO Ciputra Yasmin will and to the tourist attraction of Losari Beach. ‘Working with a European contractor requires build real estate for commercial and residential It is prohibited to dig up the soft subsoil in a different approach to working with, say, a purposes. The land was reclaimed based on a Makassar. Due to these two factors, the Chinese contractor as in the Kapuk Naga Indah design-and-build contract under which the method of construction is extremely important project in Jakarta’, says Tirta. ‘The focus in contractor is responsible for designing and to the success of the project. The contractor Kapuk Naga Indah is on engineering problems, constructing and Witteveen+Bos is in charge developed an innovative spraying pontoon. whereas with Centre Point of Indonesia the of contract management and supervision. Spraying in thin layers means the load on the challenge lies in the contracts.’ ‘The real challenge for us lies in the contracts’, soft subsoil is increased gradually to ensure says Tirta. the soil remains stably in place and is not Adecar and Tirta both studied civil engineering pushed to one side. When the new land came in Yogyakarta. Witteveen+Bos figures ‘It is a complicated project from an engineering to the surface of the water, conventional shipprominently in their careers. They had an point of view, but thanks to the considerable to-shore pumping was again used. Work is now opportunity to complete their bachelor’s experience of Witteveen+Bos with soft soil in progress on improving the ground, excavating degrees in the Netherlands. Tirta subsequently 38 project’ continued working in the Netherlands and got ‘Eight people are present on site, including a message across, while in the Netherlands the a specialised water management internship at secretary and a driver. The group rotates. most important thing is the message itself.’ Witteveen+Bos. ‘It was then that I realised that We get technical and contractual support from Dutch water management was not for me, Jakarta and the Netherlands. Cooperation How was attention devoted in this project to because all the dams in the Netherlands had within the team is good. The role of supervisor sustainable development? Adecar: ‘A relationship already been built’, he says with a grin. Adecar is new for some colleagues, but we support exists between the consultant and the client. In now works as a geotechnical engineer at each other and there is room for consulting and simple terms, the client wants an island and we Witteveen+Bos in Jakarta, and after roaming learning from mistakes.’ are designing it. We also factor in other around for a while, Tirta also applied for a job stakeholders already present in the area such at Witteveen+Bos. ‘My CV was forwarded to Adecar: ‘Our experience of working with the as fishermen, island residents and ecosystems. Indonesia and that’s why I am now working Dutch comes in very useful. I’ve learned to be From our point of view, project development is alongside Adecar again.’ direct, sometimes too direct according to some inextricably linked to social and environmental of my Indonesian friends. But in this particular aspects and we make suggestions for how to Since work on the project began in April 2017, project it is essential to be direct. It is a trait that carry out the project in a sustainable manner. a team of Indonesian and Dutch supervisors is not appreciated in Indonesian culture. In That ultimately benefits everybody.’ have been on the ground in Makassar. Tirta: Indonesia it’s all about how you get the 39 Objective 2 Developing talent + Titel Witteveen+Bos aims to be a good employer by promoting diversity and enabling our employees to utilise their talents to the full. The materiality analysis also showed Body. that Witteveen+Bos can contribute to SDGs like quality education, decent work and economic Plaats Landgrowth, and reducing inequalities. 40 41 INTERVIEW 42 Customised innovation programme Inspired by the methods of technology start-ups and the software industry, innovation was a key focus area at Witteveen+Bos in 2017. The Plus+ Innovation Programme has unleashed a massive innovation drive that is radically transforming the company. It truly serves as a platform for people to turn their dreams into reality. Otto Schepers initiated Plus+, and developed and implemented the programme together with an enthusiastic and dedicated team. ‘Innovation is also about developing talent’ 43 FIRE SAFETY ENGINEERING SMART FACTORIES If you assume that Virtual Reality (VR) is mainly used in games and other Creating a truly ‘smart’ factory by optimising the industrial brewing forms of entertainment think again. An innovative tool called ‘Fire Safety process for a well-known Belgian beer brand, using Big Data and Engineering in Virtual Reality’ (FSE in VR) is now being applied to Artificial Intelligence (AI) this is how a team of Witteveen+Bos simulate the effects of fire in a new metro station in Brussels. The tool engineers is using the Digital Process Operator (DPO). ‘The idea of sets new standards in fire safety research.‘We are currently working on applying AI and Big Data has been floating around for some time at the calculations for the Grondwet metro station in Brussels. The trick is Witteveen+Bos. The combination of these technologies has great using VR techniques to visualise our expertise in evacuation planning and potential for the sectors in which we operate. We initially developed complex fire and smoke propagation’, says engineer Tamara Dolle, who the concept outside regular working hours. By participating in the took the lead in developing this innovative solution together with fellow Plus+ Innovation Programme, we were able to invest more time in engineer Marina Fragkopoulou. development, and that really speeded things up. We have now applied our innovative solutions for multiple clients, and we’ve noticed that there is enormous demand’, says engineer Bram Bloks. ‘You can be surrounded ‘We have visited breweries, water treatment plants and wasteby virtual smoke in the VR processing facilities. In fact, we are now ‘training’ our AI system at a waste-processing facility, to help it recognise and predict odours so simulation, so you can check nuisance can be prevented. This process is very different from the way we as humans perceive smell, but that is precisely the strength if the emergency exit sign is of AI. The results benefit our clients, the environment, and local actually visible’ residents.’ In almost all projects, significant savings are realised in terms of costs, energy consumption or use of raw materials. Too good to be true? The idea for FSE in VR was developed as part of the Plus+ Innovation Programme. The demo version was based on the designs for another Brussels metro station. Because the clients were very pleased with the ‘We can probably achieve even results, they decided to commission an FSE analysis for the new Grondwet station currently under development. The Netherlands Fire better results, since our AI is Service and large infrastructure managers have also requested getting smarter all the time.‘ demonstrations. 44 FACTS AND FIGURES A total of 169 ideas were submitted in 5 campaigns 412 participants worldwide, 16 teams of finalists Over 400 reactions in 19,000 visits to the HYPE platform 5 ’innovation hubs’ coordinated by 5 hub managers Over EUR 350,000 invested in talent development hours From AI data analyses that optimise the brewing process of Smart Infrastructure and Mobility. A fifth hub called ‘Smart Company’ a Belgian beer brand, to fire prevention in the Brussels metro system was deliberately added. using Virtual Reality, and from CO2 capture and storage using mud to automatically designed quay walls the innovations developed by No fewer than 169 ideas were submitted by the teams in a very short Witteveen+Bos have immediately resulted in new business. But the period of time. In the five hub campaigns, sixteen teams of finalists transformation that has been set in motion is even more important were selected with input from clients. These teams proceeded to a than the boost to revenue, says programme manager Otto Schepers. three-month ‘accelerator phase’ with additional support and ‘The innovation process has truly gained steam. Almost half of all supervision. Otto Schepers: ‘The competition element is mainly Witteveen+Bos employees worldwide are or have been involved in intended to encourage a sense of pride and a desire to win. Plus, the Plus+ programme, particularly the operational staff. We have engineers simply love to develop solutions for problems. In this found that many people have great ideas, and that there are programme, we harness that energy for innovation by providing room opportunities for the professional development of all our colleagues. for their talent. The initial ideas were elaborated in the accelerator The success of the programme makes sense in hindsight, but we had phase, which focused on all the non-technological aspects. After all, not expected it beforehand.’ engineering is our strength. Developing a technical solution into a sound business case and putting it into practice that is much harder The Plus+ Innovation Programme is based on experiences gained in for engineers.’ the software industry. For instance, social engineering techniques were applied using a so-called ‘hub structure’. In addition, a special ‘Feedback from the market and our partners confirms that we have online collaboration platform was set up based on the HYPE format, an excellent reputation for innovation. We believe that this is due to which is also used by major companies like Airbus, Siemens, Fujitsu our company culture and the attention we devote to employees. Staff and NASA. ‘We made one important adjustment. Where other at Witteveen+Bos feel sufficiently free to devote time to participating programmes take individual effort and concept development as their in a programme like this. They are also quick to coordinate with other starting point, we deliberately created multidisciplinary teams, disciplines, and our relatively flat organisation structure makes it because at Witteveen+Bos we believe that collaboration is essential. easier to ask for help. We are quite strong-willed, so we customised It is part of our ‘corporate DNA’. And that turned out to be a key factor the programme and implemented it with a dedicated team to ensure for success.’ that it is perfectly geared to our wishes and requirements.’ The innovation programme will be further developed and continued in Four ‘innovation hubs’ were defined in line with the four business 2018. It will also provide support for colleagues who are working on lines of Witteveen+Bos and the Sustainable Development Goals of promising innovations parallel to the programme. the United Nations: Smart Cities, Smart Cycles, Smart Deltas, and 45 DEVELOPING TALENT Developing top talent is a key corporate objective of Witteveen+Bos, arising directly from our mission. We are committed to training and developing top talent, promoting diversity, and ensuring an adequate inflow of technical professionals. Workforce On 31 December 2017, Witteveen+Bos had 1,054 employees worldwide. This corresponds to a net workforce increase of 25 employees or 2.4 %, falling just short of the targeted workforce increase of 3 to 5 %. This growth is the net result of a large inflow of 160 new colleagues, as well as a substantial outflow of 135 employees. We can clearly see that the economy is picking up, and that mobility on the labour market is increasing. In our experience, an outflow of up to 10 % creates a positive dynamic within the organisation. An increased outflow means that more attention is devoted to ‘onboarding’, transfer of duties, and saying goodbye to colleagues leaving the company. We have therefore investigated how we can reduce the outflow. Personnel key figures that provide insight into the composition of our workforce may be found on pages 48 and 49. Leadership In the past few years, we have seen a significant increase in part-time work and work performed at project sites. As a result, the number of personal interactions between employees and their managers has decreased. In 2017 we therefore devoted extra attention to leadership in line management. We set up training programmes for group leaders and for new and experienced PMC leaders. In 2017, Witteveen+Bos spent a total of EUR 587,313 on leadership and employee development. Connection For Witteveen+Bos, the past decade has been characterised by rapid international growth. Our strength lies in operating as an integrated worldwide organisation, assembling the best possible project teams consisting of colleagues from all offices. In 2017, we therefore devoted particular attention to intercultural collaboration and connection, both within and outside the office. We organise various activities where employees can get to know each other outside work. Special extracurricular activities are offered for employees at our Dutch and Belgian offices who have been with Witteveen+Bos for less than three years (known as ‘neWBies’), such as a weekend trip to Belgium devoted to natural coastal defences. We are also a sports-minded organisation, with Witteveen+Bos teams competing in various sports events. Measuring talent development Employee development occurs mainly through ‘learning on the job’. In addition to internal and external training courses, job performance interviews serve as a key instrument for effectively supervising and promoting the development of employees’ knowledge, skills and capabilities. By offering places for interns and final-year students, we also ensure an adequate inflow of technical professionals. The table provides an overview of the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that we use to monitor progress in realising corporate objective no. 2. 46 KPI 2017 Result The number of interns and final-year In 2017, Witteveen+Bos hosted 215 students must equal or exceed 20 % interns and final-year students. This of the total workforce of corresponds to 20.4 % of our total Witteveen+Bos (at 31 December worldwide workforce of 1,054 2017) employees. At least 80 % of all employees have 49 % of all employees have had a job had a job performance interview in performance interview in the past two the past two years. years. In 2017, job performance interviews were conducted with 30 % of all employees. We aim for female employees to 14 new partners were appointed in account for 25 % of future partner 2017: two women and twelve men. nominations, a male-female ratio Although the absolute number of that corresponds to the ratio among female partners has increased, the new colleagues joining the ratio of 14.2 % falls short of the company. target percentage. Employees can use a ‘Talent The Talent Development Score is Development Score’ to indicate determined on the basis of three whether they have been given every questions: opportunity to utilise and develop to what degree do you feel able to their talents. We aim for an average utilise your talents at score of 8 or more on all three Witteveen+Bos? Average score: 7.5 components. to what degree do you feel able to develop your talents at Witteveen+Bos? Average score: 7.3 how do you rate the working atmosphere at Witteveen+Bos? Average score: 7.60 The overall Talent Development Score for these three elements is 7.5. The average Talent Development Score of 7.5 indicates that Witteveen+Bos makes a more than sufficient contribution to the development of our employees’ talents. However, we have not achieved our target of an average score of 8 or more on all three components. Another point for attention is the fact that the percentage of employees who participated in job performance interviews falls far short of the target (49 % in the past two years compared to the target of 80 %). In addition, we must continue to devote attention to diversity. In short, we must focus more on employee development in 2018. ‘PLUS school’ for professionals defined as spearhead for 2018 By making every effort to promote professional development in 2018, we aim to reduce personnel outflow and increase the inflow of talented young people. Setting up a ‘PLUS school’ for professionals has been designated as a spearhead for 2018. Among other measures, we will accelerate our tried and tested ‘starters programme’ and modernise the project management training courses on offer, enabling employees to develop more quickly and effectively in project work. In addition to the PLUS school, we will investigate potential locations for a new office in the Netherlands, and begin experimenting with ‘pop-up offices’ near relevant universities and institutes of higher education, where Witteveen+Bos employees, students, clients and partners can meet in an informal setting. 47 PERSONNEL KEY FIGURES Number of employees in Number of Male/female Average Full-Time Equivalents (FTEs) employees ratio age 977 1,054 70/30 38 > > (2016: 952) (2016: 1,029) (2016: 70/30) (2016: 38) Staff age distribution 50 44 over 60 > > 45 59 under 30 4% 110 91 Different Employees Employees 23 % 25 % nationalities hired leaving 25 160 135 48 % > > > (2016: 23) (2016: 98) (2016: 125) 30 44 Employment contracts Workforce by country The Netherlands Latvia part-time full-time 2017: 842 / 2016: 842 2017: 6 / 2016: 6 Kazakhstan Belgium 2017: 65 / 2016: 67 2017: 74 / 2016: 61 37 % Russia United Kingdom 2017: 1 / 2016: 1 63 % 385 > 669 > 2017: 1 / 2016: 3 Dubai Ghana 2017: 8 / 2016: 5 (2016: 365) (2016: 664) 2017: 6 / 2016: 5 Vietnam 2017: 2 / 2016: 2 Indonesia 2017: 41 / 2016: 31 fixed-term contract indefinite-term contract Singapore 13 % 2017: 8 / 2016: 6 134 > 87 % 920 > (2016: 111) (2016: 918) 48 Sick leave rate (The Netherlands) 2.5 % > (2016: 2.9 %) Level of Education The Netherlands intermediate voc-ed university 16 % 135 > 54 % 30 % (2016: 152) 454 > higher voc-ed (2016: 421) 253 > (2016: 269) In-company training and education 1,182 > (2016: 652) Investment training and education (euro) 587,313 > (2016: 511,375) 49 Indicate what you want The profession of structural engineer really attracted me. When I applied to join the company in 2011, I therefore indicated that I wanted to specialise in this field. I quickly became an active member of the neWBie Committee. We organised a lot of cool activities for newcomers, and my company network grew quickly. Now I represent junior Witteveen+Bos employees in the youth organisation of the Dutch Association of Consulting Engineers. These ‘extracurricular activities’ give me a lot of energy. They also made me realise that I want to focus on becoming a generalist rather than a specialist in the coming years. I voiced my ambitions during a job performance interview last year, which Stephanie Lamerichs served as the stepping stone for a new role. I really enjoy working in my new position as work package leader for the A58 motorway project. Learning new skills Engineering for me is the application of scientific knowledge to solving problems in the real world. My dad is an engineer and I followed in his footsteps. I am now working as a civil design engineer in Atyrau. Our clients require 3D models instead of 2D drawings more often. I like learning new things so when Witteveen+Bos provided me with the opportunity to learn Revit software by external and internal trainings in the Netherlands I of course said yes. It’s a good chance to improve not only my professional knowledge, but to grow personally, get acquainted with a new culture and a new way of working. And I will be happy to share this Viktoriya Rusakova new knowledge with my colleagues in Kazakhstan. Passion for sustainable energy ‘Engineering is all about people’ is a guiding principle at Witteveen+Bos. I couldn’t agree more, and that’s why I believe that developing talent is our most important core value. Or as company founder Goosen Bos once put it eloquently: ‘Smart people with passion and talent will feel right at home at Witteveen+Bos. Here we constantly stimulate their creativity.’ I can live out my passion for energy and sustainability at Witteveen+Bos, and realise my personal dreams because the company provides ‘room for all good ideas’. As a team, we have been able to contribute to the energy transition and the reduction of CO2 emissions. That makes me truly proud of our work! Koen Haans 50 Achieving impact Witteveen+Bos and I have a great passion for water. The company’s rich history and commitment to addressing social issues continue to inspire me. As manager of the Resilient Spatial Design group, I can live my passion every day and I am given the opportunity to inspire people and work on projects that embody my values and those of Witteveen+Bos. In 2017 we laid the foundations for making the city of Antwerp and the Belgian coast more resilient and adaptive, among other things. This success will be continued in 2018, with the first projects being realised on-site. I am proud that I can help to build the future and contribute to the rich history of Witteveen+Bos. Sofie Depauw Room for new ideas Wood is a highly sustainable construction material, and it’s one of my ambitions to put wood structures in the spotlight. In 2017 I completed my graduation project at Witteveen+Bos, researching sustainable applications of wood structures. As Witteveen+Bos devotes a lot of attention to sustainable solutions, I was keen to join the company after obtaining my degree. Right away I was asked to give a lunch lecture on wood structures. I have a lot of new ideas, and I am happy that the company provides me with opportunities to devise new ways of using wood as a construction material. Bart Hazewinkel Sharing knowledge is essential In my field of geotechnical engineering, Witteveen+Bos is widely recognised for its involvement in high-profile underground infrastructure projects like the North/South metro line in Amsterdam and the Oosterweel Link in Antwerp. Given the massive interests at play, our creative solutions must be subjected to full-scale testing. Thanks to these and other projects, Witteveen+Bos is a leader in knowledge development, and the project teams enable us to build a valuable network of experts. And what’s better than sharing all that knowledge through articles, graduation projects and my lectureship at Delft University of Technology? In recognition of these efforts, I was awarded the Keverling Buisman Prize 2017 for best article in the professional journal GeoTechniek the ‘icing on the cake’, so to speak! Richard de Nijs 51 INTERVIEW Creating opportunities The combination of professional roles in projects and challenging management positions offers me the opportunity to see the world. Developing entrepreneurial skills is a gradual process, in which you create your own opportunities. In 2017, for instance, we succeeded in launching a pilot project that included the 3D-printing of concrete objects in the extreme climate conditions of Abu Dhabi. I spent months trying to raise interest in 3D concrete printing among Dubai-based contractors, without much success. They had no need for a consultant but wanted turnkey printing solutions and were apprehensive about investing. That is why we adapted and tested a second-hand printer, and Wouter Bijman developed a business case showcasing how this contracting firm could apply 3D-printing in their operations. Actually, we did everything except our traditional design work! Innovation in dike construction Building dikes is the best job there is. You can’t get more Dutch than this: a dike builder is part of a centuries-old tradition that has shaped our country. At Witteveen+Bos, I am working on the first project that will apply the revised national standard for dike safety. That gives me a lot of energy energy to apply all available knowledge, skills and talents, and to make sure that we maintain our leading position in terms of expertise. This also means that we must anticipate and respond to new developments. VR-Dijken is a good example: this dike design tool allows stakeholders to participate in the design process via Virtual Reality. Marinus Aalberts Because we possess such extensive in-house expertise, we were able to quickly develop a tool that delivers excellent results. Adding value for clients My ambition is to become a technical expert in my field, so I can truly provide added value for our clients in managing their soil-related issues. In the execution of projects, I am given a lot of personal responsibility and scope for development. For instance, last year I served as project leader for a challenging, large-scale soil survey of an old industrial site near the city centre of Mechelen. As someone who’s most comfortable working ‘behind the scenes’, I was very surprised and honoured to be recognised as Witteveen+Bos Employee of the Year 2017. But I was even more pleased when the results of the Mechelen soil survey were approved by the Belgian government just two days later, to the great satisfaction of the client. Wim Vansina 52 Developing new knowledge For me, 2017 was a special year because I completed my doctoral research. I successfully defended my PhD thesis and had a wonderful day with colleagues, friends and family. As part of my research, I developed an innovative method for assessing the effectiveness of governance in urban wastewater systems. I am particularly proud of the fact that my work conducted for years in close collaboration with De Dommel Water Authority has demonstrably achieved the desired effect: an improvement in the water quality of the Dommel River. At Witteveen+Bos, I was given all the freedom I needed to do my research. Talent and knowledge development are truly part of the Petra van Daal company’s ‘DNA’. Plenty of career opportunities Utilising my talents and adding value to the company are important to me. By being proactive, showing 100 % commitment and being open to new challenges, wonderful opportunities have come my way. In my role as head of the secretariat, I have learned a great deal and have tried to assign the right people to the right jobs. Thanks to careful planning and organisation and close collaboration within the secretariat, we have created a very solid foundation. So now it is time for me to pursue further development. I would like to apply my expertise in projects, and I am provided with the scope for a broader interpretation of my role as project assistant. Annemiek Nijland Improving design processes In the past few years, I have worked hard to introduce 3D structural design techniques in the field of hydraulic engineering. It definitely helped that I was given the opportunity to set up a group focusing on my own field of specialisation (port design). Since I enjoy improving existing processes, the Plus+ Innovation Programme came at the perfect time. Together with colleagues and students, we worked on the development of a wonderful new tool for the automated design of quay walls (called ‘Automated Quaywall Design’). I was quite proud when the Dutch technology magazine De Ingenieur recognised my efforts by including me in its 2017 list of engineering talents! Elmo Slump 53 Objective 3 Adding value through our business operations As a company, we can contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals of responsible consumption and production, climate action, and + Titel partnerships for the SDGs by improving our own operational processes. Supporting Body. sustainable business travel, reducing our CO2 emissions and promoting Corporate Social Responsibility throughout the supply chain are important Plaats Land ways to achieve these aims. 54 55 INTERVIEW 56 Sustainable renovation Witteveen+Bos can also make an important contribution to sustainable development through our own business operations. In 2017, we therefore embarked on the renovation of the largest Witteveen+Bos office. Over the course of about a year, the Leeuwenbrug building in Deventer, the Netherlands has been extensively renovated with the aim of creating a pleasant and sustainable working environment for approximately 450 colleagues. ‘Thanks to the innovative solutions applied, we have managed to convert a building with energy label D to one with energy label A+++’ 57 ‘The TripleAqua system is a unique heat pump that has Jaap de Koning was responsible on behalf of possible on projects. The entire layout heat pump can both heat and cool at the Witteveen+Bos for the renovation of the encourages encounters and interactions, same time. The residual heat captured during ‘Leeuwenbrug’ office building, originally built creating a fertile environment for new ideas. a cooling cycle is added directly to the hot in 1975. There were three main reasons for We have created a work environment that water circuit. This has a very positive effect: this project: the office was technically and makes staff feel very much at home and that less energy is needed for the heating process. aesthetically past its prime, Witteveen+Bos also inspires our partners and clients when The system also has several internal buffers wished to apply its ‘PLUSworking’ office they visit us, enabling them to become better that temporarily store surplus heat or cold for concept, and we wanted to demonstrate our acquainted with our company.’ later use. Another unique and sustainable expertise in sustainable building renovation. feature is the use of the cooling agent ‘The result is a building with an excellent The TripleAqua climate system is one of the propæne, an entirely natural substance which sustainability performance, incorporating main sustainable solutions applied in the has a low Global Warming Potential rating of various innovative solutions. In addition, the renovated building. Installation consultant 3. This means that the gas does not make a ‘PLUSworking’ office concept enables our Gert Segers selected TripleAqua as the most negative contribution to the greenhouse effect. colleagues to collaborate as effectively as suitable system for the building: ‘This unique The TripleAqua system has never been 58 never been applied before on this scale’ applied before on this scale in the materials usage, we decided not to remove colleagues with the best possible working Netherlands, and I am proud that we have the entire roof and install a new one, but to environment and to ensure sustainability.’ taken the lead.’ apply an additional insulating layer. For René adds: ‘We have succeeded in obtaining lighting, we now use only energy-efficient LED an A+++ energy label following the renovation! Besides the installation of a heat pump, other lamps. The presence of people in the I am enormously proud of that, especially measures have been implemented to make conference rooms is detected based on because this is a more than 40-year-old office the building more sustainable. René Nelissen, carbon dioxide emissions: the lights are building that was previously awarded energy who was responsible for the quality of the switched off when no-one is around. We have label D. And the great thing is that we are not work, provides an overview: ‘The first thing we also installed 326 solar panels on the roof of just saving energy a number of did was to turn off the mains gas supply for the building.’ Witteveen+Bos employees contributed to this good. In addition, the building has been fully project, and we learned a great deal. We can post-insulated, including the facade and the Jaap de Koning: ‘Besides these measures, we now apply this knowledge when working for floor, and HR++ glazing has been installed in have taken many other steps to make the our clients.’ all windows. In order to reduce waste and building future-proof, both to provide our 59 ADDING VALUE THROUGH OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONS Witteveen+Bos can also create value by means of its own operational processes. Our corporate departments fulfil secondary business functions. We can add value through our business operations, e.g. by sustainably renovating our business premises and promoting sustainable business travel. We seek to reduce our environmental impact and to promote the reduction of CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain. ‘PLUSworking’ A number of years ago, we concluded that our business premises needed to be modernised and rendered more sustainable. In late 2014 we therefore introduced ‘PLUSworking’: a new office concept for flexible, project-based working arrangements. We want our business premises to promote effective collaboration, provide a pleasant environment that ‘feels like home’, and result in minimal environmental impact. When considering office locations, we carefully select places that are easy to reach from a centrally located train station so as to promote the use of public transport by staff. A good example of this policy is the relocation of our office in The Hague to the building complex above the city’s central train station. This office as well as our office in Steenokkerzeel (Belgium) were brought in line with the PLUSworking concept in 2017. In addition, our Leeuwenbrug office in Deventer underwent a large-scale renovation. For this purpose, over 450 colleagues worked in temporary rented office space on Stationsplein in Deventer during the year under review. Using various innovative solutions, Leeuwenbrug has been transformed into a highly sustainable building, and we are looking forward to returning to it in late March 2018. Mobility In 2017, we adopted a new policy for project, pool and company cars based on electric vehicles as the default option. In practice, this means that almost all cars to be replaced will be replaced by electric vehicles. We aim for nearly the entire fleet to consist of electric cars by 2020. In order to reduce business travel by airplane, we are investing in videoconferencing facilities. Company policy stipulates that distances of less than 500 kilometres must be travelled by train. New project accounting and financial administration system Several years ago, we noted that our software suite for project accounting and financial administration was in need of replacement. The old systems were not suitable for worldwide collaboration and were becoming too slow. In late 2015, we opted for BST10 as our new system and in 2016 we made preparations for the conversion and migration process. In February 2017, we went live with a ‘big bang’. Following a smooth start, we devoted a lot of time and energy in 2017 to becoming familiar with the BST10 system. Corporate Social Responsibility In 2017, Witteveen+Bos joined a sector initiative to reduce CO2 emissions in civil engineering. Furthermore we are represented on the administrative committee of the UN Global Compact Netherlands Network, reflecting our commitment to its ten principles in the area of human rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. On behalf of the UN Global Compact, we organised a webinar for Dutch SMEs about the hows and whys of performing materiality analyses. Witteveen+Bos is a member of the Sustainable Civil Engineering expertise network of the Dutch Association of Consulting Engineers, and of the Advisory Board for Sustainable Ports in Africa, an initiative of Delft University of Technology. We also signed the Memorandum of Understanding for a ‘Roadmap for Human Cities’ an initiative of the Human Cities Coalition. This organisation is committed to pioneering business models for the development of inclusive urban infrastructure. Through sponsoring, we support various institutions and initiatives in the field of arts and culture. Every year we present the Witteveen+Bos Art+Technology Award to an innovative artist, and organise an outdoor café for employees and business relations during the ‘Deventer op Stelten’ outdoor theatre festival. CO2 footprint Every year we calculate our CO2 footprint in order to gain insight into the CO2 emissions resulting from company activities. The footprint for 2017 has been calculated using the standard conversion factors provided on the website www.co2emissiefactoren.nl. Since 2014, we have also included the emissions of our international offices. The reported CO2 footprint per FTE relates to all Witteveen+Bos employees worldwide. The footprint consists of three main elements: business premises, car use, and air travel. We aim to reduce emissions in all three areas. 60 KPI 2017 Result Our CO2 emissions reduction is in line with In 2017, a per capita reduction of 28 % was the overall target of a 30 % reduction by achieved (compared to the reference year 2020 (compared to the reference year 2007). 2007). We are therefore on track to meet the target of a 30 % reduction by 2020. Maintain our CO2 Awareness Certificate at Our certification at Level 5 of the CO2 Level 5 of the SKAO CO2 Performance Performance Ladder was renewed in 2017. Ladder, and obtain certification in accordance with the new Quality Manual. Measuring environmental impact Progress in reducing our environmental impact is measured based on the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) listed in the table above. In 2017, we realised a reduction of 28 % compared to the reference year 2007. The key figures on pages 62 and 63 provide insight into usage and emissions related to business premises, car use and air travel. Many emission flows have remained relatively stable. Short-distance air travel was actively discouraged during the year under review. The infrastructure for electric vehicles was improved by installing charging points at a number of offices. Emissions related to electricity consumption increased in 2017. This is due to the fact that the actual electricity consumption of our international offices (often consisting of ‘grey power’) was included in the footprint in 2017. The relative increase in CO2 emissions is considerable because our Dutch offices all use green electricity. In 2017 we introduced ‘Meatless Monday’ at all our Dutch offices. Although this measure does not significantly impact our CO2 footprint, it does contribute to awareness and encourages people to make a positive contribution in all areas. We conclude that we are on track to achieve our aim of 30 % emissions reduction by 2020 compared to the reference year 2007. We will review the relevant trends in 2018, and adopt a more ambitious target for subsequent years if required. The CO2 Performance Ladder is an instrument which encourages environmental awareness on the part of private-sector companies, both in their own business operations and their projects on behalf of clients. We are proud to have retained full certification in 2017 (in the form of the CO2 Awareness Certificate) at Level 5 of the Performance Ladder. Since 2012, Witteveen+Bos has been compensating the CO2 emissions resulting from air travel for business purposes. We do this by purchasing certified CO2 credits (also known as ‘carbon credits’). Eventually Witteveen+Bos wants to achieve climate-neutral business operations by 2020, initially by taking every possible measures to prevent CO2 emissions. Subsequently we will compensate for any remaining emissions by purchasing carbon credits in the UN’s Collaborative Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation in Developing Countries (REDD+). As in 2016, we opted to purchase carbon credits for a REDD+ project in Indonesia to compensate for air travel in the year under review. Development of corporate departments designated as spearhead for 2018 Witteveen+Bos has experienced rapid growth and change in the past few years. We are developing into an internationally integrated engineering and consultancy firm with a strong focus on digital working methods, in keeping with the ‘PLUSworking’ office concept. These developments impact our corporate departments and demand further professionalisation. In 2017 we therefore elaborated a vision for the development of our corporate departments in the coming years (i.e. optimising their organisation and internal processes). Implementation of this vision has been designated as a spearhead for 2018. 61 BUSINESS OPERATIONS KEY FIGURES Use of public transport for business and Use of private cars for business District heating commuting purposes (km) purposes (km) (hot water in gigajoule) 8,060,806 > 3,299,532 > 38 > (2016: 7.718.199) (2016: 3,745,015) (2016: 88) Business purposes Use of company cars for business 2017: 2,382,545 > purposes (km and litres of fuel) (2016: 2,432,059) Commuting purposes 2017: 5,678,261 > 790,631 > / 144,990 l. (2016: 5,286,140) (2016: 20,722 / 216,808 l.) Gas consumption in office Business travel in the Netherlands is mainly buildings (m 3) registered in litres of fuel consumed, not in kilometres travelled. In the past, these data were extrapolated to account for international business travel. In 2017, the actual figures 247,730 > concerning the use of company cars for (2016: 279,350) business purposes were registered by our international offices. Because these (international) data are recorded in distance travelled rather than fuel consumed, the total number of kilometres has risen substantially Use of private cars for commuting while the quantity of fuel consumed has purposes (km) decreased compared to 2016. 3,134,609 > Electricity consumption (kWh) (2016: 2,873,840) 1,455,966 > Use of company cars for commuting (2016: 1,572,423) purposes (km) 629,918 > (2016: 363,389) Air travel (km) Paper use (kg) 5,714,772 > 15,381 > (2016: 6,468,977) (2016: 28,778) 62 EMISSIONS PER SCOPE IN TONNES OF CO2 SCOPE 1 468 > 527 692 > 809 Company cars for business purposes 2017 2016 Subtotal: 1,160 Subtotal: 1,336 Gas consumption SCOPE 2 108 > 138 > 107 11 Electricity consumption Air travel 662 > 749 District heating 897 > 978 Use of private cars for business purposes 1 1 2017 2016 Use of public transport for Subtotal: 1,806 Subtotal: 1,846 business purposes SCOPE 3 1 > 3 130 > 69 Paper use Use of private car for 273 > 261 commuting purposes 629 > 573 Use of public transport for commuting purposes 2017 2016 Use of company cars for Subtotal: 1,033 Subtotal: 906 commuting purposes TOTAL total: 4,089 2016 3,999 > 2017 63 + Titel Body. Plaats Land Objective 4 Creating economic value + Titel As an international engineering and consultancy firm, we play a role in promoting economic growth through our projects. In addition, the company itself must realise Body. good financial results to ensure sufficient scope for innovation and other new developments, Plaats Land to invest in people, and to maintain our unique ownership structure. 64 65 CREATING ECONOMIC VALUE Witteveen+Bos aims to realise healthy financial results. A sound financial basis is an important precondition that enables the company to create value for our stakeholders in the long term and contribute to economic growth. Healthy results The consolidated balance sheet and profit-and-loss account of Witteveen+Bos N.V. shows that the balance sheet total has increased compared to 2016, in particular due to an increase in tangible fixed assets and work in progress. On balance, the solvency rate decreased from 44.4 % in 2016 to 42.7 % in 2017. Other financial key figures may be found on page 68. The table below provides an overview of the Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that we use to measure our success in creating economic value. KPI 2017 Result Annual growth of own In financial year 2017, Witteveen+Bos N.V. revenue of 3 to 5 % realised a revenue of EUR 130.8 million, a decrease of 4.6 % compared to 2016 (2016: EUR 137.1 million). Own revenue amounted to EUR 104 million and remained virtually unchanged compared to 2016. Annual workforce The workforce grew by 2.4 % from 1,029 growth of 3 to 5 % to 1,054 employees. Annual net profit margin The net result in 2017 amounted to EUR of at least 8 % 12.5 million, yielding a net profit margin of 9.6 %. We conclude that we have achieved solid results in 2017. The net profit margin decreased slightly compared to 2016 due to three major investment programmes undertaken in 2017: the renovation of the Leeuwenbrug office in Deventer, the implementation of the BST10 system, and the Plus+ Innovation programme. Risk management defined as spearhead for 2018 Witteveen+Bos is involved in a wide range of smalland large-scale projects all over the world. These projects have a substantial impact on the organisation and on our financial ratios, and result in a number of specific risks and points for attention. We have therefore designated risk management as a company-wide spearhead for 2018. Witteveen+Bos uses the ‘Three Lines of Defence’ model as its frame of reference for risk management, distinguishing between three organisational functions that are important for risk control: 1) operational management (particularly project management), 2) the support departments and management, and 3) independent reviewers and auditors. In the past, our risk management activities had a strong operational focus within a Dutch context. At this point, the second line of defence requires strengthening, especially considering our rapid international growth. For this purpose we will conduct a risk assessment that will form the basis for setting priorities, identifying blind spots, and setting up or clarifying governance mechanisms if necessary. In addition, a compliance programme will be created comprising protocols and governance mechanisms. 66 SUMMARISED ANNUAL RESULTS 2017 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (before profit appropriation) 31 DECEMBER 2017 31 DECEMBER 2016 Assets Intangible fixed assets 2,844 2,830 Tangible fixed assets 17,557 14,250 Financial fixed assets + 1,870 3,967 Fixed assets 22,271 21,047 Work in progress 11,719 4,838 Accounts receivable 26,545 30,246 Cash and cash equivalents + 16,631 16,524 Current assets + 54,895 51,608 77,166 72,655 Liabilities Group equity 32,973 32,280 Provisions 5,223 4,825 Long-term liabilities 11,029 5,469 Current liabilities + 27,941 30,081 Total liabilities + 38,970 35,550 77,166 72,655 CONSOLIDATED PROFT-AND-LOSS ACCOUNT 2017 2016 Net turnover Net turnover including changes in work in progress 130,806 137,112 Costs Subcontracted work 26,572 32,406 Salaries and wages 48,632 48,878 Social security and pension premiums 12,174 11,510 Depreciation of (in)tangible fixed assets 2,203 1,871 Other changes in the value of (in)tangible fixed assets 1,660 510 Other operating costs + 22,641 20,957 113,882 116,132 Operating result 16,924 20,980 Interest paid (on balance) 300 257 Result before taxation 16,624 20,723 Results of other participations + -/283 95 Result before taxation 16,341 20,818 (including other participations) Taxation 3,818 5,068 Net profit 12,523 15,750 (amounts in thousands of euros) 67 FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES Turnover EBITDA Net profit in thousands of euros in thousands of euros in thousands of euros 130,806 > 20,505 > 12,523 > (2016: 137,112) (2016: 23,456) (2016: 15,750) Solvency Net working capital Net profit margin as a percentage in thousands of euros as a percentage 42.7 % > 26,953 > 9.6 % > (2016: 44.4 %) (2016: 21,527) (2016: 11.5 %) Participation in employee share ownership scheme at 1 July 2017 participants senior and premium partners 16.5 % 547 62.5 % 21 % (2016: 543) 19 en 10 partners (2016: 18 en 11) 78 (2016: 82) Internal price of Witteveen+Bos N.V. share at 1 July 2017 in euros 6.25 (2016: 6.33) > 68 NOTES TO THE ANNUAL RESULTS 2017 AUDITOR’S REPORT This Integrated Annual Report contains the balance sheet and the Auditor’s opinion profit-and-loss account of Witteveen+Bos N.V., and sets out the The summarised annual results for 2017 presented general principles for preparing the consolidated annual results on pages 67 and 69 (hereinafter referred to as the (G4-17). To obtain a complete insight into the assets and the results of ‘summarised annual results’) are derived from the Witteveen+Bos N.V., the reader is advised to inspect the consolidated audited annual results of Witteveen+Bos N.V. for 2017. annual results for 2017 filed at the Trade Register of the Enschede Chamber of Commerce. In our opinion, the enclosed summarised annual results derived from the audited annual results of Preparation of the consolidated annual results Witteveen+Bos N.V. for the year ended 31 December The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with 2017 are consistent, in all material respects, with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. They are based on historical those audited annual results, in accordance with the costs, with the exception of buildings and land, which are valued principles described in the notes. at current cost (i.e. current purchase price). The summarised annual results comprise: Consolidation The consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December Insofar as actual policy-making influence exists, subsidiaries have 2017 been included in the consolidated annual accounts. Joint ventures The consolidated profit-and-loss account for 2017 have been consolidated in proportion to the share held in the The accompanying notes company. Summarised annual results Principles for the valuation of assets and liabilities The summarised annual results do not contain all the Land and buildings are valued at current cost (i.e. current purchase disclosures required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch price). The current purchase price is based on the amount that Civil Code. Reading the summarised annual results would be paid to acquire the building on the revaluation date if and this accompanying auditor’s report, therefore, the building had the same age as it did at the time of the original is not a substitute for reading the audited annual acquisition, plus the estimated current additional costs of acquisition. results of Witteveen+Bos N.V. and the accompanying The current purchase price is determined on the basis of periodic auditor’s report. The summarised annual results and valuations. Depreciation of fixed assets is based on the estimated the audited annual results do not reflect the effects economic life. Financial fixed assets include unconsolidated interests of events that occurred subsequent to the date of our in participations and partnership firms. Participating interests are auditor’s report on those audited annual results (19 valued according to the equity method. Projects in progress for third March 2018). parties are valued based on incurred costs, plus the profit assignable to the performed projects, minus losses foreseeable at the balance Audited annual results and our accompanying sheet date. Profits for projects in progress are recognised based on auditor’s report for the summarised annual the percentage of completion of the projects at the balance sheet results date. Invoiced instalments for projects in progress are deducted We expressed an unqualified audit opinion on the from the projects in progress. Trade accounts receivable included in audited annual results of Witteveen+Bos N.V. for 2017 receivables are recognised less a provision for doubtful accounts. in our auditor’s report dated 19 March 2018. Provisions are created for deferred tax liabilities, tax risks, warranties and claims, deferred employee remuneration, and liabilities in respect Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and of participating interests. Supervisory Board The Board of Directors is responsible for the Principles for determination of the consolidated financial result preparation of the summarised annual results on the Net turnover and changes in work in progress include the services basis of the principles described in the notes. The invoiced excluding value-added tax, and include the changes in work Supervisory Board is responsible for supervising the in progress. Revenues of projects are presented in proportion to the company’s financial reporting processes. work completed. Salaries include remuneration paid to the Board of Directors. The pension obligations are valued according to the Auditor’s responsibilities ‘valuation to the pension fund’ approach. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on whether the summarised annual results are consistent in all material respects with the audited annual results, based on our procedures, which were conducted in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standard on Auditing 810 ‘Engagements to report on summary financial statements’. Zwolle, The Netherlands, 29 March 2018 Deloitte Accountants B.V. M.H.J. Klein Haarhuis 69 INTERVIEW 70 In business together Witteveen+Bos staff are co-owners of the company. Only our own employees can hold shares, which contributes to a very high level of engagement. This is also apparent from the high rate of participation. The number of shares that employees are allowed to purchase depends on their status as senior partner, premium partner, partner or participant. Every year we work hard to realise healthy financial results, which in turn ensure stable share prices and dividends. The net profit is distributed annually to all employees under a profit-sharing scheme, and also paid out as dividend to all shareholders. This reflects the Witteveen+Bos philosophy that everyone within the company contributes to its success, and should therefore derive the benefits of that success. ‘The strength of the system is that everyone is in business Directors. Henk Nieboer stepped down as director in together, so it truly feels like our company’, says Eveline accordance with the articles of association (having reached Buter, Leader of the Industry & Energy PMC. ‘Witteveen+Bos the age of 55 in 2017), and Stephan van der Biezen was is basically a consortium of small ‘companies’ called appointed as his successor. Both decisions were subject to Product-Market Combinations or PMCs, which are given the approval of the shareholders. the trust and freedom they need to do business in their own way. The employees feel jointly responsible for achieving The employee share ownership system has promoted an good results. And that fosters commitment, creativity and entrepreneurial spirit within the company for over 25 years. a flexible attitude.’ Eveline joined the company in 2006 and ‘Making money is not our main objective. Healthy financial purchased shares as soon as possible: ‘I think employee results are a means to generate new business, develop ownership is a great idea. My work is more than just a job to talent, and realise our individual and shared ambitions’, me, and being an entrepreneur is in my blood.’ Eveline says Maurits. According to Eveline, the share ownership became a partner in 2011 and was appointed senior partner system also contributes to employee engagement and in 2017. ‘As partners and senior partners we help to set out solidarity within the company. ‘We’re all in it together, so if a course for the company. We have access to a wide range one of the PMCs is going through a rough patch due to a of information and together we form a strong network. This slowdown in the market, for instance, we help each other. enables us to operate more effectively and eventually We feel connected to each other.’ provide greater added value.’ Oskars Zivtins is head of the Witteveen+Bos office in Latvia Maurits Schilt also purchased shares as soon as he could. and has been a participant since 2013. ‘In conversations, ‘It immediately encouraged me to think in terms of Dutch colleagues frequently mentioned the ownership opportunities. In the first few years, I focused mainly on structure and various differences of opinion between the acquiring projects in my own field of spatial planning.’ shareholders. I wanted to be part of that. I am honoured to In 2014, Maurits was appointed head of the Witteveen+Bos be one of the first international colleagues who was asked office in Heerenveen and widened his perspective. ‘The to participate. Becoming a shareholder doesn’t change north of the Netherlands has its own specific challenges much about my day-to-day work I continue to be which engineers can help to address. We have succeeded passionate about my job. At the same time, ownership in generating new business in the region by focusing on comes with a greater sense of responsibility, and the ability key themes, ranging from earthquake resistance to dike to play a more active role within the company.’ reinforcements and infrastructure projects. In 2017 I was asked if I wanted to become partner. By then I had great Every Witteveen+Bos employee can participate in the confidence in the employee share ownership system, so scheme at his or her own pace. Maurits: ‘By purchasing one I said yes.’ or more blocks of shares every year, you can experience what it means to be a co-owner.’ Eveline adds: ‘Increasingly, Since as far back as 1992, the ownership structure of the young people I talk to say they want to start a business Witteveen+Bos has been based on full financial participation of their own after working for an employer for a couple of by its personnel. Every year in April, a General Meeting of years. The great thing about Witteveen+Bos is that you can Shareholders is held where the company owners take key be an entrepreneur and start realising your own ambitions decisions. Among other things, the 2017 General Meeting from day one. Plus you have easy access to the knowledge was notable for a change in the composition of the Board of and expertise of a worldwide network of PMCs’. ‘Share ownership incentivises me to approach my work with an entrepreneurial spirit’ 71 COLOPHON Text Witteveen+Bos Layout and design Houdbaar Printed by Ovimex Photos and Illustrations BAM Infra Nederland Corné Bastiaansen Evert van de Worp Isabelle Renate la Poutré Maat-ontwerpers Plein06 Port of Rotterdam/Paul Martens Quist Wintermans Architecten commissioned by D.R.I.V.E construction team René Vervloet Rijkswaterstaat Rijnboutt en Heren 5 Shutterstock.com Viorica Cernica Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos N.V. Van Twickelostraat 2 P.O. Box 233 7400 AE Deventer The Netherlands t +31 570 69 79 11 e info@witteveenbos.com i www.witteveenbos.com Enschede Trade Register no. 55094503 WE SUPPORT 72 Centre Point of Indonesia 73 www.witteveenbos.com 74
