CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2018 Table of Contents Statement of Support 3 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 4 Human Rights 5 Labor 7 Global Sustainability 12 Environmental Product Compliance 23 Health, Safety and Security 25 Quality Management Systems 28 Charitable and Social Responsibility Programs 30 Anti-Corruption 34 About Anixter 40 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 2 Statement of Support To Our Stakeholders, As the new president and chief executive officer, I am pleased to reaffirm Anixter’s ongoing support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and their integration into our business. Since joining the Global Compact in January 2012, Anixter continues to successfully maintain its GC Active status and highlight the ongoing organizational accomplishments attained within the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption in our annual corporate responsibility report. Anixter’s commitment to constant improvement can be observed through the new content that we add to our report each year. This year marks the second consecutive year Anixter’s corporate responsibility report highlights our ongoing actions to support three UN Sustainable Development Goals as well as Anixter’s first year as a Signatory to the Global Compact. As we continue to implement new global programs and initiatives, I look forward to sharing our results with you in the years ahead. Bill Galvin President and Chief Executive Officer 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 3 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The contents of this report detail how Anixter has incorporated the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact into its strategies, policies and procedures. The Ten Principles are as follows: HUMAN RIGHTS LABOR ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 1: PRINCIPLE 3: PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support and respect Businesses should uphold the freedom Businesses should support a precautionary the protection of internationally proclaimed of association and the effective recognition approach to environmental challenges; human rights; and of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 8: PRINCIPLE 2: PRINCIPLE 4: undertake initiatives to promote greater make sure that they are not complicit the elimination of all forms of forced environmental responsibility; and in human rights abuses. and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 9: PRINCIPLE 5: encourage the development and diffusion of the effective abolition of child labor; and environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 6: ANTI-CORRUPTION the elimination of discrimination in respect PRINCIPLE 10: of employment and occupation. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The United Nations has set forth 17 Sustainable Development Goals. According to the UN, the goals are “a universal call to action to end poverty, protect the planet and ensure that all people enjoy peace and prosperity.” While Anixter’s corporate and charitable initiatives apply to several of the Sustainable Development Goals, throughout this report, you will notice the company has chosen to focus its corporate responsibility efforts on three in particular: #3 GOOD HEALTH #4 QUALITY #11 SUSTAINABLE AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION CITIES AND COMMUNITIES 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 4 HUMAN RIGHTS 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Anixter is committed to the fair and ethical treatment of people within its organization and throughout the world. With company policies that clearly state a commitment to human rights and efforts undertaken to strive toward conflict-free supply chains, Anixter complies with applicable employment laws and regulations around the globe and does not tolerate human rights violations or discrimination of any kind. HUMAN RIGHTS PROTECTION TOWARD CONFLICT-FREE SUPPLY CHAINS Anixter upholds human rights based on its policies and regular • Anixter supports industrywide efforts to identify, reduce and management reviews combined with regularly engaging with eliminate the use of conflict minerals that originate from the peers and experts in the field. The following is a list of related Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, policies and programs that support these ongoing efforts: which are believed to be financing groups that are responsible • Global Human Rights Principles for human rights violations. • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy • Anixter is committed to fully complying with the conflict minerals requirements included in the U.S. Securities and • Reaffirmation of Equal Employment Opportunity Policy Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Dodd-Frank Act, which requires • Conflict Minerals Policy Statement publicly traded companies to perform due diligence as to the • Anti-Harassment Policy existence and source of conflict minerals in their supply chains. Anixter successfully filed its Form SD and Conflict Minerals • Anti-Retaliation Policy Report with the SEC in 2018 for the 2017 calendar year. • Workplace Violence and Response Policy • Anixter’s Conflict Minerals Policy Statement remains the • Reaffirmation of Policy on Confidentiality fourth most downloaded item from Anixter’s corporate • Privacy Policy responsibility webpage. • Global Health and Safety Policy • Anixter continued surveying suppliers for conflict minerals by using a risk-based approach to support its annual SEC • Non-discrimination in employment and personnel practices reporting obligations. • Comprehensive health and welfare benefit programs Additional conflict minerals accomplishments can be found in • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms. the Environmental Product Compliance section on page 24. All human rights policies and programs are administered by the executive compliance committee, chief compliance officer, regional compliance officers and the human resources, legal and internal audit organizations. U.K. MODERN SLAVERY ACT A slavery and human trafficking statement was posted on the corporate responsibility webpage in 2018, highlighting the steps taken during 2017 to ensure that slavery and human trafficking is not taking place in our business or supply chain. As required by the U.K. Modern Slavery Act, this statement has been reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors of Anixter Limited, Anixter’s operating entity in the U.K. The statement was made on behalf of all Anixter entities because the same policies and compliance framework relating to slavery and human trafficking exist across our entire business globally. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 6 LABOR 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 7 LABOR Anixter strives to create a positive and safe work environment — free of discrimination, harassment and inappropriate conduct and one in which employees treat each other fairly and with dignity and respect by: • Supporting and upholding the elimination of discriminatory practices particularly with respect to employment and occupation • Promoting and embracing diversity in all aspects of business operations • Supporting the elimination of all forms of forced, bonded or compulsory labor • Supporting the freedom of association and the right to choose a collective bargaining representative, if desired • Providing a safe and healthy work environment for all employees • Condemning all forms of child exploitation and supporting the elimination of exploitative child labor. EMPLOYEE COMMITMENT EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT A nixter’s labor policies and programs are communicated Anixter believes in employees taking charge of their careers through its: and cares about their professional development and goals. All • Anti-Harassment Policy employees have access to It’s Your Move, a career exploration • Anti-Retaliation Policy tool for employees launched in 2017. The online tool includes tips, videos and other resources to teach employees about the • Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy different departments and career opportunities within Anixter. • Workplace Violence and Response Policy Employees are also able to schedule meetings with “Career • Global Health and Safety Policy Champions” to discuss their career goals and help them plan their next move. In addition, Anixter helps employees learn and • Privacy Policy grow through formal and informal mentoring programs. • Competitive employee benefit programs EMPOWERING THE WOMEN OF ANIXTER • Nondiscrimination in employment and personnel practices In 2017, a team of women and executive leaders at Anixter • Employee notices of right to join or form unions for purposes created Anixter CONNECT, a professional development and of collective bargaining, if desired networking group for women with the goal of empowering • Annual compensation benchmarking analysis the women of Anixter in their professional and personal lives. • Business Integrity Line and other communication mechanisms. CONNECT provides a framework for both established and up-and-coming leaders to share professional resources and knowledge as well as networking, education and mentorship opportunities. The group is now up to 550 members across 26 countries and continues to grow. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 8 LABOR EMPLOYEE CONCERNS U.S. MILITARY VETERAN RECRUITING In addition to reporting a suspected issue through local Being a multinational company headquartered in the management, human resources, the legal department or a U.S., Anixter supports and values those who have served compliance officer, employees around the globe can call a our nation and actively recruits U.S. military veterans as toll-free number or access the Business Integrity Line website they transition out of careers within the Army, Air Force, Navy, to ask ethicsor compliance-related questions or report a Coast Guard and Marines. Throughout our organization, suspected issue. Communications can be made anonymously U.S. military veterans are not only making a difference, where permitted by local laws. The call center and website but are also embarking on rewarding careers. are managed by an independent, third-party provider and all The following lists select accomplishments attained this year: submissions or conversations are kept confidential and shared • Members of our veteran steering committee, combined with only with those necessary to respond to or investigate a report. personnel from human resources and senior leadership INFORMATION SECURITY teams, continued to participate in outreach recruiting events for U.S. military veterans. Information security is a critical part of Anixter’s business environment. As a result, Anixter has a robust information • Anixter’s veteran steering committee, now in its third security program, with policies and controls that are aligned year, continues to focus on providing assistance in the with well-known security standards, such as ISO 27001 recruitment and integration of recently discharged veterans. and NIST SP 800-53. Anixter’s information security program • In the U.S., Anixter hired an additional 22 U.S. military includes security awareness initiatives designed to educate veterans this year, bringing our organizational total to employees about computer security to help protect their more than 180. personal information as well as company information. Some of Anixter's proud U.S. veterans 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 9 LABOR EMPLOYEE RECOGNITION In the Anixter Blue Book, the first item listed under “Our Philosophy” is “People come first” and this is demonstrated across the organization in the various ways in which employees are recognized for their outstanding contributions. One way employees are recognized is through awards. The information below provides examples of the various employee recognition awards given to select Anixter employees throughout the year: TECHNOLOGY FELLOW AWARD AWARD OF EXCELLENCE The Anixter Technology Fellow award promotes leadership Nominated by fellow co-workers, the Award of Excellence is among Anixter’s technical professionals who have contributed Anixter’s most prestigious honor and is awarded to the top extensively to driving innovation in alignment with Anixter’s 1 percent of all employees globally. These employees business strategies and is awarded to one person each year. demonstrate Anixter’s philosophy to providing excellence for co-workers, customers and partners. In 2018, the Award of Excellence was given to 79 people to honor their President’s Club outstanding performance in 2017. PRESIDENT’S CLUB Anixter’s President’s Club is a prestigious group of people who embody the drive, spirit and achievement that constitute the best at Anixter. Through dedication, customer service and an incredible work ethic, the members of the President’s Club have earned the opportunity to be recognized. In 2018, 142 people were inducted into the President’s Club for outstanding AWARD OF EXCELLENCE: BLUE SKY AWARD performance in 2017. In the past, Anixter’s practice has been that once an employee has received the Award of Excellence, they cannot be nominated again. This was to ensure a broader group of people would be recognized for their efforts. However, many employees continue to provide outstanding support, excellent service and truly embody our goal of Excellence in Execution. As such, in 2017, Anixter introduced the Award of Excellence: Blue Sky Award. Anyone who has previously received the Award of Excellence is now eligible to be nominated and possibly selected again. In 2018, three Anixter employees were awarded the Blue Sky Award for their exceptional work in 2017. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 10 LABOR HEALTH AND WELLNESS FAIRS These internship programs help align the right people with the The following provides select examples of the various health and right positions, thus building a strong, talented workforce. In wellness events held for Anixter employees throughout the year: 2018, Anixter employed a total of 10 interns across multiple departments at its headquarters, including marketing, finance, • Anixter held its annual health and wellness fairs at its legal and operations. Glenview, Ill. headquarters and at its Alsip, Ill. campus, where various healthcare benefit providers were available to provide SPECIALIZED EMPLOYEE TRAINING information and free flu shots to more than 1,200 employees. The following provides select examples of the specialized • Anixter’s São Paulo location held several events throughout employee trainings undertaken by global employees this year: the year where free eye exams, discounted eye glasses, • A global environmental aspects training module was created medical screenings and safety, accident prevention and health and distributed to more than 230 employees across the presentations were offered to more than 60 employees. EMEA region to further reinforce Anixter’s ongoing focus and TUITION REIMBURSEMENT commitment to the ISO 14001:2015, Global Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility programs Anixter offers a tuition reimbursement program to eligible employees. In 2018, Anixter reimbursed more than $106,000 • An active shooter training module—created by the vice in employee tuition costs. president of global health, safety and sustainability and approved by the Glenview, Ill., police department and The EMPLOYEE CERTIFICATION AND TRAINING Department of Homeland Security—was distributed as The following provides select examples of the various mandatory training to more than 5,300 U.S. employees employee certification and training programs distributed • More than 100 new hires from three business units had the to Anixter employees throughout the year: opportunity to learn from and interact with various subject • Online training and certification acknowledging compliance matter experts from across the business that included with the Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy is issued informational overviews on the Global Sustainability, to all employees Environmental Product Compliance and Corporate Responsibility programs and highlighted how the programs • Affirmation of adherence to Anixter’s security policies is support their positions and customers. required for all employees • Security awareness training LEADING THE ANIXTER TEAM • As part of its worldwide trade compliance program, A great workforce starts with great leaders. As part of Anixter’s Anixter delivers a comprehensive online export compliance focus to continually improve, the company relaunched the training course to a majority of its global employees on a Leading the Anixter Team program. This program is a hands-on scheduled basis. learning and development course for all Anixter managers and is broken up into two segments. The first course, Managing HEADQUARTERS INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES the Business, spans four days and is for sales managers. The Anixter believes in building a strong workforce through handssecond course, Coaching and Leadership, spans three days on learning experiences. Every year, a variety of internship and is for managers across every division and department. Prior opportunities are made available to allow high school and to enrolling in this course, managers are required to complete college students to gain real-world experience and evaluate an online training session, personality assessment, coaching different career fields. assessments with all direct reports and review an assigned case study. In 2018, a total of 56 managers successfully completed the program. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 11 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 12 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY Through its corporate sustainability program, Anixter seeks to continuously improve business processes to control and reduce the impact associated with its targeted environmental aspects of energy, waste, materials and natural resources and transportation. By targeting measurable results within each environmental aspect combined with using the A Sustainable PathSM approach, which focuses on the economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization, Anixter balances environmental responsibility and return on investment. PROGRAM GOALS ENERGY GREEN BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS ENERGY Anixter continues to operate and evaluate additional facilities for various Anixter reduces energy use through green building certifications based upon lease durations and payback innovative technologies, equipment calculations. Green buildings help lower operational costs, minimize carbon and control systems. emissions and provide a comfortable environment for employees. Anixter’s green building certified portfolio consists of the following facilities: WASTE • The new 214,000-square-foot Lichfield, U.K., facility, completed in March Anixter minimizes waste by 2018, is rated BREEAM® Very Good (Building Research Establishment capitalizing on opportunities to reduce, reuse and recycle. Environmental Assessment Method®). The facility has also achieved The Planet Mark™ certification with a lifetime carbon reduction of 17 percent. • The 61,000-square-foot annex office building located next to Anixter’s MATERIALS AND headquarters in Glenview, Ill. attained U.S. Green Building Council LEED® NATURAL RESOURCES (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) certification in 2014. Anixter consumes fewer materials The annex first attained ENERGY STAR certification in 2014 from the U.S. and natural resources by increasing recycled content in consumables Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and has continued to successfully while simultaneously pursuing source attain annual recertification since. reduction strategies. • The 21,000-square-foot multitenant facility in St. John’s, Newfoundland, attained LEED Silver in 2014. TRANSPORTATION • The 195,000-square-foot facility in Edmonton, Alberta, attained LEED Anixter lowers transportation Silver in 2011. emissions by utilizing third-party carriers, fleet vehicles and equipment • The 457,000-square-foot Alsip, Ill. facility attained LEED certification in 2007. that meet current environmental standards, maintaining a global noHIGH-FREQUENCY BATTERY CHARGERS idling policy at warehouse locations Several Anixter locations around the world use high-frequency battery and leveraging technology to eliminate the need to travel. chargers to recharge forklift and other material handling equipment batteries. These advanced battery chargers not only monitor the health and condition of the batteries, but they also reduce charging time and are up to 94 percent efficient, which saves energy. Anixter continued to add these battery chargers across its global network in 2018. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 13 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NEW STATE-OF-THE-ART DISTRIBUTION CENTER ENERGY-EFFICIENT LIGHTING AND IN ALSIP, ILLINOIS ADVANCED LIGHTING CONTROL SYSTEMS In spring 2018, Anixter expanded the footprint of its North Energy-efficient lighting solutions remains one of the simplest, American flagship distribution center in Alsip, Ill., with the most cost-effective ways to improve efficiency and reduce addition of a new 238,000-square-foot facility, equipped with operating expenses. Anixter is a fully authorized valuean intelligent conveyor system and voice-picking technology, added distributor of lighting products and solutions and is making it Anixter’s smartest distribution center. Some of the key committed to improving the lighting efficiency of both our energy-saving features include motion-activated LED lighting and our customers’ facilities. Anixter lighting experts perform systems and a 5,500-foot smart conveyor system, which only lighting audits to determine the project scope and create an operates when objects are placed on it and is estimated to energy-efficient lighting solution specifically designed for each be 35 percent more efficient than typical belt-driven systems. customer’s unique lighting needs. In addition to saving energy, the smart building technology is In our facilities, energy-efficient lighting systems can range designed with worker safety and ease of use in mind and is from advanced systems that include daylight harvesting, projected to improve productivity by 15 to 25 percent. Thanks zone scheduling, dimmable ballasts/drivers and advanced to many of these improvements, in September, Anixter was occupancy control sensors to energy-efficient systems that named the 2018 PARCEL Forum Shipper of the Year. Each year, include fluorescent fixtures and LED lighting. Anixter continues PARCEL gives this award to a company that is making gameto increase the use of energy-efficient LED lighting and changing improvements in distribution, logistics and shipping. advanced wireless technologies to reduce energy consumption and increase lighting system controls. FIELD SERVER VIRTUALIZATION In 2018, Anixter added LED lighting to more than 10 global Anixter’s global field locations continue to consolidate and locations covering more than 770,300 square feet of space. virtualize servers. In 2018, Anixter eliminated 14 field servers In prior years, Anixter has added LED lighting to 21 global by migrating virtual machines into existing equipment within locations to illuminate more than 1.9 million square feet of the Glenview, Ill., and Bracknell, U.K., data centers. Each field office and warehouse space. server eliminated helps to conserve energy in the location and improves backup and recovery operations as these functions ONGOING DATA CENTER EFFICIENCIES are now controlled within a data center. Anixter continues to consolidate and virtualize servers in its data center, which currently uses 87 physical servers to host HELPING TO RESTORE ELECTRICITY 1,519 virtual machines. Anixter’s data center is more than 90 AFTER HURRICANE MICHAEL percent virtualized. Due to the decrease in data center cooling While not part of Anixter’s global energy conservation requirements, combined with more than a 40 percent decrease initiative, this effort is worth noting as Anixter helped in server space, Anixter continues to successfully use an air to restore power in a crisis-stricken area. Anixter’s conditioning auto changer that rotates the shutdown of one of dedicated team of professionals worked around three air conditioning units each month. the clock, leveraging the U.S. warehouse footprint, SINGAPORE’S CONTINUED ENERGY REDUCTION in-stock inventory and supplier partners to deploy Despite the majority of energy savings being captured during materials, tool trailers and staff to set up and manage the first full year operating in a new energy-efficient building, two storm-relief staging yards in Florida to help Anixter’s 25,655-square-foot Singapore location and staff customers quickly and safely restore power to areas continues to drive year-over-year energy reductions. This year, impacted by Hurricane Michael. In addition, Anixter’s the location’s energy consumption was on track to be more on-site staff assembled grounding kits for customers than 2 percent less than the prior year. to use in the field to assist in power line repairs. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 14 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY SOLAR ENERGY WASTE The 142,000-square-foot Willebroek, Belgium, facility—Anixter’s largest in continental Europe—successfully started attaining NEW NORTH AMERICAN RECYCLING INITIATIVES solar energy from rooftop solar panels in late 2011, which continues to power approximately half of the facility today. Anixter leases its global buildings in order to remain flexible to successfully meet both customer and market demands. Additionally, the new Lichfield, U.K., facility utilizes solar Leasing, combined with periodic divestitures and acquisitions, thermal energy for the hot water system to reduce the causes the physical locations, building sizes and waste and facility’s energy consumption. recycling tonnages to continuously change. To help manage HIGH-SPEED DOCK DOORS these dynamics, lower operating costs and improve service, in 2018, Anixter changed its waste management service Several Anixter locations around the world use high-speed provider in North America. The new service provider now dock doors that are motion-sensor activated to open and close manages more than 200 locations across North America and within seconds. The speed of these dock doors helps to control is working closely with staff to help decrease landfill waste and warehouse temperatures and in turn helps conserve energy. improve recycling opportunities. For example, Anixter’s newly opened 214,000-square-foot Lichfield, U.K., facility utilizes six high-speed dock doors. In 2018, after the service provider transition, Anixter’s U.S. operations successfully implemented three new DATA CENTER BEST PRACTICES recycling programs that will divert an estimated 17,300 lb. Anixter’s Infrastructure as a Platform (IaaP) approach of cardboard and single-stream/mixed recyclables from addresses the key building blocks for data center landfills annually. Preparations began in Q4 to conduct detailed interoperability that can provide agility for budgets, scalability location level waste and recycling reviews across North for demand and flexibility for technology choices. The building America. Canadian locations began initial reviews and select blocks of power optimization and thermal efficiency specifically U.S. regions will follow in 2019. identify product solutions and best practices that enable WASTE BROKER customers to achieve energy savings by deploying state-of-theart infrastructure. Within three U.K. locations, Anixter continues to leverage a waste broker to help reduce landfill waste, lower operating costs and increase recycling tonnage. Through a combination of onsite and offsite sorting, these three locations consistently divert more than 90 percent of their general waste. RECYCLING EMPTY PRINTER CARTRIDGES By returning the empty printer toner and ink cartridges to global office supply providers for reuse, Anixter prevents thousands of pounds of plastic and metal from entering landfills annually. For example, in 2018, Anixter’s Alsip, Ill., facility continued to successfully recycle empty toner cartridges in pallet load quantities. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 15 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY 271,600 lb. NORTH AMERICAN 3.8 million lb. of paper of single-stream/ RECYCLING SNAPSHOT mixed recyclables 13,100 lb. Anixter’s North American operations maintain of batteries 882,000 lb. of wood the largest square footage building footprint and contain the largest number of employees. 3,100 lb. This graphic provides a 2018 snapshot of key of plastics North American recycling volumes based on 469,000 lb. of cardboard annualized tonnage calculated from fixed and 32,400 lb. intermittent services. Where service providers of scrap cannot provide actual weight, they utilize industry metal and 42,500 lb. of steel guidelines for commodity weights and waste obsolete electronic 12,600 lb. container capacity utilization. equipment of organic food waste SUPPLY CHAIN SOLUTIONS GLOBAL COMPLEX PROGRAMS Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions team provides more than Anixter’s complex programs team focuses on providing 4,600 global customers with various value-added services that integrated solutions within customers’ complex global supply include, but are not limited to: chains. By partnering with Anixter, complex program customers • Kitting of multiple line items into a single finished good part realize significant improvements in customer satisfaction, number to ease ordering, reduce waste at the job site and working capital and cash flow, while also reducing overall improve job site receiving supply chain risk. As a result of Anixter’s engagement, complex program customers are able to improve their • Preassembling of racks, cabinets and cameras prior to balance sheets and use the improved cash flow to invest shipping to improve job site productivity and lower overall in ongoing business expansion. These tangible benefits are project costs driving substantial growth and expansion within Anixter’s • Providing job site waste diversion documentation, when complex program business as Anixter currently operates requested, for performing the above services to help earn 25 dedicated and 12 shared facilities, which are staffed by points for green building certification projects. For example, more than 220 employees to support 13 complex programs 11 Anixter locations across nine countries collectively within 23 countries. Most complex programs also incorporate diverted and documented more than 75,500 lb. of various value-added services from within Anixter’s Supply cardboard, wood and plastic for customer-specific green Chain Solutions offering to further support customers’ global building projects in 2018. operations and job site requirements. In addition, Anixter locations in 13 countries completed more than 1,900 customer-specific product enhancement and packaging services that diverted and recycled packaging waste prior to it reaching job sites. This packaging waste is included in the overall recycling snapshots. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 16 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY REEL CONSOLIDATION The Anixter-designed, reusable PARAPULLSM paralleling reels can accommodate various cut-to-length cables of the same gauge on a single multichambered wooden reel. Because each PARAPULL reel is reused an average of six times, their ongoing SELECT GLOBAL RECYCLING SNAPSHOT use helps preserve natural resources while eliminating empty The following 2018 snapshot of key international recycling reel disposal costs and waste from job sites. Customers using volumes is based on annualized tonnage calculated from fixed a single PARAPULL reel can eliminate two to four individual and intermittent services. Where service providers cannot wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces shipping and provide actual weight, they utilize industry guidelines for handling costs while increasing contractor productivity. In 2018, commodity weights and waste container capacity utilization. Anixter shipped more than 2,100 reusable PARAPULL reels to • Anixter’s Brisbane and Perth, Australia, locations recycled more customers across North America. than 250,000 lb. of paper, cardboard, metal and wood RECYCLING AUDITS • The Dubai, UAE, location recycled more than 47,000 lb. of paper, cardboard and plastic In 2018, Anixter’s internal ISO audit team reviewed 16 office and warehouse locations across North America to ensure the • The Willebroek, Belgium, location recycled more than 110,600 locations’ recycling programs—which can consist of paper, lb. of paper, plastic, cardboard and wood cardboard, wood, metal and plastic—were being effectively • The Stuttgart, Germany, location recycled more than 27,000 lb. supported by management and used by staff. Once again, all the of wood, paper, and plastic locations successfully passed the audit team’s screening criteria. • The Barcelona, Spain, location recycled more than 3,700 lb. of cardboard, plastic and paper PAPER SHREDDING • The Milan, Italy, location recycled more than 12,000 lb. of wood, While Anixter endeavors to minimize paper consumption as paper, plastic, metal and obsolete electronic equipment much as possible, paper use is often a business necessity. • The Singapore location recycled more than 24,000 lb. of By leveraging location-level paper recycling and shredding cardboard and obsolete electronic equipment programs, Anixter seeks to minimize its overall environmental • The Hong Kong location recycled more than 20,900 lb. of impact. In 2018, 39 U.S. and Canadian locations collectively obsolete electronic equipment shredded and recycled more than 180,000 lb. of paper. All recycled paper is sent to mills where it is pulped and de-inked • Ten U.K. locations recycled more than 840,000 lb. of to make recycled paper products like paper plates and paper cardboard, wood, paper, metal and plastic towels. According to our shredding partner, Anixter’s program • The Mexico locations recycled more than 145,000 lb. of saved more than 1,600 trees from being harvested. cardboard, paper, plastic and wood • The Chile location recycled more than 130,000 lb. of REUSE PROGRAMS cardboard, paper, plastic and wood Anixter locations around the world successfully harvest and • The Peru location recycled more than 38,000 lb. of plastic reuse select inbound packaging and shipping materials and wood received from supplier partners when they are in like-new • The Colombia location recycled more than 4,500 lb. of condition and meet our strict quality standards. In addition, cardboard, paper and wood Anixter locations receive cable reels from suppliers safely • The Costa Rica location recycled more than 600 lb. of secured to wooden reel cradles. All reel cradles that pass cardboard and paper Anixter’s integrity inspections are reused to ship cable reels to • The Brazil location recycled more than 2,200 lb. of cardboard, customers. This has lowered freight claims and costs as well as wood, paper, plastic and metal improved operational efficiencies and customer satisfaction. • In 10 countries alone, Anixter successfully recycled more than 2.4 million lb. of scrap copper and metals. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 17 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY CABLE CUTTING MATERIALS AND In 2018, Anixter processed more than 2.3 million custom cable cuts for customers from 129 global warehouse locations. NATURAL RESOURCES By providing cable cut to the exact length required by the WAREHOUSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM customer, job site cable waste is virtually eliminated. Job site costs are also reduced as the need to purchase, cut The Anixter-developed and Anixter-supported next-generation and control master cable reels and the resulting short cable WMX warehouse management system uses state-of-the-art lengths, or leftover cable, no longer exists. technology and was designed to quickly incorporate operational system enhancements to meet customer and market demands. ASSET TRACKING The WMX system also significantly reduces paper and printing Anixter Trakr™, a proprietary, patented asset-tracking solution waste generated throughout the entire order processing cycle. that incorporates multiple technologies to track, locate and In 2018, the Anixter WMX team continued to successfully provide visibility to high-valued assets along with incorporating incorporate more enhancements that improved performance, an inventory management component to help customers locate increased operational efficiencies and expanded user assets in large laydown yards and complex project sites. Trakr functionality in the facilities across North America that currently helps customers reduce labor costs by efficiently locating use WMX. Roughly 75 locations have been converted to the WMX assets via its mobile app. Trakr also reduces the potential to platform with the majority of these locations utilizing the new cut from incorrect reels or overbuy due to misplaced products, point-of-sale storefront option. further reducing material waste. In addition, Trakr provides REDUCING CABLE REELS AT THE JOB SITE visibility of the cut lengths of cable remaining on master reels throughout the job site, which helps minimize scrap and Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions offers a layering service that identify reorder points. For example, in 2018, a customer reduces the total number of cable reels needed at a job site successfully used 250 Trakr beacons to manage and locate by adding multiple layers of cable to a single reel chamber. As various pieces of 150-foot transmission poles,by unique serial more layers are added, fewer reels are needed. Having fewer number, which were valued at $22 million and located across reels at a job site reduces transportation costs, transportation a 22-acre laydown yard. Trakr reduced the customer’s time and emissions and, when wood reels are used, timber consumption. labor costs to manage and deploy the transmission poles to This service provides further value when combined with Anixter’s their various job sites. PARAPULLSM or PARASPINSM services that use returnable reels. In 2018, Anixter’s U.S. locations shipped more than 4,400 TALKING TRASH layered reels to customers’ job sites. Anixter’s recycling campaign titled Talking Trash continued in RAINWATER HARVESTING 2018 to more than 1,200 employees and contractors within the Glenview, Ill., headquarters and annex. Talking Trash messages Anixter’s newly opened Lichfield, U.K., facility is equipped periodically appear around the Glenview campus to encourage with a water harvesting system, which collects and filters recycling. Preparations began in Q4 to expand the campaign’s rainwater. The filtered rainwater is distributed on demand to focus across North America as detailed location-level waste and various points of use, reducing the amount of water the facility recycling improvement reviews began within Canadian locations, uses from public water mains. The water harvesting system is with select U.S. regions to follow in Q1 2019. compliant with BS8515 and the Water Supply (Water Fittings) Regulations of 1999. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 18 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY ELIMINATING PLASTIC BAGS E-TRAVEL AND EXPENSE REPORTING To help keep plastic and plastic bags out of the environment, Anixter’s paperless travel and expense reporting system, which is Anixter’s operational staff in Belgium is making a difference. By used in 29 countries, processed more than 600,800 electronic collaborating with their sales counterparts, customers utilizing expense report submissions in 2018. Anixter’s Supply Chain Solutions’ Fiber Patch Cord Labeling GREEN OFFICE SUPPLIES services were contacted to see if they would accept their cables wrapped in 100 percent recycled paper rather than in plastic Anixter continues to focus on purchasing office supplies that bags. Overwhelmingly, customers large and small welcomed the contain green attributes where feasible. Green attributes can environmental innovation and, in August, Anixter Belgium began include, but are not limited to, products that contain recycled or to offer a plastic-free solution for these daily fiber patch cord plant-based materials, are remanufactured or contain ecolabels orders. In addition, since the paper holds the fiber patch cord or third-party certifications. For example, Anixter’s U.K. and U.S. bundles together better than the plastic bags, the location now locations spent more than 70 and 43 percent respectively of ships double the amount of cords per bundle, which also reduced their total office supply expenditures on products that contain outbound freight expense. Anixter Belgium shipped more than green attributes, as identified by the office supply partners. 8,000 pre-labeled fiber patch cords without plastic bags this year. Further accomplishments include: REUSABLE METAL REELS • Anixter’s global locations continued to use remanufactured toner cartridges for printers instead of new OEM cartridges, Anixter offers electrical contractors the option of receiving where available. cut-to-length cable on reusable metal PARASPIN reels that have five independent spinning chambers from which to pull • More than 58 percent of print production jobs utilize soycable. Customers using a single PARASPIN reel can eliminate based inks. four individual wooden cable reels on a job site, which reduces DIGITAL MARKETING shipping and handling costs while increasing contractor productivity. As the PARASPIN reel completely eliminates the use Anixter began its digital marketing initiatives in 2011 by of wood and is reusable, natural resources are preserved and focusing on the promotion of Anixter and its products and cable reel waste and disposal costs are eliminated at the job services over various digital channels, such as web, mobile, site. In Q4 2017, Anixter introduced a SLIM-SPIN version of the social media and email. Anixter’s U.S. and Canada websites traditional PARASPIN reel that is designed to fit through standard are useful tools for customers to access their accounts, view doorways. In 2018, Anixter shipped and retrieved more than real-time pricing and inventory, place orders, request quotes, 3,300 reusable PARASPIN and more than 300 SLIM-SPIN reels track order and shipment status, and download invoices. Part from customers’ job sites across North America. of the digital marketing strategy has been the migration of traditional print materials into digital formats for use by sales REUSABLE WOODEN REELS representatives and customers. The materials converted into The INSTA-REEL by Anixter consists of a standard wooden reel digital formats include print catalogs, case studies, fact sheets, that has oversized flanges attached to both sides. INSTA-REEL’s reference guides, product specification sheets and various inner reel spins independently of the outer flanges, creating other documents. Anixter has nearly 350,000 parts with a reel with a built-in payout stand. After use, the INSTA-REEL accompanying product specification sheets in digital format for is returned to Anixter and is reused. The reuse of each easy access on anixter.com. Being able to perform all of these INSTA-REEL helps preserve natural resources while eliminating business functions online reduces paper usage for both Anixter empty reel disposal costs and waste from job sites. In 2018, and its customers. Anixter shipped more than 4,800 INSTA-REELs to customers in five countries, that were then returned to Anixter to be reused. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 19 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY E-BUSINESS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WEBPAGE AND DOWNLOADS Anixter’s e-business offerings allow global customers and Since launching the corporate responsibility webpage on suppliers the ability to seamlessly process a vast array of business anixter.com in recognition of Earth Day 2014, the site continues transactions with Anixter in a secure and paperless environment. to add new content and draw global stakeholders as measured Anixter’s e-business highlights include: through pageviews and document downloads. In 2018, the • Electronic data interface (EDI): In 2018, Anixter successfully webpage exceeded 6,500 visitors and Anixter’s Corporate processed more than 2.1 million global EDI transactions, Responsibility Report, Supplier Code of Conduct, Business of which more than 860,000, or approximately 41 percent, Ethics Guide and Conflict Minerals Policy Statement remain resulted in the elimination of a paper transaction, such as an the page’s most frequently downloaded items. invoice, purchase order or forecast E-CARDS • Third-party electronic invoicing: Anixter communicates With more than 8,000 global employees, Anixter continues to offer extensively with various online procurement applications and staff the option of sending animated e-cards to customers and supplier networks and processed more than 90,000 paperless supplier partners rather than using traditional printed paper holiday invoice transactions in 2018 cards. Each year, a variety of e-cards are created in eight different • E-delivery: Anixter offers its customers the ability to receive languages for employees to choose from. invoices and statements via email as PDF documents and/or customizable formats such as CSV, XML, Quickbooks™, Sage JUST-IN-TIME (JIT) SCANNING SOLUTIONS 300/Timberline, Sage 50/Peachtree, Forefront Construction Anixter has developed an automatic replenishment tool called JIT Suite and Viewpoint Construction. In 2018, Anixter sent more where customers or Anixter field representatives can scan product than 1.4 million PDF documents via email and has more or rack labels to automatically create orders to Anixter. Users have than 113,700 customers set up for e-delivery, of which more the flexibility of digital input methods, such as scanning, web portal than 400 customers are using customizable formats. In or file uploads, to generate orders. These electronic submission addition, Anixter provides various e-delivery invoices to local and reporting methods reduce the use of paper on site since the governments, which are extensively utilized across Latin America orders can be tracked without any handwritten order forms, sheets in countries like Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, or cards. By leveraging the Anixter solution, customers are able to Costa Rica and Uruguay, as well as in Portugal and Spain. reduce time and resources allocated to purchasing inventory in addition to reducing the number of shipments received and excess RECYCLED CONTENT inventory. In 2018 Anixter received more than 790,000 sales order Anixter seeks to use recycled content in consumables where lines through its JIT system. feasible. Here are two examples: INVENTORY CONTROL SOFTWARE • Anixter’s U.S. warehouses, which collectively process the largest outbound line volume in the global network, shipped more Anixter offers an inventory management software application than 1.8 million lb. of corrugated boxes, packing paper, paper called Rapid Fire 2.0, which allows customers to scan and track tape and related packaging items that are made from recycled inventory purchased from Anixter and other suppliers. Rather than content ranging from 40 to 100 percent keep manual paper logs using a pen and clipboard, this webbased software can be accessed from a PC or mobile device, • All of Anixter’s North American business cards and marketing allowing Anixter customers the ability to view inventory status in collateral are printed on 100 percent recycled paper that is real time. In addition to helping customers use software to reduce certified by the Forest Stewardship Council. stock outs, excess inventory and loss, Anixter, upon request, can remove and recycle all product packaging prior to shipping to help customers attain their environmental goals. Currently, Anixter customers are collectively managing over 37,000 SKUs through Anixter’s Rapid Fire 2.0 inventory control software. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 20 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY ANIXTER MOBILE APP TRANSPORTATION In 2016, Anixter released its mobile app, making it easy for customers to shop and manage their accounts on the go. LONGER COMBINATION VEHICLES By digitizing the order and account management processes, Anixter is helping customers work more efficiently and Anixter’s global transportation team continues to successfully eliminating the paper usage associated with the traditional leverage third-party carriers’ longer combination vehicles (LCVs) ordering process. Using the Anixter app on their mobile device, that increase the cargo capacity of combination trucks by customers can now perform the following tasks from anywhere: using longer and/or multiple trailers. According to the EPA’s SmartWay program, LCVs generally have much better ton-mile • Search through 300,000 products and place orders online fuel economy than other combination trucks as they carry more • Download manufacturer specifications cargo per trip, which results in lower fuel consumption and • Find and contact the nearest Anixter location to reduced greenhouse gas and air pollutant emissions. request a quote VEHICLE MONITORING AND ROUTE OPTIMIZATION • Explore Anixter services and customized solutions. Anixter continues to leverage technology to monitor select fleet ELECTRONIC FUND PAYMENTS vehicles to help increase fuel economy, lower carbon emissions and improve driver productivity. Anixter’s accounts payable team continued to successfully migrate various material and service suppliers onto electronic For example, Anixter utilizes electronic logging devices (ELD), a payment platforms, which eliminates check fraud as well as congressionally mandated rule that is intended to help create the paper usage associated with printing and mailing paper a safer work environment for drivers by making it easier and checks. In 2018, more than 2,600 global suppliers were newly faster to accurately track, manage and share records of duty set up or converted to begin accepting electronic payments. In status (RODS) data. An ELD synchronizes with a vehicle engine total, Anixter processed more than 133,800 electronic payment to automatically record driving time for easier, more accurate and remittance transactions in 2018, eliminating approximately hours of service (HOS) recording. Anixter currently has 34 343,000 sheets of paper, envelopes and postage. locations with a total of 112 delivery vehicles that utilize ELDs. In addition, Anixter continues to implement route optimization CANADA CUSTOMS PAPERLESS INVOICING AND PAYMENTS tools for those locations that operate final mile deliveries. These Anixter has embraced a program with Canada Customs called tools not only improve customer service, but also increase ARL, an online tool for viewing and downloading invoices, operational efficiency and reduce total delivery costs by which eliminates the need for paper invoices to be picked up consolidating routes, enhancing driver utilization, minimizing from Canada Customs every day. The program also enables route miles and reducing fuel usage. Anixter U.S. and U.K. Electronic Fund Transfers, eliminating the need to print and mail currently operate more than 200 delivery vehicles that utilize checks to Canada Customs, which eliminates more than 800 route optimization tools and additional countries will soon follow. checks annually. COMMUTER BENEFITS PROGRAM Since 2009, Anixter has offered U.S. employees a commuter benefits program that allows qualified public transportation and/or parking expenses to be automatically deducted pre-tax from paychecks. The program continues to grow and encourages staff to use public transportation, which helps protect the environment while saving users money. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 21 GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY NO IDLING PROGRAM ANIXTER’S UNIQUE CANADIAN CUSTOMS OPERATIONS Anixter continues to operate a global no idling As Anixter electronically clears all its own products that ship A Sustainable PathSM program at its warehouses and headquarters. to Canada under a self-clearance designation, U.S. imports Truck drivers are required to turn off their engines moving by truck that pre-clear before reaching the border while waiting for materials to be loaded or do not have to stop and await processing, thereby helping unloaded from their vehicles. Anixter-designed to reduce overall exhaust emissions. The self-clearance “No Idling” signs are placed on driver entrance doors as well as designation also gives Anixter a distinct advantage as the in select yard and loading dock locations. The No Idling program custom clearance transaction is faster since it does not seeks to improve air quality, reduce carbon emissions and need to pass through an outside custom broker. In addition increase safety. to improving the speed of transaction, it also improves the visibility and accountability of every international import Anixter SMARTWAY CARRIERS brings into Canada. For example, in 2018, Anixter Canada Close to 90 percent of Anixter’s preferred U.S. and international processed more than 76,900 import entries containing more transportation spend is with EPA-certified SmartWay carriers than 138,600 lines. In addition to handling the Canadian for products shipped to and from the United States. SmartWay imports from the U.S., Anixter’s Canadian transportation team is carriers focus on reducing emissions and fuel consumption. responsible for shipments leaving Canada and has processed more than 5,700 export shipments containing more than SHIPMENT CONSOLIDATION 12,200 lines this year. Anixter continues to successfully utilize third-party transportation partners to collect, consolidate and ship more ONLINE EMPLOYEE EDUCATION than 488 million lb. of products from global suppliers to Anixter uses an electronic delivery model for much of its Anixter and customer locations around the world. By leveraging learning and development programs. Web-based virtual supplier shipment consolidations at various origin points, workshops, classes and e-courses are delivered via a global Anixter reduces operating expenses, increases material visibility learning management system (LMS). The LMS helps to and lowers emissions. reduce carbon emissions by eliminating employee travel and also helps to preserve natural resources as printed training TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT SERVICES materials are often eliminated. This year, Anixter employees Anixter’s global engineering teams work with customers to successfully completed more than 54,600 courses from 1,300 efficiently develop standards and compliant solutions that online modules. respond to change, drive innovation and deliver customer value. These teams use the latest in video and voice conferencing ONLINE CUSTOMER EDUCATION tools to provide instant support for customers’ unique Through Anixter University, Anixter creates and offers universityapplication needs, when and where needed. This reduces the like courses to educate customers globally on the latest need to visit customers in person, thus reducing the emissions standards and industry best practices for data centers, physical associated with travel. security, building technologies and industrial infrastructure. Course examples include power distribution and thermal EMISSIONS-REDUCING FLEET VEHICLES management, which covers energy-efficient design, metering In addition to the 11 trucks replaced last year, Anixter U.K. and monitoring of power using the power usage effectiveness replaced an additional two commercial vehicles this year to (PUE) metric established by The Green Grid and how best to the Euro 6 standard, which aims to reduce nitrogen oxide, separate hot exhaust air from chilled supply air. Courses are carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and particulates from the available in live or on-demand formats. exhaust gas. Anixter U.K. is targeting replacing an additional 15 vehicles in 2019. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 22 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM OUR CEO ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 23 ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCT COMPLIANCE Anixter’s environmental product compliance team is comprised of specialists who are committed to: • Determining the compliance status of products to applicable environmental regulations in the countries where Anixter conducts business • Fully complying with the Conflict Minerals Rule under the Dodd-Frank Act • Identifying, monitoring and addressing new and existing environmental product compliance, international substance control and extended producer responsibility obligations • Working with the global sales teams and partner suppliers to ensure customers’ requested environmental product compliance specifications are successfully met • Continuously improving processes and team training • Advancing the use of technology to help fulfill the above. ONGOING COMPLIANCE ENHANCEMENTS ONGOING CONFLICT MINERALS ACTIONS Anixter continued to enhance existing procedures and systems to Anixter continues to partner with a third-party provider for further reduce the risk of potentially shipping products that may all supplier outreach and follow-up activities as well as data not meet international substance regulations from U.S. facilities. management. The provider also analyzed all inbound supplier In addition, customer notification processes were enhanced response documentation and provided various performanceshould a product containing REACH substances of very high based activity and status reports in support of Anixter’s annual concern be identified by an Anixter supplier. Anixter also modified Conflict Minerals Report. processes to address the August 2018 changes to the California • Anixter improved supplier contact data quality to improve Proposition 65 regulation. responsiveness and reduce duplication Anixter continues to successfully survey suppliers for compliance • Anixter continued to translate our communications to match to the updated REACH candidate list, among other regulations. that of the supplier’s country language during the annual Furthermore, Anixter continues to develop processes and conflict minerals survey campaign technology to proactively collect environmental product • Anixter participated with our third-party provider to send a compliance data from suppliers at the point of purchase and letter to 3TG smelters petitioning them to participate in the at part setup. This will allow Anixter to be more responsive to Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) customer requests and further reduce the risk of noncompliance. • Anixter continued generating a conflict minerals reporting Anixter’s focus on refining and streamlining its product template (CMRT) that better reflects the supply chain for each classifications has simplified the Environmental Product specific customer when required Compliance Teams ability to identify impacted parts for compliance with various environmental related regulations. • Utilizing its software partner, Anixter distributed conflict minerals training materials throughout its supply chain to CUSTOMER SUPPORT increase knowledge and awareness of suppliers’ obligations In 2018, Anixter’s environmental product compliance team helped under the rule more than 700 customers address various international product • The North American and corporate environmental product compliance obligations for products purchased from Anixter. compliance teams continued to provide content that helped create Anixter’s annual: 1. Company-level CMRT customer response 2. SEC Form SD 3. Conflict Minerals Report. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 24 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM OUR CEO HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 25 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY The health, safety and security program is designed to create, implement and maintain a healthy and safe work environment for all employees, visitors and contractors. Everyone at Anixter is part of this program. Anixter’s global health, safety and security teams work to make sure compliance elements are met and that the guidelines of the global safety and environmental management system are followed. These teams make resources available and define responsibilities to enable the company to operate in a manner that provides a safe and healthy workplace for employees, visitors and contractors while also protecting the environment. Anixter is committed to providing employees with a safe and healthy work environment through its: through its: • Global Health and Safety Policy • Business Integrity Line and other • Global safety and environmental management system communication mechanisms • Continuous location management education • “Start of Shift” weekly safety communication • Equipment safety training • Monthly “Safety Toolbox Talks” via Anixter’s learning management system • Electronic notification and mandatory staff training on policy modifications • Department of Transportation driver safety training • Certification or compliance to the • “Safety Alerts” and “Safety Reminder” ISO 14001:2015 Standard communications in response to serious or potentially serious injuries and incidents • Certification or compliance OHSAS 18001 International Occupational Health and Safety Management System • Monthly driver safety communication • Global security and asset protection program. AUDITS AND CERTIFICATIONS FACILITY INSPECTIONS • In 2018, internal and external compliance audits were • In 2018, Anixter used an external auditor to voluntarily successfully completed at two international locations for ISO complete human element inspections at 23 global facilities. 14001:2015, one U.K. location for the Five Star British Health These inspections focused on fire protection systems, and Safety Certification and two locations in Alberta, Canada, sprinklers, sprinkler control valves and hot work areas. for the Certificate of Recognition. As a result of the audits, all locations maintained their certifications. WORKPLACE VIGILANCE • A nixter’s vice president of global EHSS (environment, health, ONGOING TRAINING AND EDUCATION safety, security and sustainability) continuously monitors This year, the health, safety and environmental teams: global operations and reviews the global safety action list • Provided oversight on five continents and in ten languages with management on a quarterly basis. This allows Anixter to address any current concerns and prioritize future actions. • Distributed 332 health and safety topics for local “safety huddles” globally • Completed 48 compliance site audits • Assigned 1,671 training modules, trained 2,995 employees on site in group settings and had 321 employees complete written certification tests. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 26 HEALTH, SAFETY AND SECURITY CERTIFICATIONS GLOBAL SECURITY AND ASSET PROTECTION • In Alberta, Anixter’s Edmonton and Calgary facilities hold The global security and asset protection program is designed to the province’s Certificate of Recognition. This is awarded to create, implement and maintain physical security programs and companies who have health and safety programs that meet measures that are designed to protect our employees or exceed standards established by Occupational Health and assets while mitigating loss. Anixter’s global security and Safety. and asset protection team partners with employees, • Anixter’s Chesterfield, U.K., location attained Achilles suppliers and contractors to make sure our facility security Certification this year to further support a large multinational standards and guidelines are compliant to Anixter’s Physical customer. The Category B2 standard was attained Security Standards. through the assessment of the location’s Health, Safety, As Anixter faces new business challenges and opportunities Environmental & Quality practices and procedures. The every day, Anixter’s global security and asset protection overall location score was 96 percent, which significantly team utilizes various risk assessments, analytics, proactive exceeded the minimum required passing score of 75 percent. measures and advanced technologies, as well as collaborates • Anixter’s Dubai, UAE, and Chesterfield, U.K., locations are with external global security practitioners specializing in certified to the ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management the protection of assets, people, property, business fraud Systems, while the new Lichfield, U.K., location is targeted for and security in the workplace, to provide greater visibility to assessment in Q1 2019. our operational and business realities and help keep the organization safe and secure. This team seeks to identify, prioritize and manage key risks by utilizing various tools and programs, such as the: • Global Daily Opening and Closing Security Checklist Report • Global Incident Report • Business Integrity Line • Fraud Awareness Training and Best Practices • Anixter Physical Security Standards • Internal and External Investigations • Monthly Compliance Report • Workplace Security and Safety training. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 27 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM OUR CEO QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 28 QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Anixter’s quality management system provides global support to all business divisions and segments through a variety of services by the corporate quality team. A commitment to continuously improving processes and maintaining the best quality practices drives Anixter’s focus to meet or exceed customers’ expectations. Anixter’s quality management system is supported by its: • Global quality manual • Mandatory staff training on policy and • Quality procedures procedure updates • Standard operating procedures • Global on-site training and support for quality management system functions • New business and customer audit support • Formalized change management protocol to support • Continuous employee education in best practices improvement initiatives • Certification or compliance to the • Operations Help Desk. ISO 9001:2015 Standard ISO STANDARDS CONTINUED QUALITY MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS • 32 locations certified to ISO 9001:2015 In 2018, the quality management teams: • 59 locations compliant to ISO 9001:2015 • Began work to bring all global certifications under a single • Two locations certified to ISO 14001:2015 sample plan and registrar for better management efficiency and oversight • Three new locations being certified in 2019 to ISO 9001:2015. • Completed the full design and implementation of a single global quality management system repository, accessible in all OPERATIONS HELP DESK operating languages Anixter’s operations help desk is a support group available to • Completed on-site support for operational processes in the all Anixter employees to analyze internal systems and provide two newest Anixter facilities in Alsip, Ill., and Lichfield, U.K. assistance to address customer or internal inquiries. In 2018, • Completed 45 internal location audits and site reviews the team: to improve Anixter’s quality management system and • Completed more than 270 customer and supplier quality location certification questionnaires or surveys • Created more than 20 standard operating procedures • Created and assigned 154 quality training modules or work instructions to address new processes and addressing new or changing procedures customer requirements • Addressed more than 4,300 individual internal • Updated more than 230 existing standard operating support calls. procedures policies to include revised best practice instructions derived from customer and supplier feedback • Incorporated all regions and divisions in formal quality statistical metric reporting • Created a global ISO training module included in all employee onboarding. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 29 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM OUR CEO CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 30 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS Around the world, Anixter is powered by employees who have the talent and dedication to address the most challenging opportunities and problems, and their efforts go beyond business and into the communities where they work and live. Anixter believes it is important to support global communities and encourages employees to get involved with the causes and charities they care about. The Anixter Cares program is powered by these people and supports various charitable organizations. Anixter provides company-matching gifts to select charities and institutions of higher education within the U.S. and Canada and offers time off for employees to volunteer at nonprofit organizations. Anixter also believes in promoting diversity and is committed to the participation and advancement of small businesses and business enterprises owned by minorities, women and disabled veterans. AMERICAN RED CROSS KOHL CHILDREN’S MUSEUM In 2018, Anixter showed its support for the victims of Hurricane Anixter encourages the next generation of scientists by Florence and the California wildfires by donating more than sponsoring the Tinkering Tuesdays educational program at $50,000 to the American Red Cross. Anixter was also a Kohl Children’s Museum in Glenview, Ill. Tinkering Tuesdays sponsoring member of the 16th annual Red Cross Heroes aim to get more children interested in the fields of science, Breakfast, an event that raised more than $1.5 million to technology, engineering and math through a variety of fun provide disaster victims with basic necessities, as well as and educational activities. In addition to making a $10,000 vaccinations for children, volunteer training and other lifesaving sponsorship donation to the program, Anixter engineers work skills. Additionally, the Anixter headquarters hosted two blood with the program’s directors to develop Tinkering Tuesday drives in which employees voluntarily donated enough blood to sessions geared toward exploring the world of engineering. save 180 lives. HABITAT FOR HUMANITY GOLFING FOR GOOD In 2018, Anixter employees once again volunteered with In September 2018, Anixter’s Halifax location hosted its 7th Habitat for Humanity on a total of 13 build projects throughout Annual Halifax Classic golf tournament at the Glen Arbour Chicagoland. They hung drywall, installed flooring, built Golf Course in Hammond Plains, Nova Scotia, Canada. The porches and performed a multitude of other tasks to build event raised more than $10,000 for the 211 Nova Scotia call affordable homes for families in need. Additionally, four Anixter center—a free, confidential information and referral service that employees had the honor of working alongside President connects people in need to community programs and services, Jimmy Carter and Mrs. Carter during the Carter Work Project. such as mental health counselors, addiction centers, child The Carter Work Project is an annual week-long building blitz. care or legal services—as well as $3,265 for the Leukemia and This year, the build took place in South Bend, Indiana, where Lymphoma Society Nova Scotia Chapter. more than 2,000 volunteers worked to build or improve 41 homes for local families. Anixter was also a sponsor of the TUITION REIMBURSEMENT Chicagoland Habitat Hero Award Dinner, donating $50,000 to Anixter offers a tuition reimbursement program to eligible the organization. employees. In 2018, Anixter reimbursed more than $106,000. in employee tuition costs. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 31 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS BERNIE’S BOOK BANK In 2018, Anixter’s corporate accounting, treasury, tax and finance ANIXTER CARES teams volunteered a total of 200 hours during five community service outings at Bernie’s Book Bank in Lake Bluff, Ill., where In 2018, donations generated they helped sort and pack books for students in need. Bernie’s Book Bank is a nonprofit organization that provides new and through Anixter Cares included: gently used children’s books to school districts throughout MORE THAN ANIXTER EMPLOYEE Chicagoland. The organization is on target to distribute 3.5 million books in 2018 to over 300,000 at-risk children. CONTRIBUTIONS $19,300 AMERICAN DIABETES ASSOCIATION For the fourth year in a row, Team Anixter was a top-10 + ANIXTER CARES MORE THAN fundraising team for the American Diabetes Association (ADA) Chicagoland Tour de Cure. With support from fellow Anixter EMPLOYEE MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS $19,300 employees, Team Anixter raised over $8,500 for the ADA to help fund diabetes research and education. While the event was ultimately canceled due to severe thunderstorms, the seven + Anixter riders wore their Anixter jerseys on individual rides to ANIXTER MORE THAN raise awareness for the ADA. CORPORATE DONATIONS $161,400 MISSION 500 Anixter is a continuing sponsor of Mission 500, a nonprofit organization that works closely with the security industry to serve the needs of children living in severe poverty across the U.S. In TOTAL ANIXTER MORE THAN 2018, Anixter employees raised money and sponsored various EMPLOYEE AND ANIXTER CARES IMPACT $200,000 fundraising events, including 5Ks, a security softball game and a benefit dinner. Employees also volunteered their time filling 750 care packs with school supplies and essential items for children and families displaced by Hurricane Michael. JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT In 2018, Anixter’s headquarters hosted two Junior Achievement days, in which approximately 250 local high school students met with about 40 Anixter employees to learn the basics of the workforce, such as how to create a resume, apply for jobs and answer interview questions. The students also had the opportunity to shadow Anixter employees in different career fields to get a sense of the career path they may want to follow. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 32 CHARITABLE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMS Diversity Anixter is committed to promoting participation of minority-, womanand service-disabled veteran-owned business enterprises (MWDVBE) in our distribution business. We will use reasonable efforts to provide opportunities to certified MWDVBE’s through purchasing or reselling opportunities, mentor-protégé programs, teaming arrangements and subcontracting whenever practical. DIVERSITY PURCHASING DIVERSITY SALES • Within the U.S., Anixter spent more than $616 million with Through a combination of long-term and recently established 4,600 small, minority-, womanand disabled-veteran owned partnerships with a vast array of diversity organizations located business enterprises in 2018. across the U.S., Anixter’s and our partners’ strengths are • Anixter continued to help U.S. customers report on their combined to collectively help our mutual customers achieve indirect diversity purchases from Anixter by distributing their diversity business engagement goals for both large projects electronic diversity purchasing reports each quarter. Anixter and day-to-day operations. In 2018, Anixter sold more than has been supporting customers with quarterly diversity $165 million in products to various strategic diversity partners. purchasing reports since 1999. PSEG-LI PRIME SUPPLIER DIVERSITY UTILIZATION AWARD • As a General Services Administration (GSA) contract holder In May 2018, Anixter was awarded the Prime Supplier Diversity since 2000, Anixter continuously strives to attain annual Utilization Award by PSEG Long Island. Anixter received small business subcontracting goals. The small business this award for its shared commitment to utilize diverse subcontracting initiative focuses on increasing subcontracting subcontractors. As part of Anixter’s own diversity utilization goals opportunities for disadvantaged, HUBZone-certified, veteranas well as to help PSEG meet its diversity spend requirements, owned, service-disabled-veteranowned and woman-owned Anixter partners with diverse companies, such as minorityand small businesses to receive maximum practical opportunities woman-owned businesses. in federal government subcontract awards. The program seeks to ensure that domestic small businesses receive a fair and equitable opportunity to compete for and receive subcontracts. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 33 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM OUR CEO ANTICORRUPTION 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 34 ANTI-CORRUPTION Anixter is proud of its reputation as a fair, honest and ethical company. All Anixter directors, officers, employees, suppliers and business partners are required to conduct business with the highest degree of honesty and integrity and in full compliance with applicable laws. These principles are set forth in company policies such as Anixter’s Global Business Ethics and Conduct Policy (Ethics Policy), Global Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy (Anti-Bribery Policy), Supplier Code of Conduct, and Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy. As clearly stated in its policies, Anixter takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and any other form of corruption and is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all business dealings and relationships. It upholds all laws countering bribery and corruption wherever it operates. No Anixter employee or anyone acting on Anixter’s behalf may promise, offer, give, authorize, request, agree to receive or receive, directly or indirectly, a bribe to or from anyone. COMPONENTS OF ANIXTER’S GLOBAL ANTI•CORRUPTION PROGRAM Anixter promotes responsible business practices at every level of the company. It strives to conduct business ethically, honestly and in accordance with its Ethics Policy (anixter.com/ethics), and expects all employees and business partners to meet these high ethical standards. Countering bribery and corruption is one of Anixter’s standards and a primary focus area of its global compliance program. The anti-bribery and corruption program is comprised of the following ten components: • Policies • Oversight, autonomy and resources • Commitment from senior management • Third-party due diligence • Incentives and discipline • Training and communication • Confidential reporting and investigations • M&A diligence and integration • Risk assessment • Periodic testing and review. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 35 ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES In support of Anixter’s high ethical standards, its global The Anti-Bribery Policy, Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy, compliance program provides guidance and training for Anixter the Overview Presentation and Supplier Code of Conduct are employees worldwide on a variety of policies and topics, such available in 11 languages. as but not limited to, business ethics and conduct, anti-bribery All employees are familiar with the Blue Book, which drives and corruption, government contract compliance, fraud, the company’s culture by outlining Anixter’s core beliefs and conflicts of interest, prevention of workplace harassment and guiding principles. Created over 50 years ago, the Blue Book export compliance. The policies that reinforce Anixter’s zero continues to influence and shape Anixter’s overall culture. The tolerance of bribery and corruption include, but are not limited Blue Book is frequently quoted in companywide trainings and to, the Ethics Policy, Anti-Bribery Policy, Government Contracts internal communications. For a copy of the Blue Book, visit Policy, Global Fraud Policy and Conflicts of Interest Policy. See anixter.com/bluebook. “Relevant Policies” on page 39 for more information about All new employees globally are made aware of the Ethics Policy, these policies. Anti-Bribery Policy, Conflicts of Interest Policy and the Blue Book Additionally, as part of Anixter’s anti-corruption program, the during their on-boarding process. They also receive the other company has implemented a business partner compliance policies if applicable to the employee’s position. program (anixter.com/bpcompliance) that includes the Global Business Partner Anti-Corruption Policy (anixter.com/bppolicy) OVERSIGHT, AUTONOMY AND RESOURCES and a business partner due diligence screening process. The Audit Committee of the Anixter International Inc. Board of Anixter has adopted a Supplier Code of Conduct available at Directors oversees the global Compliance program, including the anixter.com/suppliercode. This code incorporates the key Ten anti-bribery and corruption program. Anixter’s Chief Compliance Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and specifies Officer, who reports directly to the company’s CEO, updates how Anixter expects its suppliers to conduct business. This code the Audit Committee quarterly on the company’s anti-bribery also emphasizes Anixter’s zero-tolerance approach to bribery corruption compliance program and initiatives. and any other form of corruption. Anixter’s Internal Audit Department reports to the Audit The Anti-Bribery Policy is an internal policy that applies to all Committee of the Board of Directors. It provides independent Anixter employees worldwide. The Business Partner Anti-Corruption and objective advisory services designed to add value and Policy applies to Anixter’s suppliers, contractors, integrators, improve Anixter’s operations. The department helps Anixter resellers, channel partners, consultants, professional advisers, joint accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined venture partners, custom brokers, freight forwarders, sales agents approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of and any other parties with whom Anixter does business (business enterprise-wide risk management, internal control systems partners). For a copy of Anixter’s Business Partner Anti-Corruption and governance processes. The Internal Audit Department, Policy, visit anixter.com/bppolicy. in collaboration with other key departments, also provides Anixter’s anti-corruption policies are designed to comply with oversight and guidance related to applicable laws, regulations anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in the countries where and company policies to foster a positive and ethical work Anixter operates or conducts business including, but not limited environment for employees. to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Anixter’s Executive Compliance Committee (“ECC”) is led Act. No bribe of any kind may be authorized, offered, given, by the Chief Compliance Officer and is comprised of the requested or accepted in the course of doing business for regional compliance officers and senior leaders from various Anixter. Anixter’s policies also prohibit facilitation payments. departments within the company. The ECC administers the Anixter’s zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption is compliance program, oversees and assists in implementing the not limited to government officials; it also extends to bribes compliance program initiatives and monitors the effectiveness involving commercial parties. of the compliance program. The ECC meets at least twice a year and will hold additional meetings as needed. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 36 ANTI-CORRUPTION Regional compliance committees are responsible for identifying risk and compliance matters within their respective regions, and for overseeing the regional compliance initiatives. These TRAINING AND COMMUNICATION committees are comprised of senior leaders from various Employees are required to complete training explaining departments within the company. The committees meet at least Anixter’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and other twice a year and are led by regional compliance officers who are in-house regional attorneys. The regional compliance officers are compliance program policies. All new hires receive also members of the Executive Compliance Committee. these assignments, along with the “Blue Book Living the Anixter Culture” module, upon beginning their COMMITMENT FROM SENIOR MANAGEMENT employment with Anixter. Company policies, including the Ethics Policy and Anti-Bribery Policy, clearly state Anixter’s commitment to conducting Live training sessions on compliance program policies and business ethically and with integrity and include Anixter’s topics are also conducted throughout the company. These zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. These are sessions are tailored to the group attending the session endorsed by our president and CEO, Bill Galvin, and chairman and are presented by management or a member of the of the board, Sam Zell. Commitment to the company’s culture legal department. of ethics and integrity and compliance program is supported by Anixter managers who include topics such as bribery and The compliance program policies are posted in various corruption, and ethics and integrity in their leadership-driven locations on Anixter’s intranet site and are easily discussions with their teams throughout the year. accessible by employees. News about and updates to the THIRD-PARTY DUE DILIGENCE compliance program are communicated to employees via Anixter expects its business partners to act professionally companywide newsletters and email blasts. and ethically at all times in carrying out their services and To help business partners better understand Anixter’s contractual obligations to Anixter or on Anixter’s behalf to an zero-tolerance approach to anti-bribery and corruption, Anixter customer or any other third party. Business partners must undergo a qualification and screening process if the they are encouraged to review the “Understanding Anixter’s business partner is (1) located in or doing business in a “highBusiness Partner Anti-Corruption Policy” presentation risk country” identified by Anixter or (2) performing services available at anixter.com/bpoverview (the “Overview for or on behalf of Anixter in one of the “high-risk categories” Presentation”). This Overview Presentation summarizes identified by Anixter regardless of country. Red flags identified Anixter’s expectations of its business partners to comply during this process are referred to a regional compliance with its zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. officer for review and further investigation. Business partners that refuse to participate in the screening process or an investigation will not be approved to do business with Anixter. TRAINING AND EDUCATION Performance and evaluation tools remind managers that ethics and integrity must be considered during performance evaluations. Anixter investigates all suspected incidents of corruption and violations of company policies. These investigations can result in disciplinary action, which could include termination. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 37 ANTI-CORRUPTION CONFIDENTIAL REPORTING AND INVESTIGATIONS PERIODIC TESTING AND REVIEW Anixter’s employees, business partners and other third parties The anti-corruption program is monitored by a combination of can ask questions or report possible ethics or bribery and audits, reviews, risk assessments and internal investigations. corruption violations through the Business Integrity Line. Anixter The internal audit, global shared services, finance and legal has partnered with an independent third party to host and departments are engaged in these processes. track such reports made via telephone or online. Where allowed An annual ethics questionnaire is distributed every January by local laws, these reports can be made anonymously. Reports to all directors, officers, senior management and members made at anixter.ethicspoint.com are managed and responded of select departments and functions and is available in 11 to by members of the legal, human resources and internal languages. Any report of possible violations of the company’s audit departments, as appropriate. Anixter does not tolerate compliance program raised in a questionnaire is promptly any form of retaliation against employees who in good faith investigated. The questionnaire will be distributed again in report a concern regarding illegal or unethical activities. The January 2019. anti-retaliation policy is emphasized by the Safe to Speak FAQs To further monitor the compliance program, Anixter distributes document that is available in 11 languages and posted on its and analyzes a culture survey. This survey is issued every intranet sites. two years and was last conducted in 2017. The survey was Investigation reports are provided to executive management distributed to a random selection of approximately 25 percent and the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis. of active employees worldwide. Participation is voluntary and all responses are anonymous. The results of this survey were M&A DILIGENCE AND INTEGRATION reported to the Audit and Executive Compliance committees. Prior to an acquisition, Anixter conducts a due diligence review that includes reviewing the targeted company’s anti-corruption compliance program and controls. Anixter also looks for prior anti-corruption issues or violations. Post-acquisition integration efforts include effectively communicating and implementing training on Anixter’s compliance program, including all policies and procedures. RISK ASSESSMENT The Internal Audit Department reviews business practices for anti-corruption risks during the audits they conduct throughout the year. Also, business partners that represent a greater risk, such as those in high-risk countries or high-risk categories, identified by the company, are required to complete Anixter’s business partner qualification process. This qualification process includes due diligence screening. Business partners who are approved are continuously monitored by the company. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 38 ANTI-CORRUPTION RELEVANT POLICIES GLOBAL BUSINESS ETHICS GLOBAL TRAVEL AND ENTERTAINMENT AND CONDUCT POLICY • Emphasizes prohibition of entertainment • Reflects current industry best practices, and gifts to government personnel emphasizes zero tolerance of bribery and restates • Adopted in 1999; last revised in 2014 commitment to anti-retaliation • Posted on intranet sites • Earliest version distributed in 1998; last revised in 2013 • Available in three languages • Posted on intranet and external sites • Distributed with training to all employees who travel and entertain on behalf of Anixter. • Available in 11 languages • Distributed with training at least every two years GLOBAL FRAUD POLICY to all employees. • Provides guidance on preventing, identifying and detecting fraud and instructions regarding GLOBAL ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY appropriate action in cases of suspected violations • Provides guidance on what bribery and corruption are and how to avoid them • Adopted in 2014 • Revised in 2015; first adopted in 2012 • Posted on intranet sites • Posted on intranet sites • Available in English • Available in 11 languages • Distributed with targeted live training to members of the Finance organization. • Distributed with training at least every two years to employees. GLOBAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICY • Identifies the most common types of activities GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS POLICY that may result in a conflict of interest and the • Provides guidance for meeting ethical and legal disclosure and approval process for each type obligations as a supplier to U.S. federal, state and of activity local governments • Adopted in 2014 • Adopted in 2011 • Posted on intranet sites • Posted on intranet sites • Available in 11 languages • Available in English • Distributed to all employees globally with targeted • Distributed with training to employees involved live training. with U.S. government contracting in the U.S., United Arab Emirates, Japan and Germany. 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT | 39 ABOUT ANIXTER CORPORATE SNAPSHOT EMEA ENTERED REGION YEAR FOUNDED 1972 1957 NORTH ENTERED REGION AMERICA 1991 APAC ENTERED REGION 1990 CALA GLOBAL REACH. LOCAL ADVANTAGE. With Anixter, you get a true local partner around APPROXIMATELY OVER 50 MORE THAN OVER the world. No other distributor of our kind can claim an in-country presence in approximately YEAR FOUNDED 1957 8,800 150,000 CUSTOMERS 300 WAREHOUSES/ 50 countries and in over 300 cities. EMPLOYEES COUNTRIES BRANCHES We do business in more than 35 currencies and 30 languages, which means we are OVER IN OVER NEARLY FORTUNE uniquely positioned to help facilitate your $1.0 BILLION 300 STOCK SYMBOL AXE 600,000 500 project in the local environment, reduce risks INVENTORY CITIES PRODUCTS COMPANY and keep costs down. About Anixter: anixter.com/aboutus Anixter International Inc. Legal Statement: anixter.com/legalstatement 2301 Patriot Boulevard Glenview, Illinois 60026 18G1078GL © 2018 Anixter Inc. 1.224.521.8000 1.800.ANIXTER | anixter.com Products. Technology. Services. Delivered Globally.
